April 30, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru homes are embracing zero-waste cooking||If you’re the kind that discards your vegetable and fruit peel while cooking, you might want to start taking notes. Given the limited availability of resources and reduced garbage collection due to the ongoing lockdown, people across Bengaluru are switching to zero-waste cooking, making complete use of the fruits and vegetables in their fridge — peels, seeds and all. While vegetable peel is finding its way into chutneys, fruit peel is ending up in delicious jams. Even the bones from your roast chicken can be used to make a broth or stock. Chutneys, fryums from peelOne such household that follows the concept of zero-waste cooking, is that of actress Pranitha Suhash. Citing an example, she says, “We prepare ridge gourd curry, for which the vegetable minus the outer skin is used. This is used to make palya. The peel is then ground with other ingredients to make chutney. That way, the entire vegetable is used and there is no waste generated.” South Indian cuisine allows for chutneys to be made from the peel of cucumber, ridge gourd or chow chow, adds actress Sudharani. “Orange peel can be used to make gojju. The outer skin of pumpkin can be dried, deep fried and eaten as a fryum and the seeds too, can be dried and eaten. You end up consuming the whole vegetable,” she points out. One-pot meals reduce wasteAnother way to ensure minimal or no waste, is by opting for one-pot meals. “Ever since the lockdown, I realised that these meals not only generate less waste, but also help save water,” Sudharani adds. Chef and restaurateur Abhijit Saha, too, advocates cooking one-pot meals as a healthier alternative to an elaborate spread. “One-pot meals like soups or baked dishes with a lot of vegetables are a good idea,” he says. Seed-based Juice or shakes?Raja, who owns a zero-waste juice bar, ensures that every part of the fruit is utilised. He tells us how we can ensure the same at home. “The skin of fruits can be used in various ways — pineapple skin can be boiled to make a delicious drink with a dash of lime and ginger. If you have jackfruit seeds, they can be used to make a milkshake. And if you have guava seeds, dry them and grind them into a powder. This can be used as a garnish. I use it on ice cream and it is highly nutritious,” he shares. Leftover citrus rind makes for a cool garnish for cakes and cocktails too. A few tips to help you embrace zero-waste cooking... Use the skin of watermelon and chow-chow to make curries Orange rind can be used to make marmalade Chopped banana peel, when added to your garden pots, releases potassium and small amounts of nitrogen and phosphorus, which benefit the plants Stalks of mint and coriander can be used in soups, juices and smoothies||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-homes-are-embracing-zero-waste-cooking/articleshow/75454848.cms||Sandra Marina Fernandes
April 30, 2020||Agra||Uttar Pradesh: Teenage girl with TB infection tested Covid-19 positive in Aligarh||AGRA: On Wednesday, a 15-year-old Etah girl suffering from tuberculosis, was tested Covid-19 positive at Aligarh Jawaharlal Nehru medical college (JNMC). Hailing from Vahanpur village of Dehat Kotwali, Sheetalpur block, the victim has now been isolated, while her father, brother and sister-in-law have been quarantined in Aligarh medical college, who came as attendee of the patient couple of days back for her TB illness treatment. In the evening, JNMC authorities alerted Etah administration, after which health department and police rushed to the girl’s village, to quarantine her remaining family members and other people of village. “Following the Covid-19 prevention protocol, the village will now be sanitised and contact tracing of the infected girl will be initiated. The samples of her family members will also be collected along with those who have influenza like symptoms,” said Dr Ajay Agrawal, CMO Etah. According to sources, the girl was suffering from tuberculosis for several weeks and also had visited local Etah district hospital for her cough test. However, later the family took her neighbouring district Aligarh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/uttar-pradesh-teenage-girl-with-tb-infection-tested-covid-19-positive-in-aligarh-jnmc/articleshow/75459518.cms||Arvind Chauhan
April 30, 2020||India||Chief of Kashmir al-Qaida module, 2 aides shot dead||SRINAGAR: The chief of al-Qaida’s Kashmir module was killed along with two of his aides in a gun battle with security forces that started in south Kashmir's Shopian district on Tuesday and stretched into Wednesday afternoon, leaving six soldiers – including a major – and two civilians injured. Burhan Majid Koka, who had taken charge of the Ansar Ghazwat-ul Hind after his predecessor Hameed Lone was shot dead in an encounter with security forces in October last year, was holed up with his men at Melhoora village of Zainpora, around 60km from Srinagar, when a joint team of Shopian police and the 55 Rashtriya Rifles cordoned off the area. While one of the terrorists was shot dead soon after the operation started, the other two kept the raid party at bay with intermittent gunfire for close to 24 hours, officials said. The Army-police contingent moved in on Wednesday after the guns on the other side fell silent. Inside the hideout were the bodies of Koka and two terrorists identified as Nasir Bhat from Anantnag and Umar Fidayeen from Kulgam. Security forces also found two AK-47 rifles, a revolver and a large quantity of ammunition. All eight injured — the Army major is said to be in a critical condition – have been shifted to the main military hospital in Srinagar. The two injured civilians are both residents of Melhoora who were caught in the crossfire, sources said. Koka is the third chief of al-Qaida’s Kashmir module to be killed in the span of a year. Before Lone was shot dead last October, security forces had hunted down the outfit's founder, Zakir Rashid Bhat alias Zakir Musa, in May.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/chief-of-jk-al-qaida-module-2-aides-shot-dead/articleshow/75459651.cms||M Saleem Pandit
April 30, 2020||India||Four including SSB SI, J&K cop injured in Srinagar grenade attack||SRINAGAR: Four security personnel, including a Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) sub-inspector, two constables of the paramilitary force and a J&K cop were injured in a grenade attack in Nowhatta chowk of Srinagar’s downtown area late Wednesday evening. Barely an hour before that, a 38-year-old man was critically injured after terrorists barged into his house in north Kashmir’s Kupwara district and shot him. Around 9.10pm, terrorists lobbed a hand grenade targeting a joint team of SSB’s 55th Corps and J&K Police stationed at the checkpoint in Nowhatta chowk. In the explosion, three SSB personnel — SI Anurag Roa, head constable Sananta Kumar and constable Durgesh — and one J&K Police constable, Abdul Majeed, sustained splinter injuries, an SSB officer said. The four, all of whom suffered leg injuries, were taken to a police hospital for treatment, the officer added. Soon after the attack, a joint team of security forces launched a search operation in the area to trace the perpetrators. Earlier in the evening, terrorists brandishing automatic weapons barged into the house of Ali Mohammad Beigh (38) in Beigh Mohalla of Kralgund area, in Kupwara’s Handwara tehsil, around 8.20pm and fired at him, leaving him grievously wounded, said a cop. Beigh was rushed to a nearby primary healthcare centre in a critical condition, from where he was referred to Handwara district hospital. A joint team of police, Special Operation Group and Army launched a search in the area for the attackers shortly afterwards, the police officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/four-including-ssb-si-jk-cop-injured-in-srinagar-grenade-attack/articleshow/75459707.cms||M Saleem Pandit
April 30, 2020||India||223 released from J&K prisons from April 1 to 22, HC told||SRINAGAR: J&K government on Wednesday informed the high court that 223 people were released from different prisons of the Union Territory between April 1 and April 22 as per the recommendation of the high-powered committee in order to decongest jails during the Covid-19 pandemic. Submitting a report to the HC, director general (prisons) V K Singh told the court that the committee had recommended the release of 92 undertrials, 11 others detained under various sections of CrPC and 96 convicted prisoners, besides letting out 24 on parole, all of whom have now been released. About J&K prisoners outside the UT, Singh informed the court that while 15 are lodged in district jail, Karnal, two are in district jail, Jhajjar. Singh further told the court that all these detenues lodged in Haryana jails are being screened by medical teams twice a day and that the health status of all of them is being monitored daily. They have been found normal till April 21, Singh said, adding that besides these 15, there were some prisoners of J&K lodged in six UP jails. After perusing Singh’s report, the court observed: “It appears that the jail authorities are conscious of the responsibility regarding the health and safety of the residents of J&K and Ladakh, who are lodged in prisons in other parts of India.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/223-released-from-jk-prisons-from-april-1-to-22-hc-told/articleshow/75459753.cms||M Saleem Pandit
April 30, 2020||Delhi||13 healthcare workers test Covid-19 positive at Safdarjung Hospital in last two months||NEW DELHI: Thirteen healthcare workers, including seven resident doctors, nurses and a faculty member, have tested positive for Covid-19 so far over the past two months at the Centre-run Safdarjung Hospital, sources said on Wednesday. Also, around 10 healthcare workers, including a resident doctor and five nurses, have contracted the disease so far at the All India Institute Of Medical Sciences (AIIMS). Besides, some security guards have also been infected in the premier hospital. According to officials, an intern of the Lady Hardinge Medical College, who was deployed at a non-Covid-19 ward at the Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital, also tested positive for the deadly virus on Wednesday. Since the intern is asymptomatic, she has been kept in isolation at YMCA, the officials said. They added that the contact tracing is being done by the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP). The latest healthcare staff to get infected by coronavirus at the Safdarjung Hospital is a sanitation worker who was tested positive for the infection on Tuesday. According to the sources, five resident doctors from the medicine department of the Safdarjung Hospital are currently undergoing treatment at the facility. "All of them are stable and have mild symptoms. They were detected with the infection around three to four days back," a source said. The Safdarjung Hospital has treated and discharged 75 patients so far, the sources said. Currently, around 55 patients are still admitted and undergoing treatment at the hospital. The Safdarjung Hospital is the nodal Covid-19 facility of the central government. Several healthcare workers at various hospitals in the national capital have contracted the disease. The death toll due to Covid-19 rose to 1,008 and the number of cases climbed to 31,787 in the country on Wednesday, registering a record jump of 71 deaths in the last 24 hours, according to the Union Health Ministry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/13-healthcare-workers-test-covid-19-positive-at-safdarjung-hospital-in-last-two-months/articleshow/75460075.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Amaravati||Andhra Pradesh: 22 Covid-19 cases reported in Rayalaseema districts||TIRUPATI: Covid-19 cases continued to raise across the Rayalaseema districts in Andhra Pradesh, where 22 new cases were reported on Wednesday. With 11 fresh Covid-19 cases reported in the last 24 hours, Kurnool district continued to top that chart in the state with 343 cases reported so far. Four new Covid-19 cases were reported in Kadapa and Anantapur districts on Wednesday, taking the overall number of cases reported in the two districts to 69 and 58. Meanwhile, with the government of India as well as the state government announcing certain relaxation measures from the lockdown to revive economic activity, Anantapur district collector Gandham Chandrudu said that about 210 odd industries were accorded permissions to re-commence their manufacturing related activities immediately. Speaking to reporters, Anantapur collector said that about 232 industries had applied for permissions to revive their industrial activity, out of which 15 industries were denied permissions and 210 industries were given the green signal to revive their activities immediately. The district collector made it categorical that all the industries have to strictly adhere to the guidelines issued to prevent the outbreak of the novel coronavirus. Meanwhile, three new Covid-19 cases were reported in Chittoor district on Wednesday. All the three new cases were reported in Srikalahasti municipality limits which has turned into a hot-bed for the novel coronavirus outbreak. Chittoor district collector Dr Narayana Bharat Gupta told reporters that all the 35 wards in the Srikalahasti municipality were declared as a containment zone in view of a spike in the Covid-19 cases reported here in the last few days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/andhra-pradesh-22-covid-19-cases-reported-in-rayalaseema-districts-kurnool-reports-half-the-cases/articleshow/75460087.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
April 30, 2020||World||Sharp rise in Covid-19 cases in Pakistan during Ramzan||ISLAMABAD: Pakistan has seen a sharp increase in number of coronavirus cases as well as fatalities caused by the disease since the government allowed mosques for congregational prayers during the Muslim holy month of Ramzan. Failing to sustain the pressure from a group of clerics demanding reopening of mosques, the government had last week signed a 20-point accord with them that laid out conditions for mosques to observe during congregational prayers. Most of the rules agreed between the government and clerics, such as wearing facemasks, mopping floors with disinfectants before prayers, maintaining a six feet gap between worshippers and barring people over 50 years of age from joining in congregational prayers were not followed in roughly 90% of mosques across the country. Despite a spike in local transmission of the virus, Prime Minister Imran Khan-led government has been silent over non-implementation of the agreement. “These rules are very difficult for authorities to implement. The government was expecting from clerics to ensure its implementation in mosques. Since they have failed to do so, the government is left with the only option of using force, which it will never do considering the sensitivities attached with matters related to faith,” a senior government official responded when his opinion was sought by TOI on the issue. Facts and figures show a daily rise in confirmed coronavirus casualties. Last week, Pakistani doctors battling the Covid-19 pandemic had called on the government and clerics to reverse the agreement that allowed congregations in mosques. They had warned about the collapse of healthcare system in the country, saying that large gatherings at mosques would lead to an explosion of coronavirus cases. Their appeal, however, has gone unheeded. Most mullahs and mosque committees seem in no mood to listen to warnings of grave consequences by the government or the medical authorities. “Primary reason can be the spectre of losing financial funding during Ramzan. But more than that it is the prospect of forfeiting the political and societal nuisance value gained during General Zia-ul-Haq’s dictatorial regime and fortified ever since due to successive weak governments and a pliant state,” says Aamir Ghuari, the editor of The News. “At a time when Islam’s holiest mosques are closed due to the pandemic, Pakistani mullahs’ insistence to defy the state’s writ and common sense show their disconnect with the wider Islamic world too,” Ghauri added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/pakistan/sharp-rise-in-covid-19-cases-in-pakistan-during-ramzan/articleshow/75460151.cms||Omer Farooq Khan
April 30, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: 59-year-old policeman commits suicide||NEW DELHI: A Delhi Police head constable allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself in northwest Delhi's GTB Nagar on Wednesday, police said. The body of Bhoop Singh (59), an ex-serviceman, posted in the IT cell of the Delhi Police was found inside the toilet of barrack no. 8 at the New Police Line complex, they said. A barrack is a small room for police personnel to rest after their duty is over, police said. "He was found inside one of the barracks at New Police Line. We have sent the body for a post mortem at Babu Jagjivan Ram Memorial Hospital," said Vijayanta Arya, Deputy Commissioner of Police (northwest). "His family members have also been informed. We are trying to ascertain the cause of death. We couldn't find a suicide note," he added. Prima facie, no foul play is suspected and inquest proceedings have been initiated, she said. Singh is survived by wife, two sons and a daughter who is married. They live in his native village in Amoth in Alwar district of Rajasthan, she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-59-year-old-policeman-commits-suicide/articleshow/75460286.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka reports 11 new Covid-19 cases, total count spikes to 534||BENGALURU: As many as 11 more people have tested positive for the coronavirus in the last 24 hours in Karnataka, said the state's Health Department on Wednesday.  According to an official statement, 11 new Covid-19 positive cases were reported from 5 pm on April 28 to 5 pm on April 29.  "With this, the total number of positive coronavirus cases in the state has mounted to 534, of which 20 deaths have been reported and 215 people have recovered," added the statement.  Of 20 coronavirus patients who died, one death was due to the non-Covid cause, the statement further said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-reports-11-new-covid-19-cases-total-count-spikes-to-534/articleshow/75460314.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Kolkata||Lockdown, rain bring down pollution level in Kolkata||KOLKATA: Very little commercial activity during the over one-month-long lockdown and the spells of rain have improved the air quality in Kolkata, an official of the West Bengal Pollution Control Board (WBPCB) said on Wednesday. The Air Quality Index monitoring station at Ballygunje in south Kolkata recorded an AQI of 33 (PM 2.5) at 2pm on Wednesday, which is 'good' in environmental parlance. At the same time, readings at the AQI stations of Bidhannagar, Jadavpur, Rabindra Sarobar and Victoria Memorial were 28, 29, 36 and 33 respectively. An AQI between 0 and 50 is considered 'good', 51-100 'satisfactory', 101-200 'moderately polluted', 201-300 'poor', 301-400 'very poor' and 401-500 'severe', while the AQI above 500 falls in the 'severe plus' category. The AQI hovered between 100 and 260 across different air monitoring stations before the lockdown began on March 25, the official said. "This is better than the national standard of 60 (PM 2.5). It happened because of very little commercial activity during this (lockdown) period, which has pushed pollutants like sulphur dioxide, nitrogen dioxide, carbon monoxide to a very low level," the WBPCB official said. The readings at other monitoring stations of the city were also 'good' 46 in the BT Road campus of the Rabindra Bharati University and 50 at Fort William, he said. The WBPCB official said the average air quality reading across Kolkata was 20 (PM 2.5) on Tuesday due to the lockdown and rain for two consecutive days since Monday. This figure was even below the World Health Organisation (WHO) standard of 25. Last year around this time AQI hovered between 100 and 300 in different air monitoring stations in the city and neighbouring areas like Baranagar and Ghusuri. SUS NN NN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/lockdown-rain-bring-down-pollution-level-in-kolkata/articleshow/75460352.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Thane||87-year-old tests positive a day after her death in Ulhasnagar; Kalyan-Dombivli get 13 new cases||ULHASNAGAR: A day after an 87-year-old retired civic staffer died during treatment in Ulhasnagar, her Covid-19 test reports came positive. The woman, who died on Tuesday, was a resident of Forwar line area , one of biggest slum pockets of Ulhasnagar. The development has locals and civic authorities worried. Meanwhile, on Wednesday, 13 more patients from Kalyan- Dombivli tested positive, taking its total tally to 156, including three deaths. The 13 patients include eight who work in essential services such as hospitals, the police and in pharma companies in Mumbai where they got infected while on duty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/87-year-old-tests-positive-a-day-after-her-death-in-ulhasnagar-kalyan-dombivli-get-13-new-cases/articleshow/75458809.cms||Pradeep Gupta
April 30, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Thiruvananthapuram: 9,100 rooms in 330 buildings for first line Covid treatment centres identified||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The city corporation completed the list of Covid first line treatment centres and mayor K Sreekumar handed over the same to minister for tourism and devaswom, Kadakampally Surendran here on Wednesday. Total 9,100 rooms in 330 buildings have been set up for first line treatment centres. Fifty-five of these are government buildings and rest 275 are private buildings. The list includes 23 auditoriums, 125 educational institutions, 79 hotels, 34 lodges, 14 flats and 22 halls have been identified for the treatment centres. Of these, 3,793 rooms have a bathroom attached. The city corporation has been running seven centres as Covid care homes; Samethi hall, training centre at Manvila, Women's College Vazhuthacaud, IMG hall, University College hostel, Mar Ivanios College and Vizhinjam St Mary's. The health department has stressed the need to identify centres as CFLTC considering a situation where more number of primary contacts are turning positive and more number of patients will have to be admitted. The centre identified as CFLTC will treat all mild and moderate symptomatic persons under surveillance and will be utilised for treating positive cases, when need arises. The idea is to use these places as primary level health care centres which will tend to less serious cases and referral of serious cases to Covid hospitals to avoid crowding directly in the Covid hospital and wastage of resources, as per the guidelines issued by state health department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/thiruvananthapuram-9100-rooms-in-330-buildings-for-first-line-covid-treatment-centres-identified/articleshow/75460488.cms||Aswin J Kumar
April 30, 2020||Gurgaon||Haryana: Chowkidar murdered in Yamunanagar, one arrested||YAMUNANAGAR: The police arrested an accused on the charge of murder, after a chowkidar has been allegedly murdered at Chuna Bhatthi area of Haryana's Yamunanagar during the early hours on Wednesday, following old rivalry. The deceased has been identified as Karan Rawat (59) of Nepal, who was presently living in the city. Arrested accused has been identified as Sagar Sodhi, who would be presented in a local court on Thursday, told the Yamunanagar police. On the complaint of Karan’s cousin brother, Nanha Ram of Kailali district in Nepal, the police registered a case against an accused identified as Sagar Sodhi of Chuna Bhatthi under Section 302 (punishment for murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at Yamunanagar City police station on Wednesday. Nanha stated to the police, “From last two year, my cousin Karan worked as a chowkidar in the night in Chuna Bhatthi area. Karan used to have tea in the night to remain active at his duty of chowkidar, but due to lockdown, the tea shops were closed. So i was providing him tea every night. When I went to give him tea last night at around 1.30 am, I saw Sagar Sodhi snatching Karan’s wooden stick and hitting him in his head several times. Karan received serious injuries in the head and he was rushed to the civil hospital, Yamunanagar from where he was referred to GMCH, Sector 32, Chandigarh, but he died on the way. Sagar misbehaved with Karan and never gave him money for chowkidari and he killed my brother due to an old rivalry.” Yamunanagar police spokesperson Chamkaur Singh told, “A case has been registered against Sagar under Section 302 of the IPC and he has been arrested from Badi Majra Bridge on Wednesday and would be presented in the court on Thursday.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/haryana-chowkidar-murdered-in-yamunanagar-one-arrested/articleshow/75460506.cms||Jaskaran Singh
April 30, 2020||Kozhikode||Covid-19 threat: Kasaragod collector home quarantined||KANNUR: Kasaragod district collector D Sajith Babu has gone into home quarantine after it was found that the TV journalist who tested positive for Covid-19 maintained contact with him. Officials said the driver and the gunman of the collector were also into home quarantine. It was more than ten days back that this reporter met the collector as part of an interview, said the officials. Though there was no physical contact, a swab test would be done, they said. It was on Wednesday that the journalist tested positive, but it is not clear from where he contracted the disease. Following this his primary contacts would be identified and quarantined, said the officials. On April 28, a 24-year-old youth, who is a resident of Mavungal near Kanhangad, had tested positive. He had visited Coorg in the first week of March, but it is not sure whether he got the infection from there or from somewhere else. “We are in the process of tracking his route map in an effort to identify his primary contacts, but it is very complicated,” said Dr AT Manoj, district surveillance officer. However, as of now there is no fear of community transmission, said the officials. Though 178 positive cases have been reported so far and 165 have already got discharged from the hospitals, they all had come from abroad or were their primary contacts. But these two cases are exceptions, which has caused concern among the people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/covid-19-threat-kasaragod-collector-home-quarantined/articleshow/75460526.cms||P Sudhakaran
April 30, 2020||Chandigarh||Tricity's private OPDs survive on telemedicine: Find out which doctors will lose pay||CHANDIGARH: The footfall in the OPDs (outpatient departments) fallen to 10%, most of the Tricity's private hospitals plan to give senior doctors a pay cut to be able to afford safety kits for the staff and patients. The manager of a corporate hospital in Mohali said, “The OPDs now run via telemedicine consultation. People are scared to come to the hospital and the OPD visitors travelling from adjoining states must stay in quarantine for 14 days. This combination of factors has emptied the private OPDs. Higher pay-scale doctors must take pay cut.” Corporate hospitals can survive but smaller clinics and nursing homes must fire some staff. A doctor who runs a private hospital in Chandigarh said, "We have called the minimum required team to duty. Those not called will forgo pay for those days.” Since the switch to telemedicine, doctors miss the personal touch of examining patients. They also worry about their interstate patients. Dr R S Bedi, who runs a private hospital in Chandigarh, said: “One of my paitients, who is due to deliver, stays in Zirakpur. Not allowed follow-up visit to her regular hospital and forced to see only the nearest doctor, she feels low. Trust is not a commodity that one can buy from anywhere. It takes years to build.” Public hospitals manage both suspected and confirmed cases of Covid-19 but for other ailments, people prefer to visit private hospitals. A private doctor in Panchkula said, “If anyone of my patients or staff gets the virus, the hospital will have to be closed. However, a government hospital can keep working as usual.” The OPD service in Chandigarh runs from 11am to 3pm, while hospitals have postponed planned surgeries. Interstate travel barred, the daily footfall in the OPDs has decreased from 3,000 to 30. No department (skin, ENT, or dental) is open. Panchkula, call 1075For expert medical advice while locked down at home, Panchkula can now use the tele-medicine facility started by the civil hospital of Sector 6, which operates two special telephone line for the project. Video call facility is coming up. The consultation over telephone is free of cost. The service was introduced to contain the spread of Covid-19. Chief medical officer (CMO) Jasjeet Kaur said, "Our telemedicine numbers are 1075 and 8558893911. Call in case of minor disease or flu. The doctor on call will prescribe you medicine after checking symptoms. General physicians, heart specialists, gynaecologists, child specialists, radiologists, surgeons, psychiatrists, ENT doctors, anaesthesia and orthopaedic experts, microbiologists, and dentists are just a ring away." The hospital also has eye specialists, skin specialists, physiotherapists, pathologists, gastroenteroligists, surgical oncology, forensic medicine experts, and Ayush doctors available for consultation on telephone. They can also make a video call if the patient's handset supports the feature. Emergency patients will be called to the hospital. The CMO said, "Most of the staff is on Covid-19 duty, so we will call only emergency patients to the hospital. The rest can take the medicine prescribed on telephone." The hospital has also started mobile dispensary, custom-fitting a mini bus for district rounds. The disease mapping of the district is on. The bus will run in the morning and evening. A schedule is in the works. The deputy commissioner wanted to introduce this service and hire volunteers for it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/tricitys-private-opds-survive-on-telemedicine-find-out-which-doctors-will-lose-pay/articleshow/75460596.cms||Shimona Kanwar
April 30, 2020||Gurgaon||Haryana: Sanitiser given to farmers under National Horticulture Mission||CHANDIGARH: Haryana agriculture and farmers’ welfare minister Jai Parkash Dalal said that 7000 bottles of sanitiser are being made available for free to vegetable growers of the State under National Horticulture Mission during the nationwide lockdown period due to Covid-19 pandemic to ensure the safe availability of vegetables to the people and for the safety of farmers and consumers. Mr. Dalal said that the farmers have been urged to keep sanitising their hands with sanitiser regularly while working in the mandi or in their fields etc. to prevent the spread of Covid-19. He said that during this time of crisis, social distancing was a big challenge while procuring the crops of the farmers and the state government has set up several mandis to ensure this. The procurement process is running smoothly in all the mandis, he added. He said that till yesterday evening, 31 lakh metric tonnes of wheat and 3 lakh metric tonnes of mustard have been procured. He said that as compared to last year, we have purchased 4.5 lakh metric tonnes of wheat in one day this year. He said that farmers will not face any problem due to unseasonal rains or any other reason. The agriculture minister said that the Haryana government is the first to purchase bajra and mustard at minimum support price (MSP). He said that the Haryana government has given maximum compensation for the losses faced by the farmers through crop insurance. Best arrangements of electricity have been made for the farmers, he added. He said that the farmers have been supplied adequate water for irrigation and water has been supplied even to the tail end in south Haryana by the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/haryana-sanitiser-given-to-farmers-under-national-horticulture-mission/articleshow/75460625.cms||Manvir Saini
April 30, 2020||Goa||Goa: Calangute police station first to log 100 FIRs against curfew violators||PANAJI: The Calangute police station has become the first in Goa to touch a century in registering first information reports (FIR) against curfew violators. Several people under its jurisdiction have been slapped with FIRs for loitering in the streets without any reason, not maintaining social distancing, spreading rumours and posting fake news. Most other police stations in north and south Goa have filed an average of 40 FIRs each. Goa has a total of 28 police stations. “Calangute police station recorded 101 FIRs under IPC section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant). This is the highest number of cases registered by a single police station in the state,” deputy SP Edwin Colaco told TOI. In recognition of the efforts of the Calangute police station, north Goa SP Utkrisht Prasoon awarded Rs 5,000 and a certificate of commendation to its police inspector Nolasco Raposo. The Calangute police station also registered the first narcotic case in the state during the lockdown. On Monday evening, its personnel arrested two locals for illegal possession of drugs estimated to be worth of Rs 70,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-calangute-police-station-first-to-log-100-firs-against-curfew-violators/articleshow/75460768.cms||Murari Shetye
April 30, 2020||Thane||Two held for making Tik Tok video inside police van in Kalyan||KALYAN: The Mahatma Phule police have arrested a 19-year- old- youth and detained another 17-year-old boy for allegedly making Tik Tok video by illegally entering inside police van parked on roadside in Kalyan. The arrested youth has been identified as Rohit Dange, a resident of Valdhuni area in Kalyan. The action was taken on Wednesday evening after the video featuring Dange went viral on social media. Sanjay Bankar, senior police inspector of Mahatma Phule police station said, "We have arrested Dange while minor is being detained and he will be sent to a remand home." Watch Kalyan: Two detained for making Tik Tok video inside police van||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/two-held-for-making-tik-tok-video-inside-police-van-in-kalyan/articleshow/75460751.cms||Pradeep Gupta
April 30, 2020||Gurgaon||Miners develop makeshift passages over Yamuna river, obstruct its natural flow||YAMUNANAGAR: After the mining activity resumed in the Gumthala-Jathlana area of Yamunanagar district, the miners against the norms started to develop makeshift passages over Yamuna river, obstructing its natural flow. The matter came to light on April 25, when the area executive engineer Sher Singh of Haryana Irrigation And Water Resources Department (IWRD) inspected the spot in Gumthala village and instructed the area irrigation sub-divisional officer (SDO) Jasbir Singh, to write to the Yamunanagar police to register a case. Following this, SDO Jasbir Singh wrote to the Yamunanagar police at Jathlana police station to register a case in this regard. Then on Monday, the matter reached Radaur sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Pooja Chanwaria, who constituted a committee of district mining officer (DMO), area naib tehsildar, Jathlana police station house officer (SHO), Jathlana irrigation SDO to investigate into this matter and file a report by Tuesday. On Tuesday, the committee visited the spot in Yamuna river and inspected the makeshift passages obstructing Yamuna’s natural flow but it could not submit its report on the same day. Radaur SDM Pooja said, “I had asked the committee to submit a report on Tuesday itself, but I waited for the same up to Wednesday evening but did not receive it. However, the irrigation department SDO has already written to the police to register a case in this regard and I have also instructed the committee to take strict action.” Similar efforts were made last year by the mining mafia in several areas of Haryana besides Yamunanagar district. In May 2019, the Delhi Government and Delhi High Court took strict cognizance of obstruction into Yamuna’s natural flow and asked special teams to visit Yamunanagar and file a report in this matter. After that, the Haryana IWRD had damaged the makeshift passages and also got registered some cases against mining mafia, but now the mafia has built the passages again during the lockdown. Haryana anti-corruption society president advocate Varyam Singh wrote a letter to the state government expressing deep concern on suchactivity into the Yamuna river. In his letter, Varyam demanded an immediate ban on the activity of mining, he said, "The people associated with mining have affected the Yamuna's stream by constructing makeshift passages which can prove to be very harmful." Executive engineer Sher Singh of the IRWD said, “A case would be filed in this regard on behalf of the department's SDO Jasvir Singh. Immediately after receiving the information about diversion in Yamuna stream, the spot was visited and orders were given to register the case.” Yamunanagar district mining officer Ashok said, “The mining for sand started in Gumthala area of Yamunanagar from April 24 after the approval, and the lease of mining is allotted to Elite Mines Corporation firm. A report will be submitted to SDM Radaur in this matter.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/miners-develop-makeshift-passages-over-yamuna-river-obstruct-its-natural-flow/articleshow/75460915.cms||Jaskaran Singh
April 30, 2020||Bareilly||Rehaan Roy made his quarantine birthday innovative and funny with a hilarious edit||Television actor, Rehaan Roy celebrates his birthday amid lockdown all alone with his dog, cuts his birthday cake made at home by his house help and bonds with family over a video call. Adding to it, Rehaan made his quarantine birthday special, innovative and funny with a hilarious edit, wherein he creates his own picture celebrating his birthday and cutting a cake in a way surrounded by his friends as it seems, but in reality, its Rehaan only in all the pictures, which is hard to recognize.In an interaction with us, Rehaan Roy on how a quarantine birthday be like, says, " I love to celebrate my birthday with my friends and family, however it’s more important to me for them to be safe and and at home at this moment . So we partied over video call. At home, we baked a cake that was made by my house help. It was certainly different, but something that I’ll remember forever. "On asking about his birthday celebration picture, Rehaan adds, "I created this picture for fun. As it seems, picture is of me celebrating my birthday and cutting a cake with my friends around, but in reality, if you look very carefully, they are all me. It's an innovative and funny edit and that's how a quarantine birthday be like (he laughs)." Speaking on the tough times going, he puts, "We all are going through this tough time and I’m sure , together we can come out of this too. We just need to be patient and responsible. To all my fans, please stay at home, be loving and kind . Help others as much as possible , specially to the old and medically challenged people and the voiceless animals . They need it the most at this tough time."Watch Rehaan Roy celebrates his quarantine birthday in a creative manner with a hilarious edit along with his pet!||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/rehaan-roy-made-his-quarantine-birthday-innovative-and-funny-with-a-hilarious-edit/articleshow/75251114.cms||Manyaekta Gugliani
April 30, 2020||Gurgaon||Haryana: Five of a family injured in firing incident in Yamunanagar||YAMUNANAGAR: Five persons of single-family got injured in firing incident at Kandrauli village in Radaur block of Haryana's Yamunanagar district on Wednesday morning, following property dispute of land, told the police. The injured persons have been identified as former Kandrauli sarpanch Surenderpal Dhanda, his elder brother Rajpal Dhanda, an advocate at Jagadhri court Yagpal Dhanda alias Monu (Rajpal’s son), Udaipal Dhanda, and Joginder Singh of Chharpura village in Kurukshetra district, as they received bullet injuries. Sources from Kandrauli village told the matter is related to the division of 60 acres of land at Kandrauli and Gumthala villages belonging to this family. The villagers heard 7 gunshots and rushed towards the spot and they took five injured to the civil hospital, Radaur, from where they were referred to the Gaba Hospital in Yamunanagar. On receiving the information, DSP Radaur and forensic teams reached the spot for inspection and collected the evidence from Kandrauli village. “On Wednesday morning, a meeting was called to divide the family land by four brothers of Kandrauli village, including Surenderpal Dhanda, Rajpal Dhanda, Rampal Dhanda, and their youngest brother Barinderpal Dhanda. When the meeting was ongoing, the family indulged in heated arguments when Surenderpal and Rajpal’s nephews Raman and Lakhan, son of Barinderpal allegedly opened fires at them and other family members with some weapon”, told Radaur DSP Kushalpal Rana. “On the complaint of an injured Yagpal, we have registered a case against four accused, including Barinderpal Dhanda, his sons Raman, Lakhan and his wife Saroj Bala under Section 34 (common intention), 120-B (punishment for criminal conspiracy), 307 (attempt to murder), 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and 25-54-59 (punishment for certain offenses and renewal of licenses) of the Arms Act at Radaur police station on Wednesday”, added DSP Kushalpal. Giving details about condition of the injured persons, DSP Kushalpal said, “All five persons are undergoing treatment at Gaba Hospital in Yamunanagar and they are reported to be out of danger.” "All the accused are absconding and efforts are being made to arrest them. As per the preliminary investigation, Barinderpal possesses a licensed weapon, but the fact would be ascertained in the investigation about which weapon has been used", further added DSP. As per the information, Surenderpal remained sarpanch of Kandrauli village during INLD government. His elder brother Rajpal retired as secretary of market committee Jagadhri nearly 4 years ago while Yagpal is an advocate in Jagadhri court, Udaipal is posted as clerk at Ambala DC office, and Joginder is the family’s son-in-law.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/haryana-five-of-a-family-injured-in-firing-incident-in-yamunanagar/articleshow/75461011.cms||Jaskaran Singh
April 30, 2020||Allahabad||Uttar Pradesh: Hundreds of stranded students leave for their hometown from Prayagraj||PRAYAGRAJ: With the Prayagraj administration continuing to implement the decision of operating buses from different locations of the city for the stranded students in the Sangam city, hundreds of more students left for their hometowns of 30 different districts of Uttar Pradesh in the third phase of the exercise on Wednesday. Today was the third day in continuance when the district administration had made provision of UPSRTC (UP state road transport corporation) buses from different locations of the city. As the administration had already announced the details pertaining to timing and routes of the buses, students of various districts had arrived hours before the buses were scheduled to leave. Team of doctors, para-medical staff, police personnel and district administration were all present at all the locations wherein details of every student, their body temperature etc. were noted down. The students were asked to bring along their identity cards, issued by their colleges, coaching classes etc. Those who were preparing for their competitive exams, were asked to bring along admit card of any exam that they have appeared in for the last two years. “We don’t want that any stranded student should be left out just because he or she does not have any i-card and at the same time administration also wants to ensure that this facility should be used by student community only”, said Prayagraj district magistrate Bhanu Chand Goswami. He added that almost all the stranded students have been dropped to their native cities and the buses would operate till Wednesday midnight. If we plan to operate more buses in the coming days, the same would be informed to the students via different means, said the DM. However, while the students were availing the facility provided by the administration, no one was following the concept of ‘social distancing’. Although the authorities had made provision of social distancing inside the buses, the students were making the mockery of the efforts of the administration, be it waiting for the buses, verifying the documents or forming the queue for boarding the bus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/uttar-pradesh-hundreds-of-stranded-students-leave-for-their-hometown-from-prayagraj/articleshow/75461095.cms||Rajiv Mani
April 30, 2020||India||Migrants can go home; more curbs to be eased after May 3||NEW DELHI: In a major relief for migrant workers and others like students and tourists stranded for the past five weeks due to the nationwide lockdown, the home ministry on Wednesday allowed their inter-state movement by road, in accordance with protocols to be worked out by states receiving the workers and those where they are currently located. The Centre's decision is significant as it comes days before the second phase of the lockdown is scheduled to end amid indications that curbs in ‘red’ areas will not be eased much. As these currently include several large cities where migrant labour is usually employed, there is a strong possibility of workers remaining confined. With discontent running high among stranded workers and economic activity being limited, the Centre decided that workers be allowed to return to their home states. While the Centre expects states to ensure that the "homecoming " happens in controlled conditions, the return of lakhsof workers to their home states can potentially spell a logistical challenge, besides stiffening the task of dealing with the pandemic. The workers have remained cooped up in "host states" because of the suspension of transport, despite having no jobs or income and against their wishes. Though thousands defied the "stay-at-home" protocol to try and reach their homes, a majority of them had to stay put. The prospect of lakhs of sullen workers, raring to rush home, gorging out of their confines presents the respective state governments with the daunting task of drawing plans to manage the movement of millions in the next four days. The Centre has ruled out running trains because of the social distancing protocol which can be adhered to more effectively in buses. But the imperative only toughens the task. After their return, the workers will have to be scanned and isolated, and in cases of suspected symptoms, quarantined — an endurance-challenging requirement for states like Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Odisha, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan when the pandemic has already strained their resources. These workers have spent the past few weeks in temporary shelters and accommodation arranged by state and UT governments, NGOs and employers with food being provided at camps. The issue was also assuming political tones with some states demanding a uniform policy after UP brought back students from Kota. The transport of labour and other stranded persons was being discussed between chief ministers and the new norms allow a more organised movement of workers. Modifying Clause 17 of the MHA guidelines dated April 15 dealing with movement of persons, the home secretary on Wednesday ordered that stranded persons would be allowed to move across states and UTs subject to certain conditions. The political compulsions in various states should prompt governments to make the arrangements and foot the bills. For states such as Maharashtra and Gujarat, which are recipients of such labour, the move will spell relief as it might lead to some de-congestion of slums where the risk of runaway infections is high. States and UTs will designate nodal officers for developing standard protocols for sending and receiving stranded persons including migrant labour, pilgrims, tourists and students who will need to be registered by nodal authorities. In case a group of stranded people wishes to move, the sending and receiving states may consult each other and mutually agree to the movement by road, the order said. These people would be screened and those found asymptomatic would be allowed to proceed. Buses shall be used for transport of groups of people and the vehicles will be sanitised and follow safe social distancing norms in seating. Sources told TOI that inter-state movement by private vehicles can also take place but with due permission and with both the sender state and receiving state in agreement. There is no decision to allow trains that may be more crowded and less easy to monitor. States and UTs falling on the transit route will allow passage of such people. On arrival at their destination, the travellers will be assessed by local health authorities and kept in home quarantine, unless the assessment requires institutional care. They would be kept under watch with periodic health check-ups. For this purpose, such people may be encouraged to use Aarogya Setu app through which their health status can be monitored and tracked. The home ministry order allowing inter-state movement of stranded migrant workers comes 10 days after it allowed their intra-state movement, including to their places of work within the state. Similar norms for safe transportation of workers within state/UTs were prescribed in the April 19 order of the MHA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/migrants-can-go-home-more-curbs-to-be-eased-after-may-3/articleshow/75461216.cms||Bharti Jain
April 30, 2020||Shimla||‘Tourism associations in Himachal Pradesh come together to seek relief’||DHARAMSHALA: Tourism business hit by coronavirus badly this year has made all associations of this industry in Himachal Pradesh to come together for raising their demands from government for economic relief. Nearly 18 associations have given joint representation to chief minister raising their concerns. It was said in written communication made to the chief minister of the state that tourism business will take at least 18 months to restart and therefore the state should come-up with a special package for this industry now. Spokesperson of a state-level association, Ashwani Bamba, who also represents Dharamshala association of hoteliers and restaurants as president, talking to TOI on Wednesday, said that they have demanded the support for the employees of tourism units, relief in electricity bills and in taxes levied by excise and taxation department of the state. “All associations of this state, nearly 18 have come together and we have given a representation to the chief minister asking for rebate in water supply bill, house taxes and rentals of urban department. There must be some staff sustenance allowance,” he added. Bamba said that RBI has given a moratorium period of three months but tourism business will take at least 18 months to restart, therefore it is not going to benefit the hoteliers anyway. Many of the hotels have pending heft loans, he added. People from the travel trade are of the view that people will not start travelling soon now even after this pandemic gets over. Deepak Deewan, an expert of travel trade, said that most of the business comes to Himachal Pradesh is from south India, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Delhi, Haryana and Punjab and most of these states are badly-hit by Covid-19. Ajay Mahajan, a former MLA and district president of congress party, also demanded a special package for the people employed with tourism units. He said that there are nearly 50,000 people employed by hotel industry. “Apart from the hotels, there are nearly 200 adventure units, 1,314 guides, 26,882 taxis and about 15,000 maxi cabs, that are also dependent on the tourism business. They should also be considered,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/tourism-associations-in-himachal-pradesh-come-together-to-seek-relief/articleshow/75461286.cms||Shri Puri
April 30, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Simhachalam chief priest suspended||VISAKHAPATNAM: The chief priest of Simhachalam Godavarthi Gopala Krishnamacharyulu was suspended following allegations of flouting lockdown rules. The suspension order was delivered on Tuesday by the temple authorities to the chief priest after allegations surfaced that he had allowed an outsider into the temple premises during the Ekanthaseva-Puja period. Talking to TOI, the temple authorities stated that a full-fledged enquiry would be conducted into the matter, after which further action would be taken. The temple executive officer M Venkateswara Rao said, “ We are conducting an enquiry into the matter and further decision will be taken. The suspension orders were given only after the initial enquiry.” According to the temple authorities, the chief priest, allowed an outsider by name Tirupathi Sriniu into the temple. Sources added that the chief priest was accused of allowing the person into the temple premises. However, the chief priest in his defence stated, “I’m being made a scapegoat. I request the district collector to conduct a full enquiry into the matter and see if anybody had been allowed into the temple at my behest.” Regarding the identity of the man, who had entered the temple, sources claimed that he was a resident of the hill top village near the temple and had been allowed access to the main Gopuram. Sources added that this man was a daily visitor. Sources in the priestly community at Simhachalam believe that the management was singling out the authorities. However, it made clear that a free and fair enquiry would be conducted, only after which the fate of the chief priest would be decided. They made it clear that any flouting of rules by priests or employees would not be tolerated. The temple authorities clearly stated that there was no bias being shown either against or in favour of somebody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/simhachalam-chief-priest-suspended/articleshow/75461386.cms||Venkatesh Bayya
April 30, 2020||India||Uddhav Thackeray dials PM Modi for help to get into Upper House||MUMBAI: More than a fortnight after the cabinet urged him to nominate chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to the legislative council, governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari will seek the opinion of attorney general K K Venugopal on the matter. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday spoke to PM Modi over the delay in his appointment to the upper house by Koshyari. An NCP minister said Thackeray knocked at the doors of Modi and sought his cooperation in resolving the crisis, bringing to his notice that if no decision was taken then he would have to quit office. “As there was no response from Koshyari, Thackeray dialled the PM,” he said. The NCP minister said the cabinet first took the decision to nominate Thackeray from the governor’s quota on April 9 and reiterated it on Tuesday. “During discussion with Koshyari, he informed a delegation led by Ajit Pawar and Jayant Patil that before taking any decision he will consult the attorney general,” he said. “We told the governor to please not wait till May 27, the last date for the CM to become a member of either of the houses of the state legislature," he said. Watch Uddhav Thackeray dials PM Narendra Modi for help to get into Upper House||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/uddhav-thackeray-dials-pm-modi-for-help-to-get-into-upper-house/articleshow/75461446.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
April 30, 2020||India||Coronavirus: 32 deaths in 1 day a record for Maharashtra; Delhi gets 125 new cases||NEW DELHI: India recorded 74 more Covid-19 deaths on Wednesday, with Maharashtra alone accounting for 32 of them – the state’s highest figure in a single day so far – taking the countrywide toll to 1080. At 1635, the number of confirmed cases was more than 200 cases lower than Tuesday’s figure. The total number of Covid-affected people in the country now stands at 33,045. On the brighter side, more than 8,000 people or 24% of the patients have recovered from the disease. In Delhi, which reported two deaths, the number of fresh cases dipped significantly at 125 after a gap of four days. A day ago, the national capital had reported 206 cases. However, the number of healthcare workers affected by the virus continues to rise with a nurse working at AIIMS and three other staff members testing positive. Elsewhere in the country, Gujarat reported 16 fresh deaths, followed by 10 in Madhya Pradesh, three in Rajasthan, two each in Tamil Nadu and Bengal and one in Karnataka. Though Maharashtra continued to record more than 30 deaths for the second consecutive day, the number of fresh cases dropped to 597 from 729 on Tuesday. With 475 fresh cases, its third highest jump in a single day, Mumbai added 80% of the cases in the state. While Mumbai’s total tally is 6,644, Maharashtra’s tally inched closer to the 10,000-mark at 9915. Mumbai, which recorded its highest single day toll at 26, accounted for 80% of the 32 deaths in the state. The death toll of the state now stands at 432 while that of Mumbai at 270. The total cases in the state have shot up to 9915. Gujarat became the second state after Maharashtra to cross the 4,000-mark with 308 fresh cases reported in the last 24 hours, taking the state’s count to 4082.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/32-deaths-in-1-day-a-record-for-maharashtra-delhi-gets-125-new-cases/articleshow/75461632.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Varanasi||All markets closed till May 3||Varanasi: In view of the rising number of coronavirus cases in the past four days, all markets including medical stores remained closed on Wednesday. The district administration has decided not to allow sale of any articles including essential commodities within the limits of Varanasi Municipal Corporation (VMC) till May 3. Following the confirmation of three more Covid cases, DM Kaushal Raj Sharma held a meeting with all departments concerned to finalise the strategy to maintain proper supplies of all essential goods without letting people step out of their homes. After the meeting, the DM said that markets will remain closed till May 3. All essential items including grocery, vegetables, milk, medicines and LPG cylinders will be made available through home delivery services only till 6 pm. Eight vegetable wholesale markets including Bhojubir, Lamahi, Pahadia, Panchkroshi, Chanduasatti, Sunderpur, Ramnagar and Nuao will be opened between 3 am and 6 am for cart vendors and retailers from May 1. The date for opening the medicine wholesale markets of Saptsagar, Bulanala and Nehru Market Maidagin will be decided soon. “Traders of essential goods have been issued passes for home delivery services and their numbers are available on VMC portal,” said the DM. Only those with medical emergencies can enter the limits of VMC. FIRs will be lodged against against anyone else trying to enter, said Sharma. All private hospitals will remain open and their pharmacy shops can operate round the clock, Sharma said adding, banks and government offices have been allowed to open for essential services. Petrol pumps, organisations engaged in food distribution will remain exempted while officials of agencies authorised to conduct construction can go to work only after passes are issued to them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/all-markets-closed-till-may-3/articleshow/75457403.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Patna||Several parents unwilling to send wards away for studies||PATNA: The Covid-19 pandemic has forced many parents to think twice before sending their wards outside the state or abroad for higher studies after class XII board exams. Rahul Kumar, a second topper in class XII commerce stream, was on cloud nine a month ago after the Bihar School Examination Board announced the results. But now he is looking for a good college in Bihar to pursue his graduation. “I wanted to study BCom in one of the reputed colleges of Delhi University. Now, I’m planning to do my graduation in Patna. I am still not decided in which college to take admission as my ultimatum aim is to qualify the UPSC exam and become an IAS officer. Earlier, I was thinking to do chartered accountancy, but after seeing the role of bureaucrats in the present situation, I want to crack the UPSC exam,” said Rahul, a resident of Patna City. Other students who passed the intermediate examination conducted by the Bihar board with flying colours have also dropped their idea to pursue higher studies in renowned colleges of metro cities. Avdhesh Kumar from Jamui, who was among the top five students in arts stream, said his parents won’t allow him now to go for higher education in other cities. “During the lockdown period, I have surfed all the good colleges in Patna for BA (honours) in history. My first choice is Patna College and College of Commerce, Arts and Sciences. The admission forms are not available yet due to Covid-19,” he told this newspaper. Not only the Bihar board students, those of CBSE and CISCE are also planning to stay in the state for higher education. Class XII student Shubham Pandey, who still has to write informatics practices paper, said if he failed to crack the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE), he would take admission in Patna. “Even if I crack the engineering entrance exam, my first choice will be NIT and IIT at Patna,” he said. Kriti, class XII student of St Joseph’s Convent School, said she can’t think of moving out of Patna for higher studies and don’t want to lose one year to follow her dream. “I would get admission here and do masters from abroad.” Students who even decided to move out of city after class X have also cancelled their plan because of their parents. Amrita Bhushan of Nageshwar Colony, whose daughter appeared for class X exam, said she initially wanted to send her daughter to Delhi. “But I am now planning for her readmission in Notre Dame Academy for class XI in science stream (biology) with psychology,” she said. “The uncertainty over Covid-19 pandemic is going to stay for long. So many kids are stuck in Kota and their parents in Bihar can’t do anything for them. What if we face the similar situation. So, it is better that kids stay and study here,” Amrita said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/several-parents-unwilling-to-send-wards-away-for-studies/articleshow/75457301.cms||Faryal Rumi
April 30, 2020||Patna||With 42 +ve cases, Patna has 13 containment zones||PATNA: With a surge in Covid-19 positive cases in the district over the past few days, the number of containment zones has been increased to 13. Altogether 42 positive cases have been reported in Patna district till Wednesday evening, including 33 in one week. Patna civil surgeon Dr Raj Kishore Chaudhary said any area where even a Covid case is found has to be declared a containment zone. “When the infected person recovers and his report comes negative, his locality is removed from the containment zone list,” he said. Machhli Gali, New Patliputra Colony, Phulwarisharif, Patel Nagar and slum near BPSC office on Bailey Road have reported Covid-19 cases this week. Khajpura, including the nearby Jagdeopath, has reported the maximum 22 positive cases so far. State nodal officer for Covid-19, Dr Ragini Mishra said data were being compiled about houses surveyed in the areas reporting fresh cases. “Daily updates on people having influenza-like illness in such localities are being compiled,” she said. Meanwhile, few residents in the containment zone complained of poor sanitation work in their areas. Rama Devi (75) of Machhli Gali in Raja Bazar said: “I have not seen any disinfectant being sprayed in the area even though it has been declared a containment zone. Even door-to-door garbage collection has been stopped and vegetable vendors are also not coming. Administration should look into the difficulties being faced by the residents.” Khajpura resident Punil Singh also had a similar complaint. “I stay in a lane known as Bichhli Gali and no disinfectant has been sprayed here. It is done only where vehicles can enter,” he said. As per the health department figures, the first case in Patna was reported from Khajpura where a 32-year-old woman tested positive for the virus on April 18. The next case in that locality was reported on April 21. The 32-year-old man worked for a company involved in cash transfer to ATMs and banks. A person working in private housekeeping company that provides sanitation workers at Patna airport has also tested positive for the virus. He later passed on the virus to four of his colleagues — two from Machhli Gali and one each from Phulwarisharif and near BPSC office. Patna DM Kumar Ravi said action would be taken against the agency involved in airport maintenance works. The DM said the agency did not properly adhere to the social distancing norms and failed to provide masks, gloves and other protective gears to its staff. The containment zones: Sultanganj, Khajpura, Mansapuri (Machhli Gali), Ashok Tower (Machhli Gali, Raja Bazar), Adarsh Colony Road number 5 (Patel Nagar), Panditji Gali (Khagaul Road, Phulwarisharif), Slum area near BPSC office on Bailey Road, Birla Colony (Phulwarisharif), Road 1E (New Patliputra Colony), Meethakuan Road (Bhathapar, Dhanaut), Naubatpur village and Paliganj.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/with-42-ve-cases-patna-has-13-containment-zones/articleshow/75457385.cms||Sheezan Nezami
April 30, 2020||Patna||13 containment zones in Gopalganj||PATNA: The Gopalganj district administration declared more containment zones to intensify surveillance and contact tracing after six persons were tested Covid-19 positive on Wednesday, taking the total number to 18. Altogether 13 areas were declared as containment zones which have been completely sealed by the district administration which falls in seven blocks including Bhore, Thave, Sadar, Venkutpur, Manjha, Phulwaria and Panchdeoria. Most of the positive cases are from Panchdeoria and Bhore. The district administration with the help of health staff, Asha workers and teams of polio micro plan will conduct door-to-door screening in containment zone as well as villages touching Siwan and Uttar Pradesh border. The screening will start from May 1. Gopalganj DM Arshad Aziz said, “Over 3.5 lakh households were covered in the first round of door-to-door screening against the targetted 3.65 lakh households. About 22 lakh people were screened in seven starting from April 16. Now, the homes that we missed out would be covered in the second round from May 1.” “All shops and other establishments in containment zone will remain shut. However, people will be provided with essential supplies by the district administration,” the DM said. The civic body has started disinfectant drive using sodium hypochlorite in 3km radius of containment zones and strict vigil is being maintained in and around the hotspot areas also. Civil surgeon Dr TN Singh said that results of 10 samples were tested negative on Wednesday, which were collected from family members of positive cases. “Results of around 229 samples are awaited, of which 200 has been collected during home screening of suspected cases,” Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/13-containment-zones-in-gopalganj/articleshow/75457723.cms||Faryal Rumi
April 30, 2020||Patna||Start DD channel for education: Anand||PATNA: Super 30 founder and mathematician Anand Kumar on Wednesday urged Union human resources development minister Ramesh Pokhriyal to start an exclusive Doordarshan (DD) education channel for the underprivileged children living in remote areas. He said lakhs of students remained deprived of education during the lockdown as they could not avail the online classes or other study material from mobile applications and web portals. “India is in the midst of an unprecedented health crisis due to Covid-19 pandemic. The lockdown to save lives has worked, but it has caused huge disruption in education of our students. Though, many institutions are trying to adopt online means, it is not immediately feasible keeping in view the huge variation in the socioeconomic conditions of a large section of students who are barely able to continue their studies due to low-cost government education system,” he wrote to Pokhriyal. “To avail online education, the kids require a decent system or a smartphone and good internet connectivity, all of which come at a cost. Every household, nowadays has a television set and having an exclusive DD education channel with separate time slots for different classes will be easily accessible to students of all economic strata across the country,” he said. “It can also have motivational talks and counselling sessions for students. It can also teach kids about online benefits to groom them for future. But most importantly, it can cater to educational needs of students,” he wrote.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/start-dd-channel-for-education-anand/articleshow/75457520.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Vadodara||Father, son among 10 discharged in city||Vadodara: I don’t have words to thank the doctors and medical staff who have ensured our speedy recovery.” With folded hands 73-year-old Ishak Dudhwala, a resident of Nagarwada expressed his gratitude as he along with his son Sajid (44) left the GMERS Medical College and Hospital on Wednesday. “I just want to bless all those who have helped us in these tough times,” said Dudhwala, who could not control his emotions. The duo were amongst 10 who were discharged in Vadodara city and district. While five patients from Nagarwada, Salatwada and Karelibaug were discharged from Gotri hospital, four others were discharged from High-Speed Skill Training Institute which has been converted into COVID Care Centre and one from Parul Sevashram Hospital, Waghodiya. All the patients were discharged after their repeat test came negative of COVID-19. “It is a big task to take care of so many people,” said another patient thanking the staff members at the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/father-son-among-10-discharged-in-city/articleshow/75457719.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Business||HC stays bail for former IL&FS VC||Mumbai: A day after a trial court granted him interim bail for eight weeks, the Bombay high court on Wednesday stayed the relief to former vice-chairperson of Infrastructure Leasing & Financial Services (IL&FS), Hari Sankaran, in a case of alleged fraud and evergreening of companies. The bail was granted a week after the HC had quashed the criminal case registered by the Serious Fraud Investigation Office (SFIO) last year as being “untenable”. The SFIO sought a stay on the order before Justice C V Bhadang of the HC via a video-conferencing hearing. The agency’s counsel H S Venegaonkar said, since there was no release from jail yet, the order can be stayed. The SFIO will be challenging the HC’s judgment on quashing of the prosecution before the Supreme Court. Sankaran’s counsel Aabad Ponda said the release order had been signed and he ought to be released on a cash bail of Rs 50,000 as granted. The HC has called for the bail order copy from the sessions court and posted the matter for further hearing on April 30. On April 21, a bench led by former HC Chief Justice B P Dharmadhikari had quashed the Centre’s order to SFIO to initiate criminal prosecution after holding it as “being unsustainable” and also quashed the prosecution before the sessions court in Mumbai as “not maintainable”. The HC had directed that an application can be made for release or for bail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/hc-stays-bail-for-former-ilfs-vc/articleshow/75459478.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Business||Cash in circulation jumps to Rs 25.2 lakh crore||MUMBAI: The currency in circulation has jumped by a record Rs 75,647 crore in 2020-21 up to April 24. According to data released by the RBI, currency in circulation rose by Rs 16,600 crore in the week ended April 24 to Rs 25.23 lakh crore. The record increase is partly due to government benefits to underprivileged and also because of cash not coming back into the banking system amid the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/cash-in-circulation-jumps-to-rs-25-2l-cr/articleshow/75459654.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Patna||‘Vulnerable’ cops not to be deployed in affected areas in Bihar||PATNA: As a precautionary measure, older police personnel and those with known ailments are being kept away from deployment in Covid-19 containment zones across state as they are more vulnerable to the disease. The police headquarters, which issued the directive, is taking care as three cops, including a female constable and two officers, have already tested positive. ADG (headquarters) Jitendra Kumar said instructions have already been issued to all SSPs and SPs in the field that they analyse their respective force availability and categorise them so that officers and personnel who fall in the vulnerable category are not deployed for critical duties. “Vulnerable officers are those who are old, suffering from some kind of ailment or have medical history which might make them prone to infection. Senior officers in the field have been instructed that such persons should be kept away from critical duties like deployment in hospitals dealing in Covid-19 cases, containment zones and hotspots,” ADG Kumar said. He added, “However, the state police headquarters have not earmarked any specific age limit of officers or personnel for deployment in such critical duties like Mumbai police which had fixed upper limit of 55 years of age who could be deployed in critical duties.” The ADG also said that no policeman in the state is under quarantine who were in the contact chain of three cops who have tested positive. “All such policemen in contact of the three cases have tested negative. But yes we are keeping a watch on the situation after this development,” ADG added. Kumar said fresh instructions have been issued to all districts after the three cases in the force that standard operating procedures be followed strictly, keep watch on the health of personnel and sanitise police vehicles and establishments as per requirement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/vulnerable-cops-not-to-be-deployed-in-affected-areas/articleshow/75457328.cms||Debashish Karmakar
April 30, 2020||Kochi||‘Destiny’ brings home seafarers||KOCHI: Ten Indian seafarers, including a Malayali, whose sailing contracts had expired two months ago but were forced to stay onboard after being forbidden to dock at ports by many countries including India due to the lockdown, disembarked at Cochin Port on Wednesday. It was the first disembarkation by a merchant vessel crew at Cochin Port since the lockdown since the Covid-19 pandemic started. The sailors from M V Tomini Destiny, a Marshall Island flagged merchant-vessel that arrived from Sri Lanka, were taken to a port quarantine facility for Covid-19 testing and further repatriation to their hometowns in various parts of India. The move was based on the circulars issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs and DG Shipping that provided SOP for crew change to be conducted at Indian ports to bring back various Indian seafarers overdue for relief onboard various Indian / Foreign flagged ships. MV Tomini Destiny, owned by M/s Tomini Shipping, Dubai, was the first vessel to call Port of Cochin to disembark Indian seafarers during this period. It was made possible in a short period through close cooperation and efforts by various agencies - Cochin Port, district health authorities, and the shipowner. Owners took the extra initiative by diverting the vessel from her planned route Chittagong – Bangladesh to Port Elizabeth – South Africa to execute the crew repatriation in these difficult times. The vessel, which arrived on Tuesday, berthed at Ernakulam Wharf for disembarking them. Agent of the vessel m/s GAC Shipping Pvt Ltd., Cochin, in association with Cochin Port Trust had made all necessary arrangements for the clearance of this vessel and crew as per the government protocols. Their medical tests were completed and none were found symptomatic. Based on the results of the tests, the crew will be permitted to move to their hometowns (nine of them are from North India while the Malayali hails from Kasaragod) by road with special e-pass provided by D. G. Shipping once they complete the mandatory 14-day quarantine in the city. m/s GAC will make the necessary arrangements to safely transport the seafarers to their hometowns.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/destiny-brings-home-seafarers/articleshow/75457805.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: For many, online classes still a distant dream||JAIPUR: Online classes are still out of reach for the economically weaker sections and rural places in the state where internet connectivity is slow. Akash Meghwal, from a village in Kota district, said internet connectivity in his village is slow which makes it difficult for him to attend online sessions. “I go to a private school in the city, but with the lockdown we are back in our village. The internet pack is expensive and connectivity is low which is why I am not part of the session,” Aakash said. Though online classes on various apps are going on, not every school has provided this facility. Small private schools have not started this for the board classes as well. Rohingya refugees settled in Jaipur send their children to private schools, most of whom are having academic losses. Grijesh Sinker, project manager of Development and Justice Initiative (DAJI) programme for refugees, said they are working with the Rohingya children and trying to motivate youngsters in the community to teach the smaller children. “There are 89 refugee families in Jaipur. They go to private schools as they don’t have Aadhaar cards to get admission in government school. Their school don’t have online classes and most of them are at home. We are motivating some educated youngsters in the community to teach their younger siblings. Lockdown is adversely affecting refugees in Jaipur,” Sinker said. Government schools in Rajasthan also started online classes in which WhatsApp groups were created for teachers to upload study materials for students. This is, however, just a formality as most of the students do not have smart phones. Kanhaiya Gurjar, a student of class 8 from Banswara, said his parents are daily wage workers and do not have smart phones to attend the class. “We are not financially well to own a smart phone and getting internet pack is expensive. Though the government wants us to learn in the lockdown, where are the resources,” Gurjar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/for-many-online-classes-still-a-distant-dream/articleshow/75460658.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Surat||Surat: Man attacks wife for talking over phone||SURAT: While she working seven hours daily at the garment unit, the 28-year-old woman’s husband never had any doubts on her fidelity in their six years of married life. But the forced 24 hours proximity amid lockdown changed the equations, with him casting aspersions on his wife’s repeated phone calls. He started getting suspicious about her character. While in reality, the mother of two, who is a worried homemaker, had been making frantic calls to her colleagues and employer to check on her job and also whether the unit started operating after recently announced relaxations. Suresh Babu (names changed) started resorting to domestic violence on his wife, Rita, residents of Sachin. Natives of Odisha, the man works as a security guard started to manhandle his wife, who in desperation contacted 181 Abhayam helpline seeking protection and help. A team of 181 counsellor responded to her call and visited the family. They counselled the man and explained him the real picture. “After the recent relaxation in lockdown outside city’s limits, the woman was hoping that her garment unit starts functioning. The unit is out of Surat Municipal Corporation limits,” an official of 181 Abhayam helpline said. “Rita used to call up the other women who worked with her to discuss the issue. She also made calls to her male seniors to check if they are retaining her on the job after the lockdown. However, her husband mistook the calls and thought them to be signs of infidelity,” the official said. He first scolded her and then began to hit her. Fearing further attacks in the future, the woman called the helpline which helped the couple reach a compromise. “We cleared his doubts and the man has no problem with his wife now,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/man-attacks-wife-for-talking-over-phone/articleshow/75459198.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Jaipur||For ‘Billu Barber,’ flying kites with buddies in Jaipur was one of Irrfan's favourite pastimes||JAIPUR: It was on a shivering December day in 2003 that I came to know that actor Irrfan Khan was in town. Somehow, I got his mobile number and called him up. He responded within minutes and asked me to come to the Jaipur airport for a chit-chat before he left for Mumbai. After reaching the lobby as I was taking out my notebook, he asked, “For which newspaper do you work?” I said I was a freelancer and was doing the interview for an English daily. “But, will that be enough to run your family?” he asked, to which I said I would get some Rs 300 for the story. “Okay, you will have to give me Rs 150,” he said laughing with an easy charm. Since then, I have met him several times. But despite tasting success in Bollywood with films such as ‘Haasil’, ‘Pan Singh Tomar’, ‘Life In a Metro’ and later with ‘Slumdog Millionaire’ in Hollywood, he remained humble, down to earth and accessible. When it became clear that ‘Slumdog’ would win an Oscar in one of the nominated categories, he was coincidentally in Jaipur. I remember an incident when both of us were going together to a TV channel studio in C-scheme. He suddenly felt an urge to have a smoke and decided to buy it himself. The shop owner charged some ‘extra’ money without even noticing him. To which he retorted, “Arrey kyon loot rahey ho! Rs 175 ka aata hai packet, hum Jaipur ke hi hain.” Whenever he came to Jaipur, he would meet his old friends, fly kites and visit his ancestral town in Tonk. In January 2012 while he was in town to spend time with family, he called me up and asked if I knew someone who could get him the best ‘manjha’. I went to his home and met him with a “hello” at the terrace. He was as easygoing as ever. “Dekh kya rahe ho, patang uthao aur chalu ho jao (What are you waiting for, take a kite and start flying it).” The next day, I visited him again at his home in Ramgarh Mode. “See, we are sitting on a ‘charpoy’ getting mosquito bites, having chai and Bikaneri ‘bhujiya’. I miss this life in Mumbai,” he said, showing where his heart really lay. At an earlier meeting in December 2008, I asked him why he did not have mass appeal after essaying so many roles. He waved the question away but got visibly angry. He later called me late at night on the same day. “What are the things that make an actor for the masses or classes? I don’t think of masses whistling in the cinema hall after seeing my film or classes or critics in Mumbai giving me thumbs up. I only do my work with utter sincerity and dedication. The rest is for the people to judge and call me an actor for the ‘masses’ or ‘classes’,” he explained. Irrfan used to speak about how his wife Sutapa Sikdar and his sons loved to spend time in Jaipur. “She insists that we go out to buy milk and grocery. Sometimes, we have to get out of our organised life and enter into the hullabaloo of honking vehicles, long queues, confused shopkeepers and being hit by balls from children playing cricket on the road. I tell my family that I started here and they should also know about the hardships,” he said. In January 2020, when he returned from London after medical treatment, I messaged to welcome him back. To this, the wit replied, “Laut ke buddu ghar ko aaye.” After watching his recently released ‘Angrezi Medium’, I messaged him in March to which he did not respond. It was then I realised that he still had health issues, but never thought that he would go so quickly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/for-billu-barber-flying-kites-with-buddies-in-jaipur-was-one-of-his-favourite-pastimes/articleshow/75460668.cms||Ashish Mehta
April 30, 2020||Patna||MHA brings cheer to migrant workers from Bihar||PATNA: Migrant workers from Bihar heaved a sigh of relief after the Ministry of Home Affairs on Wednesday allowed interstate movement of stranded people amid the lockdown. Mandev Tiwari (45), who along with wife and three children, is stranded in Noida Sector 5, said he would leave for his Harpur Sasamusa village in Gopalganj district. But he is clueless about expenses. “We have no money left. I don’t know how will we reach home, he said. His wife Sudha Devi said the family did not receive any help from the Bihar government. Md Azmat (49) from Nizamuddin in New Delhi said he was very excited over the Centre’s decision. “Now we will return home at Tulsibari in Madhepura district. Majority of the migrant workers would need government support to reach home. “Bihar government should initiate immediate steps to bring back stranded people,” said Abhinandan Giri (55), who along with 30-odd migrant workers is stranded at Phagwara in Punjab. Sanjay Rishidev, Tapeshwar Rai and Chandan Rai echoed similar views. State labour resources department minister Vijay Kumar Sinha said CM Nitish Kumar will decide the way how to bring back migrant workers and students willing to come back. “Their number is huge, but they have to be brought back to the state. But care must be taken that they do not add to the figures of Covid-19 patients in Bihar,” Sinha said. The labour department sources said at least 27.17 lakh migrants workers are outside the state based on the online applications received for Rs1,000 assistance under CM special assistance programme. Of them, 17.10 lakh claimants had been paid the special assistance sought. Sources said around 1.80 lakh migrant workers have already returned home. They also said the number of migrant workers anxious to return might fall as efforts to open industries and start works in their places of stay had started yielding results. “Many workers might like to stay back,” they said, adding: “Some online mechanism has to be soon applied to register the names of those willing to return home at this stage. It would also fit in with the guidelines issued by the Centre on Wednesday.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/mha-brings-cheer-to-migrant-workers/articleshow/75457435.cms||Ramashankar
April 30, 2020||Business||M&As in India dive by 36% to $82 billion in FY20||MUMBAI: India deal-making fell by more than a third in fiscal 2020 thanks to global tensions, economic slowdown, debt distress and the coronavirus outbreak. From a record high of $128 billion in fiscal 2019, merger and acquisition (M&A) value declined to $82 billion. While several headline-making transactions were announced in fiscal 2020, a few of them like Brookfield’s purchase of Jio’s tower assets, Adani’s acquisition of Krishnapatnam Port and French company ADP’s purchase of a stake in GMR Airports are still pending closure. The number of transactions too declined from a peak of 1,925 to 1,756 in fiscal 2020, data from Refinitiv showed. Though industry observers see continued deal activity by companies to improve market share, seek new technological capabilities and access complementary services, they predict a downward trend in overall M&A action this fiscal. Deal Street will be impacted by the deterioration of the capital market and slump in the economy as India factors in the significant fallout from Covid-19 on itself. “Various headwinds muted India’s deal-making in fiscal 2020,” said Refinitiv senior analyst Elaine Tan. Nonetheless, the total M&A value at $82 billion remained elevated compared to historical levels, emerging as the second-best financial year in two decades, Tan added. More than half of the M&A activity was driven by local consolidation ($43 billion), followed by deals by foreign companies ($34 billion) and cross-border transactions by Indian companies ($1.9 billion). Cross-border deals were the lowest in 14 years. “The financial crisis, triggered by Covid-19, will increase pressure on diversified enterprises to restructure portfolios and deleverage balance sheets by selling off assets which generate returns below a certain threshold level,” said Singhi Advisors MD Mahesh Singhi. The start of the fiscal saw Reliance Industries agreeing to sell a stake in digital platforms unit to Facebook for $5.7 billion amid its debt-reduction plans. Though US and European companies have traditionally fuelled M&A activity in India, Chinese players have been upping deal-making here. They struck 15 transactions in fiscal 2020, investing nearly $2 billion in one of Asia’s lucrative markets. In fiscal 2013, China had inked just one transaction involving an investment of $25 million. It subsequently ramped up to seven ($725 million) in fiscal 2016 and to 12 ($1.7 billion) in fiscal 2019. However, legal experts said India’s new rules to screen foreign direct investments from China will delay deal-making. “Not only for new investments, government approval will also be required for making additional investments. It will impact all those Indian companies in which Chinese entities have made investments,” said J Sagar Associates partner Lalit Kumar. Requiring government approval (meaning Chinese companies cannot go through the automatic route) could be a “damper” on the M&A market.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/mas-in-india-dive-by-36-to-82bn-in-fy20/articleshow/75459600.cms||Reeba Zachariah
April 30, 2020||Aurangabad||Bank holidays cancelled in Beed to avoid rush of people||Aurangabad: The Beed district administration has cancelled two public holidays for banks in order to avoid possible crowding on the subsequent working days due to interrupted functioning of these financial institutions. The banks were scheduled to have a holiday on Thursday on the account of Budhha Pournima and another holiday on May 9, which is the second Saturday of the week. In an order issued on Wednesday, Beed district administration has announced normal functioning of banks in the district on the two holidays. “The two holidays in quick succession will again increase the crowding of customers on subsequent working days. Such crowding is unwarranted during the lockdown and will adversely affect the social distancing norm,” as per the release. Bank authorities and employees not complying with the latest order will face action under Epidemic Act 1897, Disaster Management Act 2005 and Section 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code among other legal provisions. Beed district has reported only one Covid-19 case till Wednesday evening. The district administration and health authorities have tested 235 people, of which 224 have tested negative. The rest of the throat swab sample reports are awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/bank-holidays-cancelled-in-beed-to-avoid-rush-of-people/articleshow/75584791.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Indore||Lockdown struggle: Women juggle work from & at home||Indore: As emotional and physical spaces shrink, it is a tightrope walk for women juggling domestic chores, family expectations and office work during lockdown. With no availability of house helps, working women are facing challenging times managing everything. For 28-year-old Diksha Patel, lockdown has doubled her work -- work from home and work for home. While it was easy to just give instructions to their helps and rush to work every day, it is now expected of her to cook, take care of the three-year-old baby and 60-year-old mother-in-law and also be presentable during official video calls. With the domestic helps not in picture, Diksha, who works in a multinational IT firm, has to wake up at 6am every day, two hours before her regular time, to clean the house, prepare breakfast and lunch and then login to work. Same is the case of Deepti Chauhan, a teacher, who has to manage her workplace tasks along with the house, without the support house helpers and daycare centres. “The socio-cultural norms where managing the households is still a woman’s responsibility still prevail in many households in the country,” she said. She said that since her husband and children stay at home, they demand a meal four times a day which includes tea-time snacks. “Since my husband is constantly on calls, it all comes down to me and it becomes my responsibility to take care of everything,” said Chauhan who lives in a nuclear family. Women living in joint families have some respite but domestic fights also become a reason for stress in such families. But unlike these cases, there are many families in city which have cracked lockdown living and are managing well during the pandemic. “I cook over the weekends and freeze the meals. Since my husband has started enjoying experimentative cooking while watching Youtube channels, he takes care of one meal of the day; second meal is cooked by me,” said Anjali Jain, a professional who added that her son helps clean the house. “We have divided the work and have also prepared rosters such that no one is stuck with one work for more than three days. While we don’t ask our son to cook, he gets to do dishes and mop and broom the floor,” she said adding that it is important to ease your own burden by dividing the chores and not feel guilty about making your partners work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/lockdown-struggle-women-juggle-work-from-at-home/articleshow/75452655.cms||Karishma Kotwal
April 30, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Stranded students, parents heave sigh of relief||PATNA: Thousands of students living in hostels and PG accommodations expressed relief after the Centre issued an order to states and Union Territories allowing inter-state movement of stranded people to return to their own states. State education minister Krishnandan Prasad Verma said the state government was waiting for the Centre’s guidelines to bring back the students. “Now that an order has been issued by the Centre, we will make arrangements of transporting them back in a day or two. Students will only be allowed to sit on the buses if they are found asymptomatic after screening. Besides, precautionary measures and safe social distancing norms will be followed during the travel,” Verma said. He added that it’s a risky task as there are too many Bihari students and migrant workers in other states. “In order to contain the spread of Covid-19, all students after returning will be assessed by local health authorities and will be kept in home isolation,” Verma said. Shah Alam, a student of Aligarh Muslim University, said, “I am happy that I can finally meet my parents and other family members. It has been more than a month since I had a proper meal or sleep,” the Araria boy said. Architecture student Sudhanshu Shekar, who is stuck in Kolkata, said, “As soon as I got to know about the MHA’s orders of sending stranded students back, I informed my parents. They were too stressed out because of me not being with them.” The relief among parents is palpable. Shreya Sinha, who is learning digital marketing in Pune, said her parents smiled on video call for the first time in the last few weeks. “More than everything, I am concerned about my father’s health. At times my mother cries on phone, which makes my situation worse,” she added. The news of the Centre allowing travel has come as a big relief for some engineering and medical aspirants who had left Kota but got stranded midway. Raja Yadav, a NEET aspirant, has been putting up at Nawabganj near Ayodhya for two-three weeks now. “I along with four friends tried to escape from Kota but due to restrictions, we were not allowed to return to our native place in Samastipur. I am happy that now I would be able to resume my studies again,” the 18-year-old said. Parents too are obviously relieved and elated after hearing the MHA’s orders. “My son who is in Kota was on the verge of depression. Staying with a person in a hostel of 29 students isn’t easy. Above all, he was not able to get proper meals, which has made him very weak. I am extremely grateful to the government for their decision of bringing the students back. I just hope that they come back safely following all precautionary measures,” said Rajesh Kumar from Samastipur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/stranded-students-parents-heave-sigh-of-relief/articleshow/75457480.cms||Archi Rani
April 30, 2020||Surat||Allow diamond workers to return to hometown: SDA||Surat: At a time when the migrant workers from Uttar Pradesh and Odisha have been granted vehicle passes to return to their home states, the Surat Diamond Association (SDA) has demanded similar facility for diamond workers wanting to travel to their home towns in Saurashtra and North Gujarat. According to SDA there are five lakh diamond workers wanting to go back to hometowns.In a representation to chief minister Vijay Rupani, SDA office-bearers stated that the migrant workers from other states have been facilitated with the vehicle passes, whereas the migrant diamond workers from Saurashtra and North Gujarat have been left stranded in the city due to the extended lockdown.According to SDA, about 60% of the diamond workers are living alone in the city with families in hometown of Saurashtra and North Gujarat. About 1.5 lakh people connected with the industry have already moved out of the city during the early days of the lockdown announced on March 25.President of SDA, Babu Kathiriya told TOI, “Over five lakh workers wants to leave the city, but they do not have any option due to the lockdown. Like the migrant workers from other states, the diamond workers should be allowed to go to their villages in Saurashtra and North Gujarat.”Kathiriya added, “The corona crisis has impact the diamond industry worldwide. The units are less likely to start even in the month of May or June. Thus, we have requested the government to allow the workers to return to their native places.”President of Surat Ratnakalakar Sangh (SRS), Jaysukh Gajera said, “As the industry is shut, workers are facing lot of problems. With the help of NGOs, we are feeding the diamond workers on daily basis. If they are allowed to go home, they can be with their families and concentrate on the farming activity.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/allow-diamond-workers-to-return-to-hometown-sda/articleshow/75458969.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Business||Startup body asks for Rs 25,000cr fund||Bengaluru: Startup Association of India, an industry body that said it has over 2,000 members, has sought a Rs 25,000-crore fund from the government to help entrepreneurs survive the Covid-19 pandemic. The body has written a mail, seen by TOI, to the commerce ministry and DPIIT, to set up a fund along the lines of National Investment and Infrastructure Fund, (NIIF), which can also mobilise capital from foreign sovereign wealth funds of other countries to expand the corpus. The association has asked that the government should contribute Rs 15,000 crore for this fund over three years in addition to transferring SIDBI’s existing Rs 10,000-crore funds for startups. The association has also asked that startups recognised by the commerce ministry, existing investments, and venture capital funds who have less than 49% of capital from neighbouring countries be exempted from the requirement of government clearance on investments. “That is the only way out for the startup ecosystem through the crisis because there is no local capital go into the ecosystem. About 90% of the capital raised by startups comes from outside India, and the sudden shock of China FDI will lead to a famine of capital,” said Mahendra Swarup, chairman of Startup Association of India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/startup-body-asks-for-rs-25000cr-fund/articleshow/75459694.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Patna||Lockdown blues at veg markets, haats in Bihar||PATNA: The number of customers visiting the traditional ‘haats’ in rural areas and vegetable markets in towns and cities in the state has fallen sharply as a result of the coronavirus outbreak and the consequent lockdown as well as enforcement of social-distancing guidelines. The famous tribal ‘haat’ at Mirganj, 22 km west of Purnia in Dhamdaha block, is a case in point. “Before the coronavirus outbreak, traders and customers used to come here with their merchandise, including vegetables, spices, cloths and sundry other items, like vermilion and ‘bindi’ dots, from places in a 10 km radius, but now their number has fallen by around 60%,” said Kumod Kumar, a local resident. Purnia, Katihar, Araria and Kishanganj districts have together have the largest concentration of tribal population in Bihar after the creation of Jharkhand in 2000. Even the tribals living in half a dozen villages near Mirganj have not been coming to the haat. “They used to come here with a visible amusement as if going to a fair,” said a regular customer at the haat. Incidentally, ‘haats,’ which open twice a week, are considered primary markets, where traders sell their merchandise directly to farmers and others of different economic and social standing without the involvement of middlemen. Before 2000, Bihar used to have 2,894 traditional haats in the state. After the separation of Jharkhand, it is now left with around 2,000 of them. However, small new haats have also come up, one in each in 8,300 panchayats. In contrast, the state has 199 towns and cities with more than 1 lakh population, which have been provided with the institutional mechanism of municipal corporation, Nagar Parishad and Nagar Panchayats. They get vegetables from the areas in their periphery. In towns like Purnia -- even before it reported a corona positive case on Tuesday -- vegetable markets were shifted to the outskirts of the town, or to the Zila School ground, to prevent crowding, Anshuman Kumar, a local resident, said on phone. Foreign veggie varieties promoted: Patna: Agriculture minister Prem Kumar said that the horticulture department would provide 90% subsidy on purchase of saplings of vegetables of foreign variety by farmers, as also on the saplings of hybrid variety of vegetables, like seedless cucumber, brinjal and beats, to promote their cultivation. “While the twin variety of vegetable cultivation is being promoted in the districts of Magadh division to cater to the culinary demand of foreign tourists, a sapling selling at Rs 10 per plant would be provided to farmers at Re 1, and the hybrid variety selling at Re 3 per plant for 30 paise per plant,” Kumar said. Overall, 24,000 saplings of foreign variety of vegetables would be sold in the five districts of Magadh division, and 4.80 lakh saplings of the hybrid variety of vegetables.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/lockdown-blues-at-veg-markets-haats-in-bihar/articleshow/75457427.cms||Abhay Singh
April 30, 2020||Patna||Patna delivery boys take risk to serve people||PATNA: Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, hundreds of delivery boys are serving people across the city. Be it LPG cylinders, foodgrains, fruits or vegetables, they risk their lives by getting out of their homes for serving the residents confined in their homes due to the nationwide lockdown. Kanhaiya Mishra, who works for a private firm delivering groceries, vegetable and fruits, says it’s an important work, otherwise people will start going out and violating the lockdown norms. “Even though delivery boys are more prone to contracting the virus, sitting back at home is not an option as we also have to make an earning in order to survive,” he said. Pratik Sparsh, who delivers foodgrains and other essential commodities to customers at home, said police stop him for verification, but that never deterred him from doing his duty. “People send me the list of products and their quantity they require. I deliver the items at their residences while maintaining social distancing norms. I also ask them to pay me online or keep the cash outside their doors where I leave their order,” he said. The pandemic has also led to an increase in the demand of home delivery of medicines. Shrawan Kumar, who owns a medicine shop near Gola Road, serves more than 25 families at their homes daily. Residents send their doctors’ prescriptions on WhatsApp and he delivers them the medicines. Even after taking all necessary precautions and wearing all necessary gears, LPG vendor Rajesh Kumar avoids meeting his family members after returning home. “Depending on the demands, I deliver 10-15 cylinders in Punaichak area daily. These days the work pressure is low as the demand has reduced,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/deliver-boys-take-risk-to-serve-people/articleshow/75457448.cms||Archi Rani
April 30, 2020||Surat||Surat: Migrants get Covid-19 information in their native languages||SURAT: Considering the large population of the migrants, which is at a high risk of contracting the deadly coronavirus infection, the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) has started an awareness campaign in their own languages. The civic body has printed attractive pamphlets in various languages including Odiya, Telegu, Bengali, Marathi and Hindi, targeting the migrant population residing in different parts of the city. The pamphlets, contain information on the do’s and don’ts are being distributed in the migrant-dominated areas through the health workers and civic staff. Sources said that city’s Limbayat zone has recorded the highest number of 223 Covid-19 positive cases out of the total 555 recorded in the city. The zone has maximum concentration of the areas dominated by migrants from other states. The areas including Umarwada, Mithikhadi, Udhana Yard, Navagam, Dindoli, Magob, Parvat, Godadara etc have the majority of the population from states like Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and Odisha. The civic body has also prepared video messages for spreading awareness among the migrant population in their own languages. In one of the video, Municipal commissioner Banchhanidhi Pani, who is from Odisha, has personally addressed the migrant population on the precautions to be taken to combat the deadly infection. A senior officer of SMC said, “The aim behind the awareness campaign is to cover large number of migrant population living in the city. If they have pamphlets and video messages in their own language, it becomes easier for them to follow the do’s and don’ts to fight the disease. The migrant population is more vulnerable group.” “Covid-19 cases are increasing among the migrant population in the city. So, we felt the need to spread awareness in their own languages. We have explained all important information in their own language to combat the virus,” said deputy municipal commissioner, Dr Ashish Naik.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/migrant-workers-get-info-on-covid-19-in-their-own-languages/articleshow/75458945.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Patna||Bihar CM hails decision on ‘stranded’ people||PATNA: Chief minister Nitish Kumar thanked the Centre for allowing stranded migrant workers, pilgrims, tourists, students and other persons to move to their native states. “This decision is appropriate and laudable,” he said. Earlier on Monday, Nitish had told PM Narendra Modi that calling back students from Kota (Rajasthan) or any other place in the country would not be possible unless the Centre modifies its lockdown guidelines. “It was our request and the Centre has taken a positive decision on it. This will facilitate convenience to large number of migrant workers, students, pilgrims, tourists and other people who are still stranded in other states and willing to return to Bihar. Such people will get a big relief from this decision,” Nitish said. Deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi said the return of migrant workers and students will be done strictly in adherence of new guidelines and all required steps to prevent spread of the Covid-19 virus through returnees. “The state government will form a detailed action plan with regard to return of the migrant workers and students in a day or two. We will look into the arrangement of transportation of stranded people based upon deliberations with respective state governments. Since the Centre has not announced operations of trains, buses will be most probably used for this purpose. We will conduct screening of people coming to the border and those showing any symptom of the infection will undergo thorough diagnosis and treatment,” SuMo told TOI. Meanwhile, principal secretary (health) Sanjay Kumar said screening of stranded persons returning to the state will be done at the block level as well. Asymptomatic persons will remain in the quarantine centres of disaster management department for 14 days, while people showing symptoms of Covid-19 virus will be sent to quarantine facilities of health department,” Sanjay told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-hails-decision-on-stranded-people/articleshow/75457576.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Patna||PU and KSDSU get new officiating VCs||PATNA: Nalanda Open University (NOU) vice-chancellor (VC), H N Prasad, and his Purnea University counterpart, Rajesh Singh, have been appointed the officiating VCs of Patna University (PU) and Kameshwar Singh Darbhanga Sanskrit University (KSDSU), respectively. A notification in this regard was issued by governor-cum-chancellor Phagu Chauhan on Wednesday. The present VCs of the two universities — Rash Bihari Prasad Singh (PU) and S N Jha (KSDSU) — will complete their three-year term on May 1. Hence, the new officiating VCs will assume office on May 2. Incidentally, Singh is already officiating as the VC of Lalit Narayan Mithila University (LNMU) in Darbhanga. He will look after three universities simultaneously from May 2. This is for the second time in the history of the state’s higher education that one man has been given the responsibility of running three universities. Earlier, in 2013, the then chancellor, Devanand Konwar, had authorized Arun Kumar to work as the VC of Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar Bihar University (BRABU), Magadh University and NOU simultaneously. However, these appointments were quashed by the Supreme Court the same year. Date extended: The chancellor’s secretariat has once again extended the last date of online submission of application forms for appointment of VCs in three universities and pro-VCs in eight from April 30 to May 15. The chancellor’s secretariat had advertised the posts of VCs of PU, KSDSU and Bhupendra Narayan Mandal University (BNMU) and pro-VCs of PU, KSDSU, LNMU, Jai Prakash University, Tilka Manjhi Bhagalpur University, BRABU, BNMU, and Maulana Mazharul Haque Arabic and Persian University on March 5. In the wake of the coronavirus lockdown, the last date of submission of forms was extended from April 10 to April 30. It has once again been extended till May 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pu-and-ksdsu-get-new-officiating-vcs/articleshow/75457555.cms||B K Mishra
April 30, 2020||Patna||4 universities yet to upload e-content, video lectures||PATNA: At least four universities in the state have not yet displayed any link of online education on their websites. Governor-cum-chancellor Phagu Chauhan had on April 3 directed the vice-chancellors to ensure effective conduct of online education to the students during the lockdown period. According to an appraisal made by the chancellor’s secretariat, BRA Bihar University, Muzaffarpur, KSD Sanskrit University, Darbhanga, Bihar Agricultural University, Sabour and Aryabhatta Knowledge University, Patna did not show any link of e-content of study materials or video lectures on their websites till Tuesday afternoon. Jaya Prakash University, Chhapra displayed only a few video lectures on its website, sources said. Only three universities out of 17, namely Patna, Magadh and Munger universities, have displayed the links of e-content of course materials and video lectures prepared by their respective faculties on the university websites. Besides, they have also provided useful links of University Grants Commission (UGC) and Union human resources development ministry, such as Swayam, Swayam Prabha, e-PG Pathshala, Shodh Sindhu and National Academic Depository (NAD). PU colleges have got separate links of e-content of texts in PDF format and video lectures for their undergraduate students on their websites. The appraisal report reveals that in B N Mandal University, Madhepura, there are a few PowerPoint files on its website, but most of the links of topics are not working. L N Mithila University contains links of undergraduate and postgraduate course content but no other link of online classes. Nalanda Open University website contains e-content of UG and PG courses but there is no link of video lectures. Tilka Manjhi Bhagalpur and Veer Kunwar Singh universities display links of e-contents of UG or PG courses. The contents are in Google Drive and in PDF format. The websites of Purnea and Patliputra universities display links of e-contents of study materials saved in Google Drive. The chancellor’s secretariat has reportedly directed the VC once again to expedite proper conduct of online classes by arranging video lectures and e-content for the students. Meanwhile, PU pro-VC Dolly Sinha said the chancellor’s secretariat or the state education department should take an initiative for arranging online classes in all the universities of the state through some well-known agency, so that students could really benefit. “The VCs, most of whom are presently devoid of financial powers, can’t manage on their own smooth conduct of online classes during the lockdown period,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/4-universities-yet-to-upload-e-content-video-lectures/articleshow/75457493.cms||B K Mishra
April 30, 2020||Patna||Buxar emerges as new Covid-19 hotbed||BUXAR: With 14 fresh cases reported on Wednesday, Buxar turned out to be the third Covid-19 hotspot of the state. The district’s total tally is now 40. The highest number of cases have been reported from Munger, which has 92 positive cases, followed by Patna with 39 cases. According to state health department principal secretary Sanjay Kumar’s tweet on Wednesday, “The 12 fresh cases include a six-month-old and a one-year-old girl child. All cases are from Naya Bhojpur village, which falls under the Dumraon sub-division of the district.” Incidentally, the first two positive cases were also reported from the same village on April 13. The two Covid-19 positive villagers had returned from West Bengal’s Asansol on March 30, where they worked as construction workers. “Almost all Covid-19 positives in the district are part of the chain created by Asansol-returned migrant workers. Areas falling withing 3 km radius of the village has been declared as containment zone. The entire zone, including the village, is being sanitized everyday, while suspects have been quarantined,” an official of the district administration said. Those tested positive include tobacco sellers, a washerman, a grocer and a petrol station worker, besides the family members of Asansol-returned villagers and neighbours. Authorities are also concerned over a harvesting machine driver hailing from Punjab testing positive. Sources said that efforts are on to trace those who came in contact of the Punjab native as he had harvested crops in few villages, before being sent to a quarantine centre. Buxar DM Aman Sameer appealed to the villagers to follow the guidelines for prevention of spread of Covid- 19. He also ordered the officials to maintain strict vigil at all entry and exit points of the village and screen every villager. Meanwhile, villagers residing in the containment zone at Naya Bhojpur village are facing many hardships. An advocate A K Mishra said, “People are not not getting adequate supply of essentials as nobody is allowed to go out.” Another native of the village, Lakshmi Prasad said, “The worst-hit are daily wage earners and vegetables sellers. “Nobody is hiring their services and vegetables grown in Naya Bhojpur are also not being purchased,” he said. The DM, however, said that the district administration has already deputed five officials and issued a toll free number for placing orders for essentials and other items of daily needs. Village mukhiya Rambachan Yadav said that the officials are helping the needy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/buxar-emerges-as-new-covid-19-hotbed/articleshow/75457679.cms||K Kamlesh
April 30, 2020||Patna||‘Govt’s decision averts psychological disaster’||BETTIAH: Psychiatrists claimed that Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) notification on Wednesday allowing the movement of stranded persons has come as a soothing balm to thousands of students and migrant workers and their families. “The notification is timely. It will avert the explosion of a psychological disaster that was threatening to happen,” Dr Sandeep Vohra, former senior psychiatrist at New Delhi’s Apollo Hospital, told this newspaper. “Managing stress depends on the affected social strata’s coping skills ... for the migrant labour, it has been the factor of food and worry of how soon they can return...for teenaged students, connectivity with parents has been a thin lifeline,” he said. “The emotional pressures being different in both classes, they would most likely show similar symptoms like anxiety, depression, lack of interest, crying spells, irritability, insomnia or hypersomnia, anorexia (low appetite) or hyperphagia (high appetite),” he said. The expert’s opinion found resonance from a distress call this reporter got from a Champaran migrant in Chandigarh on Wednesday. Speaking for about three score fellow migrants stuck without food and money, Sanjay Mahato cried: “ Sir, madad karin (help us)....MP sahib (local MP Sanjay Jaiswal) says stay there.” Jaiswal, also the Bihar BJP chief, said he is reaching out with help to Bihari migrants across India. Also, students stranded in other states were a cause of concern for their parents back here. Srijan (19) is among hundreds of students stuck in Kota. “There’s no food in the hostel...there’s fear of infection,” his father Shambhu Singh said. Anand Singh, another parent from Bettiah, has been worried for his daughter Ameesha (18). “The warden, other hostel staff have left...the few girls left cook themselves... provisions are scarce...medicines difficult to get...and Kota is a hotspot,” Singh said. “These teenaged boys and girls have been most vulnerable. Thus, it is a welcome decision by the government to allow the children to be back with their parents as soon as possible ... A (psychological) disaster has been averted,” Vohra said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/govts-decision-averts-psychological-disaster/articleshow/75457637.cms||Abhay Mohan Jha
April 30, 2020||Surat||Addicts, suppliers connect via social media for tobacco products||Surat: Nicotine addicts are using the social media platforms to pour out their hearts in the stringent times of lockdown, ruing the lack of tobacco supplies. These posts have, however, kicked up the spirits of canny suppliers, who are minting green while easing woes of these addicts on the sly. At 6am, the cellphone in textile unit employee, Mitesh Patel’s hand buzzed with an incoming message. Reading it ennui, Patel was, however, overjoyed as he received a contact number he was desperately waiting for. He quickly saved it in his mobile and upon checking the WhatsApp status of the number, he found various options of tobacco products from bidi, cigarette, raw tobacco to processed tobacco mix. “In reply to the status one just needs to ask for the price and details are promptly shared. I could get a packet of cigarette for Rs 150, which normally costs Rs 100,” said Patel, without any trace of remorse for paying Rs50 more. It was a win-win for both Ptel and the young men wanting to earn some quick buck. Patel said he was to wait at a specific location and two men delivered him the packet at the appointed time. Amid lockdown, such suppliers are clandestinely delivering everything — from ‘mava mix’ to processed tobacco pouches, bidi, foreign cigarettes and even pan masala. The ‘foreign brand’ is, however, of dubious quality and often found to be duplicate products. A supplier from Chowk, whose actual business is mobile repairing, said: “We reply to only those who give proper reference. We charge 50 percent more to each product considering the risk involved in delivery and accept orders for above Rs 300 only.” A paan shop owner from Pandesara explained why bidi has also become very popular now. “Bidi is affordable compared to Rs 200 per box of 10 cigarettes,” he said. In recent past police have arrested many while carrying pouches of mava in Varachha, Kapodra, Sarthana and Katargam area. Addiction of mava makes regular users even take the risk of venturing out to get their supply, said cops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/addicts-suppliers-connect-via-social-media-for-tobacco-products/articleshow/75459049.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
April 30, 2020||Surat||Three civil hospital staff caught ferrying liquor in Vapi||Surat: Police arrested four persons in Vapi for allegedly ferrying 12 bottle of Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) worth Rs 10,600. Of those arrested, three are contractual employees of Valsad civil hospital and were using their employment status as emergency service workers to ferry liquor. The accused were identified as Jignesh Chauhan, who works as a clerk in the Valsad civil hospital; Pranav Patel, who is employed as sanitary inspector; and Jigar Patel who is a supervisor. Police also arrested the liquor supplier Priyank alias Piyu of Namdha village. The accused were nabbed while they were travelling in a car on Namdha road near Vapi. The accused had stuck a paper in front and back of the vehicle mentioning that the car was being used by emergency services staff. When stopped, the accused displayed their identity card, that stated that they were of employee in Valsad civil hospital. The accused told police that they got the liquor from Priyank, who in turn had procured it from one Shankar from Daman. During search at residence of Priyank, police recovered one more bottle of liquor. “The accused were going with liquor bottle and had ID cards of medical service staff. They tried to escape checking being employees of emergency services, but were nabbed,” said a officer of Vapi Town police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/three-civil-hospital-staff-caught-ferrying-liquor-in-vapi/articleshow/75459072.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Surat||Surat-retuned nurses infect Dang, 3rd positive case found||Surat: A 24-year-old woman from Ahwa town of Dang district tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday night. According to Dang district collector N K Damor, Pallavi Lakhan was working as a nurse at a private hospital in Surat and had returned to Dang on April 15. After her report came positive, Lakhan was shifted to an isolation ward at Covid-19 Care Centre at Shamgahan in the district. Four people who have come in contact with her too have been quarantined.Damor further said that Lakhan has put up at the Shwaraj Ashram in Ahwa, the headquarters of Dang district. She had also been booked for violating lockdown rules as she had entered into the district violating norms, he added. This was the third Covid-19 positive case from Dang district till date and all the three cases have been reported from Surat-returned nurses. Earlier, a 17-year-old Neha Gavit from Bhendmal village in Vaghai taluka of Dang district was tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday. Prior to that a 19-year-old a Surat-returned nurse, Preeti Kunvar, had tested positive for Covid-19 in Dang district on April 23. Kunwar was working in Kiran Hospital in Surat city before returning to her native village. According to district health officials, total 322 samples have been tested from the district so far, of which three tested positive. Total 319 people are under home quarantine and 26 are at government quarantine facility in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-retuned-nurses-infect-dang-3rd-positive-case-found/articleshow/75458996.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Business||RBI support may not help MFs: Fitch||Mumbai: Mutual funds will find it tough to get money from banks despite the RBI providing lenders with cheap refinance, according to Fitch Ratings. Under-capitalised banks are unlikely to be tempted to extend liquidity to the sector without capital relief on the facilities, the ratings agency said. “Fitch believes funds classified as ‘Credit Risk Funds’ are most at risk if redemptions continue (their assets under management declined by 10% in March). This is particularly true of funds which have exposure to less liquid securities, such as unlisted securities, and have demonstrably higher risk appetite through exposure to defaulted entities such as IL&FS, Religare Finvest, or Dewan Housing,” it said. The RBI offered to provide cheap finance up to Rs 50,000 crore to banks who lend to or purchase bonds from mutual funds. According to Fitch, the size of the liquidity facility seems to be commensurate with the scale of the debt funds at risk. The scheme was launched by the RBI after the suspension of redemptions in six Franklin Templeton bond funds after the asset manager found no buyers for its bond holdings. Industry experts say that it is possible that some of the banks might avail of the refinance to support their own asset management companies. The facility’s structure places the onus on banks to absorb the associated credit and capital risk, which may hinder their willingness to participate, it added. Open-ended mutual funds saw outflows of almost 20% in March. Within this, overnight funds — the most conservative variant in India — saw assets jump by almost 50%, whereas most other fund types saw outflows. “Mutual funds form a conduit between retail and institutional investors and financial markets. Most mutual funds assume liquidity risk, through offering investors the ability to redeem daily while investing only a limited portion of their portfolios only in risk-free assets or cash,” said Fitch, adding that the liquidity problem was acute in mutual funds investing in illiquid assets like property.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rbi-support-may-not-help-mfs-fitch/articleshow/75459644.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Surat||Three deaths in Surat city, 29 test positive||Surat: First death due to Covid-19 in Surat district’s rural area was reported from Jankhav village of Mangrol taluka on Wednesday when a 60-year-old woman died in the New Civil Hospital (NCH). She had tested positive on April 28 and suffered from co-morbid conditions including asthma and blood pressure. In Surat city, two more patients died at NCH, taking the death toll to 21. Also, the total number of positive case increased to 581 with 26 more found infected. "Most of the positive cases were reported from slum areas. Our fever clinics are working hard in these areas and these will become permanent features in coming days as well,'' said municipal commissioner Banchhanidhi Pani.SMC also will declare its red and orange zone on Thursday details of which will be available on its website.Meanwhile, those who succumbed were identified as Rumkesh Nishad (22), a resident of Ved Road’s Pandol and Mohammed Masuddur Rehman (68) from Limbayat. Officials said that Nishad, who was admitted on April 25, was suffering from liver disease due to excessive consumption of alcohol.Rehman who had tested positive on Tuesday evening was suffering from high blood pressure.Among those who tested positive were two laboratory technicians at the general hospital - Kailash Deshmukh (49) and Sunil Chaudhary (40). Dr Nayan Bhatt (56), a resident of Adajan, also contracted the infection. Two security guards - Ganesh Kori (35) and Ramesh Yadav (24) at the Covid care centre in Puna also tested positive.In Navsari, the number of positive cases climbed to seven after a doctor, a home guard and a pregnant woman tested positive in Chikhli. Doctor Dhansukh Patel, 50, is a general physician from Fadvel village. He is believed to have come in the contact with some person who has tested positive.The home guard Devang Patel (22) is a resident of Nasil Faliya and the pregnant woman Rashmi Patel (23) lives in Hanuman Faliya.The three cases were detected during the community testing drive undertaken by the Navsari health department after four positive cases were reported in the last one week.Dr DH Bhavsar, chief district health officer (CDHO), Navsari said, “Our health teams have started the door-to-door survey in the villages where the positive cases have been reported. Till now, about 931 samples have been collected out of which 852 are negative and the results of the remaining are awaited.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/three-deaths-in-surat-city-29-test-positive/articleshow/75458930.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Newborn gets first glimpse of locked-down world from auto||KOLKATA: A woman in her late twenties delivered a baby on a moving autorickshaw in the middle of the lockdown on Wednesday after she was allegedly turned down twice by a government hospital in south Kolkata. Thanks to timely police intervention, the mother and the baby were admitted to a local nursing home and are doing fine. According to the woman’s husband, Pritam Sardar, on Tuesday evening she started experiencing immense pain. “We took her to Chittaranjan Seva Sadan and Sishu Sadan Hospital where the doctors gave her a medicine and asked us to go home,” he said. However, the woman, Sarbani, again started having pain after midnight. The family took her to the hospital in the autorickshaw around 4am. “This time the doctor gave her a tetanus shot and asked her to wait. We waited there for four hours but the doctor didn’t see us. So we brought her back home. After some time, she again complained of pain and we started for the hospital, when she delivered the child en route at 9.23am,” Sardar said. Pritam’s friend, who was driving the auto, then dialled 100. Cops from Gariahat police station responded within minutes. The couple named their child ‘Abhishek’. A senior hospital official said a probe had been launched into the complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/newborn-gets-first-glimpse-of-locked-down-world-from-auto/articleshow/75460095.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
April 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad lockdown: Assault cases up 86%, domestic violence 12%||AHMEDABAD: Soumya (name changed), 32, an executive with a city-based company, called the Abhayam 181 helpline when she could no longer take the verbal abuse from her husband which had been going on for a week. “She had to balance work with her domestic responsibilities. While she also works from home like her husband, she was expected to also cook and clean and the couple had frequent fights over small issues,” said a counsellor with Abhayam. As the fifth week of the lockdown ended on Wednesday, the EMRI 108 and 181 helplines have recorded an increase in cases of assault, falls and domestic violence. EMRI said that compared to usual, the fourth week of the lockdown had 86% more assault cases and domestic violence cases were up by 12%. Compared to 77 calls received for assault and 136 for domestic violence every day, the numbers have risen to 142 and 152, respectively. Jashvant Prajapati, COO of EMRI Gujarat, said that immediately after the lockdown began, the number of cases had fallen. “But in the fourth week, it picked up. We believe it could be due to the increase in stress,” he said. “Almost all social classes are calling helplines with these issues. They are not specific to the lower socio-economic strata.” City-based psychiatrist Dr Kalrav Mistry, who is also on panel of the NIMHANS helpline, said that Covid-19 has changed the way we live under one roof. “The lack of domestic help in middle and upper class homes for cooking and cleaning is a major stress point among couples and in-laws. Expectations from the husband or in-laws can induce stress. Often, it also trickles down to the children as parents scold them over trivial issues,” he said. “We advise proper division of labour, lowering expectations and to never fight in front of children.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/assault-cases-up-86-domestic-violence-12/articleshow/75459257.cms||Parth Shastri
April 30, 2020||Patna||Nitish Kumar reviews preparations to avoid waterlogging in Patna||PATNA: Chief minister Nitish Kumar on Wednesday reviewed the ongoing development work and preparations to save Patna and its adjoining urban areas from waterlogging during the coming rainy season. Last year, some localities of the state capital, especially Rajendranagar and Kankarbagh, had witnessed heavy waterlogging for several days, compelling the state government to constitute a high-level committee headed by development commissioner Arun Kumar Singh to find out the reasons behind the menace. After reviewing the presentations made by the secretaries of urban development and housing department (UDHD), water resources department and the principal secretary, energy department, the CM asked the officials to make a comprehensive drainage and sewerage plan for the state capital, along with the existing drainage system, after assessing the requirements of next 40 to 50 years. He also asked the officials to increase the capacity of all existing sump houses and make arrangement for an alternative power feeder along with a dedicated feeder for each sump house. Making a presentation about the ongoing preparations to save the city from waterlogging, UDHD secretary Anand Kishor informed the CM that cleaning of all nine big drains in the capital would be completed by May 10. Secretary, water resources, Sanjeev Hans mentioned about the steps taken for draining out of rainwater through the 30.13km long Badshahi Nala. He said re-sectioning work has been completed in 17.63km length of the Nala and work in the rest part will be completed soon. Energy department’s principal secretary Prartyay Amrit made a presentation on how sump houses will be provided uninterrupted power supply through dedicated power feeders and arrangement of underground cables. The CM also asked the officials to ensure that there is no gap in connectivity between the out-fall drains and the sump houses. He further directed to execute the work as per the recommendations made by the high-level committee, as this committee will continue to monitor the ongoing work. Nitish also asked the officials to ensure that stinking drain waters from Patna district’s rural areas should not reach the Ganga through its tributary Punpun, which flows through the southern parts of the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-reviews-preparations-to-avoid-waterlogging-in-patna/articleshow/75457742.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Patna||Darbhanga man walks home from Mumbai||DARBHANGA: Thousands of migrant workers heaved a sigh of relief after the centre allowed inter-state movement of stranded people on Wednesday. However, the decisison came very late for hundreds of others like Harivansh Choudhary from Darbhanga, who walked nearly 2000km from Mumbai to return home in 27 days. The 32-year-old worked at a steel factory at Bhayandar locality in Mumbai. He started his strenuous journey hours after the Maharashtra government announced the lockdown on March 21, following which his factory was shut and his employer asked him to proceed on leave. Panchov village mukhiya Rajiv Choudhary said, “Harivansh had merely Rs500 in his possession. He first boarded a Patna-bound train, which stopped somewhere in Madhya Pradesh after the announcement of lockdown. Thereafter, he either took lift from truck drivers or walked for almost the whole day. He told us that he was joined by migrant workers from other states as well on his way back and at times they were stopped by police also. He finally reached his native village Panchov on April 16 and is now in quarantine.” Darbhanga DM Thiyagrajan SM said that Harivansh’s quarantine period has been increased from 14 to 21 days. “We will try to provide him an opportunity to earn his livelihood here after the quarantine period is over,” the DM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/darbhanga-man-walks-home-from-mumbai/articleshow/75457533.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Business||ICICI Prudential, IDFC may back IDFC First’s Rs 2,000 crore issue||BENGALURU: ICICI Prudential Life Insurance and IDFC Ltd may subscribe to a majority of the Rs 2,000-crore preferential issue being planned by IDFC First Bank, as it looks to create a war chest to fight any liquidity crisis emerging from Covid-19. While ICICI Prudential is expected to invest Rs 500-600 crore, parent IDFC is likely to pump in about Rs 800 crore to maintain its 40% stake, said two sources briefed on the matter. Private equity major Warburg Pincus may bring in Rs 150-200 crore. “The final allocations by various investors could change after the board’s decision,” said one of the sources mentioned earlier. “The capital coming in will be locked in for a year since it’s a preferential allotment.” The talks come after IDFC First informed stock exchanges on Tuesday that its board will meet on Friday to consider a preferential issue without disclosing details. Emailed queries to IDFC First Bank, IDFC, ICICI Prudential and Warburg Pincus did not elicit a response till the time of going to the press. The development comes as several banks are expected to shore up capital in the coming months. While Kotak Mahindra Bank has announced a $1-billion capital-raise, reports have said that IndusInd Bank is also in talks with PE firms for a new round. IDFC Bank and non-banking finance company Capital First combined after the collapse of a $12-billion merger deal between IDFC and Shriram Group — one of the most ambitious M&A deals in the Indian financial services industry — in late 2017. Some minority IDFC shareholders sought better pricing after Shriram offered Rs 60 apiece for the parent and around Rs 48 for the bank. IDFC First Bank was formed in December 2018, led by Capital First’s V Vaidyanathan. Interestingly, Vaidyanathan, who had earlier led ICICI Bank’s retail business, was also the CEO of ICICI Prudential before the management buyout of Capital First with Warburg Pincus in 2012. The RBI expects the parent IDFC to retain 40% in the bank for five years. The banking licence granted in the second half of 2015 is nearing the five-year-old threshold. Since the merger, IDFC First has been looking to increase its retail footprint and bring down the share of infrastructure loans. While the retail loan book has increased from 36% to 49% of total funded assets since the merger, infrastructure and whole loan book are being reduced. IDFC First has also kept Rs 3,487 crore of assets on a watch-list, out of which Rs 2,253 crore are in infrastructure. The IDFC First Bank stock fell by nearly 1% to Rs 22 on Wednesday, while IDFC closed down 1.2% at Rs 14.5.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/icici-pru-idfc-may-back-idfc-firsts-rs-2000cr-issue/articleshow/75459379.cms||Madhav Chanchani
April 30, 2020||Vijayawada||Complete lockdown for 48 hours in Narasaraopet||NARASARAOPET: With sudden spike in Covid-19 cases, the Guntur district administration enforced a 48-hour total lockdown in the town from Wednesday. With 26 new positive cases reported on Wednesday, Narasaraopet has a total of 101 Covid-19 patients. The first case, however, was reported two weeks ago. Most of the cases have been reported from Varavakatta and Ramireddythota colonies. The residents in these areas are worried about getting infected since they are staying in small houses. “We have decided to enforce the 48-hour lockdown to prevent the spread of the virus to rural areas in the district. The movement of positive suspects to other areas in the district has resulted in cases in those areas,” said rural district SP Vijaya Rao. He said no one from Narasaraopet town would be allowed to move out till Friday morning. He said all the check posts at the entry and exit points of Narasaraopet have been strengthened to prevent unnecessary movement of people. Additional police forces have been deployed in Narasaraopet to enforce the lockdown. Special teams have been deputed to track and trace the sources of positive cases. A private cable-network technician from Varavakatta area was the first victim of Covid-19 in Narasaraopet town.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/complete-lockdown-for-48-hours-in-narasaraopet/articleshow/75457823.cms||Samdani MN
April 30, 2020||Patna||Patna: Trusts, firms donate ration for needy||PATNA: Amid the lockdown for Covid-19 during which the Patna district administration is running multiple community kitchens to feed daily wagers and stranded people, several trusts, government firms and civil societies are donating ration, which is estimated to be enough to feed a few thousand people for a fortnight. A collection centre has been established at the SK Memorial Hall premises. According to the district administration, the centre has received more than 2,100 food packets which have been donated by multiple entities and are being distributed to needy families. Patna DM Kumar Ravi, who himself distributed some of the items recently, said those want to help the needy are depositing food items and dry rations at the centre. “We are not allowing anyone to distribute in field on a large scale as it would affect social distancing. Those who want to help silently can get things deposited with the district administration. We are distributing it to the needy as per requirement. Deposited items are definitely helping the needy but the administration is neither encouraging or discouraging such donations,” he said. He further said around 120 packets of such donated food items were recently distributed amid daily wagers from Odhisa and Jharkhand stranded at Kankarbagh. “Similarly, food materials deposited at the collection centre was also distributed amid leprosy patients at Patna City and Danapur too,” he added. Besides food packets, sources said, the centre has also received more than four tonnes of grains and other food items which include, rice, pulses, potato, flour and mustard oil, donated in bulk by several other entities and individuals whose records have been maintained. ADM (disaster management) Mrityunjay Kumar said collection is still slow at the centre. “We are taking donations from trusts and societies and distributing them to needy people ourselves,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/trusts-firms-donate-ration-for-needy/articleshow/75457361.cms||Debashish Karmakar
April 30, 2020||Varanasi||IIT-BHU installs UVGI system for effective sanitation||Varanasi: An Ultraviolet Germicidal Irradiation (UVGI) system developed at the Malaviya Centre for Innovation, Incubation and Entrepreneurship (MCIIE) of IIT-BHU has been installed in the COVID lab of the BHU hospital for sanitization. “Realizing the urgent need to develop low-cost, multi-purpose instruments for effective sanitization amid the coronavirus pandedmic, the MCIIE came up with innovative ready-to-use UVC-based products,” said the coordinator Prof PK Mishra. The centre has developed a wide range of UVC systems, he said adding, “Our advanced systems assure the elimination of biological contaminants such as viruses, bacteria, spores and allergens by effectively treating moving air with UVC radiation”. As per latest research, UVC light-based sterilizer can kill a range of microorganisms such as viruses (including SARS syndrome coronavirus and nipah virus) and bacteria in a short period. Mishra said that the system has a series of UV lamps (depending on size of place of installation), each having a capacity of 22 watts. According to him, any virus can be deactivated up to 99% by the UVGI dose of 2400 microwatt sec/cm square. However, this system can produce UVGI dose of more than 2400 microwatt sec/cm square to ensure complete inactivation of coronavirus. This system also works on auto timer, and its visual red/green indicator ensures safety of the user against the UV dose. The system can be used in hospitals, operation theatres, ICU and IVF labs, microbiological labs, special wards, dental facilities, laboratories, pharmaceutical units, patient care wards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/iit-bhu-installs-uvgi-system-for-effective-sanitation/articleshow/75457436.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Dehradun||Govt control room receives 3,675 calls from people of U’khand stuck in other states||Dehradun: The Uttarakhand government’s control room set up to help people during the lockdown in the wake of Covid-19, has received 10,375 calls, which includes 3,675 from 24 different states of the country, government officials told TOI. Majority of the calls (for which data was available till April 27) were made for food shortage, medical attention and bringing back people stuck in different states. Sharing more information, urban development minister and state government spokesperson Madan Kaushik said, “We are trying our best to bring back people who are staying in relief camps of other states and are collecting information about them.” He added, “We have requested other state governments to provide the required assistance to those from our state who are stranded. It is being ensured that an Uttarakhand resident, who is in any part of the country, does not face problems. On getting a complaint call, officials are contacting their counterparts in other states to address the problem at the earliest.” Maximum 814 calls were from Uttar Pradesh, followed by 616 from Delhi, 526 from Haryana, 334 from Maharashtra, 234 from Punjab, 215 from Rajasthan and 169 from Gujarat, the minister said. Lockdown Blues Total distress calls received: 10,375 Calls by people stuck in other states: 3,675 Calls by people within Uttarakhand: 6,700 Calls related to food shortage: 1,330 Calls related to medical attention: 595 *Uttarakhand government data as of April 27||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/govt-control-room-receives-3675-calls-from-people-of-ukhand-stuck-in-other-states/articleshow/75456545.cms||Kautilya Singh
April 30, 2020||Jaipur||Jaisalmer: Last batch of 7,000 MP labourers leave for home||JAISALMER: The last batch of 7,000 labourers from Madhya Pradesh was sent home on Wednesday. In the last three days, over 20,000 labourers have been sent to their states. On Wednesday, 7,000 labourers were sent by 130 buses to the Jhalawar border. Now, around 2,000 labourers remain stranded in Jaisalmer of whom 1,000 are from Haryana. Jaisalmer district collector Namit Mehta said according to the directions of the state government, the process of sending back the labourers of other states is on. He said the labourers of MP were sent from various parts of the district including Bhaniyana, Pokhran, Ramgarh, Sutharwala Mandi, Mohangarh, Sankda, Devikot, Phalsoond and Nachna. These labourers will be dropped at the Madhya Pradesh border in Jhalawar district from where the Madhya Pradesh government will make arrangements to send these labourers to their homes. He said around 1,000 Haryana labourers will be sent back on Thursday. He said all the labourers were medically screened and provided masks and food before they left for their states. He said special vigil is being kept with regard to labourers and other people coming from Gujarat and other states. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/last-batch-of-7k-mp-labourers-leave-for-home/articleshow/75460670.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Hubballi||DC dismisses rumours of 397 +ve cases in Koppal||Koppal: A statement by the medical officer at Gangavathi Taluk Hospital that Koppal is expected to witness 397 Covid-19 cases in the next few days triggered panic in the district. The statement was aired by a section of electronic media and went viral, compelling the deputy commissioner to issue a clarification that the district, which has not witnessed a single case till date, continues to be in the green zone. Medical officer Dr Ishwar Savadi stated during an awareness programme that ICMR has projected 397 coronavirus positive cases in Koppal district in its report. The video clip is doing rounds in the social media, sparking fear among people. Dr Savadi later clarified that he mentioned about the report to bring in seriousness among people who were not following lockdown norms. However, many citizens demanded action against him for sharing false information. Later, Koppal deputy commissioner P Sunil Kumar clarified that the district is in green zone and not witnessed any Covid-19 cases till today. “We have successfully prevented the spread of Covid-19. As per the protocol, only the DC is appropriate authority at the district level to issue the disease status. We have instructed the health officials not to share any information pertaining to Covid 19 in public domain,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/dc-dismisses-rumours-of-397-ve-cases-in-koppal/articleshow/75457826.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Aurangabad||21 more test positive for Covid-19, toll reaches 130||Aurangabad: The city on Wednesday reported a spike of 21 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the tally to 130, with seven casualties so far. Of the total cases, 23 have recovered from the infection. At present, 91 patients are being treated at Chikalthana-based civil hospital and nine at Government Medical College and Hospital. In addition to this, an elderly man, who had recovered 10 days back has again been admitted to Chikalthana-based hospital, after his reports tested positive. Of the 21 cases registered on Wednesday, 11 were from Noor Colony, two from Qila-E-Arak, five from Asefiya Colony and one each from Bhimnagar and Bhavsinghpura respectively. All the patients have been admitted to Chikalthana-based hospital. Later during the day, GMCH dean Dr Kanan Yelikar said that till 4pm, 28 patients were screened, of which throat swab sampls of 14 patients were collected. Six of these samples have tested negative, while reports of the other eight are awaited. While nine Covid-19 patients are admitted at GMCH, 42 suspected patients are still under observation at the same hospital. So far, four patients, who had earlier tested positive, have fully recovered and have been discharged, said the GMCH authorities. With the number of cases rising for the third consecutive day, the civic body, the district administration, and the police department have started tightening the noose by strictly keeping a check on the containment zones in the city. On Monday, a record of 29 people tested positive, followed by 23 on Tuesday and 21 people on Wednesday. This has set alarm ringing in the district administration. Meanwhile, a woman, who during her advanced stage of pregnancy had travelled from Mumbai to Aurangabad, and ended up testing positive, was discharged from the district civil hospital at Chikalthana on Wednesday. Under treatment, the woman delivered a baby girl through caesarean. The baby was kept in NICU and she managed to remain negative throughout the treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/21-more-test-positive-for-covid-19-toll-reaches-130/articleshow/75457873.cms||Mohammed Akhef
April 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||MG Motor ties up with AB Industries for ventilators||Ahmedabad: MG Motor India has joined hands with Vadodara-based Max Ventilator, a part of AB Industries, to help the latter boost production of ventilators. This collaboration is focussed on assisting the production of ventilators by addressing specific areas of the supply chain, IT systems and manufacturing processes, MG Motor said in a media statement.Production capacity will be increased five times to 300 ventilators per month in Phase I, which should be completed in eight weeks. In Phase II, capacity can be enhanced up to 1,000 ventilators a month, depending on demand.“At MG, we are committed to supporting our country’s fight against the Covid-19 crisis and we will do our best to enhance ventilator production,” said Rajeev Chaba, president and managing director, MG Motor India. “Collaborations like these will guarantee that we meet the requirements to treat Covid-19 cases in India,” said Ashok Patel, MD of AB Industries-Max Ventilator. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/mg-motor-ties-up-with-ab-industries-for-ventilators/articleshow/75459251.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Dehradun||Kedarnath shrine’s portals opened||DEHRADUN: The portals of the Kedarnath shrine were opened for this year’s Char Dham Yatra at 6.10 am on Wednesday. In the wake of the Covid-19 threat, only 16 people were present at the opening ceremony. With the lockdown in place in the country, the temple has been opened only for religious rituals and pilgrim movement is not allowed as of now. Before the ceremonial opening, the temple was decorated with around 10-kg of flowers and presented a striking picture surrounded by around five to six feet of snow that covers the area. With Rawal (chief priest) of the shrine Bheema Shankar Ling still under quarantine at Ukhimath (having returned from Maharashtra sometime back), his representative Shiv Shankar Ling led the temple opening ceremony. Like Gangotri and Yamunotri which opened on Sunday, the first prayers at Kedarnath were also conducted in the name of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Tourism minister Satpal Maharaj told TOI, "The first prayers at all the Char Dhams – Kedarnath, Badrinath, Gangotri and Yamunotri – will be conducted in PM Modi’s name to give him strength to bring the country out of the current crisis." "The tourism industry of Uttarakhand has been adversely impacted and we hope and pray that the situation improves at the earliest," the minister added. In a message to mark the opening of the revered shrine dedicated to Lord Shiva, CM Trivendra Singh Rawat said, “We pray that Lord Shiva gives us the strength to fight the current pandemic and help us come out of it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/kedarnath-portals-open-for-rituals-first-prayer-conducted-on-pms-behalf/articleshow/75456529.cms||Kautilya Singh
April 30, 2020||Patna||Seven cops hurt in east Champaran village clash||MOTIHARI/PATNA: Seven policemen, including two assistant sub-inspectors (ASIs) and four constables were injured after locals attacked a police team at Sisahani village under the Pakaridayal police station area in East Champaran district on Wednesday. The police team had gone to the village to enforce lockdown. The injured cops included two women constables and the driver of the police jeep which was also vandalized. All the injured cops have been admitted to Pakaridayal sub-divisional hospital. East Champaran SP Nawin Chandra Jha and Pakaridayal SDPO Dinesh Kumar Pandey rushed to the village and after a preliminary inquiry of the incident, 20 persons were arrested. SDPO Pandey said,“All shops in the villages were found open and villagers used to assemble there. The shopkeepers were asked to close the shops and the villagers were chased by police to go inside their houses. In the meantime, some persons came out and attacked the cops with lathis. They were badly beaten up and the jeep was also vandalized. The village is Maoist-hit and more than 25 illegal liquor manufacturing units are running here by anti-social elements. Police suspect that these elements are behind this attack.” This is not the first incident of attack on policemen or health workers. At least seven incidents of attack on health professionals and police personnel have been reported from the state ever since the nationwide lockdown came into force. On May 15, a three-member medical team and some cops, including a DSP, suffered serious injuries when they were attacked by a mob at Akauni village in Aurangabad district. On April 19, a team from a primary health centre was attacked by Chanpatia villagers in West Champaran district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/7-cops-hurt-in-e-champaran-village-clash/articleshow/75459228.cms||Chandra Bhushan Pandey
April 30, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Task force recommends common courses at UG level||JAIPUR: The task force constituted by governor Kalraj Mishra on higher education has recommended a common undergraduate syllabus in all universities for better managing classes in case of any calamity or pandemic. “The common course in all UG classes will provide flexibility to students to take transfer to any other university within the state. It will also make universities more competitive and can be governed easily in a case similar to the pandemic. The measure will also help in drawing centralised online content for all,” said a task force member. The task force has also suggested on-screen examination of answer sheets which is environment friendly and minimises human contact. “The format can be used in postgraduate courses,” a source said. Mishra will discuss the report with the vice-chancellors at a meeting on Thursday. At the meeting, they will also discuss centralised admission process in all government colleges to effectively follow social distancing. The admission process starts in the last week of May every year. Sensing that teaching will be difficult if such a situation continues, the task force wanted vice-chancellors of universities to seek a relaxation pertaining to the syllabus and examination pattern to respective bodies like MCI, UGC and AICTE.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/task-force-recommends-common-courses-at-ug-level/articleshow/75460663.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Jaipur||“Tu chinta mat kar Haider...main hoon na”||JAIPUR: “Tu chinta mat kar Haider, main hoon naa (Don’t worry Haider, I am here)." This was what actor Irrfan, who passed away following a debilitating condition on Wednesday morning, told his dear friend and IPS officer Haider Ali Zaidi when the latter shared his worries of his younger daughter's future some years ago. For Haider, currently Bharatpur SP, the death of his friend, who was part of his childhood, youth and growing up in Jaipur, has, predictably, come as shock as he recalled those good old days, when Irrfan first nursed his cricketing dreams before ending up at the National School of Drama (NSD). If Irrfan had not become an actor, he would have been a cricketer, says Haider as he went back to those days when the two spent time together roaming the streets of the Pink City. “We were in same neighbourhood. We used to go for tuitions together during Class X. He was fond of playing cricket and got selected to the team for C K Naidu Trophy, the entry level for first class cricket in India. But somehow it did not work out,” he says. About the NSD admission, this is how he recalls the incident. “Our family had the habit of sleeping on the rooftop. One day at 3.30am, we heard somebody screaming and knocking at our door. I got up and went downstairs. It was Irrfan. I invited him inside. He told me that he has been selected for the acting course at NSD. He had little money and was worried if that would be enough for his fare to Delhi. I assured him, it was sufficient. He then took a bus for New Delhi ,” he says. “I remember when I visited him in London while he was undergoing treatment, he arranged for everything. He was happy to see me. When my younger daughter was looking for a job after completing her law degree, it was Irrfan who got her a job , Haiider says. “Tu chinta mat kar Haider...," is now a sad refrain for the friend who can never replace this irreplaceable loss.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/tu-chinta-mat-kar-haider-/articleshow/75460676.cms||Ashish Mehta
April 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||NFIR protests freezing of DA, DR||Ahmedabad: The National Federation of Indian Railwaymen (NFIR) has decided to send an email to the prime minister to lodge a protest against the central government’s decision to freeze dearness allowance (DA) and dearness relief (DR) from January 2020 to July 2021. NFIR general secretary J G Mahurkar said that the central government had failed to appreciate the involvement of railway employees into combating Covid-19 pandemic and their contributions of one day pay voluntarily to the PM’s Cares Fund. “Our cadres have been providing relief to the needy people in the form of supply of food, food items, face masks and sanitizers among other things in their respective areas, spending from their own pockets and also from the resources of respective unions,” said Mahurkar. Mahurkar added: “Due to the total lockdown, when the whole nation is passing through a crisis, a mass action is ruled out. Therefore, everyone’s commitment shall be to work as one nation to combat and defeat Covid-l9 pandemic completely.” The NFIR has asked all its members that instead of resorting to a mass protest, they should send emails to the prime minister to register their protest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/nfir-protests-freezing-of-da-dr/articleshow/75459246.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Kolkata||Board exams will be held after assessing the situation: CBSE||New Delhi: The pending examinations for 29 subjects in Class X and Class XII will be conducted by the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) after the lockdown, the board said on Wednesday. This has put to rest the speculations doing the rounds that the remaining Class-X exams for northeast (NE) Delhi have been cancelled. On April 1, CBSE had announced via a circular that it would conduct the board exams for 29 subjects. Refuting any change in the decision, CBSE controller Sanyam Bhardwaj issued a statement saying, “With regards to Class-X examinations, several queries are being received by CBSE. In this context, it is reiterated that examinations of Class X as stated in the press release dated April 1, 2020, will be conducted by CBSE. Adequate time of 10 days will be given to all stakeholders before starting the examinations. Examinations of all the subjects of Class X and XII mentioned in the press release will be conducted after assessing the situation once the lockdown is over.” In its April 1 release, CBSE had clarified that it would conduct examinations for only main subjects that might be required for promotion and crucial for admissions in higher educational institutions. “As and when the board is in a position to hold examinations, it shall hold examinations only for the 29 subjects.” The Class-XII exams for business studies, geography, Hindi (elective), Hindi (core), home science, sociology, computer science (old), computer science (new), information practice (old), information practice (new), information technology and bio-technology will be held across India, including in NE Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/board-exams-will-be-held-after-assessing-the-situation-cbse/articleshow/75459243.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Fake online sites selling liquor dupe many during lockdown||JAIPUR: With lockdown in place and no liquor stores open, cyber experts have been receiving regular complaints about fake webpages claiming to sell liquor online and promising home delivery anywhere in the city. People who made online payments have been duped as they received no alcohol. Mukesh Choudhary, a cybercrime expert who also provides his expertise to Rajasthan police said, “Since the lockdown, many people have sent us mails stating they paid money online for alcohol which were supposed to be delivered at home. But none did not receive it. Essentially, they were defrauded. This is the latest fraud which has been observed since lockdown came into effect.” Most of these are webpages which have been made on social media platforms like Facebook which advertise 24x7 home delivery of alcohol. Many of these fake online alcohol-selling pages also give out mobile numbers to give a sense of authenticity, but once the payments are made, the numbers become inactive. According to experts, the biggest challenge for them is that none of the persons who were duped have registered official complaints. Choudhary added, “Such type of complaints are supposed to be registered at the government portal, but there is no check if these matters actually reach the police stations concerned well in time or not.” A complainant from Mumbai wrote a mail claiming that a person from Bharatpur who had a similar webpage had assured him of alcohol delivery in Jaipur and even took a payment of Rs 65,000 following which the complainant never heard from him again. Cyber experts claimed that while 90% of the cybercrime cases reported during the lockdown period have been of financial fraud, the fake online pages of liquor purchase are also increasingly coming to light. “There was a trend of OLX fraud which was prevalent in the Mewat region, especially in Bharatpur and it appears that the same set of fraudsters have now shifted focus to duping people by promising alcohol delivery,” Choudhary said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/fake-online-sites-selling-liquor-dupe-many-during-lockdown/articleshow/75460682.cms||Yeshika Budhwar
April 30, 2020||Jaipur||Shell out more for booze, Rajasthan government eyes Rs 800 crore revenue||JAIPUR: Whenever the shops open after lockdown, get ready to shell out up to 15% more for liquor and beer. In a bid to shore up revenues lost due to lockdown when shops remained closed, the excise department on Wednesday increased additional duty on liquor by up to 15% which is expected to generate revenues worth Rs 800 crore in the current financial year. As per notifications, the additional duty on liquor cases costing Rs 900, the additional duty was hiked from 25% to 35% and the same for cases costing over Rs 900 has gone up to 45%. The additional duty on beer was also increased from 30% to 45%. Similarly, the basic licence fee for country liquor has gone up to Rs 20 per bulk litre from Rs 10 earlier. A source in the government said the impact of the additional duty increase will bring Rs 800 crore additional revenue to the state’s kitty. “This increase will meet some of the revenue shortfall owing to shutdown of shops during the lockdown,” said source. As per estimates, the state government is losing nearly Rs 1,000 crore per month due to the closure of the shops. While some states have expressed willingness to open liquor shops in select areas where the Covid-19 positive cases are not a problem, the Ministry of Home Affairs have shot down those expectations. Liquor is a major revenue source for any state. With tax revenues falling significantly because of shutdown of industry, trade and commerce during the lockdown, every state pins hopes on excise revenues. For financially distressed Rajasthan, there are not many areas except excise where the revenue could be augmented easily. With crude oil prices trading at historic lows, the royalty from the sector has also gone down by half as per sources. “This increase in additional duty is not surprising. The government has to mobilise revenues to run the state and there are not many areas it can tap. In this scenario, excise is an easy target,” said a liquor shop owner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/shell-out-more-for-booze-govt-eyes-rs-800cr-revenue/articleshow/75460677.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Varanasi||27 migrants to be ferried back from MP today||Varanasi: As many as 27 migrant labourers of Varanasi and surrounding regions will be brought back from Madhya Pradesh in a bus while in exchange 31 labourers of MP will depart for their places in the same bus on Thursday. With the process of the return of labourers from other states including Maharashtra starting in the district, the administration has made arrangements to accommodate and quarantine around 15,000 labourers. District magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma said that in the initial phase preparations to accommodate 6,000 labourers have been completed at six centres, mainly at the entry points of the district. Tent house owners and caterers have been roped in for making arrangemnets before the migrant labourers arrive. After it primary schools in 760 villages of district are also being prepared to accommodate over 10,000 labourers, who will come in later phases. DM said that apart from primary teachers and employees of different departments, NCC cadets and NSS volunteers will be engaged to operate these quarantine centres. Sharma said that during the process of taking ferrying back labourers from Haryana no labourer reached here. Only two labourers from Bihar had reached Varanasi by giving their false details and address following which an FIR was also lodged against them. He said that following migration of labourers from Delhi and NCR, 31 labourers of Madhya Pradesh had reached here and have been quarantined at shelter homes created for them. Same labourers will be dispatched to their homes in MP in the same bus by which 27 migrant labourers of Varanasi region will arrive here.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/27-migrants-to-be-ferried-back-from-mp-today/articleshow/75457474.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Varanasi||‘Install Aarogya Setu app if visiting BHU hospital’||Varanasi: The Banaras Hindu University administration has advised all those visiting the university hospital for emergency services to install the Aaryogya setu App in their mobile phones. BHU spokesperson Rajesh Singh said that all the patients and attendants should enter the hospital premises only with protective gears like face masks or scarfs and carry their identity proofs. BHU authorities including rector Prof VK Shukla, director of the IMS Prof RK Jain, medical superintendent of SSL Hospital Prof SK Mathur, professor-in-charge of Trauma Centre Prof SK Gupta, Covid-19 nodal officer Prof Jaya Chakraborty and others held a meeting on Tuesday. Prof Shukla said that the IMS is all set to handle the Covid-19 cases as well as general patients in emergency. Meanwhile, the district administration has also sought the services of staff from the BHU, Mahatma Gandhi Kashi Vidyapith and Sampurnanad Sanskrit Universityto look after the makeshift quarantine centres meant for the migrant labourers arriving in a large number.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/install-aarogya-setu-app-if-visiting-bhu-hospital/articleshow/75457457.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Gurgaon||Allow operations from next week with 20 workers, says Gurgaon industry body||GURUGRAM: Citing delay in the issuance of movement passes to their workers, the industrialists of Gurugram have urged the state government that permission be granted to every unit in the district to begin operations with at least 20 workers from next week. In a letter to the principal secretary (labour) of Haryana, Vineet Garg, on Wednesday, the Gurugram Industrial Association’s (GIA) president JN Mangla claimed that they had applied for the movement passes for their workers last week “but we are yet to get the same”. “Passes for industry workers are on hold as the administration believes that passes have already been issued in large numbers. Instead of issuing passes to people in bulk, it should be done in systematic manner. Every industry should be issued passes in certain numbers so that work can be started at all the units,” Mangla said. This issue was also raised by the industrialists during a video conference with labour department officials, organised by the Haryana chapter of PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industries, on Monday. During the video conference, it was also proposed that industry workers can be paid for April and onwards in instalments. In the letter also, Mangla said the indutries were not in a position to pay salaries of the workers for month of April “due to losses and financial burden”. “We request the Haryana government to work on lines of other state governments to arrange for disbursement of salaries for April and onwards through funds from ESI/PF.” Talking to TOI, Mangla said chief ministers of various states like Himachal Pradesh, Rajasthan, Karnataka and Punjab have urged the Prime Minister to arrange disbursement of salaries and wages for April 2020 and onwards through other funds. “The Haryana chief minister may also write to the Union government for the same. Alternatively, the state government may utilise labour welfare fund or give financial package to the industries for paying salaries to their employees,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/allow-operations-from-next-week-with-20-workers-says-gurgaon-industry-body/articleshow/75460700.cms||Rao Jaswant Singh
April 30, 2020||Jodhpur||‘Use lockdown opportunity to quit tobacco’||JODHPUR: With ban on tobacco products in the wake of Covid-19 breakout and unavailability of the products to habitual users due to lockdown, public health experts have termed this occasion a once in a lifetime opportunity to give a serious thought to quitting and discouraging the use of tobacco consumption. Hailing the state government’s move to ban the use of tobacco products and spitting in public places to prevent spread of coronavirus, they have been advocating to consider the ban to make it permanent. R C Sahni, a preventive oncologist and a President awardee, urged all smokers and tobacco users to avail this opportunity to quit tobacco consumption. “A survey conducted in Rajasthan’s government hospitals has revealed that 37% patients here are with diseases caused due to tobacco. Weakened immune system because of tobacco consumption is a major cause of a number of chronic health conditions, including chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, heart disease and diabetes,” Sahni said. An activist associated with the cause, Rajkumar Khatri, said that quitting tobacco will not only reduce the burden on the state exchequer by 30%, but also lead to better immune system to fight Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/use-lockdown-opportunity-to-quit-tobacco/articleshow/75460690.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Mumbai||Netas to common man, all reach out to the lockdown-hit||MUMBAI: Small acts of kindness from citizens, socio-cultural organizations and political karyakartas have added several feathers to Mumbai’s topi during the ongoing Covid-19 outbreak. A century-plus temple in Kandivli, for one, dipped into its fixed deposits for the three community kitchens started by Yogesh Sagar, BJP MLA from Charkop. “I told the temple trustees that serving a decent meal to the poor was as good as offering prayers at the temple. They broke their FDs and offered me Rs 4 lakh,” said Sagar. The first thing writer Rachana Shah does in the morning is to saddle her driver with a container of chocolates, dry food and water bottles and send him off to cops stationed at the Haji Ali traffic junction, close to her Pedder Road residence. “The city is still going strong because of them,” said Shah. Rohit Pawar, seated in his office in a faraway Pune village, is busy monitoring distribution of sanitizers to villages. The debutante NCP MLA from Karjat-Mangaon sent 9,000 litres of sanitizers to Mumbai. When Karan Menon, a young professional from Borivli (East), told his neighbours he wished to start a community kitchen, they all agreed to contribute. “I began with 500 food packets. Today, nearly 2,000 urban poor partake of the meals every day,” said Menon. Civic authorities have waived fees for a nearby open space which Menon and his cooks use to keep the khichdi pots boiling. Senior Congress functionary Sanjay Nirupam recently knocked on the gilded doors of the Iskcon temple in Juhu to seek help. “I asked them if they would give us over 20,000 food packets every day, and they readily agreed. They run a large kitchen," said Nirupam. A young professional who works in a production house visits Nirupam’s Jogeshwari office every day and collects 100 food packets which she distributes among destitutes. Last week, Jijamata Mahila Kendra, which provides domestic help to Vile Parle residents, gave an extra Rs 1,000 each to its staff. Tapping the right contact can resolve a stalemate as senior MNS functionary Sandip Deshpande from Dadar realized recently. He was in a quandary when locals told him that Shushrusha, a hospital in the neighbourhood, had shut its dialysis unit. Deshpande put a call to NCP president Sharad Pawar who spoke to the municipal commissioner and “within two hours, the unit was back.” Rahul Shewale, Shiv Sena MP from Mumbai north-central, was moved when he saw an old woman’s eyes turn misty on being served a plate of khichdi in a Dharavi basti. “Kindness is what makes Mumbai a great, loving city,” said Shewale.  Masoom Lakhani called up his schoolmates—the Class of 1995— and launched ‘Helping Hand’, a campaign to provide food packets to the impoverished across the city. “It’s moving to see gratitude in the eyes of old citizens and the homeless,” said Lakhani. Ajay Chaudhari, Shiv Sena MLA from Sewri, pulls up citizens without masks. Chaudhari’s crusade continues even when he is home. “I stand in my balcony with a container of masks. As soon as I see someone walking maskless I call out to him and hurl a box at him. They catch it with Ravindra Jadeja’s finesse,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/netas-to-common-man-all-reach-out-to-the-lockdown-hit/articleshow/75460157.cms||Ambarish Mishra
April 30, 2020||Mangaluru||Karnataka: Couple stabbed to death in front of their children||MANGALURU: A 48-year-old man and his 45-year-old wife were stabbed to death in front of their two children by a neighbour in Yelinje, about 30km from here, on Wednesday. Alphonse, the 55-year-old accused, was produced before a court which remanded him in judicial custody. The victims were identified as Vincent D’Souza and Helen D’Souza. Vincent turned an agriculturist after his retirement as a CRPF soldier. Police said Alphonse was enraged as the tree branches from Vincent’s house would shed their leaves into his compound. Around 10am on Wednesday, he pelted Vincent’s house with stones. A verbal altercation ensued after Vincent questioned Alphonse’s act. Later, Alphonse got a knife from his house and stabbed Vincent. As Vincent screamed for help, Helen ran to the spot, but Alphonse stabbed her too. Vincent died on the spot and Helen succumbed to injuries while being rushed to the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/couple-stabbed-to-death-in-front-of-their-children/articleshow/75457920.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Allahabad||Woman arrested for selling IMFL, liquor worth Rs 75k seized||Prayagraj: A woman was arrested for allegedly stocking up and selling Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) neat Tilauri turn in Pratapgarh on Wednesday evening. Police also seized 10 cartons containing IMFL worth Rs 75,000 and Rs 1,200 from the accused, who was identified as Ruby Kesarwani. The woman is a resident of Kunda. SP (Pratapgarh) Abhishek Singh said “A joint team of excise department and Kunda police were tipped off about a woman who had stocked up on IMFL bottles and was selling them from her home. The team raided her house and seized the consignment.” A case under section 60 of Excise Act, section 3 of Epidemic Act and section 51 of the Apda Pravandhan Adhiniyam was registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/woman-arrested-for-selling-imfl-liquor-worth-rs-75k-seized/articleshow/75479072.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Vehicles breaking lockdown rules will be impounded: Gujarat DGP||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat DGP Shivanand Jha on Wednesday once again warned that lockdown norms are to be followed strictly, and any unnecessary movement will invite scrutiny and impounding of vehicles. He reiterated that when out to buy medicines or essesntials it should be ensured that there is only one person on a two-wheeler and there are only two persons in a car. “If we find lockdown norms are violated, the vehicles will be impounded and concerned persons booked. Social distancing should be maintained,” Jha said.Jha reiterated the need to wear a mask or wrap a handkerchief or dupatta around to cover nose and mouth to protect against infection. “Though there are fewer positive cases in green zones we have to be cautious to remain untouched by the virus,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/vehicles-breaking-lockdown-rules-will-be-impounded-dgp/articleshow/75459276.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Jaipur||JDA extends application deadline for 2 housing schemes||JAIPUR: Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) has further extended the date for accepting applications for its two proposed housing schemes. The last date to submit the application for the Mohan Lal Sukhadia and Priyadarshini Nagar Residential Schemes proposed to be developed in Zone-8 has been extended till May 31 in view of the lockdown. Earlier, the JDA was accepting applications till April 30. The scheme’s lottery will be drawn on June 9. JDA has proposed to develop 359 plots in both the schemes. The reserve price for Mohan Lal Sukhadia Residential Scheme has been fixed at Rs 9,500 per square metre and for Priyadarshini Nagar Scheme it is Rs 12,500 per square metre. Under the scheme, 10% employees of Central and state government departments and state undertakings, six per cent for scheduled tribes, nine per cent for scheduled castes, five per cent for disabled, two per cent for accredited journalists and 10 per cent for ex-servicemen along with their families has been reserved. A senior source said, “The proposal for these schemes has been prepared and approved in the building planning committee (BPC) meeting.” The civic body looks confident to sell the plots as it is receiving overwhelming response from residents for the proposed Shiv Vihar Housing scheme where 346 plots are proposed to be developed. According to an official source, Priyadarshini will be launched near Muhana village in Zone-11 where 187 plots will be developed. The smallest plot will be 45 square metre while there will be other plots of 90 square metre and 50 square metre. Mohan Lal Sukhadia scheme will be launched in Dahmi Khurd village in the same zone with 214 plots. The largest plot size in this scheme will be 162 square metre. The JDA will also develop plots of different sizes including 126 square metre, 90 square metre, 72 square metre and 45 square metre in this scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jda-extends-application-deadline-for-2-housing-schemes/articleshow/75460697.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Allahabad||Rival camps open fire, three injured||Prayagraj: A clash between two rival groups left three injured in Kakra Dubawal area, under the limits of Sarayinayat police station, in trans-Ganga area of the city on Wednesday. Heavy police was deployed in the area to maintained law and order. SP (trans-Ganga) NK Singh said, “Supporters of two rival camps clashed over a petty dispute on Tuesday evening at Paar Deeha in Kachar area. Elderly residents of the village, however, managed to pacify the groups and end the fight.” On Wednesday morning, one Rambabu was on his way to the village head’s house when some members of the rival group reached the scene and opened fire. The group of attackers was led by one Akash. Three persons were injured in the firing and they were taken to Jhunsi Community Health Centre for treatment. Shortly after, supporters of Rambabu’s camp also came out on streets of the village and opened fire. Singh said police have identified those involved in the firing and five teams have been deputed to arrest them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/rival-camps-open-fire-three-injured/articleshow/75458364.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Hubballi||Karnataka: After Maneka Gandhi’s call, four booked for thrashing stray dog||HUBBALLI: A resident of Brindavan Layout, Jayanagar Extension, has filed a complaint against four of his neighbours, accusing them of beating a stray dog. Vaijanath G M, a businessman who filed the complaint, said that his neighbours were against him feeding the dogs, but he continued do so despite the opposition. He said the issue took an ugly turn when Satish Bellari, Manjula Bellari, and Meenakshi thrashed a friendly stray on April 24. “I found the stray with bruises on the face and took him to the veterinary clinic for treatment. I also went to Vidyanagar Police Station to lodge a complaint,” he said. “Initially, police refused to take my complaint and I made a call to former Union minister Maneka Gandhi who runs an NGO for animals,” he said. “After Gandhi’s intervention, police filed an FIR against all the four. I have been asked to produce evidence to substantiate my claims,” he added. Vidyanagar inspector Anand Onakudari said, “We never tried to hush up case. Maneka Gandhi had called me to take details of the case. We have lodged a complaint and the investigation is on.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/after-manekas-call-4-booked-for-thrashing-stray-dog/articleshow/75456589.cms||Basavaraj Kattimani
April 30, 2020||Jaipur||Irrfan Khan yearned for cricket before Bollywood success||Actor Irrfan Khan’s shock demise on Wednesday left a big void among his fans and peers. Just a handful know that the Jaipur-born Khan was a promising cricketer. Khan was a talented opening batsman and an off-spinner who played in the Jaipur Cricket League, representing city-based clubs Eleven Stars and Union Club. In fact, Irrfan played a key role in the success of Eleven Stars, helping them qualify for ‘B’ division and then ‘A’ division from ‘C’ division in the Jaipur Cricket League with his batting prowess. He used to open with then skipper Islam Qureshi, currently running a flourishing carpet business on Amer Road. Qureshi has fond memories of his schoolboy friend, who succumbed to colon cancer at the age of 53 in Mumbai. “Eleven Stars made its entry in the Jaipur Cricket League in the ‘C’ division and then qualified to play in the B and A division. We would collect money to buy a new ball that would cost Rs 32 in the year 1984-85. The cost of the ball was equally shared by all team members. Irrfan’s role model was legendary Sunil Gavaskar, upon whom he would model his style. He would watch Gavaskar’s matches on Doordarshan for long hours on a mohalla television. He was in awe of Gavaskar’s straight drive and used to practice it again and again. He was also an effective off-spinner, and at times he would even operate the new ball bowling his medium pacers on matting wickets at the Chaughan where the league matches were held.” recalls Qureshi. Eleven Stars, however, were relegated to the ‘B’ division the very next year after qualifying for ‘A’ division, prompting Khan’s exit from the club. He then joined the Union Club which was managed by Saleem Khan. “We studied and played together for the Union Club and this was the time when Irrfan made a serious attempt to succeed as an opener and would go to the coaches to improve his skills,” says Zahiruddin, former captain of Union Club.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/irrfan-yearned-for-cricket-before-bollywood-success/articleshow/75460708.cms||Prakash Bhandari
April 30, 2020||Patna||Bihar records 37 new Covid-19 cases as tally reaches 403||PATNA: Bihar recorded 37 new Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, including five migrant workers, who had recently returned to West Champaran from New Delhi. Three of the latest cases were reported from Patna district. The total number of Covid-19 cases has reached 403 with 336 active cases, two deaths and 65 people cured. As per information shared by the state health department principal secretary, Sanjay Kumar, a 25-year-old woman from Raja Bazaar in Patna tested positive along with another 45-year-old woman from Paliganj and a 24-year-old woman from Naubatpur in Patna district. Kumar said five migrant workers at Sanichari in West Champaran, who tested positive on Wednesday, were quarantined soon after they arrived in Bihar and were tested for the coronavirus. “So far 44 migrant workers in the state have tested positive for the Covid-19 virus,” he added. After the Wednesday’s nod from the ministry of home affairs to allow stranded students, laborers and others to return, pressure on the state has mounted on how to tackle the Covid-19 cases which may further increase. Kumar accepted that the government’s job will become more difficult and now the state’s strategy will depend on the number of migrants who will be coming, as well as the number of positive cases. Maximum number of positive cases on Wednesday were reported from Buxar where 14 people were found positive for coronavirus. The list includes six children, youngest one being just six month old. Four other positive cases were reported from Darbhanga Town, three from Rohtas, including two from Jamuhar in Sasaram, two from Bhojpur and two from Begusarai and one each from Dharamdaspur in Vaishali, Bardaha in Madhepura, Pipri in Sitamarhi and Aurangabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-records-37-new-covid-cases-as-tally-reaches-403/articleshow/75459306.cms||Sheezan Nezami
April 30, 2020||Bhopal||‘Irrfan knew he didn’t have much time, but he didn’t resign himself to fate’||BHOPAL: “He may not have lived long, but he lived big,” MP School of Drama director Alok Chatterjee says of his college-mate Irrfan Khan. Numb with shock on learning of Irrfan’s passing, Chatterjee – his batchmate at National School of Drama – said: ‘”He had his share of struggles, but when success came to greet him, he left the world. I saw him struggle, grow and emerge victorious without ever losing hope. He did theatre, he worked at a call centre to make ends meet, and strived to get roles in commercials and daily soaps. He was not an actor by fluke, he had earned it by struggling day in and day out. And I have no words for Sutapa’s (Irrfan’s wife) courage. She was his rock. She stood by him when times were tough and she stood by him in his success, and till the very end.” Chatterjee, a noted theatre artiste himself, recalled their campus days, early years as actors, and how he played ‘dakia’ (postman) for lovelorn but shy Irrfan. “Irrfan asked me to tell Sutapa that he was in love with her and to ask her if she would go out with him. He said, ‘You are Bengali, so is she.’ I did what a friend would do, and told Sutapa about his feelings by writing a note to her in Bangla and slipping it to her in class. She asked me why had Irrfan sent me as a ‘dakia’ rather than telling me himself. I went back to him and told him to ask her out. She did not agree to go out with him right away. Gradually, they got to know each other better, dated for a few years, and tied the knot,” he said. The three of them graduated from NSD together in 1987 and remained friends. Recalling their campus days, he told TOI that Irrfan did not open up to people easily, and was shy among strangers. “But when he did make friends, he let them into his little secrets, made them laugh and was the best friend one could ask for,” Chatterjee said. Irrfan took his roles very seriously and strived for perfection, no matter how small the part. “When we were rehearsing for ‘Talghar’, the Hindi adaption of Maxim Gorky’s ‘The Lower Depths’, the two of us were in lead roles. To get into character, we got the costumes issued from college. We slept on the set and wore the costumes instead of our own clothes as we wanted to be the characters. For two months, we ate and slept on the set in the borrowed costumes and when we performed, the play received praise from all the teachers and seniors,” Chatterjee said. Talking about Irrfan’s battle with cancer, Chatterjee said he had accepted that his time is near but he tried to stay positive. “Irrfan knew he did not have much time left but he did not resign himself to fate,” he said. They had heard of the death of Irrfan’s mother three days ago, and learnt on Tuesday night that the actor had been admitted to hospital. “News of his passing came as a real shock to us as he was winning the battle against neuroendocrine tumour and had also recently acted in Angrezi Medium. He had a lot of work left to do. It is not every day that you come across such fine actors who can do justice to any role they play,” Chatterjee said, adding: “It is a great loss for the industry. For me, it is a personal loss.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/irrfan-knew-he-didnt-have-much-time-but-he-didnt-resign-himself-to-fate/articleshow/75457988.cms||Shuchita Jha
April 30, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: Communal harmony is the key during lockdown||VADODARA: While sensitive Vadodara city stands witness to frequent communal skirmishes, the bond of brotherhood and amity surfaced during these troubled times when Muslim neighbours cremated an octogenarian living in Navayard with Hindu rituals on Wednesday. Gangaprasad Tiwari, 80, who lived behind Chistiya mosque, died a natural death early on Wednesday. With only his bed-ridden wife to call as his family, the neighbours were perplexed as to how they would be able to give the man a dignified send off. But, the Muslim neighbours decided to shed differences and called upon their brethren to help them give Tiwari a respectable funeral. “The couple has been living here since I was a child. So, I thought it my duty as a human being and also their neighbour to stand by them in such a difficult time,” said Wajid Khan Pathan, an electrician. Pathan said that he called his friends and relatives to help him with the rituals. The couple didn’t have any children, said locals. “Nobody from our community knows Hindu rituals and there is no other Hindu family living in our locality too. So, we called a tailor and a barber who have their shops here. We asked them to do the rituals while all of us came forward to lift his bier on our shoulders,” Pathan told TOI. Mukesh, who runs a tailoring shop there, performed all the rituals and also lit Tiwari’s pyre. A local leader and Pathan’s nephew, Zuber, along with his friends got the bier, flowers and other materials needed for the cremation. “We were around 15 people and in these terrible times, we did not think even for a second before extending our help,” said Zuber. A sobbing Narangidevi, Tiwari’s widow said: “I am helpless, but now these people are my family.” She has been bed-ridden due to a fractured leg while the neighbours had been providing food to the aged couple. Navayard has mixed population but dominated by people from the minority community.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/communal-brotherhood-rides-high-amid-lockdown/articleshow/75457756.cms||Jay Pachchigar
April 30, 2020||Madurai||Madurai: Woman on way to hospital delivers baby in ambulance||MADURAI: A 27-year-old woman from a village near Melur delivered a healthy baby boy in a 108 ambulance, while she was being taken to a nearby hospital on Tuesday. The paramedic present in the ambulance helped the woman deliver the baby. K Suganthi, from Vellimalaipatti, experienced labour pain on Tuesday evening. Her husband Kannan called up the 108 ambulance service. An ambulance, which was which was heading to Chittampatti Toll Gate with paramedic D Palanivel onboard immediately responded to the call. Palanivel, a native of T Paraipatti village, said that they were on their way to Chittampatti Toll Gate, which is where the ambulance is usually stationed, when they received the call. They reached the woman’s residence in 30 minutes but shifting the woman to the ambulance took a few minutes since her house is located 200 metres off the motorable road. “As soon as the vehicle was started, her water broke. While in many cases it takes upto even five hours for the delivery to take place, in her case she needed to deliver immediately. Taking the advice of the emergency response centre physician over phone, I helped the woman to deliver the infant in the ambulance itself,” Palanivel said. Palanivel also provided first aid for the mother and baby, before they were driven to Sekkipatti primary health centre, where a doctor attended to Sunganthi. It was Suganthi’s third delivery. The couple already have a son and a daughter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/woman-on-way-to-hospital-delivers-baby-in-ambulance/articleshow/75460160.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Varanasi||Three more contacts of medicine trader test Covid-19 positive||VARANASI: With the confirmation of three more Covid-19 positive cases in the district on Wednesday, the Covid-19 tally here has crossed the mark of 50 while number of hotspots has increased to 17. District magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma said that on the arrival of test reports from Banaras Hindu University’s laboratory three more contacts of the prominent drugs wholesaler, who had earlier been tested positive on April 25, have been diagnosed as infected with coronavirus. The three new cases include a 43-year-old trader of Mahmoorganj who used to procure drugs from Saptsagar market to supply in Bihar, another trader of Maidagin area having a outlet in the neighnbourhood and another employee of the wholesale medicine trader who lives in Chhoti Pyari area, said the DM. Mahmoorganj, Maidagin and Chhoti Piyari have also been declared as new hotspots, said the DM. The efforts to trace people who had been in contacts with the infected persons, including their family members, has been started, he added. Two of them had turned up voluntarily for their screening and gave sample for laboratory test, said the DM. With the fresh developments the total number of Covid-19 positive cases has reached to 52. Eight of infected persons have the been cured and discharged from hospital while one had died on April 3. Now, 43 active cases are being treated in the district, said the DM.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/3-more-contacts-of-medicine-trader-test-ve/articleshow/75457699.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Mangaluru||Mangaluru: Food street off the menu this Ramzan||MANGALURU: Festivals are going to be somber affairs. Online sermons and simple iftars will mark Ramzan this year. Food streets that operated in every nook and corner selling samosas and other delicacies have been replaced by door delivery. Food Truck, a mobile unit, has launched home delivery service of Ramzan delicacies. “Though we are receiving bulk orders for samosas, preparing in large quantities is a challenge during lockdown. People need to order one day in advance,” says Rasheed from Food Truck. Aneesa Hasna of Annu’s Kitchen, who used to put up a stall every Ramzan, too has started taking orders online. “We get orders from non-Muslims too and business is picking up slowly. We miss the action and aroma of the food street,” she says. Mueez Darbar, owner, Mumbai Darbar, too has started home delivery of Ramzan delicacies. “The demand has fallen by 50% this year,” he rues. Ramzan is the time when the market is flooded with a wide variety of dates. Mohammed Mukthar, partner, Reem Traders, Mangaluru, says, “Consumption of dates has a religious connection. Though there is a demand for dates, it is only for regular dates. Business has been hit because malls are closed, but sales are through supermarkets. This is the time we generally introduce dates from across the world. The demand for premium dates is low.” During the holy month, NGOs and likeminded people usually donate food kits to the poor. Khasim Ahmed from NGO Coordination Team says even those who used to donate are feeling the pinch with the average middle class also affected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/food-street-off-the-menu-this-ramzan/articleshow/75458030.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
April 30, 2020||Kanpur||Police make violators squat on roads||Kanpur: Two days ago around 8 am, a girl and a boy were found moving towards Gaushala crossing in a scooter. When they were stopped by the police where they were going to which the girl replied that they were going to witness lockdown. A woman and a male constable told the girl and the boy to come down from the scooter and sit in ‘murgha position’. After 10-15 minutes, the cops again asked whether they had witnessed the lockdown. Both of them with folded hands said that they had seen it and will never come out during lockdown. Police often catch violators of lockdown in the city and punish them either by making them ‘murgha’ or make them squat on road. People come across such kinds of news almost daily through TV and newspapers but the Kanpurites are not learning any lesson. Since the imposition of lockdown in the city, more than 31,000 people have reportedly flouted the lockdown rules and punished. According to the figure released by the police, around 4000 people have so far been booked under section 144 CrPC, more than 27,000 prosecuted under the Motor Vehicles Act, 900 vehicles seized for not showing papers and Rs 5.32 lakh realized as fine. SP (East) Raj Kumar Agarwal said that despite strict actions being taken, the residents were not complying with the lockdown rules. Now, police are going to initiate legal proceedings against lockdown violators, he said. The SP said the police have registered around 115 cases against those found roaming on roads without wearing masks, or loitering in hotspot or red zone areas and not maintaining social distancing. “Police have registered 28 cases against 37 shopkeepers found selling essential commodities at premium prices, and around one dozen cases registered under the Essential Commodities Act against fair price shop licensees and kotedars”, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/police-make-violators-squat-on-roads/articleshow/75460449.cms||Anant Chandak
April 30, 2020||Madurai||Madurai: Burglar who escaped from hospital held||MADURAI: A burglar who escaped from the Covid-19 isolation ward at the Government Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital (TVMCH) on Tuesday was nabbed by police on Wednesday. The accused, Maayaandi, 39, of Kaalvaai near Srivaikuntam was caught by local people when he snatched a mobile phone from a house on Tuesday. The people handed him over to the Srivaikuntam police, following which he was taken to the TVMCH for checkup. As he suffered cold and cough he was taken to the isolation ward in the hospital the same evening. As police were waiting outside and the hospital staff were busy at work, he escaped. The incident was reported to the outpost police in the hospital, following which the Tirunelveli city police registered a case and started searching for the culprit. Maayaandi was nabbed at Karungulam area on Wednesday. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/burglar-who-escaped-from-hospital-held/articleshow/75460167.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Allahabad||Samples of 222 migrants, 15 others sent for testing||Prayagraj: Health department officials on Wednesday collected 222 samples of migrants, including of 15 persons who were advised/referred by doctors to go for testing after their arrival in the city on suspecting Covid-19 symptoms.. Additional chief medical officer and the nodal officer, Dr Rishi Sahai said, “The health department teams have collected a total of 207 samples of migrants from different areas of the district”. The teams have also collected samples of 15 other people who had arrived in the city after getting e-passes and were advised or referred by their doctors when they were suspected of having Covid-19 symptoms. “We have been maintaining a close watch and more samples will be collected on Thursday for testing”, he added. Meanwhile, officials of the fire department on Wednesday sanitized the entire reserve police lines, police offices,, police residential campuses, judges colony (Beli Road) and Dial 100 buildings. Chie fire officer RS Mishra said, “A joint team of the municipal corporation and the fire department carried out sanitization exercise in and around the reserve police lines”. Apart from government offices and barracks, the team also sanitized the mounted police and sniffer dogs campus, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/samples-of-222-migrants-15-others-sent-for-testing/articleshow/75457834.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Kolkata||Tallah ROB razed in lockdown lull||KOLKATA: Eastern Railway (ER) utilized the lull in train movement during the lockdown to dismantle the Road Overbridge (ROB) across the railway tracks at Tallah. While freight trains are plying, passenger services have been suspended. With fewer trains using the tracks under the ROB, it was easier to raze the whole structure by Monday, an official said. Plying of vehicles across the Tallah Bridge had been suspended months before the lockdown was enforced. “The ROB was located between the Tallah and Bagbazar stations of circular railway. It had eight spans over the railway land, which had 38 shallow Pre-Stressed Concrete (PSC) girders interlaced together, save for Span 7. This span was a reinforced cement concrete (RCC)/masonry structure. It took considerable effort on the part of ER engineers and construction workers to dismantle the structure. Though passenger services are suspended, goods and parcel express trains are running 24x7 to maintain the supply chain of essential commodities all across the country,” said the official. Before dismantling of the bridge started, a taskforce comprising engineers of the state government and ER was formed. Railway engineers of this team maintained close co-ordination with state authorities to facilitate the work. ER also constructed a level crossing gate in record time to facilitate the movement of heavy road vehicles after traffic on the bridge was stopped. “Despite restrictions due to the Covid-19 pandemic, officials of different departments from the ER headquarters and Sealdah Division supervised the dismantling work. The railways provided all traffic and power blocks demanded by the state government. Overhead equipment was shifted or lowered to facilitate the working of cranes ,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tallah-rob-razed-in-lockdown-lull/articleshow/75459310.cms||Jayanta Gupta
April 30, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Odisha government to bring back 975 Kota students after health check||BHUBANESWAR: The state government has started taking steps to bring back around 975 Odia students stuck in Kota, Rajasthan, much to the relief of the parents. “They will be brought after proper screening of their health and will have to follow guidelines after arriving in Odisha,” said a senior officer in the home department. Apart from Kota, many students are stranded in other cities of the country. According to members of Odisha Students’ Association (OSA), New Delhi, more than 20 students studying in different institutes of Delhi have been stranded in the capital. Abinash Sarangi, a Plus III third year student of Geology honours in Delhi University, is undecided whether to return home after the lockdown or not. He is staying in his rented accommodation at Motibagh, New Delhi. He cooks his own food and keeps in touch with friends and family. “I am not facing any difficulty but parents are worried. No one is allowed to go out so I was ordering groceries online but now that has also become risky after a delivery boy got infected. I did not go home after the lockdown as I had to appear in an entrance examination in May. But I did not know that lockdown will be extended and situation will become so bad,” said Abinash. Though he has registered with the Odisha government’s portal for people stranded outside the state, he is is worried about staying for 14 days in quarantine. “It is better I stay here and continue with my studies. Most of the students are feeling the same,” said Abinash, who is also the vice-president of OSA. Dillip Panda, a government employee, is worried about his son Aditya Panda, an engineering student stranded in Hyderabad. “Hostels are shut and he is staying with some friends in a private mess,” said the worried father.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/govt-to-bring-back-975-kota-students-after-health-check/articleshow/75456625.cms||Minati Singha
April 30, 2020||Allahabad||SRN hosp launches telemedicine OPD||Prayagraj: In what has come as a major relief for patients amid the lockdown, Moti Lal Nehru (MLN) Medical College has launched Telemedicine OPD facility at its 11 departments in SRN Hospital from Wednesday. MLN Medical College principal Dr SP Singh said, “Mobile numbers of all 11 departments for telemedicine OPDs have been circulated among the patients. We have allotted SIMs to doctors who will be attending calls from patients.” On Wednesday, as many as 331 calls were attended by the doctors of different departments including medicine (42), gynaecology (22), surgery (54), Orthopaedics (21), ENT (77), Ophthalmology (25), Paediatrics (23), TB & Chest (12), Dental (25), Dermatology (17) and Mental Illness (13), said the principal. Dr. Santosh Singh, assistant professor (General Surgery) told TOI, “As the regular OPDs at several departments are not functional due to the lockdown, the authorities of MLN Medical college decided to start telemedicine OPD facility for the patients from Wednesday.” Patients can call the doctors of all 11 departments from 8 am to 4 pm and duties of doctors have been assigned accordingly to attend the calls. The facility will be functional for six days a week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/srn-hosp-launches-telemedicine-opd/articleshow/75458418.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Ghaziabad||Ghaziabad industries unlikely to open after May 3||GHAZIABAD: Chances of industries opening up in the district after May 3 looks slim as it comes under the red zone. This has been conveyed to the industry bodies by UP’s nodal officer for Ghaziabad, Sudhir Garg, in a meeting on Wednesday. However, a framework is being worked out to give permission to some industries in the rural areas to begin operations. And a report will be sent to the state government on the same soon. “The meeting with industry bodies on Wednesday was to take stock of the prevailing situation and how and when we could go about opening up of industries. As of now, Ghaziabad is under the red zone. However, we will be sending a report to the state government that will take the final call on the matter,” Garg told TOI. Virender Kumar, deputy commissioner of industries who was present in the meeting, said the modalities under which the businesses could be opened in Ghaziabad was discussed and the suggestions included giving permission to those units which could manage on the existing workforce present in their factory premises. “But social distancing and sanitisation of workers will be a pre-requisite for industries to open and also workers above 50 years and the ones suffering from any ailment will not be allowed to work,.” But Ghaziabad industrialists are of the view that they be given permission to operate in a phased and controlled manner under the supervision of health department. “There are over 550 industries in Ghaziabad engaged in the production of essential commodities and they are already in operation, may be the authorities can follow the same template and start giving permission to industries to begin operations in a phased manner,” said Anil Gupta, general secretary, Ghaziabad Industries Federation. From pharmaceuticals to engineering products and garments, there are 27,000 micro industries, 4,600 small-scale industries, 150 medium-scale industries and 45 heavy industries in Ghaziabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/ghaziabad-industries-unlikely-to-open-after-may-3/articleshow/75460510.cms||Abhijay Jha
April 30, 2020||Cuttack||Odisha government to bring back 975 Kota students after health check||BHUBANESWAR: The state government has started taking steps to bring back around 975 Odia students stuck in Kota, Rajasthan, much to the relief of the parents. “They will be brought after proper screening of their health and will have to follow guidelines after arriving in Odisha,” said a senior officer in the home department. Apart from Kota, many students are stranded in other cities of the country. According to members of Odisha Students’ Association (OSA), New Delhi, more than 20 students studying in different institutes of Delhi have been stranded in the capital. Abinash Sarangi, a Plus III third year student of Geology honours in Delhi University, is undecided whether to return home after the lockdown or not. He is staying in his rented accommodation at Motibagh, New Delhi. He cooks his own food and keeps in touch with friends and family. “I am not facing any difficulty but parents are worried. No one is allowed to go out so I was ordering groceries online but now that has also become risky after a delivery boy got infected. I did not go home after the lockdown as I had to appear in an entrance examination in May. But I did not know that lockdown will be extended and situation will become so bad,” said Abinash. Though he has registered with the Odisha government’s portal for people stranded outside the state, he is is worried about staying for 14 days in quarantine. “It is better I stay here and continue with my studies. Most of the students are feeling the same,” said Abinash, who is also the vice-president of OSA. Dillip Panda, a government employee, is worried about his son Aditya Panda, an engineering student stranded in Hyderabad. “Hostels are shut and he is staying with some friends in a private mess,” said the worried father.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/cuttack/govt-to-bring-back-975-kota-students-after-health-check/articleshow/75465764.cms||Minati Singha
April 30, 2020||Allahabad||Man arrested for trying to kill 10-yr-old||Prayagraj: A man was arrested for allegedly trying to sodomise and murder a minor boy near Enuddinpur, Sasur Kharedi River Road, under the limits of Kareli police station, on Thursday. The accused Salman (22) is a resident of Kareli. Inspector (Kareli) AK Singh said the accused lured a 10-year-old boy to accompany him to Enuddinpur by convincing him that he would play with him on Wednesday afternoon. “The accused first tried to sodomise the minor and when the boy resisted and cried for help, Salman tried to strangle him,” the inspector said. The boy fainted a few seconds later and the accused thought that he might have died. He then decided to set him ablaze. “Salman took the boy near a shrub, lit a fire and fled thinking that the fire would ultimately burn the body. However, before the fire could engulf the boy, he cried for help. Hearing the cries of boy, local residents rescued him,” said Singh. The boy survived with some injuries on his abdomen. Meanwhile, the accused fled the sport after lighting the fire. After being alerted, police rushed the boy to hospital for treatment. On Thursday, the accused was arrested and sent him behind the bars.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/man-arrested-for-trying-to-kill-10-yr-old/articleshow/75479020.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Hubballi||Flip-flop on DC’s transfer order puzzles many in dist||Kalaburagi: The state government’s order transferring deputy commissioner Sharath B, which was rescinded within an hour on Tuesday, came as a surprise to many. According to sources, the DC had earned a good impression when he initially contained the spread of Covid-19 despite the district seeing country’s first fatality. Sources close to DC claimed that the state government had developed high regards for the officer for his hard work. However, as days progressed, new cases sprang up in the district, making the task of district administration difficult. Five deaths in the next few days painted a different picture for Kalaburagi. Finally, the DC’s transfer order came on Tuesday. But sources privy to the DC’s day-to-day activities say that there could be other reasons for the change of opinion and that is why his transfer was stopped. The public in Kalaburagi are of the opinion that the top officer is working relentlessly on the ground and the surge in cases is due to people who travelled to Delhi. Besides, the hike in positive cases happened in other districts too. An officer in the district administration said that a fortnight ago, doctors at the covid frontline threatened to halt work citing shortage of protective gears or PPE. This irked the DC, forcing him to warn the doctors of consequences. Although it was amicably solved, the incident resulted in a crack between medical fraternity and Sharath. Sources say that the upset doctors might have influenced the government to change its opinion or some others used the opportunity to get the DC transferred. “Frankly I am not aware of the reasons behind the government’s move. I am simply doing my duty and I do not know why the government arrived at this decision,” Sharath told TOI. The DC said that within an hour of his transfer order, chief minister B S Yediyurappa telephoned him and directed him to continue in the post, saying the order was withheld. .  Political nexus suspected At least two reliable sources in the district administration point fingers at liquor mafia. A source said the liquor mafia, eyeing profit in the hour of crisis, were selling spurious liquor. More importantly, the hooch producers have political backing, cutting across party lines and also those in power. “However, the DC went hammer and tongs against production, transportation and sale of such liquor,” said a source. Former BJP MLA Malikayya Guttedar who has interest in the liquor business asked how could someone level allegations against liquor owners. “In fact, it was me and Jadav who spoke to chief secretary Vijay Bhaskar to reverse the order,” he said. Guttedar added that some unidentified persons may have misguided the chief secretary about DC. Interestingly, Malikayya Guttedar and Jadav released a video moments after the order claiming that the duo has spoken to chief secretary to withdraw the order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/flip-flop-on-dcs-transfer-order-puzzles-many-in-dist/articleshow/75456636.cms||Shreyas HS
April 30, 2020||Rajkot||4-year-old girl defeats coronavirus||Rajkot: A four-year-old girl who tested positive of Covid-19 recovered and discharged from Sir T hospital in Bhavnagar on Wednesday. The girl’s father, who too had tested positive later, is under treatment at the hospital. Incidentally, Macchhiwada resident Fatima Sheikh’s Covid story began much before April 11 when she was admitted to the Bhavnagar hospital. Her father, Bin Yamin Sheikh, tried to smuggle the infected kid from Jamnakund locality to Ghogha nearly 18 km far from Bhavnagar where their escapade was detected and she was taken to the hospital. Sheikh was booked for his misguided adventure and officials quarantined those who came into contact of the minor. Later, the father too developed symptoms and tested positive of Covid-19.As the girl had no other complications and her all reports came normal, she was finally discharged. Meanwhile, two more persons, a 65-year-old man and a 10-year-old boy, tested positive on Wednesday in Bhavnagar. Altogether 46 persons tested positive in Bhavnagar, of which 22 have been discharged so far. Five people have died of the infection, while 19 are still under treatment. fully recovered.Three more people including a 48-year-old woman, a 55-year-old man and 14-year-old boy tested positive on Wednesday. Altogether 59 people have tested positive in Rajkot city so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/4-year-old-girl-defeats-coronavirus/articleshow/75458040.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Agra||Bleeding profusely, toddler dies during paperwork at govt hospital in Agra||Agra: Bleeding profusely from the nose, an eight-month-old child was allegedly turned away by three private hospitals in Agra before he died in the arms of his father at the emergency ward of SN Medical College, where he was “told to do paperwork” on Wednesday. It comes a day after a 12-year-old child died in the city of Taj after being turned away by at least six private hospitals, which wanted the child’s Covid-19 status before admission. Similar two deaths were also attributed to medical negligence in the city this week. When asked about the recent death, principal of SN Medical College, GK Aneja, said, “I am not aware about the entire matter. I will inquire about it.” Chief medical officer Dr Mukesh Kumar Vats didn’t respond to calls. According to the family members of the child, around 20 minutes were wasted in the paperwork, and the child died. A resident of Telipara area, Mohammad Bilal Hamza rushed to three nursing homes after the child started bleeding on Wednesday morning. The condition of the child started deteriorating. Then the father and uncle of the child took him to the district hospital. Seeing delay in treatment, they then took the child to the emergency ward of the SN Medical College. Mohammad Shaan, uncle of the child, said, “The child could have been saved had a doctor was made available at the SN Medical college on time. The staffer at the emergency ward, even after repeated requests, refused to admit the child without the paperwork”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/bleeding-profusely-toddler-dies-during-paperwork-at-govt-hospital-in-agra/articleshow/75458067.cms||Deepak Lavania
April 30, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Amid cancellation rumours, CBSE clarifies it will hold boards after lockdown is lifted||BHUBANESWAR: With the CBSE board examinations postponed owing to the nationwide lockdown, students of Classes X and XII are stuck in between waiting to move on to the next level. Neither do they have online classes to attend nor can they keep on doing revisions. Meanwhile, rumours about the exams being cancelled are increasing their anxiety levels. On Wednesday, the CBSE, however, clarified that the board will conduct the exam after the lockdown is lifted. Many Class X and XII students in the city said they too want to appear for the pending board examinations. “With regard to conducting the Class X exam, several queries are being received by the CBSE. In this context, it is once again reiterated that the remaining examinations of the Class X students as stated in the press release dated April 1, 2020 will be conducted by the CBSE. It is once again clarified that adequate time of 10 days will be given to all stakeholders before starting the examinations. Therefore, there is no change in the position of holding the board examinations and the position continues as per the information given earlier,” the board circular said. It is also informed that examinations of all the subjects of Classes X and XII will be conducted after assessing the situation once the lockdown is lifted, it added. With no dates announced for the exams, students of Class XII are busy learning new skills While Class X students are continuing with their Class XI courses. “We don’t have any examinations left and we have already got promoted and the school has started online classes for class XI. I am also practicing for the NEET entrance examination from the books of my elder brother, said Satyam Parida, a class X student. OM Abhisek, a class XII student is passing his free time at home by practicing computer programming, said he want the examinations to occur. Preparation for the exam was almost over and with not much to do I am trying to use my time. I dont want the CBSE to cancel the examination. But the examination must be done by May-end or it will affect the consequent events like entrance examinations and college admissions, he added. Ananya Nayak, another class XII student said he is spending the free time with family during the lockdown. Last few months were very hectic due to the exam preparations after exams got postponed I am getting lots of free time and spending quality time with family. I am playing ludo and uno with my younger siblings, and also learning cooking from my mother. But I want the examination to be held, said Ananya. Some students said they are getting more time for preparing for the entrance examinations. Online classes are being held by the coaching centre. I got more time for preparing for the entrance though dates are yet to be announced. I hope CBSE will conduct the exam after the lockdown is over, said Pratik Mohanty, another class XII student.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/amid-cancellation-rumours-cbse-clarifies-it-will-hold-boards-after-lockdown-is-lifted/articleshow/75456635.cms||Minati Singha
April 30, 2020||Madurai||Collectors weighing pros and cons of reopening industries||MADURAI: Some of the district collectors who attended the marathon videoconference with CM on Wednesday said they would need a couple of days to submit a detailed report to him on the pros and cons of opening various industries in their districts and other information he had sought. “We cannot take chance in reopening industries in a green zone (without fresh Covid-19 infection for 28 days) or orange zone (no new cases for 14 days). One fresh infection would take us to the red zone again,” said a collector. “There are six main industries in the district including fireworks, matchbox, printing, textile and food processing. They are labour intensive. The daily wage workforce in these sectors is 5 lakh to 6 lakh. We will discuss with the industries before submitting the report,” Virudhunagar district collector R Kannan said. According to him, the challenges include maintaining social distancing at the work place and transit. “Without industries the workforce suffers. On the other hand the industries cannot operate with certain restrictions. They prefer to remain closed throughout the lockdown when asked to operate with 50% workforce or other restrictions,” Kannan said. Tuticorin collector Sandeep Nanduri said: “We were asked details on industries, if they fall under containment zones and if they are rural or urban. Essential industries such as matchbox, dhal and rice mills and continuous process big industries like power plants and cement factories are already exempted and functioning,” he said. Nanduri said decision has to be taken on MSMEs and non-essential export-oriented units in the southern coastal district. General instructions at the meeting included ensuring that agriculture or horticulture operations are not affected. The collectors were told that there should be no interruption in local produce reaching the market. Another collector said that each district was asked to explain where and how the infection started, why it increased and how it has been contained. “Some finished in 10 minutes while some collectors took up to 30 minutes, but the CM listened patiently,” a collector added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/collectors-weighing-pros-and-cons-of-reopening-industries/articleshow/75460178.cms||M K Ananth
April 30, 2020||Bhopal||Covid-19: 10 more deaths; MP's tally 2,560||BHOPAL/INDORE: Madhya Pradesh recorded 10 more Covid-19 deaths on Wednesday, taking the state’s toll to 130. With 79 new cases, MP’s corona count rose to 2,560. The state bulletin reported 173 fresh cases but it included the 94 reported by Indore administration on Tuesday midnight. Bhopal had 25 more cases, taking its count to 483. In Rewa, a doctor, his sister and daughter have tested positive. His nursing home has been sealed. The doctor is a cancer patient and used to visit Delhi for chemotherapy. In his recent visit, he was detected positive. His wife is a doctor, too. Nearly 100 people have been quarantined, according to reports. Dhar reported a 21% increase in cases from 36 to 46 on a single day. Ujjain – the alarming new hotspot -- reported a 16% spike to 48. Khargone, the other zone of concern, reported nine more cases, taking its count to 70. After a long gap, Barwani and Mandsaur reported new Covid-19 infections. In the past 24 hours, five Covid-19 deaths and 121 new cases have been reported in Indore division, casting a cloud of uncertainty on easing of lockdown after May 3. Indore division’s bulletin of the day revealed two deaths in Khandwa, one in Khargone and two in Indore. “Last night, Indore reported two deaths and 94 new positive cases. The figure here has increased to total 65 deaths and 1,466 positive patients” said Indore division joint director (health) Dr JS Awasya, adding that no new case or death was reported in Burhanpur, Jhabua, Alirajpur and Barwani. NGO Jan Swasth Abhiyam (JSA) has called for immediate action on the spurt seen in the last three days in Khandwa, Raisen and Ashoknagar. These districts have reported deaths recently. Now, 31 districts in MP are on the Corona map. “The number of dedicated Covid hospitals is stuck at 25 since April 14 and most of them are in cities. It is essential to increase capacity of testing and treatment in all districts,” said JSA representative Amulya Nidhi. The NGO also pointed out that state government health bulletin has stopped providing the total number of test samples and pending test results since April 27. Till April 26, there were 8,439 pending test results. “A lot of patients have been waiting for several days for their test results. But now, as there is no data being given on pending test results and availability of test kits. There is no transparency around testing in MP,” he alleged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/covid-19-10-more-deaths-mps-tally-2560/articleshow/75458066.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Bhubaneswar||AIR helps connect migrants with NGOs||BERHAMPUR: At a time when thousands of Odia people are stranded outside the state owing to the lockdown, All India Radio (AIR), Berhampur, has been trying to counsel and alleviate their pain with the help of different social organisations. The AIR also announced the work done by different organisations outside the state, including government units, to help the stranded people. “It has helped the families of the stranded people to know the condition of their friends and relatives amid the lockdown,” Hrusikesh Panigrahy, programme head of AIR Berhampur, said. “Though the stranded people keep in touch with their family members through phones, they cannot ask their families to assist them in any manner from a different place. This is why we have highlighted the phone numbers of officials of some Odia organisations through the programme. After placing a request over phone, the volunteers of the organizations from the same place can reach out to them,” he said. “A person from Polasara in the district had called us and requested to highlight the living conditions of the Odia people stranded in Hyderabad. On his request, we reached out to the organisation operating there to help stranded people. He then received help,” he added. “We play the role of a coordinator,” Panigraphy said. The AIR Berhampur has reached out to the people stranded in Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Goa, New Delhi, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/air-helps-connect-migrants-with-ngos/articleshow/75456659.cms||Hrusikesh Mohanty
April 30, 2020||Bhubaneswar||After three days and 2000 km by bus, 228 from Surat finally home||BERHAMPUR: Without food for three days, 228 migrant workers stranded in Surat, Gujarat, arrived in their home state in four buses on Wednesday. The labourers, all from Ganjam district, were provided dry food by police personnel in Sonepur. “We have neither bathed nor taken any food during our over 2,000-km journey. We only drank the water fetched from a canal on the route,” Nilaachal Rout, 35, of Badagarh. The migrants had hired four buses in Surat and paid Rs 3,500 per head to return home amid the Covid-19 outbreak. They left around 5.30 pm on April 29. “Though we took permission from the Surat administration before leaving, police deployed at the Maharashtra border detained us for two to three hours. They allowed us to leave after much request,” said Jaga Swain of Sorada. The migrants said they have decided not to go home but stay at the quarantine centres set up by the district administration. “We have decided on it for the safety of the families, villagers and the district. We will abide by all instructions of the administration,” they said. Collector (Ganjam) Vijay Amruta Kulange said the workers would be placed in institutional quarantine for two weeks. Almost all of them were workers in the textile mills of Surat. “With savings dwindling as all textile mills stopped operations due to the lockdown, we decided to leave the place. We were also very scared of contracting Covid-19 infection with the number of cases increasing in Gujarat,” said Rout. “We drew the attention of the Gujarat and Odisha government to our plight but in vain. Then we decided to leave Surat by making our own arrangements,” said Rout.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/after-3-days-2000-km-by-bus-228-from-surat-finally-home/articleshow/75456646.cms||Hrusikesh Mohanty
April 30, 2020||Patna||Hope floats for Bihar patients, relatives stuck in other cities||PATNA: When Mohammad Ejaz, a 44-year-old private firm employee from Samastipur, arrived in Mumbai on March 21 to buy medicines for his cancer-stricken wife, he had no idea he would get stuck there for over a month due to the nationwide lockdown. Ejaz’s 38-year-old wife, Akhtari Khatoon, has nasal cavity cancer, a relatively rare form of the disease. She has not had her medications in over a month as her husband is stuck in Mumbai, waiting desperately for the lockdown to end. He was supposed to return with her medicines on March 25. “My wife is undergoing treatment at Mumbai’s Tata Memorial Hospital for the past three years. Now she also visits Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS), Patna for check-up. When her medicines got over, I tried at every possible place in Bihar, but could not get it, following which I came to Mumbai. However, due to the lockdown, my ticket got cancelled and for over a month, I am stuck here and my wife is without medicine,” said Ejaz. “If the medication is missed, it will affect her recovery response,” said Mahavir Cancer Sansthan’s superintendent Dr L B Singh, adding, it is not advisable for a patient to miss them. Ejaz is currently staying with a distant relative, while his wife with their three children are alone at home in Samastipur. “It will be really kind if someone helps me at this moment. My wife needs her medicines badly,” Ejaz told TOI over phone from Mumbai. He was elated when told that the Centre has finally allowed stranded people like him to return to their home states. Ejaz is not alone. There are hundreds like him, who are stuck far away from home, some of whom had travelled with their ailing kin to hospitals like Tata Memorial in Mumbai and AIIMS in Delhi. Every year, thousands from the state go to these cities as well neighbouring Kolkata and even as far as Chennai to avail better treatment. Devanand Kumar, a 40-year-old resident of Nawada, wants the government to assist people like him, who are stuck in other states with patients for treatment, and are now finding it difficult to sustain themselves amid lockdown and are surviving on charity. Devanand is in AIIMS-Delhi with his brother-in-law Kundan Kumar, who is suffering from liver ailments. “I came here in February with limited money. I am a farmer and I had planned to return in March end. But due to the lockdown, I am stuck here. With no money in pocket, there are many like me, who are dependent on free food being distributed by some good Samaritans or the government. Sometimes I eat twice a day and sometimes I get just one meal. I had never imagined such a life of indignity,” said Devanand. The nationwide lockdown has caused similar problems for 29-year-old Kumari Abhilasha, who is pregnant, and far away from home in Mumbai while her husband is in Patna. After her first miscarriage, Abhilasha and her family had decided to see a renowned gynaecologist in Mumbai. Accordingly, she and her husband arrived in Mumbai. “My sister-in-law lives in Mumbai so I came here with my husband for check-up in early March. My due date is in August and my doctor advised me not to travel, so my husband left me here and went to Patna on March 20. He has his business there and was supposed to return in five days. But after lockdown, I am left alone with my sister-in-law,” said Abhilasha. She can’t visit her doctor regularly now as no transport is available. “We have a car here but both me and my sister-in-law can’t drive and we can’t get a driver. Now I cannot even go for routine check-ups,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/hope-floats-for-state-patients-relatives-stuck-in-other-cities/articleshow/75459339.cms||Sheezan Nezami
April 30, 2020||Nagpur||‘Strays and pets do not spread Covid-19, treat them well’||Nagpur: Abandoning your pets out of fear of coronavirus might land you behind the bars, as per the latest advisory issued by the Animal Welfare Board of India (AWBI). AWBI, which is a statutory advisory body on animal welfare laws in the country, has been receiving numerous complaints regarding cruelty cases against pet animals during the lockdown period. “The board has also noticed that animals are brutally beaten with rods or hard objects. Such kind of inhuman behaviour of the people or animal owner is punishable offence and the police department is requested to immediately act on the matter when reported by any person, feeder and animal welfare activists,” the board stated in its advisory. According to local animal activists who are running shelters, many citizens are abandoning their pet dogs and cats fearing spread of Covid-19. However, the board has clarified that animals pose no threat to humans. “It may be noted that pets or stray animals do no spread Covid-19. Anyone abandoning or harassing animals out of fear of spreading of Covid-19 will be liable to be prosecuted under Section 11(1) of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960, where police is fully entitled to take cognizance under this section as deem fit,” the advisory stated. Citing a petition that was filed in the apex court regarding feeding of animals and birds during lockdown, the board further added that the feeder should identify a specific place and time. “The pets and strays should be fed at the said restricted area only on the specified time. The area for feeding the animals should be away from the public movement,” it added. The board has asked the animal feeders to co-operate with local authorities which are implementing government’s guidelines for lockdown and maintaining law and order. Following this directive, local animal activists have formed a group to feed the strays in the night. “We have taken permission from the authorities and are volunteers feeding hundreds of stray dogs every night. We are grateful that the police are cooperating with us. We can’t let the animals die during lockdown,” said animal welfare activist Karishma Galani. The feeders have also been asked to follow the norms of waste management after feeding the animals. They have to maintain personal hygiene and mandatorily wear masks and gloves. “The residents should also be made aware not to litter leftover food and distribute it in one corner where animals can eat with respect and keeping waste management in place,” the advisory added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/strays-and-pets-do-not-spread-covid-19-treat-them-well/articleshow/75460201.cms||Manka Behl
April 30, 2020||Agra||Mathura jail inmates to make safety kit for staff, sanitation workers||Agra: Mathura jail is all set to start the production of polythene-based Improvised Personal Protection kit, developed by IIT-Kanpur researchers, for use of its staff and sanitation workers at the forefront of Covid-19 battle. Confirming this, senior superintendent of Mathura jail Shailendra Maitri said that these kits had been developed by IIT-Kanpur and after seeing the technique on youtube, the NGO engaged in rehabilitation and reforms programme in jail complex developed 20 pieces. “We have received it today and will soon start its production in the jail so we can protect our staff too,” Maitri said. He told TOI that the improvised kit will costs between Rs 150-200 per piece which is far cheaper than other PPE kits that cost around Rs 850. “In a temporary jail, our staff and cops usually interact with the accused before testing them for Covid-19 and there are high chances of the spread of infection. This kit is reusable after sanitisation,” he added. Shipra Rathi of the NGO Khajani Welfare Society said, “We have taken suggestions from medical professionals before preparing the kit. This is not for doctors but for those who are exposed to the infection as they work in high risk areas like sanitation workers, cops, jail staff.” She told TOI that they have followed WHO norms of sealing the plastic kit without stitching it. “There is a face mask, latex gloves, shoe covers, arm covers, body cover and a cotton cap in the kit,” Rathi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/mathura-jail-inmates-to-make-safety-kit-for-staff-sanitation-workers/articleshow/75458093.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Kanpur||Cured 12-year-old madrassa student tests coronavirus positive again in Kanpur||KANPUR: For the first time in the district, a 12-year-old Madrassa student, who had recovered from coronavirus, was again found Covid-19 positive on Wednesday. The 12-year-old along with seven other Madrassa students and 14 other people including natives of Kanpur, Kannauj, Auraiya and Etawah, had been admitted on April 14 to a community health centre in Sarsaul. As per available information, the student along with 20 others, had tested positive for coronavirus. However, he tested negative for the first time on April 18, the second time on April 23 and the third time on April 25. He was then declared as cured and was discharged from the CHC. “When he was going back to the madrassa on Monday, his condition deteriorated and he was rushed back to Sarsaul CHC. He was then found to be Covid-19 positive in his fourth test,” said chief medical officer Dr Ashok Shukla. “He has been readmitted to Sarsaul CHC and is undergoing treatmemnt. As of now, his condition is stable,” added the CMO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/cured-12-year-old-madrassa-student-tests-positive-again/articleshow/75460425.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: No bail for Alliance University ex-chancellor||BENGALURU: A city civil and session court on Monday denied bail to Sudhir Angur, prime accused in the murder of former Alliance University vice-chancellor Ayyappa Dore. Dore, 53, was found dead at HMT Ground in RT Nagar on October 16, 2019. Sudhir Angur, 57, who was then chancellor of the university, was arrested on October 17, 2019 and named the first accused. Sudhir moved his bail petition before the 55th additional city civil and sessions court on February 4. The order was reserved after 10 hearings on March 21. The prosecution’s case was that Sudhir had a dispute with his brother Madhukar Angur over the university affairs. As Dore was working in Madhukar’s favour, Sudhir planned to eliminate Dore with the help of contract killers. Sudhir’s counsel argued that the entire case is foisted to help Madhukar regain control over the university. Citing Covid-19 concerns, counsel argued that Sudhir, a law-abiding citizen with no criminal antecedents, is entitled to bail. The special public prosecutor, however, pointed out that there’s sufficient evidence against Sudhir. “The DVR seized from Sudhir’s residence has CCTV footages showing the co-accused visiting the place. Police have also seized the contract money from the killers. The confession of Sudhir and his fellow accused prove his role in the case,” the prosecutor said. Judge K Narayana Prasad denied the bail, noting that if released, the accused might influence witnesses, given his status and official position.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/no-bail-for-alliance-varsity-ex-chancellor-in-former-vc-murder-case/articleshow/75459341.cms||Santosh kumar.B
April 30, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu cases cross 100 for second day in a row; Chennai tally 94||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu recorded a three-digit Covid-19 positive count for the second day on Wednesday and Chennai continued to report most of the cases — 94 out of 104. The toll in the state rose to 27 with two more deaths — a 65-year-old cancer patient and a 26-year-old woman. The woman’s case pushed the directorate of medical education into hurried containment mode as she had died in labour at Chennai’s Government Kasturba Gandhi Hospital on Tuesday, but her swab sample tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. At least 30 doctors from Madras Medical College and 17 house surgeons from Omandurar Medical College, besides scores of nurses and health workers, were sent into 14-day quarantine in hotels and hostels. A large section of Kasturba hospital was closed for disinfection while corporation officials were asked to track and test the contacts of the woman and all medical staff and patients of the two medical colleges. In the last two days, the doctors and staff, who were unaware of the woman’s status, were posted to different wards. Doctors from Kasturba hospital told TOI that the woman from Chintadripet had come to the hospital for her first delivery. Minutes before she could deliver she developed “eclampsia” a rare but serious condition where high blood pressure results in seizures. “It led to her death. We lost the fetus too. Labour rooms are generally crowded and when there is an event like this many come around to help. We took the swab as per protocol but we weren’t wearing PPEs,” said a senior doctor. “It’s scary. All of us have given samples and have been asked to stay in quarantine,” she said. The 65-year-old blood cancer patient had contracted the infection at the Adyar Cancer Institute. He died at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital on Wednesday. His son, a food delivery executive in Valasaravakkam, has also tested positive. “Tracking his contacts is going to be another cumbersome task like the one we undertook for the Koyambedu barber,” a senior city zonal health officer said. More frontline workers -- police, media, grocers, vendors – are getting infected each day in Chennai. Each one of them has a large number of contacts. A health worker living in Meenambalpuram in Mylapore infected at least a dozen people in her apartment and rows of houses nearby. “The clusters in Chennai are large and complex,” says Corporation Commissioner G Prakash. “It is because we track and test so many people we are seeing high incidence in Chennai,” he said. Of the 94 positive cases in Chennai on Wednesday, 89 had a contact history. For instance, in Teeds Garden in Perambur, 15 residents living in two narrow streets have tested positive. Health officials have identified spots like shops of grocers and vegetable vendors the people may have visited. “Samples were drawn from more than 40 people in the area, many have been quarantined already,” said deputy commissioner health Madhusudhan Reddy. A reason why, Tamil Nadu government on Wednesday set up field support teams of IAS, IPS, Tamil Nadu police, district revenue officers, and officers from local body and health and family welfare department for Chennai, Tirupur, Coimbatore, Madurai and Salem corporations for management of containment zones, provision of essential services in the containment area, contact tracing and testing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-cases-cross-100-for-second-day-in-a-row-chennai-tally-94/articleshow/75460204.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Madurai||Goondas Act on sexual predator in Chennai||KANYAKUMARI: Kasi alias Suji, 26, of Nagercoil who was arrested for sexually exploiting girls in Chennai and Kanyakumari district and extorting several lakhs of rupees from them, has been detained under the Goondas Act. Superintendent of Police (SP) of Kanyakumari district N Shreenath said that recommendation for detention under Goondas Act was made to the district collector based on the two cases registered against him. Meanwhile, the Nagercoil Corporation has issued a notice seeking explanation from Kasi’s family for violation to construct a five-storied residential complex. The notice stated that they had obtained permission only for the ground and first floors but ended up building three more stories illegally. The notice also stated that the house had encroached public property. Seeking an explanation within seven days, the civic body has warned of stringent action in the absence of a convincing response.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/goondas-act-on-sexual-predator/articleshow/75460194.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Bhubaneswar||With temples shut and no donations, priests demand assistance from Odisha government||BALANGIR/SAMBALPUR: Priests of temples managed by the endowment department in Balangir district and the 16th century Samaleswari Temple in Sambalpur district have demanded immediate financial assistance from the state government as they have lost their livelihood with the temples being shut for last one month due to the lockdown. “We have no source of income other than the ‘dakshina’ offered by devotees coming to the temples every day. We have already exhausted our meagre savings to feed family members during the lockdown. If the government does not announce a package for us then our life will be miserable,” said Mahendra Dishri, head priest, Samaleswari Temple in Balangir. Premalata Das, who has been serving as a priest in Gopaljee Temple for last five years after her husband, who was the chief priest, passed away, is spending life in distress. She said the corona pandemic along with uncertainty over lockdown has become a nightmare for her. “It is difficult for a single parent like me to manage daily expenditure of three family members,” she said. According to the priests, the endowment department provides Rs 2,700 a month to utilise it in ritual-related activities and another Rs 300 for the sweeper to clean the temple premises. The department doesn’t spend a single penny towards priests’ personal or family expenditure. Even all major renovation works in a temple are executed from the donations given by the devotees, said a priest. A priest earns Rs 200 to Rs 500 a day and more during auspicious days when devotees throng the temple in large numbers. Priests manage food, education and medical expenditure from the dakshina only. The endowment department is earning huge money by utilising the temple premises for commercial purposes. “Despite having ample funds, the department is apathetic towards the development of the temples as well as taking welfare measures for servitors,” said Malaya Dishri, priest, Patneswari Temple. Similarly, the 12 priests of Samaleswari Temple in Sambalpur have demanded financial assistance. Though there is a shutdown, the priests are allowed to enter the temple on a rotational basis and perform the deity’s daily rituals, said head priest Ambika Prasad Rai. He said the temple trust board decided that the priest would be given Rs 1,000 to perfrom the daily rituals but the amount is not sufficient. “The priest, who performs the daily ritual, has to buy the puja materials, including sari, rice, dal, vegetable, ghee, sandal, flowers and other material for the deity from the Rs 1,000, the temple trust board gives him. They are being forced to spend from their pockets,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/with-temples-shut-and-no-donations-priests-demand-assistance-from-govt/articleshow/75456689.cms||Subrat Mohanty
April 30, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot registers 1st Covid-19 death||Rajkot registered its first Covid-19 casualty on Wednesday. According to health officials, Mominben Chopda, 60, a resident of Jangleshwar area succumbed to the virus on Wednesday. She was admitted to the hospital on April 20, where she developed high blood pressure during treatment. Another male patient, 47-year-old Saiyad Habibmiya Zusabmiya was discharged from the hospital on Wednesday after repeat tests proved nCov negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rajkot-registers-1st-covid-19-death/articleshow/75458130.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Chennai||Madras HC seeks information of protective gear bought||CHENNAI: Expressing concern about the safety of doctors, nurses, sanitary workers, other healthcare workers and police personnel as they are at the forefront of the fight against Covid-19, the Madras high court has directed the state government to file a comprehensive report on PPEs, masks, respirators, medical equipment, hand rubs, etc., purchased by it. A division bench of Justice M Sathyanarayanan and Justice M Nirmal Kumar passed the order on the plea moved by advocate S Jimraj Milton, seeking direction to the state government to provide and ensure medical assistance for all Covid-19-affected patients free of cost. The petitioner further alleged that the government has not made available sufficient number of masks and personal protective equipment (PPE) to doctors and healthcare workers. When the plea came up for hearing on Tuesday, the petitioner, relying upon the guidelines for Covid-19, submitted that apart from speaking about the need for setting up isolation wards to treat such patients, the guidelines also says doctors handling such patients must wear PPEs. The protective gear includes eye protection (visor or goggles), face shield, reusable vinyl or rubber gloves for environmental cleaning and latex single-use gloves for clinical care, hair covers, particulate respirators (N95, FFP2, or equivalent), medical (surgical or procedure) masks gowns and aprons single-use long-sleeved fluid-resistant or reusable non-fluid-resistant gowns, the petitioner said. Further relying on a news report dated April 27 published in an English daily, the petitioner alleged the news report said several doctors in Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital, Chennai, had said the authorities had failed to provide them proper protective gears, which is the primary reason for the spread of Covid-19 among healthcare workers. Responding to the plea, additional advocate-general P H Arvind Pandian sought time to file a comprehensive status report with supporting documents, especially with regard to the provision of PPEs. The bench then adjourned the case to May 13 for further hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/hc-seeks-info-of-protective-gear-bought/articleshow/75459342.cms||Suresh Kumar
April 30, 2020||Kanpur||Eight foreign Tablighi Jamaatis sent to prison||Kanpur: Eight overseas Tablighi Jamaatis who had participated in the event at Nizamuddin Markaz in Delhi were sent to jail under judicial custody on Tuesday. Police had produced them in court of remand magistrate late in the evening and charged them with spreading the novel coronavirus infection in the city. The magistrate remanded them in judicial custody and sent them to temporary jail set up at a pharmacy college in Chaubeypur. The magistrate granted bail to three Jamaatis hailing from Kerala, Gujarat and Indore. Police said a group of 11 Jamaatis, including 8 from abroad, had reached the city in between March 14 to 16, 2020 after staying at Nizamuddin Markaz. Among them, four belong to Afghanistan, three to Iran and one is from UK. Three others were natives of Kerala, Indore and Gujarat. The police had taken them under custody on a tip of Local Intelligence Unit and sent them for medical examination to Ursala Horseman Hospital. Three of them were found infected while others were quarantined. They are now cured after treatment. A case was registered against them at Babupurwa police station for visiting India on a tourist visa and indulging in religious publicity and propagation. They had also not informed police and administration about their stay in Kanpur and did not report for screening despite numerous public appeals. Police booked them under section 144 CrPC, section 269/270/271 of IPC, section 3 of Epidemic Diseases Act 1897 and section 14 of Foreigners Act. Babupurwa police station in-charge Rajeev Singh told mediapersons, “All of them were produced before the magistrate after their quarantine period ended. The court remanded them under judicial custody and sent them to temporary jail in Chaubeypur.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/eight-foreign-tablighi-jamaatis-sent-to-prison/articleshow/75460443.cms||Anant Shekher Misra
April 30, 2020||Madurai||UP guest workers seek help to return home||MADURAI: A group of guest workers from Uttar Pradesh has approached the Madurai district administration requesting to make arrangements for them to leave for their native place. Around 25 workers are staying at Kalavasal and are involved in various trades like panipuri, kulfi sales, roadside juice stalls, construction and hotels. Seven of them went to the district collectorate on Wednesday seeking collector T G Vinay’s intervention. The workers told officials that since they are confined to their houses and with money running out, they are finding it difficult to purchase essentials. So, they wanted the administration to make arrangement to return to their native places. Madurai north tahsildar spoke to the workers and assured all possible help. He told them that they will establish contact with nodal officer, deputed by the Uttar Pradesh government for Tamil Nadu, to send them back. They can be sent back as and when the government arranges for transport facility. Meanwhile, they were given wheat flour, oil and dal, an official said. Another official said that there are a large number of guest workers staying in various parts of the city and most of them are keen on going back to their native. While their basic requirements like food are being fulfilled, their employers have been asked to take good care of them until they leave for their native or till the end of the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/up-guest-workers-seek-help-to-return-home/articleshow/75460209.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Erode||Tamil Nadu cases cross 100 for second day in a row; Chennai tally 94||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu recorded a three-digit Covid-19 positive count for the second day on Wednesday and Chennai continued to report most of the cases — 94 out of 104. The toll in the state rose to 27 with two more deaths — a 65-year-old cancer patient and a 26-year-old woman. The woman’s case pushed the directorate of medical education into hurried containment mode as she had died in labour at Chennai’s Government Kasturba Gandhi Hospital on Tuesday, but her swab sample tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. At least 30 doctors from Madras Medical College and 17 house surgeons from Omandurar Medical College, besides scores of nurses and health workers, were sent into 14-day quarantine in hotels and hostels. A large section of Kasturba hospital was closed for disinfection while corporation officials were asked to track and test the contacts of the woman and all medical staff and patients of the two medical colleges. In the last two days, the doctors and staff, who were unaware of the woman’s status, were posted to different wards. Doctors from Kasturba hospital told TOI that the woman from Chintadripet had come to the hospital for her first delivery. Minutes before she could deliver she developed “eclampsia” a rare but serious condition where high blood pressure results in seizures. “It led to her death. We lost the fetus too. Labour rooms are generally crowded and when there is an event like this many come around to help. We took the swab as per protocol but we weren’t wearing PPEs,” said a senior doctor. “It’s scary. All of us have given samples and have been asked to stay in quarantine,” she said. The 65-year-old blood cancer patient had contracted the infection at the Adyar Cancer Institute. He died at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital on Wednesday. His son, a food delivery executive in Valasaravakkam, has also tested positive. “Tracking his contacts is going to be another cumbersome task like the one we undertook for the Koyambedu barber,” a senior city zonal health officer said. More frontline workers -- police, media, grocers, vendors – are getting infected each day in Chennai. Each one of them has a large number of contacts. A health worker living in Meenambalpuram in Mylapore infected at least a dozen people in her apartment and rows of houses nearby. “The clusters in Chennai are large and complex,” says Corporation Commissioner G Prakash. “It is because we track and test so many people we are seeing high incidence in Chennai,” he said. Of the 94 positive cases in Chennai on Wednesday, 89 had a contact history. For instance, in Teeds Garden in Perambur, 15 residents living in two narrow streets have tested positive. Health officials have identified spots like shops of grocers and vegetable vendors the people may have visited. “Samples were drawn from more than 40 people in the area, many have been quarantined already,” said deputy commissioner health Madhusudhan Reddy. A reason why, Tamil Nadu government on Wednesday set up field support teams of IAS, IPS, Tamil Nadu police, district revenue officers, and officers from local body and health and family welfare department for Chennai, Tirupur, Coimbatore, Madurai and Salem corporations for management of containment zones, provision of essential services in the containment area, contact tracing and testing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/tn-cases-cross-100-for-second-day-in-a-row-chennai-tally-94/articleshow/75465483.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Hubballi||Karnataka: App to help fest in times of lockdown||HUBBALLI: Dharwad District Anjuman-e-Islam (DDAEI) has developed ‘Rehnuma-e-Ramzan (2020)’, an app to address the concerns of Muslims with respect to lockdown norms, including social distancing. It can be downloaded freely from http://www.dharwaddistrictanjumaneislam.net/ramzan-app/. During Ramzan, Muslims gather for iftar, I’tikaf, Shab e Qadar and prayers at mosques. But this time, the have been urged to celebrate the festival in compliance with lockdown norms. The app has been designed to give information pertaining to prayers, and in three languages — English, Kannada and Arabic. DDAEI president H M Koppad said, “One can know the daily timing for Sehri (start time of fast) and iftar (end time of fast) and special prays ‘dua’. We are trying to put the app on Google Playstore too. Though it is developed for the benefit of Muslims in Dharwad district, many from other states are also using the app,” he added. DDAEI secretary J S Hadagalim said the app gives timetable for Ramzan-2020 exclusively for Dharwad district, and for Karnataka in general. “It is useful for Muslims to celebrate Ramzan while maintaining social distancing,” he said, adding: “It has features like Tasbee-e-Taraveeh, Dus’s of Ashrah’s, All Dua’s and Tasbees in Arabic, Roman English and Kannada languages.” A group of engineering graduates and MCA holders has developed the app, which is an extension of the tech initiatives of DDAEI. It had launched an IVRS in 2017.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/app-to-help-fest-in-times-of-lockdown/articleshow/75458128.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
April 30, 2020||Chennai||Two TN men drive 3,450km to take dead man to his Mizoram home||CHENNAI: At midnight on April 24, when he began his 3,450km journey from Tamil Nadu to Mizoram, carrying the body of 28-year-old Vivian Remsanga, ambulance driver S Chinnathambi did not dare tell his family where he was going. “I lied saying I was driving to Tirunelveli. I knew they would not understand why I was taking such a risk in the middle of a pandemic,” says Chinnathambi. “But for me, all I wanted was to give a family the chance to bury their son.” On April 23, Vivian had died of a heart attack in his apartment, and with the city in lockdown, transporting the body to his hometown looked next to impossible, especially with air routes shut down. But that’s when Chinnathambi and fellow driver P Jeyendhran stepped up to take on the four-day-long journey nobody else was willing to. After the Chennai Mizo Welfare Association coordinated the paperwork and state permits with health workers at the Royapettah GH mortuary, the two drivers, along with Vivian’s friend Raphael AVL Malchhanhima, began their arduous journey across six states — Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, West Bengal, Assam and Meghalaya. “We had to pass through countless checkposts. We were interrogated by policemen particularly at the Tamil Nadu and West Bengal borders, and screened for Covid-19 before we were allowed passage,” says Jeyendhran. Along the near-deserted highways, says Raphael, most restaurants were shut because of the lockdown. The three had to travel for long hours before they would spot an eatery that was open. “We were never allowed inside because the owners were worried we may be carriers of Covid-19,” says Raphael. With no place to stop and rest, Jeyendhran and Chinnathambi, who took eight-hour driving shifts, would sleep next to the icebox that held Vivian’s body. For Raphael too, the journey, seated beside the lifeless body of his best friend, was too much to bear. “At one point along the drive I broke down and asked the drivers to let me sit in the front with them. They would try and talk to me but in the beginning, I was unresponsive. But they would keep talking to me and that helped me emotionally,” says Raphael. “When I refused to eat they talked me through my grief and told me I needed to eat to sustain myself through the long journey.” After four hard days on the road, being eyed suspiciously by everyone along the highway, the mood suddenly changed when they entered the borders of Mizoram, says Chinnathambi. “We were given a hero’s welcome in Aizwal. People were standing on both sides of the road, cheering us. They wanted to take selfies,” says Chinnathambi. The drivers’ efforts were also recognized by Mizoram chief minister Zoramthanga. “Appreciation poured in from everywhere, but when Vivian’s mother came to us, held our hands and thanked us for bringing her son home, that was the moment that made every hardship we faced melt away,” said Jayendhran. Chinnathambi says his wife was one of the first to call him in Aizwal. “Because of the photos on social media she found out where I was. I thought she was going to admonish me, but she said she was proud of me,” says Chinnathambi. Jayendhran and Chinnathambi are now on their way back to Chennai. Raphael has been quarantined for 14 days in Aizwal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/2-tn-men-drive-3450km-to-take-dead-man-to-his-mizoram-home/articleshow/75460231.cms||Aditi R
April 30, 2020||Aurangabad||Baby’s head found, cops look for body & suspect||AURANGABAD: A decapitated head of an infant in the Kavthicha Wada area, near Raja Bazaar, sent shockwaves in the locality on Wednesday morning. The incident came to light when a stray dog was spotted carrying the head by a security guard, who managed to release the baby’s head from the animal’s mouth. He immediately alerted residents of the area, and the information was passed on to the police and the civic body authorities, who rushed to the spot. An officer privy to the probe said the baby’s head was removed using a sharp-edged weapon and dumped somewhere. The stray dog must have just picked it up. The Government Medical College and Hospital carried out the post-mortem on the head to find out if the infant had been poisoned. They were checked for post- and anti-mortem injuries to the head. Samples from the head have been sent for CA analysis to forensic experts. Nikesh Khatmode Patil, the deputy commissioner of police (zone-I) , while confirming that the police are probing multiple theories, said that teams have been formed to find clues about suspects as well as body. “We are yet to find the baby’s body. Efforts are also underway to find specific clues in the case. Considering the length of the baby’s hair, it is believed that the decease was about 6 months old,” said DCP Nikhesh. However, sources said that the head was found within the limits of City Chowk police station, which, on Wednesday, was abuzz with quarantining of policemen and officers after one of the accused in their custody tested positive for Covid-19. As a result, the area police could not do much, including the collection of CCTV footages from the locality, gathering information from the locals as well as rounding up suspects, if any. Sources said that even a sniffer dog squad was not called to the spot, to lead the police to suspects as well as the place where the body of the kid might have been dumped.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/babys-head-found-cops-look-for-body-suspect/articleshow/75458180.cms||Mohammed Akhef
April 30, 2020||Vadodara||5, including 3 Godhra docs test positive||Vadodara: Five more Covid-19 cases were reported in Panchmahal district taking the total number of cases to 28. The fresh cases included three doctors. The five cases in Godhra included a girl from a family staying in the Shehra Bhagol area of the Godhra town. So far, eight members of the family have tested positive. The three doctors whose results were all private practitioners. A man residing near the Jain Derasar in Patelwada also tested positive. Of the 28 cases reported in Panchmahal district only one is from Halol while the rest are all from Godhra. Three persons from Godhra who were tested positive for Covid-19 earlier were discharged on Wednesday. These included a patient from a private hospital in Vadodara as well as two including a nurse from the Godhra civil hospital’s Covid-19 ward.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/5-including-3-godhra-docs-test-positive/articleshow/75457793.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Nagpur||Startup of home chefs preparing food for needy with warmth||Nagpur: Housewives, who are also home chefs, are now cooking food not only for their families but to lend a helping hand to the people in need amid corona outbreak. City-based food startup ‘Nativ Chefs’ which has a team of over 50 home chefs making traditional meals and offering home delivery are now preparing hundreds of boxes each day to distribute to the needy with the help of city police. They have distributed over 10,000 boxes in last few days and are working hard to provide home made, hygienic, wholesome food each day. The food boxes are distributed with the help of Bajaj Nagar, Sitabuldi,and Gittikhadan police personnel. The owner of Nativ Chefs, Leena Dixit, believes it is the best opportunity to use the expertise of so many women chefs and also to serve the needy. “We wanted to contribute our bit in serving the society. We have put in all our budget for April month for this cause and have also got donations from some generous contributors,” she said. Their expert chef’s panel prepares food for approx 400+ people daily in very hygienic conditions and following the guidelines of social distancing. “We would like to thank the police officials who guided us and also all cooks turned home chefs who are adding their personal touch and carefully keeping a check on preparation,” added Dixit. Chefs are given a target to make specific numbers of boxes each day at home. Later, the police distribute them where maximum number of homeless, needy and migrants are staying. Savita Tharate, one of the chefs, said, “We prepare variety of rice, roti and sabzi so the meal is fulfilling and nutritious. We pack it nicely too,” she said. They cook a variety of meals each day such as masala rice, aloo rice, green vegetables, masala vegetables and more. They say they do not compromise on the quality and try to offer best meals made with love and warmth. Parveena Lambhajiya, another chef, said, “We prepare food at our home, hence it’s all hygienic. We follow the guidelines and cook in shifts to help those in need.” Nativ Chefs intend to continue this until the lockdown ends. Incubated at IIM Nagpur, it is a leading startup, known for providing authentic Indian cuisine in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/startup-of-home-chefs-preparing-food-for-needy-with-warmth/articleshow/75460250.cms||Shreya Tinkhede
April 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana must take steps to strengthen community medicine: Experts||HYDERABAD: Instead of being at frontline fighting Covid-19, Geeta (name changed), who has a decade’s experience in community medicine, is preparing notes on ‘how to stop epidemic’ to teach students. Geeta, faculty at one of the government medical colleges, said she doesn’t understand why epidemiologists, who have done MD in Social Preventive Medicine (SPM), are being asked to take online classes when the need of the hour is for them to put their teaching into practice. “The government is outsourcing jobs of SPMs to those with Master of Public Health (MPH) degree. We are ready to offer services free of cost and we have required skill sets,” she said. Scores of doctors, who specialise in community medicine, said during this pandemic at least 70% of them are taking online classes and remaining 30%, who are engaged in Covid-19 related work, are given ‘lame desk jobs’. “We are trained to do sampling, mass screening, isolation, research, prepare Integrated disease surveillance programme (IDSP) reports. These are currently being carried out by MPHs, ANMs, nurses, or some other professionals without proper training,” said PS Vijayender, who works as senior resident in a private medical college. Stating that most of them are opting for teaching jobs because of less pay and non-availability of regular jobs in government sector, they said that at least now the state should start hiring, instead of offering contract jobs to epidemiologists, to strengthen preventive medicine. A senior official, who is part of handling the pandemic, said no matter who is on the field, they have to follow guidelines issued by WHO, ICMR, Indian governent and Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The official said even association of SPMs released guidelines, which are being followed across India. “If SPMs are interested to do voluntary work, they should approach the Directorate of Public Health & Family Welfare or Directorate of Medical Education,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/experts-t-must-take-steps-to-strengthen-community-medicine/articleshow/75460235.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
April 30, 2020||Mangaluru||Karnataka: Prisons in Dakshina Kannada, Udupi set up quarantine facilities for inmates||MANGALURU: In order to safeguard the health of inmates in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi, jails in these districts have set up quarantine cells. All the new admissions, and those inmates who are admitted to hospital for medical attention, will now be strictly quarantined for two weeks. Currently, about eight undertrials are placed under quarantine in Dakshina Kannada District Prison. “The number of admissions to jail has been reduced after the lockdown. Undertrials in small cases get released at the earliest, after obtaining bail. However, those who are charged with non-bailable offences, and inmates receiving medical treatment at a designated hospital, are strictly quarantined. This is to ensure that no other inmates or jail staff get infected by the coronavirus,” said Chandan Patel, jail superintendent, Mangaluru District Jail. The district jail currently has 310 inmates, including four women. Patel says that new admissions are allowed into the jail, only after a thorough medical examination. Currently, the Mangaluru prison has reserved nine cells for the purpose of quarantining inmates. “Though undertrials who seek medical help at jail wards at the district hospital have less chance of getting infected by the coronaviurs, despite that, we are asking them to be quarantined. We don’t want to take any risk, even though inmates admitted to jail wards are comparatively safer than the rest of the population in terms of Covid-19,”said Patel. Meanwhile, jails in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi have stopped allowing visitors. “The inmates can keep in touch with their lawyers and family members through the common telephone facility available at the premises,” said Patel. Six cells reserved for quarantining inmates in Udupi Srinivasa, jail superintendent, Udupi District Jail, said that the district health officer has appointed a doctor, exclusively for screening and testing inmates who arrive at the prison. The jail has set up six quarantine cells, and will increase the capacity whenever there is a need. “We are shifting any inmates who show symptoms of coronavirus like cough, cold or fever, to hospital, as a precautionary measure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/prisons-in-dk-udupi-set-up-quarantine-facilities-for-inmates/articleshow/75458207.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
April 30, 2020||Madurai||Doctor offers free consultation during lockdown||MADURAI: A doctor at Karaikudi in Sivaganga district has been providing free service to people in his town since the beginning of the lockdown. Dr A R Boopathy Raja, general physician, said that he has been practicing in his home town for the past five years. Having completed his MBBS in Chennai, he had worked at a private hospital there for a few years before serving people in Karaikudi. People from the neighbouring villages also come to him for various ailments as he is charging only Rs 50 as his consultation fee. “I too closed my clinic when the lockdown started. But people started calling me as they want to open the clinic and I started consultation on April 1,” he said. He had always waived his consultation fee for very old patients and also gave them medicines free of cost. Now, he has decided to offer his service for fee for all patients. But, patients have to pay for the medicines. The staff at the clinic ensure that all the patients maintain social distancing and they clean their hands with sanitizer on entry. Masks are a must while coming for consultation. “If patients come with complaints of fever or cough they are referred to the government hospital,” he said. Many of his patients are octogenarians such as Palaniappan M of Karaikudi, who had become anxious as he was not able to get his BP checked regularly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/doc-offers-free-consultation-during-lockdown/articleshow/75460236.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Delhi||Delhi agencies look to provide temporary shelter to staff||NEW DELHI: The trouble of thousands of government staff who work in Delhi but stay in neighbouring NCR towns increased on Wednesday after Haryana’s border districts further restricted interstate movement. Other than closing several main border roads, stretches were dug up at many smaller points. The municipal corporations alone may lose 20% of their field worker strength, prompting its departments to arrange for temporary shelters within Delhi. A senior officer of South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) said arrangements had been made in all four zones at the community centres of Krishna Market, Lajpat Nagar, Kakrola and Green Park. SDMC will also allow stranded employees to stay in hotels and lodges. Groups A and B staff will get Rs 2,000 daily as reimbursement, and groups C and D employees Rs 1,100. Haryana has made only central passes valid but the Centre doesn’t issue any such paper, the officer claimed. The central order states that sanitation, municipal and essential service workers engaged in Covid-19 containment measures should be allowed on the basis of their IDs, he pointed out. Varsha Joshi, commissioner of North Delhi Municipal Corporation that has several zones adjacent to Haryana, said the civic body was trying to manage with the curtailed workforce. “We were coordinating with the neighbouring districts for permission. Now that it isn’t possible, it is better they stay with their families,” she said, adding many of the families had been placed in home isolation. At least 20% of the corporation’s staff come from Haryana and if the virus situation worsens, it will provide staying facilities, a source said. The Haryana border districts took the drastic step after a minister recently claimed people going to Delhi for work but staying in Haryana were carriers of novel coronovirus. According to the Sonipat district order, 14 out of its 19 new cases are linked to Delhi while Faridabad stopped allowing even doctors to cross borders in the afternoon. Chaos prevailed on the Delhi-Faridabad border while several smaller points in Najafgarh like in Kair village were dug up using earthmovers. Several supervisors said field workers didn’t want to stay away from families and were also scared of crowding and lack of facilities. An official said 400 of his workers could not come on Wednesday. SDMC’s public health department reported that 250 workers were absent. Delhi Transport Corporation, Delhi Jal Board and Delhi Police also rely heavily on daily commuters from Haryana. Out of the 13,000 employees essential for DJB’s functioning now, over 3,000 come from Haryana and UP. Delhi Police gets 30% of its workforce from NCR and 60 housing arrangements have been made to keep 1,000 personnel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/agencies-look-to-provide-temporary-shelter-to-staff/articleshow/75460222.cms||Paras Singh
April 30, 2020||Delhi||35% drop in arrival of fruits, veggies at Delhi's Azadpur mandi||NEW DELHI: A day after Haryana officials imposed severe restrictions on movement of people and vehicles across the Delhi border and the district administration of Sonepat banned the supply to the city, the Azadpur mandi witnessed a drop of about 35% in the arrival of fruits and vegetables on Wednesday. According to officials, in comparison with the 7,000-8,000 tonnes of daily arrival of the farm produce, Wednesday's arrival at the Asia’s biggest auction yard was calculated at a little over 5,000 tonnes. Officials, however, said that there was enough stock and supply to cater to the residents of Delhi. Azadpur APMC chairman Adil Ahmad Khan said that the shortfall was expected after restrictions in the arrival of vegetables from Sonepat. “After the lockdown was imposed, we were getting close to 7,000-8,000 tonnes of collective supplies of vegetables and fruits. It dropped by almost 30% to about 5,000 tonnes. This was largely because of green vegetables from Sonepat,” Khan said. “But we also get green vegetables from Rajasthan. So, no shortage of vegetables was felt at the mandi,” he added. The mandi not only caters to the demand of a large part of Delhi, but also traders from the neighbouring towns. Any shortage in arrivals may have a huge impact in Delhi leading to surge in prices. Khan, however, said that there was no spike in wholesale rate of seasonal fruits and vegetables. “The prices remain normal and no surge has been reported,” he said. Meanwhile, a large number of traders stayed away from the mandi due to the fear of the novel coronavirus. “Eleven traders associated with Delhi’s Azadpur sabzi mandi have tested positive for the coronavirus. We are tracing their contacts. They are not directly connected to the mandi,” said an official. Traders, however, claimed the number of positive cases might have crossed 20. “Several people have been infected and the testing of their contacts is still being done. The government should organise special camps and ensure that the labourers and staff of the traders are properly checked,” said Pramod Gupta, a trader. The officials said that efforts were being made to ensure decongestion and maintenance of social distancing at the auction yard. “No traffic jam was reported inside the mandi and at the gate due to the token system that we have started. Also, we are sanitising the entire mandi twice a day and giving out masks to people visiting the place,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/35-drop-in-arrival-of-fruits-veggies-at-azadpur/articleshow/75460246.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Kanpur||Team of medicos, cops attacked in Bajaria||Kanpur: A health department team and police personnel were attacked on Wednesday when they had gone to escort family members of a coronavirus positive person to a quarantine facility in Bajaria, which is a hotspot area of the city. “When the health department team along with nine members of a family, who allegedly had contact history with a Covid-19 positive case, was coming out from Jugiyana locality in Bajaria police station limits, scores of people emerged from by-lanes and started pelting stones. Sensing trouble, the medical team somehow escaped from there. Later, the crowd pelted stones on the policemen who were escorting the team when they tried to pacify them,” said a health department official. Elaborating further, SP West Dr Anil Kumar said, “A man from Maswanpur area of Kalyanpur has been afflicted with COVID-19. In this regard, the patient’s nine other contacts, all family members, were to be quarantined.” “A medical team and police team had visited Jugiyana locality under the limits of Bajaria police station for the same. When the health department team and police personnel came out with nine members of a family, a crowd arrived on the scene and refused to let the nine members go. It was when health department personnel and policemen tried to pacify them, the mob pelted stones on them, besides also tried to damage police and health department vehicles. A huge deployment of PAC and police personnel was made,” he told TOI on Wednesday. SSP/DIG Anant Deo said: “The crowd dispersed after police resorted to mild force. Now, we will send the family members to the quarantine centre. The situation is under control now. We are now in the process of zeroing in on people involved in this incident and strict action will be taken against them. Those involved will be booked under section 144, Epidemic Diseases Act and Disaster Management Act. Action will be taken under the IPC sections also.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/team-of-medicos-cops-attacked-in-bajaria/articleshow/75460478.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
April 30, 2020||Chennai||Engineering colleges expect up to 20% dropout due to job loss||CHENNAI: Engineering colleges are expecting up to 20% dropout post Covid-19 lockdown due to job losses, salary cuts and economic crisis. They also expect the coming admission season to be tougher as many students may not able to afford higher education. While top colleges are thinking of offering scholarships to some students, others say they cannot afford to even pay their staff after the lockdown ends. Consortium of private colleges want the government either to provide interest-free education loan to students or soft loans to colleges to stay afloat. Chairmen of professional colleges in Tamil Nadu held a meeting with BJP national general secretary P Muralidhar Rao through video conference recently. “Colleges expressed concern that there will be 20% dropout of students post-lockdown due to job loss and salary cuts. Many students may not be in a position to pay the fees and continue their education,” said Maluk Mohamad, chairman of MAM College of Engineering and Techology in Trichy, who also took part in the meeting. The colleges also highlighted that new admissions would be challenging due to affordability. “We urged the government to pitch in and ensure that students are offered interest-free loans or financial aid to continue their education,” he added. A student may have to spend up to Rs 1 lakh a year to pursue engineering in any college. This includes tuition fee, accommodation and transport. This may not be possible for many due to job loss and pay cut across sectors. “If the government pays SC/ST scholarship and other dues, we may be able to sustain and help students. Rural colleges are going to be worst affected as many students hail from the lower middle class,” a trustee from a private engineering college in Tiruvallur district said. The top colleges are also expecting a tough admission season. “Parents may not want their kids to go long distance for higher education,” said R M Kishore, vice-chairman, RMK Engineering College. “We plan to give more scholarships and additional time to pay the fees. If colleges reopen in September, many may not able to pay staff. If the government arranges soft loan for colleges, it would ease financial stress,” he added. P Selvaraj, secretary of Consortium of Self-Financing Professional, Arts and Science Colleges, said professional colleges at national level are planning to approach the Centre for help. “Either the government should give loans to students to continue their education or they should give loans to colleges to save the colleges. We cannot pay staff salaries for six months without collecting fees from students,” he said. “If we ask for fees, the students may drop out. Without collecting fees, we cannot pay our staff. The government should help,” he added. The Federation of Associations of Private Schools in Tamil Nadu urged the state government to allow them to collect fees from parents who are eligible and willing to pay fees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/engg-colleges-expect-up-to-20-dropout-due-to-job-loss/articleshow/75459368.cms||A Ragu Raman
April 30, 2020||Jaipur||Pratap Singh Khachariyawas distributes PPEs at Jaipur hosptials||JAIPUR: Transport minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas visited the Kawantia District Hospital, Chandpole Zanana Hospital, Banipark Satellite Hospital and TB Hospital Shastri Nagar to inspect and cheer up the medical staff and sanitation workers. He also enquired about the wellbeing of the patients admitted at the hospital and distributed 200 PPE kits to the hospital administrations. He also felicitated the doctors, nursing staff and cleaning staff for their dedication and hard work. The minister inaugurated the Covid-19 equipment at the Zanana Hospital Chandpole, in which the medical personnel need not come in contact with the patient. This would eliminate the risk of the investigator getting infected from the patient. The minister said instead of being afraid of the coronavirus pandemic, it has to be eradicated by taking proper precautions. He said some miscreants are creating an atmosphere of fear by spreading rumours about corona. He said practising social distancing is the way forward. He advised to avoid crowded places, sharing water and food. The minister said those who oppose sending patients to hospitals, oppose burning of bodies in crematoriums, harass people in colonies by blocking way, spread rumours, make inflammatory statements on the basis of caste and religion are enemies of the society. He said people must realise the crisis in the wake of corona outbreak and offer public service. Today, it is the responsibility of each one of us to work to end the darkness with a new beacon of light by serving humanity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/khachariyawas-distributes-ppes-at-city-hosptials/articleshow/75460252.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Chennai||Cash-rich Tasmac takes loans to pay local taxes to TN government||CHENNAI: State owned liquor monopoly Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation (Tasmac) has just concluded a Rs 1,050 crore borrowing programme from Indian Bank to pay value added tax (VAT) to the Tamil Nadu government. While Tasmac insiders say this was a routine borrowing plan that the state-owned entity has undertaken, the notable change this year is it will not be a short term debt, instead “slightly longer term” than usual, indicating the inherent financial strain the entity was going through due to the ongoing lockdown. Revenues from Tasmac are used by the state government to fund its ambitious social welfare schemes. “The corporate loan which was lent to Tasmac was usually repaid within 30 days of borrowing. However, they have requested for a longer period of time this year,” said sources. An official of Tasmac told TOI that the board of directors had approved a borrowing programme of Rs 1,250 crore in February, of which Rs 1,050 crore was borrowed now from the state-owned Indian Bank. The official added, “This sum was borrowed for the purpose of advance payment of VAT (sales tax) to the state government and other internal business activities. This borrowing practice recurs every year. We have been borrowing for the past seven years from various public sector banks and have tried to repay it within the month of April every year.” The closure of 5,300 Tasmac outlets since March 25 has left the state government's coffers bleeding with a daily loss of Rs 90 crore in revenues. TN is India's largest liquor market where nearly 1.6 lakh IMFL and 90,000 cases of beer are sold every day. Tamil Nadu earned Rs 31,157 crore as revenues from Tasmac including excise duties, up 16% for the year ended March 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/cash-rich-tasmac-takes-loans-to-pay-local-taxes-to-govt/articleshow/75459372.cms||Mamtha Asokan
April 30, 2020||Ajmer||Senior citizens win battle against Covid-19 in Ajmer||AJMER: Eight more people, including two veterans aged 80 and 67, have been cured of Covid-19 in the city. These eight people have been shifted from JLN Hospital to quarantine centres. Five patients from the city had already been cured at SMS Hospital in Jaipur. A team of doctors led by C K Meena and Anil Samaria of JLN Medical College is behind the treatment. Reports of these patients came negative twice and now they have been sent to the quarantine centre at Tabiji. The treated patients include six who were residing at Rail Museum and two others from Beawar and Arai. The 80-year-old, said to be a Bangladeshi veteran, is being treated along with the 67-year-old from Arai who came from Ujjain and was later found coronavirus positive. Interestingly, sources said these are the patients who were asymptomatic. These patients were treated by the medicines prescribed by ICMR and there was a strict schedule for food and diet for them. Doctors advised people that they should strictly follow the rules of lockdown as this virus is spreading fast and therefore they should wear mask and maintain social distancing. Now, a total 13 patients have recovered in Ajmer. The team of doctors who are treating these patients at JLN Hospital include HOD of medicine C K Meena, Anil Samaria, Ravinder, Manish Meena, Hardayal, Arun and Shanker Lal Jat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/senior-citizens-win-battle-against-covid-19-in-ajmer/articleshow/75460259.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Rajkot||Hands-free sanitizer aims at liquid’s economical usage||Rajkot: Akash Davda of Usha Machine Tools, has made his version of a hand sanitizer that can be operated through feet. Davda claims that his machine is aimed at economic use of liquid. “The main objective behind making this machine was the economical use of sanitizer. Usually, when one presses the bottle, a large amount of sanitizer is spewed out, which gets wasted. In my machine, only two drops of liquid is dispensed when the machine is pressed with the feet,” said Davda. “There is a pipe attached to the sanitizer bottle. When the user presses the pipe with his feet, only two drops will come out thus removing the possibility of wastage,” he explained. He added that he has decided to donate 10 such sanitizer machines in the first lot to be installed at public offices. These include the collector office, police commissioner office, RMC office, sanitation department and ward office. “We have fixed the price of each sanitizer machine at Rs 1,950. If we get raw materials, we are prepared to produce daily as many as 500 such machines,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/hands-free-sanitizer-aims-at-liquids-economical-usage/articleshow/75458271.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Kolkata||Cops zero in on seven Kolkata ‘problem’ wards to contain disease spread||KOLKATA: Cops have decided to intensify its containment strategy across seven wards, from where fresh Covid-19 cases are being reported at an interval of almost every three days. Top officers at Lalbazar said Jorabagan and a few parts of Posta, Narkeldanga, Karaya and Topsia are among the areas, for which they are planning to step up the strategy. The grave situation at these wards figured in a review meeting held at Girish Park police station on Wednesday. A fresh case has been reported barely a few metres from Jorabagan police station and a sub-inspector from the police station and a constable from the traffic guard are now in home quarantine. Fresh cases have also been reported from Narkeldanga North Road, Ganesh Talkies area and Topsia in the past 24 hours. Cops said the strategy is not mere stricter enforcement but also greater outreach and visibility throughout the day. This strategy appears to have paid some dividends in Belgacchia and Chetlahat Road. “These zones will see double barricades being put up on bylanes. The focus will be on slums while food packets will be distributed to people between noon and 1pm and again at night to stop them from stepping out of their homes. Some spots will be demarcated for the distribution and no one will be allowed to cross the barricades. Vegetable or fish vendors can enter the lanes but they will not be allowed to cross the barricades,” said an officer. At Narkeldanga, cops have distributed over 600kg of pulses and oil and split the fruit market into three sections to prevent crowding. Temporary bamboo barricades were put up while drones spotted locals trying to breach the barrier to reach the main road. “We have asked all men to be in uniform and maximum combat forces will be diverted to these zones for patrolling. Two additional CPs — Damayanti Sen and DP Singh — are making regular visits with divisional DCs themselves entering the bylanes of affected zones,” said the officer. Two major wholesale markets like Posta and Mechhua — located in the middle of Burrabazar, a Covid hotspot – are posing problems to the police. On Wednesday, senior officers conducted an inspection in Mechhua fruit market and apprised the traders of several restrictions that will be imposed by the police rom Thursday onwards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cops-zero-in-on-7-city-problem-wards-to-contain-disease-spread/articleshow/75459397.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
April 30, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Six Tasmac employees suspended||COIMBATORE: As many as six employees of the Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation (Tasmac) were suspended for selling liquor illegally. The suspended employees were identified as Kanagaraj, Muthukumar, Antony, Kumaresan, Kandasamy and Jayaganesh. According to sources, liquor bottles were smuggled out of the Tasmac outlets in Avinashi, Udumalpet and Uthukuli when they were opened unofficially. Subsequently, senior officials launched an inquiry a few days ago. “It was revealed that six of the employees had smuggled the bottles to sell them for higher prices. The bottles were sold at local dhabas and several other places,” a source said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/six-tasmac-employees-suspended/articleshow/75459394.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Dehradun||2 BJP MLAs appointed members of shrine board||Dehradun: The Uttarakhand government on Wednesday appointed two BJP legislators — Mahinder Bhatt and Gopal Singh Rawat — as the member of Devsthanam board which is now the apex body to manage Char Dham shrines and other temples in the state. The announcement was made by the state government in order to have proper administrative edifice to manage the four shrines as per the fresh guidelines set by the Devsthanam board Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/2-bjp-mlas-appointed-members-of-shrine-board/articleshow/75458293.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Coimbatore||Infection rate flattens in three districts in western region||COIMBATORE: The rate of Covid-19 infection in the district and neighbouring Tirupur and the Nilgiris is on the decline. While it has come down to 0.6% from around 4% in the district, it has dropped to 0.2% from 9.6% in Tirupur. According to the district public health department officials, they had tested at least 4,432 samples as on Tuesday evening, of which 141 were positive cases. They say the number of people testing positive is reducing day by day. Coimbatore collector K Rajamani says, “When we were testing only people with travel history and symptoms initially in March, 58 of the 263 samples had tested positive. However, once we began to trace and test their contacts and family members since the beginning of April, 68 of the 2,169 people, who were screened, had tested positive. And hardly 15 of the 2,191 samples have tested positive since April 16.” He confirmed that the number of new positive cases has dropped, despite an increase in the number of people being tested. The collector said the public health department has been instructed to continue testing vulnerable sections of people, mainly frontline workers, this week. “We have tested only the police officers in containment areas so far. We will now test the entire police force in the city and even rural areas, if possible, by this weekend.” Officials hinted that they could extend tests to all conservancy workers too. On Tuesday, 100 media professionals were tested for the virus. The neighbouring garment hub Tirupur and hill station Nilgiris too are progressing equally well. Officials recalled that before April 16, 108 of the 1,122 people, who were screened, had tested positive in Tirupur, when the infection rate was at a high of 9.6%. However, in the past 12 days, only four of 1,800 people, who were screened, have tested positive. Tirupur collector K Vijaykarthikeyan says, “We had a spurt from April 14 to 16, when nearly 28 people from containment zones tested positive. And that was due to our contact tracing efforts. Since then we have had just four new cases and that too from the same pockets.” The Nilgiris hasn’t reported any new positive case since the initial nine cases, most of who had a travel history to New Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/infection-rate-flattens-in-3-dists-in-western-region/articleshow/75459386.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Dehradun||1 dead, 1 injured after car falls into gorge||PITHORAGARH: A person was killed and another seriously injured after the car they were traveling in fell into deep gorge in Bhingadi area of Berinag police station on Wednesday. The injured person has been admitted at a hospital. Ashok Kumar (43) and Puran Singh (35) were traveling to Bhingadi from Kushmad in a car. Near Bhingadi, the driver lost control and the vehicle and tumbled down into a 200-metre-deep gorge, police said. Villagers carried both persons to a primary health centre (PHC), where a doctor declared Ashok Kumar dead.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/1-dead-1-injured-after-car-falls-into-gorge/articleshow/75458274.cms||Prem Punetha
April 30, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru man uses fake pass to travel to Coimbatore||MYSURU: The city police on Wednesday seized the car of a local resident for using a fake pass to travel to Coimbatore, Tamil Nadu. Nirmal Kumar Singhvi (57), a resident of RS Naidunagar, was stopped at Fountain Circle by a police team after noticing an unusual pass format. When questioned, Nirmal claimed that he got the pass from one of his friends, which he downloaded and then got a colour photocopy. He told cops that he received the pass on WhatsApp. Police also seized his mobile phone and a probe has been launched.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/man-uses-fake-pass-to-travel-to-coimbatore-car-seized/articleshow/75458279.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Coimbatore||They clean our dirty streets, barefoot||COIMBATORE: Sanitary workers, who have been rendering selfless service to the society by not shying away from their duty citing Covid-19 outbreak and lockdown, seem to be left to work barefoot. While the city corporation has distributed them gloves and masks, it has failed to address their requirement for footwear. Some of them are managing with sandals. Following the heavy rain on Tuesday night, four sanitary workers were found cleaning the sludge off Avinashi road flyover underpass in the city on Wednesday morning. While all of them were wearing gloves and masks, three of them were working barefoot. A sanitary worker, who didn’t want to be named, said, “Civic body officials had distributed gloves, masks and soaps to us after the Covid-19 scare gripped the city. As the quality of masks was not good, we had to spend from our pockets to get better ones to safeguard us from the virus. In this situation, how could we expect the city corporation to give us boots.” Pointing out that civic body has been distributing boots to its permanent workers once in a year, he said many of them were in the habit of working barefoot, while others were using sandals. A doctor said, “While it is not as risky as not wearing gloves, working barefoot would put them at the risk of hurting themselves. For instance, they might stamp on broken glass pieces or any hard particles. They are also prone to wound infections, skin allergies and other diseases.” He said it was advisable for them to wear boots whenever they handle waste, and not just during the pandemic. DMK MLA N Karthik, meanwhile, blamed the city corporation. “It shows how lethargic is the city corporation while dealing with sanitary workers. The gloves and masks that they had distributed were also not of good quality. It is highly condemnable.” He said he had petitioned the officials several times in this regard, but in vain. Corporation officials were, however, not available for a comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/they-clean-our-dirty-streets-barefoot/articleshow/75459390.cms||Nivedha Selvam
April 30, 2020||Jaipur||Disaster management department approves Rs 18 crore for relief work||JAIPUR: The Disaster Management and Relief department has approved Rs 18.06 crore to the district collectors, Rs 1.75 crore to the local self-government department and Rs 1.25 crore to the police department for providing relief to homeless people, migrant workers and personnel to deal with Covid-19. Joint secretary to the department, Kalpana Aggarwal said to provide relief to homeless people, migrant workers and other persons affected by the lockdown, relief camps, temporary accommodation, food, clothing, security, medical facilities and other necessary facilities have been arranged. The support of local municipal bodies and voluntary organisations is also being taken to run these relief camps. Kalpana said Rs 18.06 crore has been released to all district collectors for providing necessary facilities. Special care is being taken in these relief camps for sanitation, social distancing and following the guidelines issued by the state government. She said Rs 1.75 crore has been sanctioned for the 70,000 personnel of the local self-government department. This amount can be used to purchase personal protection equipment such as masks, sanitisers, gloves, and other essentials for fire department personnel, health workers and drivers for prevention of Covid-19. Also, for the purpose of rescue personnel on duty of Rajasthan Police, an approval of Rs 1.25 crore has been issued from SDRF for purchasing safety equipment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/disaster-management-dept-approves-rs-18cr-for-relief-work/articleshow/75460265.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Vadodara||Stray animals don’t stay hungry in Vadodara, thanks to policemen||VADODARA: Unlike lockdown violators, stray dogs are very happy to see the men in khaki. They wag their tails and surround the cops in excitement as they know that they will get something to eat. Policemen have been feeding dogs with biscuits and water in various areas. Since the lockdown was announced last month, while many organizations have been feeding the poor and needy in different areas of the city, these mute animals have been largely ignored. Thanks to cops, thousands of stray dogs, birds and other animals aren’t going hungry. “Many policemen are taking care of the stray dogs and birds who would otherwise go hungry in the lockdown. With people staying indoors, there is no one to feed them daily,” said Anupam Singh Gahlaut, city police commissioner. A team of policemen visits different areas throughout the day and feeds stray dogs, cows, birds and all other animals they see are hungry or thirsty. “We have also placed big water pots in most areas and ensure that they are filled regularly. In summers, animals and birds need water,” a police official said. The cops are seen feeding pigeons near Bird Circle on Old Padra Road, Sayajigunj, Sursagar Lake and other walled city areas daily. “We will continue to feed the animals till the lockdown ends. It’s our responsibility to take care of everyone in the city,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/stray-animals-dont-stay-hungry-in-vadodara-thanks-to-policemen/articleshow/75457843.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Udaipur||Curfew tightened in Nimbaheda as 8 more test positive||UDAIPUR: Restrictions imposed to contain the spread of Covid-19 were intensified in Nimbaheda town in Chittorgarh district as eight more people from the same locality tested positive on Wednesday. The decision to intensify the restrictions on the movement of people was taken following a sudden spike in fresh Covid-19 positive cases over the past four days, Chittorgarh collector Chetan Devda said. The fresh cases are residents of the same area in Lakhara Gali from where earlier cases were reported. The total number of positive cases in the area has increased to 16 now. Among them are four couples and two children, sources said. Cooperatives minister Udailal Anjana held a meeting with the officials and took details of the area, which has turned into a latest hotspot of the pandemic. CMHO Inderjeet Singh said the eight patients who tested positive earlier are recovering speedily. One of them is admitted in Udaipur while seven are at the Civil Hospital in Chittorgarh. More than 150 samples were sent for testing late night on Tuesday and their reports are expected by late evening or Thursday morning. The police forces have sealed off main roads in most places and erected barriers at several other places to check unwanted movement of people. The essential services including healthcare personnel have been exempted from the restrictions, while otherwise, only persons with valid movement passes are being allowed passage. The declared containment or red zones have been sealed to ensure strict adherence to the standard operating procedure. Markets across the town were shut and public transport was off the roads with only pharmacies and grocery stores being allowed to open, the officials said. The administration arranged for the door-to-door supply of milk, vegetables and groceries in the curfew-bound areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/curfew-tightened-in-nimbaheda-as-8-more-test-positive/articleshow/75460276.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Coimbatore||AI software to detect Covid-19 patients||COIMBATORE: The students of Sri Ramakrishna Engineering College have come up with an artificial intelligence (AI) software that could find out if one is positive for Covd-19 with a chest x-ray. It could also detect severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) and pneumonia. According to the students, the software could identify distinct patterns that coronavirus cause in a patient’s lungs. “So, it can easily detect if one is positive before symptoms manifest.” They say the novel coronavirus usually enters through a person’s nose or mouth, then attaches itself to his/her throat and travels down to lungs, before entering bronchioles and alveoli. Sometimes, symptoms take 14 to 18 days to manifest that too when the patient’s immune system starts reacting. Kirupasankar, a student who was part of the team that developed the software, says, “When the virus enters the lungs, it causes certain changes. The patches have distinct notches and nodes, which could be picked up in the x-ray. The AI software will examine a picture in every x-ray 224 times and identify if it is Covid-19 or not.” He said the software was developed with deep learning technology, which is advanced and could be improved to have an accuracy rate of 99.25%. Doctors, however, say the new technologies have to be studied for years before using as a testing or screening method. Dr Nirmala, dean, ESI Hospital, says, “From close to 250 patients that we have seen, only 1%-2% of them had changes in the lung x-rays before symptoms manifest. In fact, a majority of asymptomatic and some symptomatic patients do not have changes in their lung x-ray.” Referring to the AI software, she said such a technology has to be proven by successfully identifying thousands of patients over a period of time, before they could use that. “As of now, only real time polymerase chain reaction antigen test is recommended for screening or diagnosis of Covid-19.” The students say they have also developed an android app named Mithran, which if allowed, would use geo mapping technology to tell you the places you have been, if you have been in contact with a Covid-19 patient and if you need to quarantine yourself.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/ai-software-to-detect-covid-19-patients/articleshow/75459407.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Coimbatore||‘Adopt integrated pest management for paddy’||COIMBATORE: The district agriculture department has prescribed an integrated pest management method to battle leaf folder or leaf roller caterpillar that is posing a threat to paddy cultivated on 80 hectares in the old ayacut irrigation areas in Anaimalai. The pest lays eggs on the tips of paddy leaves, an agriculture department officer said. “The larva would fold the leaf and feed on it. This would bring down the yield,” he said. Integrated pest management consists of five components. “The first is releasing the parasitoid, Trichogramma chilonis, a beneficial insect which would prey on the eggs of the pest and destroy them. As many as 1,00,000 of these insects should be released per hectare on the 37th day, 44th day and the 51st day. The next is to spray the field with 5% neem seed kernel extract. The third is to clean and maintain the farm bunds, where the pest lays eggs. The fourth is to avoid excessive use of nitrogenous fertilisers, which would boost foliage growth and attract pests,” the official said. If the attack does not get controlled through these measures, then as a last resort, farmers can use pesticides such as Phosalone (1500 ml/ha), Acephate (666-1000 ml/ha), Azadirachtin (1000 ml/ha), Chlorantraniliprole (150 g/ha) or Dichlorvos (627 ml/ha), among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/adopt-integrated-pest-management-for-paddy/articleshow/75459399.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Dehradun||DMC to give 100 litre solution to each ward for sanitisation drive||DEHRADUN: City’s civic body has decided to provide 100 litres of sodium hypochlorite, commonly known as liquid bleach, to each ward for sanitisation drives. The Dehradun Municipal Corporation (DMC) officials said that the use of the sanitisation solution will be monitored by the councillor of respective wards. Municipal commissioner Vinay Shankar Pandey told TOI, “The decision has been taken in view of ensuring better coordination of santisation drives in all the wards. The solution would be available for use as and when the councillors feel its requirement.” The ward councillors have welcomed the decision saying that the availability of the sodium hypochlorite exclusively for wards will help in regular drives. Nikhil Kumar, councilor of Dalanwala East, told TOI, “The additional quantities of the solution will help us keep the localities safer. The high pressure machine will make the sanitisation drives more effective.” Meanwhile, DP Juyal, DRDO director (retired) and resident of Mohini Road, told TOI, “The sanitisation drives must be a centralised exercise and can be effectively carried out by DMC dedicated staff. The councillors must not be given be given the job of coordinating such drives in such crucial times.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/dmc-to-give-100-litre-solution-to-each-ward-for-sanitisation-drive/articleshow/75458307.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Aurangabad||Six held in Beed for consuming alcohol in parked car||AURANGABAD: Beed police on Tuesday arrested six people, including three teachers, for consuming alcohol in a car parked on the national highway, passing from the district. According to police, though lockdown is in effect, the suspects got into an SUV and went on the highway. After travelling for few kilometres, they stopped their vehicle near Mhasoba Phata and started consuming alcohol. A police patrolling team was passing from the area and spotted the vehicle. Rural police station’s assistant inspector Sujit Bade said the night patrolling team went close to the vehicle and saw the suspects were consuming alcohol and playing loud music. The suspects have been identified as Vivek Asaram Gavhane, Sharad Maharudra Gavhane, Pandhiranath Dilip Navle (all teachers), Vaibhav Vishnudas Dengde, Shivraj SAndip Bahir and Dnyaneshwar Ramdas Dengde. The police team has also seized the vehicle. The suspects have been booked under sections 188 (disobeying orders duly promulgated by), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code. In addition, the suspects have also been slapped with the sections of National Disaster Management Act and The Epidemic Diseases Act. Sources informed that taking serious cognizance of the incident, Beed superintendent of police Harssh Poddar has issued instructions to night patrolling teams, asking them to be more vigilant about such people moving on the national highway. Sources informed that the police have already launched a probe to find the source of liquor seized from the suspects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/6-held-for-consuming-alcohol-in-parked-car/articleshow/75458311.cms||Mohammed Akhef
April 30, 2020||Nagpur||Central Railway takes to Zoom to boost parcel traffic amid lockdown||Nagpur: Marching ahead to boost parcel traffic, the Nagpur division of Central Railway for the first time took to ‘Zoom’ to communicate with traders, reports Vijay Pinjarkar. Senior divisional commercial manager (Sr DCM) Krishnath Patil and assistant commercial manager (ACM) for goods SG Rao held talks with Nag Vidarbha Chamber of Commerce (NVCC) members to boost parcel traffic. “As a unique initiative to augment goods and parcel traffic in view of lockdown constraints, we conducted a video conference using ‘Zoom’ with NVCC,” said Patil. Rao explained railway initiatives to provide value-added services to its customers. NVCC assured to extend all help to augment Central Railway’s share in transportation. In the state, the Central Railway has transported 283 tonnes of medical items and 970 tonnes of perishable food items like fruits, vegetables etc during lockdown. Central Railway operated 180 time-tabled parcel trains and 40 more trains are scheduled. From these parcel trains more than 2,029 tonnes of essential goods were transported from Mumbai, Nagpur, Pune, Solapur and Bhusaval divisions of Central Railway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/central-railway-takes-to-zoom-to-boost-parcel-traffic-amid-lockdown/articleshow/75460375.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Rajkot||RMC engineers create machine||Rajkot: In the fight against coronavirus, a team of Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) officials turned the adage ‘necessity is the mother of invention’ into a reality by inventing a ‘hands-free hand sanitizer machine’! The machine minimizes the risk of hand-to-hand infection spread by allowing the user to get the lifesaving liquid by pressing a foot pedal. RMC engineers — H A Vasava and Harshvijaysinh Gohel — ward officer Hemadriba Zala along with work assistant Parth Parmar made this innovative sanitizer dispensing machine. “Multiple hands touch a bottle of hand sanitizer. This increases danger of spread of infection. In order to end this risk, we used the feet to pump liquid instead of pressing bottle,” said Vasava. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rmc-engineers-create-machine/articleshow/75458309.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Mysuru||Mother would send ghee to skinny Irrfan||Mysuru: As a student of National School of Drama (NSD), actor Irrfan Khan was very fond of the ghee that his mother would send in the hope of making him gain some weight. “He never used to share the ghee with us, but we always used to chase him for it,” recalls theatre activist K R Sumathi, Irrfan’s classmate at NSD. Irrfan’s mother passed away three days before his death. “When his mother passed away, Sutapa (Irrfan’s wife) informed us that Irrfan was disturbed a lot and sad,” she says. Sumathi says she, Irrfan and Sutapa were a small gang of friends in NSD. “In April 2015, he was supposed to return to Bengaluru after attending an event in Badanavalu. But he directly came to my house early in the morning without any intimation. He was a loving friend for all,” she recalls. Sumathi’s husband and theatre activist H Janardhana was Irrfan’s senior at NSD. “We later became good friends,” he says. As the director of Rangayana, Janardhana had invited Irrfan to the valedictory of Bahuroopi, the annual theatre festival of Rangayana, in January 2016.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/mother-would-send-ghee-to-skinny-irrfan/articleshow/75457251.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Teachers, activists to woo students to government schools||COIMBATORE: Government schoolteachers, education activists and academics plan to launch a campaign to attract students from middle class and lower-middle class families to government schools after the coronavirus pandemic. Representatives of the Palli Kalvi Padhukaappu Iyakkam (PKPI), a forum of teachers, parents, academics and activists, held an online brainstorming session recently to discuss the issues pertaining to government schools. One of the main issues discussed was the ability of economically disadvantaged families in paying school fee. T Arulanandam, a schoolteacher and a representative of the Coimbatore chapter of PKPI, said such families might have lost income and livelihoods during the Covid-19 crisis. “They might not be able to pay private school fee,” he said. One of the measures the forum plans to undertake is to create awareness among parents that their children can shine not only in private and matriculation schools, but also in government and government-aided schools. “Some parents think it is a matter of prestige to enrol their children in private schools. We have to tell them that government and government-aided schools also have good teachers who would bring out the best in students,” he said. The forum plans to mobilise parents and other well-wishers across the state, said S Chandrasekaran, organiser of the Coimbatore chapter of PKPI. “Two of our members, a bank manager and a manager of a private firm, have put their children in government schools. With them as the role models, we would mobilise alumni of government schools and parents of government school students,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/teachers-activists-to-woo-students-to-govt-schools/articleshow/75459403.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Goa||Housing board to set up schools within colonies||PANAJI: The Goa Housing Board (GHB) has invited applications from interested bidders to set up educational institutions in eight of its colonies cross the state. The last date to file the e-application is May 15. Housing board chairman, Subhash Shirodkar told TOI that while demarcating plots for residents, in every colony, an area is also marked for an educational institution along with water and electricity provision. “This is done so that children of the colony can get easy access to education within the housing complex,” he said.Plots for institutions are available at Camurlim, Madel in Tivim, Harvalem in Shakali, Porvorim, Xeldem in Quepem, Shristhal at Canacona, Farmagudi at Ponda and Colvale. “Depending on the area of the plot, the educational institute can set up a pre-primary school up to a higher secondary school,” he said, adding that in the past the board has allotted such plots and education institutes have been set up in its complexes. Shirodkar said that bids will open after May 15. Speaking on the e-auctioning of residential plots and flats, which was postponed due to the Covid-19 pandemic, Shirodkar said that this is now expected to be held by June end or in the first week of July. GHB had earlier decided to e-auction 300 plots, 100 flats and 30 shops at various locations in the state after Gudi Padwa on March 25.It had also decided to develop three projects through private investment at Colvale, Davorlim and Xeldem and to develop 100 plots and 100 flats through private investment. All the three properties were supposed to be developed through a joint venture. The board is working out modalities about the sharing of plots and flats with the private player.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/housing-board-to-set-up-schools-within-colonies/articleshow/75460284.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Coimbatore||Labour unions to celebrate a low-key May Day||COIMBATORE: Labour unions in the district will observe a modest May Day this year. All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC) and the Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) have asked their members to hoist red flags at their residences and offices, and in front of industrial units, but with not more than four people in attendance. They also said this May Day would be an occasion to seek better working conditions for healthcare and sanitary workers and “to condemn the anti-labour mindset of the Centre.” A joint communication from the representatives of AITUC and CITU to all their members said this May Day should be used to salute frontline workers fighting Covid-19. The communication said members should work towards the welfare of unorganised workers, farmers, farm labourers, construction workers and weavers whose livelihoods have been hit by the lockdown. “It is not enough to revere healthcare and sanitary workers. The state and Centre should take necessary steps to provide permanent jobs to sanitary workers and also give them proper pay,” it said. They also said the BJP government has been taking steps to reduce 44 labour welfare laws to four, which would undermine labour rights.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/labour-unions-to-celebrate-a-low-key-may-day/articleshow/75459411.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Contests go virtual to keep children, youth engaged during lockdown||COIMBATORE: Packed schedule of classes, exams and extracurricular activities and weekends of visiting friends, sports and watching movies consisted the lives of children and youths before the lockdown kicked in. They are the most affected by boredom by staying within their homes. To beat the blues, several organizations and government bodies have started conducting a series of virtual competitions, including book reviewing, painting, solo dance, shadow boxing and silambam, to keep them engaged during the lockdown period. The revenue administration of Pollachi is organizing a series of competitions tilted ‘Colours of Pollachi’ with a tagline ‘house to home’. Participants, especially school and college students, are asked to submit their entries in various categories like painting, poetry writing, house decoration, waste to wealth and book review through online mode before May 2. “The motive of organizing these competitions is to raise their morale and help them cope with the lockdown. The competitions might also bring out hidden talent of participants,” said R Vaithinathan, sub-collector of Pollachi. Pointing out that several youths are continuing to step out of their home unnecessarily, the sub-collector said the move will help them concentrate and keep them occupied in their houses. Winners of the competitions would be honoured post lockdown, he added. Similarly, the Tamil Nadu All Rural Games Organization (TARGO), a private sports association, has asked practitioners of silambam, dance and shadow boxing to submit a video showcasing their performance through their trainers or parents. K Sivagnanam of the organisation said such competitions will help practitioners to hone their skill. “During summer holidays, several competitions would be conducted and a lot of students would participate in them. This year, we had received requests from the public asking us to conduct the competitions to keep the spirit of the participants up,” Sivagnanam said, adding as of now, we had received over 500 entries for silamabam and the number is expected to go up to 700.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/contests-go-virtual-to-keep-children-youth-engaged-during-lockdown/articleshow/75459415.cms||Nivedha Selvam
April 30, 2020||Dehradun||ICU at BD Pandey Hospital should function by Monday: Uttarakhand HC||NAINITAL: Uttarakhand high court (HC) on Wednesday directed the state government to ensure that the Intensive Care Unit(ICU) at BD Pandey Hospital, Nainital town’s only hospital, becomes functional by next Monday. The HC also directed the state government to make sure that ICUs and ventilators become functional at all Covid-19 dedicated hospitals across the state. The direction from the bench of Justice Sudhanshu Dhulia and Justice Ravindra Maithani comes just a week after the court had directed the state to provide essential number of ventilators to all the coronavirus-dedicated hospitals in the state. While the written order was still awaited at the time of filing this report, Dushyant Mainali, the petitioner in the case who appeared before the court through video conferencing told TOI that the state government informed the HC that it has made the ICU apparatus and ventilators available. “We told the court that even though the medical equipments have been made available, they are yet to be installed and therefore, are not functioning yet,” Mainali said. “The bench, therefore, has now ordered the state government to make sure that the ICU at the BD Pandey Hospital becomes functional. The government, meanwhile, said that equipment at the rest of the Covid-19 dedicated hospitals will also become functional soon,” Mainali said while adding that the case will next be heard on May 5.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/icu-at-bd-pandey-hosp-should-function-by-monday-hc/articleshow/75458323.cms||Prashant Jha
April 30, 2020||Coimbatore||Summer rain cools Coimbatore, to boost farming activities||COIMBATORE: The summer showers finally lashed the district on Tuesday evening and night after a two-day delay, ushering in a pleasant weather. Parts of the city received anywhere between 20mm and 58mm rainfall, which was accompanied by lightning and heavy thunder. Besides making the city cooler, it is expected to help farmers take up summer cultivation in the district. According to the data available with the district administration, parts of the city in and around airport received around 38mm rainfall, southern parts that share a border with Pollachi 58mm and farm belts of Periyanaickenpalayam and Sulur recorded 19mm and 13mm rain respectively. While Annur received only 2mm rainfall, the agriculture department is confident that farmers will start cultivation despite that. The weather department said the maximum temperatures in the city has fallen to 33Celsius from 37Celsius that it had been recording until recently. The rainfall, which is attributed to the movement of a trough that is extending from Vidarbha to central Tamil Nadu, is expected to continue till April 30. Mahesh Palawat, chief meteorologist at Skymet Weather Services, said, “The district will continue to receive moderate and patchy rainfall through Wednesday and Thursday.” Agriculture department officials, who had predicted a 25% increase in summer cultivation, say the rain will help farmers start cultivation of pulses such as green gram and back gram, maize, small millets, groundnuts and some other crops. Mohanasundaram, a farmer who owns 10 acres farmland in Puliyamarathottam, said he has begun the summer cultivation. “I just bought 250 coconut trees. Once I finish planting them, I will plant tapioca as an intercrop between them. Both of them can resist dry conditions. If we receive better showers next month, I will cultivate sugarcane and maize as well.” Dairy farmer Sree Ramkumar, of Vellamadai, said he was just planning to plough his farmland. “I will plough soil using these rains and slightly wet conditions, so it is ready for sowing groundnut and maize during the southwest monsoon. Maybe if the summer rain is heavy like it was two years ago, I may advance the timeline slightly and start cultivation in May.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/summer-rain-cools-city-to-boost-farming-activities/articleshow/75459420.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Madurai||Mobile unit tests pregnant women in Madurai||MADURAI: A mobile unit flagged off by the district administration on Wednesday collected swabs from more than 30 pregnant women from the containment areas near Usilampatti to test them for Covid-19. The samples have been handed over to the testing centre at Government Rajaji Hospital. The vehicle with a kiosk to safely collect swabs was provided jointly by Shri Madurai Jain Samaj and Netaji Medi Trust.  The district administration has deployed a team consisting of a doctor, microbiologist and a couple of health workers for the purpose. Recently, a pregnant woman from Thottappanaickanur near Usilampatti had tested positive. Health officials have now decided to test all pregnant women from containment zones for the virus. Health officials said mobile unit will test them by visiting their places in the containment zones and collect swabs. The kiosk is designed in such a way that medical workers will not come in direct contact with the person while taking the swab. It will have built-in gloves, which can be used by health workers as protective shield, while sitting on the other side of the glass partition. The vehicle will be disinfected with the help of health workers after taking every swab. The mobile unit will visit all the containment zones to check pregnant women, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/mobile-unit-tests-pregnant-women/articleshow/75460281.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Businessman gets threats for distributing free rations to poor||BENGALURU: A 48-year-old businessman has accused a local politician of threatening him with dire consequences for distributing free rations to the poor in Jigani during the lockdown. Suryanagar police have registered a criminal case against Sathish Aradya MP of Yarandahalli based on the complaint from Alim SK, who runs a small industry. Alim filed the complaint on Sunday, two days after the alleged incident took place. Alim told police that he had distributed rations to at least 2,000 people since the lockdown was announced. “Aradya came to my house in Chikkanayakanahalli near Jigani on the evening of April 24. He objected to me distributing rations citing my religion. He asked me if I had got the rations from Pakistan and said he would send me there if I continued with the distribution,” the complainant said. Aradya filed a counter complaint without mentioning Alim’s name on Monday. “We’ve taken up a case against 16 unknown persons for unlawfully assembling at Aradya’s residence in Yarandahalli on Saturday night and threatening his family members that they would eliminate Aradya over the clash with Alim.” Aradya has furnished the CCTV footage of the mob gathering outside his house.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bizman-gets-threats-for-distributing-free-rations/articleshow/75459422.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Woman who escaped from Ramganj tests negative||JAIPUR: The woman who was smuggled out by her husband from Ramganj in Jaipur to Sikar has tested negative after initially testing positive for Covid-19. The 50-year-old man had taken the help of a van driver to get his 26-year-old wife and four-year-old kid to to Sikar on April 16. When neighbours came to know, they informed the local authorities which got the family tested for the virus. “After we found that the accused managed to get his wife from hotspot Ramganj to Sikar without informing anyone, his wife and daughter were tested for coronavirus. In the first test, the woman was found infected but in the second test her result was negative,” said an official of Kotwali Sikar. A case under various IPC sections including 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) was registered against both the accused who are currently in quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/woman-who-escaped-from-ramganj-tests-negative/articleshow/75460289.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Goa||Clogged manholes cleared at Margao||Margao: The Sewerage and Infrastructural Development Corporation Ltd (SIDCL) on Wednesday cleared the four manhole chambers at Aquem, Margao, which were clogged with sewage for the last few months. Sources said more than 40,000 litres of raw sewage and wastewater that was trapped inside was pumped out by the workers engaged for the task. “Over the last several months, the residents of Aquem had to live with the strong foul odour emanating from the overflowing sewage due to these blocked manhole chambers. The blockage also led to the contamination of three to four drinking water wells which are the only source of water for some residents,” Navin Pai Raikar, a resident, and also the general secretary of BJP’s Margao mandal, told reporters. Stating that SIDCL responded to his complaint immediately by dispatching a team to find a solution, Raikar said that the problem of sewage overflowing from the choked chambers has now been redressed. He however suggested that considering the large number of residential complexes that have come up in the area, the government should consider installing a dedicated sewerage line for the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/clogged-manholes-cleared-at-margao/articleshow/75460288.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Vadodara||Conduct COVID test for all students: BUTA to MSU||Vadodara: The Baroda University Teachers Association (BUTA) has demanded that Gujarat government extend vacation period. Currently, the state government has declared vacation up to May 15 which BUTA wants to be continued till June 18. At the same time, the teachers' association has demanded that all 35,000 students who are coming for examination should submit corona test report if they wish to appear for any examination conducted by M S University in July. A separate schedule of examination should be prepared for Covid-19 positive students, the association has demanded. In a representation made to MSU vice-chancellor (VC) and the top brass of state education department, BUTA has demanded that the university should provide three layer surgical masks and gloves for all students, teachers and examination staff during examination while body sanitizers should be installed in the examination premises and hand sanitizers in every room. “While we have suggested all the steps that the university should take for conducting exams, we have also made an alternate suggestion. All undergraduate and post graduate students can be given result based on the academic performance of their previous semesters and average of all previous semesters can be declared as their current semester result and awarded the degree,” said BUTA general secretary Dr Nikul Patel. “Any student willing to improve his or her examination result can be allowed to take exam only after the present pandemic situation of COVID19 improves. The university can consider the best of two exams for such students,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/conduct-covid-test-for-all-students-buta-to-msu/articleshow/75458352.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Goa||‘Withdraw teachers from ration shop duty’||Panaji: Terming the appointment of teachers on duty outside fair price shops as unfair, Goa Suraksha Manch president Subhash Velingkar has demanded that the state government immediately withdraw teachers from this work. “I condemn the allocation of teachers for duty outside fair price shops,” he said. The teachers have to work in two shifts in a day, up to May 12. They have been tasked with ensuring that safety norms are being maintained at fair price shops, while also keeping a check on pilferage of grains. The teachers have said that they not only feel humiliated, but also think that this government is working against their interest. They are also upset that they have not been provided with either safety gear or reimbursed transportation cost. The order from the state government states that teachers should ensure that the fair price shops remain open from 9am to 1pm and 3pm to 6pm. The teachers have also been asked to ensure that the prescribed quantities of rice, sugar, tur dal and wheat are disbursed to the beneficiaries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/withdraw-teachers-from-ration-shop-duty/articleshow/75460291.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: One terminal for domestic, international passengers if flights resume||CHENNAI: Domestic and international passengers may have to board flights from one terminal when services resume in a phased manner at the city airport. The terminal will also have only limited food and beverages outlets, selling only takeaways. Airports Authority of India (AAI), in an SOP issued to resume operations, has suggested that airports with two terminals may use only a one of them for passengers, as only skeletal flights scattered throughout the day are to be operated. The single-terminal norm has been suggested as airports will be reducing its passenger and flight handling capacity to 30%. Visitor entry will be banned. There will be flights to tier I cities and to some of the major tier II cities to begin with. The statement also said airlines will have to file fresh schedules for flights between tier I and tier II city pairs. “If the country is going to lift lockdown in a phased manner, airlines may have to obtain permissions to fly between two cities based on the lockdown situations in both the cities,” said a senior official, hinting that airlines may not be able to operate flights as per their current schedule listed on their websites. Flights from hotspots will get designated parking spaces and passengers will have to pick up their check-in baggage from dedicated baggage carousels to prevent them from mingling with passengers from other cities. The city airport has been told to work out its possible passenger handling capacity after incorporating social distancing norms and inform the headquarters, so they can allot the number of fight services, he added. AAI is also planning to ask for dedicated public transport, cabs or bus services if flights resume before public transport services resume in the city. An airport-level SOP will be drawn up soon after a meeting with all stakeholders such as airlines, groundhandling agencies, cargo, CISF, customs, immigration and others. “The SOP will take inputs from common measures adopted at airports in Asia-Pacific,” said a senior AAI official. Sources say the airports and airlines are prepared to start skeletal domestic flight services by mid-May if the Centre does not extend the national lockdown. Most airlines have decided to cut the number of seats for passengers inflight and have also told staff on protocol to be followed at check-in counters, boarding gates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/1-terminal-for-domestic-intl-passengers-if-flights-resume/articleshow/75459425.cms||V Ayyappan
April 30, 2020||Dehradun||Irrfan Khan no more: Uttarakhand artistes recall a surprisingly humble star||DEHRADUN: Professionals from Uttarakhand who worked with Irrfan Khan fondly recall a humble, down-to-earth person with no airs of an international star. Khan came to Uttarakhand for the shooting of his films ‘Paan Singh Tomar’ (2012) and ‘Qarib Qarib Singlle’ (2017). Theatre artiste Kailash Kandwal, who is also an assistant professor at Doon Business School, worked with Khan as a junior artiste in ‘Paan Singh Tomar’, told TOI, “He wasn’t flanked by hordes of security guards like other Bollywood stars. It was easy to meet him and we even got talking about theatre, which is something we had in common. I noticed he was a very shy person.” Abhinav Thapar, who does coordination work for Bollywood projects in the state, said that Khan had grown quite fond of Uttarakhand after shooting for some time in the hill state. “During a scene for ‘Qarib Qarib Singlle’, he performed Ganga aarti with such ease in Rishikesh. He later told us that in his house aarti takes place daily because his wife is a Hindu and he himself has immense respect for Hindu traditions. The last I spoke with him was over phone in 2018. I invited him to Uttarakhand and he promised to come. After some time, he was diagnosed with cancer.” “Irrfan was an evolved and very wise person, which indeed showed in his acting. As of now, there is no actor of Irrfan's calibre in the Indian film industry. Actors like him come once in decades. It is a big loss for Indian cinema,” filmmaker Tigmanshu Dhulia reminisced, after attending the burial cermony of the actor who was also his close friend, in Mumbai on Wednesday. Renowned theatre artiste Navneet Gairola, who has worked in films like ‘Dum Laga Ke Haisha’, ‘Raag Desh’, ‘PM Narendra Modi (Biopic)’ and shared screen space with Khan in ‘Paan Singh Tomar’, remembered that the actor was surprisingly unassuming for an international star. “We were shooting at the Bengal Engineer Group’s Regimental Centre in Roorkee. It was my first time working in a Bollywood movie and I was nervous. When I requested Irrfan to rehearse our scene, he happily obliged. That took me by surprise. Irrfan’s support helped me perform well in the scene, which was a significant part of the movie,” Gairola said. “Later, we went to see a hockey match which was taking place nearby. He even happened to know the technicalities of hockey, ” Gairola added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/irrfan-khan-no-more-uttarakhand-artistes-recall-a-surprisingly-humble-star/articleshow/75458353.cms||Mohammad Anab
April 30, 2020||Madurai||As pollutants dip in Madurai, air quality takes a leap||MADURAI: The air quality in Madurai city has improved much during the lockdown period. A study has found that air pollutants, particulate matter, sulphur dioxide and nitrogen oxide are much below the permissible level in the city. Managing director of Enviro Care, an environmental service and solution provider, Dr S Rajamohan said that they had decided to conduct a study on the quality of air at four major junctions in Madurai city from April 20 to April 26, when traffic movement minimal due to the lockdown. Dr Rajamohan, an environmental engineer, has been periodically assessing the air quality of the city, “It is something that I have been doing since 1994 and this is the cleanest levels I have ever come across,” he said. The ambient air quality is fixed by the Central Pollution Control Board and with no vehicle movement and lack of construction activities the levels of the major pollutants are much below the permissible level. Particulate matter pollutants are of two sizes, PM2.5 and PM10. The permissible level for PM2.5 is 60µg/m3. But the highest amount of PM2.5 in all four major junctions did not exceed 20µg/m3. Similarly, the permitted level for PM10 is 100µg/m3. Among the four junctions, the highest range of PM10 was recorded at the Periyar bus stand where it ranged between 40 and 45µg/m3. Periyar bus stand was clearly the most polluted part of the city in the beginning of March this year due to the construction of the bus bay under the smart city program. Various gases, sulphur dioxide (S02) and nitrogen dioxide (No2) are also much below the permissible level in these four junctions. These two gases are produced during combustion of vehicle fuel. While the permissible level for SO2 is 80 µg/m3 the gas was found in its highest range on the Natham road which was just 9 - 12 µg/m3 which was almost ten times lesser than the permissible level. The ambient air quality standards specify that 60µg/m3 of Nitrogen dioxide is permitted but nowhere in the city was it more than 15 µg/m3.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/as-pollutants-dip-air-quality-takes-a-leap/articleshow/75460292.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Goa||Urban local bodies in focus as part of economic reboot||Panaji: While the Goa Institute of Public Administration and Rural Development (GIPARD) and the directorate of higher education (DHE) will carry out a study on panchayats, a parallel study will also be conducted on municipalities. The findings of the study by DHE are meant to help the state government revive the economy in the municipalities post the Covid-19 pandemic. The DHE study will focus on how self-sustainable municipalities can be created in Goa. For this, the study will attempt to identify areas of wasteful expenditure, new enterprises and economic activities which can be encouraged, how the day-to-day functioning can be enhanced, and how the demographic dividend can be tapped. The study on creating self-sustainable municipalities in Goa will use online data capturing technologies with the support of teachers from different colleges under the DHE. The directorate is taking up the study as part of its academic social responsibility, said director of higher education Prasad Lolayekar. While chief minister and education minister Pramod Sawant had said that the study is expected to generate innovative solutions to strengthen urban local bodies, Lolayekar said that involving college teachers in the task will help generate interest in future research in urban bodies. “The study will give practical exposure to the teachers to understand the various aspects of municipal functioning and their challenges. This will equip the teachers to identify topics for their future research and those of their students. The academic empowerment through the study will improve the research footprint of teachers in the state,” said Lolayekar. The optimum utilisation of social capital, sustainable human development, innovative resource generation and the revival of traditional occupations are the other objectives the study intends to achieve. “In the post-Covid-19 situation, to launch the economy back on the growth path, there is urgent need to revive various segments of the economy. Towards achieving this goal, institutions of grassroot democracy have to become sustainable, dynamic and people-oriented. These institutions have to use innovative technologies and solutions to reboot their economy and society. Similar studies for reviving the economy will be taken up with respect to tourism, agriculture, industry, etc,” a state official said. He said that distinguished members of the general public are also requested to email their suggestions and inputs for the study to rgasbn2020@gmail.com.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/urban-local-bodies-in-focus-as-part-of-economic-reboot/articleshow/75460298.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: 50% of Covid patients who died got admitted late||JAIPUR: A disturbing trend is evolving around Covid-19 deaths. At least half of the victims were either brought dead or taken to hospitals at the last stage before they tested positive, indicating that detection and diagnosis could not be done on time. Early diagnosis and early treatment are key to fight the virus, just like swine flu to prevent mortalities. One such incident was of 60-year-old resident of MD Road who was rushed to Sawai Man Singh Hospital, Jaipur. When he reached the hospital, he was declared dead. The incident happened on April 22. Suspecting to be a case of coronavirus, the doctors took his samples and found him positive. A 24-year-old woman, resident of Haji Colony, was brought dead to Mahila Chikitsalaya on April 24. When doctors tested her for Covid-19, she was found infected the next day. A 50-year-old resident of Ghat Gate was brought dead to SMS Hospital on April 25. His samples tested positive a day later. In a similar case, a 55-year-old woman resident of Ghat Gate was declared brought dead to SMS Hospital on April 24. Her samples tested positive on April 26. Besides, there is a list of patients who were admitted to hospital but died before their Covid-19 report arrived. A 60-year-old resident of Ramganj, who was admitted to SMS Hospital on April 22 , died the next day. He tested positive the same day of his death. A 62-year-old Raja Park resident, who was admitted to a private hospital, died on April 18. He too tested positive the same day. So far, 55 persons fell prey to the virus. Out of those, majority of them were either brought dead or they were taken to hospitals in the last stage. Health officials claimed that almost all people who died had pre-existing diseases. Expressing concern about the increasing number of deaths due to Covid-19, the health department has launched a campaign for life saving (LISA) to prevent mortalities. “If one analyses the mortality data, it can be clearly seen that senior citizens, especially those with other underlying conditions like kidney ailments, hypertension and blood pressure, are more vulnerable when infected. Hence, we have decided to follow a segmented approach and have started identifying the vulnerable in containment zones. Increased monitoring and tests will help save lives. Their existing health records with the Ayushman Bharat scheme are also being checked for corroborating their vulnerabilities,” said Rohit Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary (health). After launching LISA in the state, 515 health teams conducted door-to-door survey to find out high risk group people in districts which have turned into hotspots such as Jaipur, Jodhpur, Kota, Tonk, Bharatpur, Ajmer, Banswara and Nagaur. The teams found 6,401 high risk group people in these areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/many-covid-19-patiets-who-died-approached-hospitals-at-last-stage/articleshow/75460302.cms||Syed Intishab Ali
April 30, 2020||Coimbatore||Special postal envelopes on Covid-19 released in Coimbatore||COIMBATORE: For the first time in the country, the Coimbatore postal division has released postal envelopes with a Covid-19 franking slogan. ‘To fight against Covid-19 pandemic, wear face mask at workplace’ is printed on 300 exclusive envelopes enclosed in presentation packs. They will be available for sale at the Philatelic Bureau at the Good Shed Road Post Office. The envelopes are expected to be part of philatelic collections as they cannot be used for posting. “Franking is a system that we use when we get bulk postal orders. No stamps are required on such envelopes. The envelope has the value of the stamp, the name of the post office and the coronavirus theme printed on it,” said senior superintendent of post offices Sudhir Gopal Jakhere. The envelope was released on the eve of the annual World Day for Safety and Health at Work. “These are the concepts we want to create awareness about. We are right now experiencing a historical event and this is our way of documenting it,” said Jakhere. Senior philatelists in the district said that any philately collection on a historical event like Covid-19 is a way to chronicle it. “We expect covid theme philately products and postal stationary to be in great demand in the years to come,” said philatelist P Selvaraju. “These postcards and franking symbols will remember our future generations about this pandemic by exact date, year and prompt them to recall and explore the stories around it,” he told TOI. This is the second set of philatelic products released by the postal division on the Covid-19 pandemic. Last week, it had launched a special set of postcards to thank frontline workers such as doctors, medical staff, sanitary workers and postmen, and to promote social distancing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/special-postal-envelopes-on-covid-19-released/articleshow/75459431.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Aurangabad||Act against cruelty to animals: AWBI urges police||Aurangabad: The Animal Welfare Board of India (AWBI) has requested the police department to immediately act on the matters of cruelty against animals, including pets, during the ongoing lockdown. In a latest communication sent to chief secretaries of all the states, the AWBI has said that it is receiving number of cruelty cases during the lockdown against animals. "Inhuman behaviour of the people towards animals is a punishable offence and police department is requested to immediately act on the matter when reported by any person, feeder and animal welfare activists," the letter by AWBI chairman OP Chaudhary said. The AWBI has categorically said that anyone who abandons or harasses animals will be liable to be prosecuted under section 11(1) of Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960, where police is fully entitled to take cognisance under this section as deem fit. The Board has also requested the residents and local authorities to cooperate with animal feeders as they are offering animals feed and obeying their fundamental duties as per Indian Constitution. The communication by AWBI also mentions advisory for feeding birds and animals during outbreak of Covid-19 in the light of directions issued by the Supreme Court in a related petition filed by activist Sangeeta Dogra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/act-against-cruelty-to-animals-awbi-urges-police/articleshow/75458388.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Goa||WhatsApp groups to replace agriculture melas, training for farmers||PANAJI: In a move towards social distancing, the directorate of agriculture is creating WhatsApp groups for farmers through their respective zonal agriculture officers (ZAO). This platform will be used to disburse information about schemes available, as well as share agriculture-related videos, information on new technologies and farming success stories. “We have requested ZAOs to form these groups so that they can communicate with farmers during the lockdown. We cannot have Krishi melas or training programmes with farmers anymore. The information that we usually disseminate among farmers through these meetings will now be passed on through these groups,” agriculture director, Nevil Alphonso said. “The intention is to communicate with the farmers faster while also ensuring social distancing. We will also make 2-3 minute long videos demonstrating new agricultural technologies and post them on the groups.” The WhatsApp groups are expected to be formed within a week to 10 days at every ZAO level. While some talukas may have one group, others may have three to four, depending of the density of the number of farmers in that jurisdiction. In the month of May, farmers start cultivating various horticulture crops and paddy. Agriculture officers use training programmes to inform those in remote villages about improved quality of seeds and hybrid variants that can be grown as well as share information about new schemes they can avail of. Currently the ZAOs have kept the zonal offices open for farmers to source seeds for the upcoming season.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/whatsapp-groups-to-replace-agri-melas-training-for-farmers/articleshow/75460297.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Kolkata||Coronavirus-struck Kolkata mourns Irrfan Khan’s death in Mumbai||KOLKATA: Four years back, Irrfan was in Bangladesh to shoot for a Bengali film titled ‘Doob (No Bed Of Roses)’. The film had released in October 2017 — five months before he was diagnosed with cancer. On Wednesday, he succumbed to it in Mumbai. His untimely death added to the lockdown gloom for his friends, fans and well-wishers in Kolkata. Right from the morning, condolence messages started pouring in from the likes of actor Rituparna Sengupta and director Atanu Ghosh, among others. “I am sad and devastated to know about the sudden demise of one of the most powerful and greatest actors of our times,” Sengupta said. “Along with a few others, he started a new era in contemporary Indian film acting. His craft, rooted in intense realism and effortless flexibility, changed the course of Indian cinema towards truthfulness and conviction, which inspired a large group of actors even from regional cinema to work on an intuitive and instinctive form,” said Ghosh. Tannishtha Chatterjee’s first shooting experience in Kolkata was with Irrfan for director Florian Gallenberger’s Bengali film ‘Shadows of Time’, where Irrfan played her husband. Two years later, he was back in Kolkata to shoot for Mira Nair’s ‘The Namesake’. Subsequently, he shot for Shoojit Sircar’s ‘Piku’ in Kolkata. But before ‘Shadows of Time’, Irrfan had established his Bengal connection with Tapan Sinha’s ‘Ek Doctor Ki Maut’ (1990) and Anjan Dutt’s ‘Badadin’ (1998). “Incidentally, Irrfan had also directed me in a Hindi telefilm. When I was in National School of Drama, I acted in a film written by his wife Sutapa Sikdar. When we were doing ‘Shadows of Time’, Irrfan was already a star having done ‘Haasil’. This was the second film in my career. Yet he agreed to do a cameo because he liked the script,” Chatterjee said. That, according to Chatterjee, was the hallmark of a great actor. “ Parno Mittra who had shot with Irrfan for Kolkata-based Eskay Movie’s ‘Doob’, said, “Everyone mourning his death, even without having worked with him, is genuinely upset. Everyone really feels the pain. We all knew he was sick but it is heart-breaking to hear that he is gone. The last time I met him was at the premiere of ‘Doob’. It is a similar thought for producer Ashok Dhanuka, who had acted in ‘Doob’. “I spent 15 days with him. He was a down-to-earth person. We were both from Rajasthan and sometimes, he would want bajra roti and I would get it from home,” he said. Bangladeshi filmmaker Mostofa Sarwar Farooki’s ‘Doob’ has a scene where Irrfan’s character talks to his daughter about what his father had said about death. “Manush mara jae jokhon ei prithibir kachhe taar proyojon phuriye jae othoba taar kachhe prithibir (People die when they become irrelevant to the world or the world becomes irrelevant to them) That’s why I used to do this: Every day, I would visit my father to discuss a concocted issue. But I never concluded it. I always said: ‘We’ll discuss the rest tomorrow’. That way I gave my father a reason to live for one more day. That’s how I kept death away…” “I wish he had mastered the art of cheating death in real life too,” Farooki said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/corona-struck-kolkata-mourns-irrfan-khans-death-in-mumbai/articleshow/75459453.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
April 30, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand to seek further relaxations in districts under green zone post May 3||DEHRADUN: In a meeting held on Wednesday, the state cabinet decided to request the Centre for further relaxations in the districts, which are put under the green zone category, from May 3 onwards. The nationwide lockdown 2.0 will stay in place till May 3 and the Uttarakhand government aims to hand over a report to the Centre before that date. The report will detail the present scenario in the state regarding Covid-19 along with the needs and requirements of the state. “There are just four districts – Dehradun, Haridwar, Nainital and Udham Singh Nagar — which are not included in the green zone in the state,” state’s urban development minister Madan Kaushik told TOI. He, however, said that it is too early to specify the relaxations that the state government might ask for from the Centre. As for the farmers, the state cabinet has approved a 25% rebate on purchase of Kharif crop seeds in addition to the subsidy given by the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-to-seek-further-relaxations-in-districts-under-green-zone-post-may-3/articleshow/75458404.cms||Kautilya Singh
April 30, 2020||Dehradun||One new case found, Uttarakhand Covid-19 tally now 55||DEHRADUN: A patient was tested positive for novel coronavirus in Udham Singh Nagar district on Wednesday taking the total number of active cases of the virus in Uttarakhand to 19. The district reported a positive case after a gap of 26 days. However, in good news for the state, two more coronavirus patients at Government Doon Medical College and Hospital have recovered from the disease. Till now, the state has reported 55 Covid-19 positive cases and reportedly, 36 cases among them had recovered till April 29. According to the health department, a total of 6,046 patients have so far been tested for the virus in Uttarakhand and no new cases of Covid-19 have been reported from Almora in the last 24 days. The district is currently in the orange zone category. Meanwhile, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat launched the telemedicine service in various hospitals across the state on Wednesday. The CM also inaugurated e-hospital service at GDMCH. “These services will reduce the patient influx in hospitals and will be effective in controlling Covid-19 spread. The e-hospital and telemedicine services will be a boon for patients in remote areas where expert opinion for medical services is much needed,” said the CM. He added that e-hospital service is already being run in Deen Dayal Hospital (Coronation) in Dehradun and in Almora’s district hospital. And the telemedicine services will be used in district hospitals and other medical facilities of the state. Patients will be able to seek medical opinion on their mobile phone through the service.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/one-new-case-found-state-covid-19-tally-now-55/articleshow/75458381.cms||Ishita Mishra
April 30, 2020||Mysuru||Maintenance continues at KSRTC||Mysuru: Long periods of disuse often corrupt the functionality of engines and machines, and the biggest challenge confronting the staff of the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC), which has suspended all its operations. Keeping the buses in a state ready to be operated at the drop of a hat has kept them busy the past month. In fact, all buses are being run every alternate day wherein they are driven around the depot to ensure that there are no technical snags. KSRTC Mysuru rural division controller R Ashok Kumar and the division’s chief mechanical engineer K Ramamurthy said that the staff was working round the clock to keep the buses fit for regular operations. “Nearly five to six mechanics, along with the crew of the bus, check its vital parameters like air pressure and battery. In the case of high-end buses, the electrical circuitry and air-conditioning system are also subjected to a thorough examination,” both Ashok Kumar and Ramamurthy said. Another KSRTC officer pointed out that many old buses had run thousands of kilometres, and it was imperative that their condition was checked often. “Although the buses are not being operated, there has been no letdown in maintenance. Both the state and central governments are planning on a phased withdrawal of the lockdown, and KSRTC is waiting for directions to resume operations,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/maintenance-continues-at-ksrtc/articleshow/75458433.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Goa||Goa: Minor blocks ambulance, car owner booked||VASCO: The Verna police swung into action after a video surfaced on social media showing a white car obstructing an ambulance on the slope at Issorsim, on Wednesday morning. The 1.9 minute video recorded by ambulance staff showed the driver of the car intentionally obstructing the path of the ambulance , despite its siren being on. The police found that the car belonged to a resident of Fatimavaddo in Rivona, and was driven by a 17-year-old boy. The owner of the car and guardian of the minor has been booked under the Motor Vehicles Act for handing over the vehicle to a minor. The South Goa SP Arvind Gawas said that a criminal case has been registered at the Verna police station against the car owner, and a report would be prepared and sent to the Juvenile Justice Board against the minor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/minor-blocks-ambulance-car-owner-booked/articleshow/75460312.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Madurai||Wholesale veggie market to be shifted to MGR Bus Terminal||MADURAI: The wholesale vegetable market will be shifted to MGR Bus Terminal and its nearby Truck Parking Terminal as the existing place is congested and posing threat of Covid-19 spread. The central vegetable market has not been functioning since Sunday owing to the implementation of complete lockdown enforced the state government till Wednesday. Retail sales at the market was closed long back. Officials from Madurai corporation held a meeting with representatives of wholesalers recently, where they have been asked to shift to Amma Thidal, a vast ground in Ring Road. The place was suggested to them, as they did not accept the concept first proposed by the corporation authorities. They initially mooted shifting of the market to five different places in the city to manage the crowd better. While traders accepted Amma Thidal half-heartedly, they have later raised concerns. The place would not be suitable for them since it would turn into slushy when it rained and Madurai is known for a few rains in summer. An official from Madurai corporation said, “There are around 150 wholesalers. They had even started some basic works, such as marking place for each shop at Amma Thidal. With the wholesalers raising objection, they have been offered the MGR Terminal and nearby truck terminal. In all, 75 wholesalers can operate in each of the place,” he said. Officials said that wholesale activity is likely to take place in the new places starting from Wednesday. They urged people to maintain social distance while thronging markets and make sure they do not wander in streets without necessity. Meanwhile, city residents fully extended their cooperation throughout the four-day complete lockdown. While the city police registered hundreds of cases during lockdown days, the number of cases have come down to 87 cases on Tuesday. Madurai district police registered 304 cases and arrested 416 people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/wholesale-veggie-mkt-to-be-shifted-to-mgr-bus-terminal/articleshow/75460307.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Goa||Goa: Teachers fume as ‘late’ midday meal circular seeks bank details||PANAJI: The directorate of education (DoE) on Wednesday issued a circular asking primary and upper primary schools to provide details of students’ bank accounts for direct transfer of allowance under the midday meal scheme. The circular seeking the details was issued last month, but was later kept in abeyance by chief minister Pramod Sawant. Now, centrally the process of disbursement of the allowance has begun across the country. However, teachers and parents have expressed anger at the DoE circular which states that the bank details should be provided by April 30, in a circular that was issued just one day earlier. The additional district education inspectors have been instructed to collect the details of the bank accounts of parents of the children from the respective schools in their talukas. The schools have been closed in the state with effect from March 16, and the students have been unable to receive their midday meals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/teachers-fume-as-late-midday-meal-circular-seeks-bank-details/articleshow/75460308.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Government eases test mandate, private hospitals to start elective operations||KOLKATA: The state health department of Wednesday told hospitals that patients with ILI (influenza-like illness) and SARI (severe acute respiratory infections) symptoms or those who had come in contact with a Covid-19 positive patient should be mandatorily tested before any surgery. The rest could go under the knife without a mandatory Covid-19 test, giving private hospitals the flexibility to decide on a case-by-case basis for elective surgeries. Most private hospitals indicated they are resuming elective surgeries after Covid tests. State director of health of service Ajay Chakraborty told TOI on Wednesday: “Earlier, there was a directive on compulsory screening of all patients due for elective surgeries. After issuing the order, we started getting feedback from doctors and hospitals about some practical issues that would come in the way. Based on the feedback, we are revising the notification, restricting it to only patients with the giveaway symptoms.” The state, however, has advised healthcare officials to take all precautions while conducting all surgical procedures. Sources in the health department said the decision was also in tandem with the Centre asking states not to insist on Covid-19 tests for every patient seeking medical aid. Elective surgeries were put on hold in most hospitals because of Covid-19. Only emergency surgeries and normal or C-section deliveries were being done. A month after the lockdown, most facilities are looking to resume elective surgeries in a gradual ramp-up, but only after screening patients for Covid-19. Fortis Hospital has started sending samples of patients admitted for elective surgeries for Covid-19 tests from Tuesday morning. A hospital spokesperson said, “We are going by the government guidelines.” RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences (RTIICS), too, plans to test every patient before surgery. “We won’t be able to compromise on the safety of our doctors and health workers. So, all in-patients will have to undergo test for Covid 19,” said RTIICS zonal director R Venkatesh. Woodlands Hospital is also going by the guidelines issued on Monday. Director and CEO Rupali Basu said, “We are working as per guidelines and of course, those of doctors, who treat the sick patients or conduct life-saving surgeries.” Apollo Hospital, too, are screening patients for elective surgeries. Some like AMRI Hospitals, however, said they would be testing only those with symptoms. Others will be operated upon with ‘basic protection’. The hospital has set up a Covid committee that will formulate a surgery protocol. AMRI plans to resume elective surgeries from Monday. Reproductive medicine consultant Gautam Khastagir, who is attached to Bhagirathi Neotia Hospital, said, “Screening has to be routinely done because patients may be asymptomatic. We had one such patient in Bhagirathi Neotia some time back. She had no symptom before surgery, but a doctor was infected after checking her.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/govt-eases-test-mandate-pvt-hospitals-to-start-elective-ops/articleshow/75459482.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
April 30, 2020||Goa||Goa: ‘Poor resorting to unsafe, unsustainable fishing’||PANAJI: Harsh realities in the aftermath of the Covid-19 pandemic have forced many economically backward families and others to engage in different types of activities to rake in some income. In estuarine areas, non-traditional persons have taken to fishing and harvesting shellfish. With police keeping clam gatherers away from the Chicalim bay, on Wednesday, a sizeable number of migrants were seen fishing along with traditional local shellfish gatherers in the Zuari at Sancoale where low tide unveils a bigger river bed rich in both tisreo (clams) and kalvam (oysters). “This could be an indicator that presently poor and marginalised families may have been forced into this activity, risking their lives,” human rights activist Cyril Fernandes said. A few women had brought their younger family members, some children as young as eight, to gather fish and clams. “This is an outcome of societal or government’s failure to provide food security to these sections, especially migrants. Rights of these children need also to be highlighted ,” Fernandes said. Since Monday, police have been maintaining a watch at the Chicalim bay and driving away the hordes coming to harvest tisreo. The unsustainable activity is especially worrying as it may cause the brood stock, which has only recently re-emerged in good quantities, to be wiped out. “Our biodiversity management committee (BMC) is trying to control this and we have informed the police. Only those gathering shellfish for their own consumption can ensure sustainable extraction,” BMC member Lawrence Fernandes said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/poor-resorting-to-unsafe-unsustainable-fishing/articleshow/75460306.cms||Paul Fernandes
April 30, 2020||Aurangabad||17 students from Marathwada stuck in Kota return home||AURANGABAD: A group of 17 Marathwada students, who were stuck in Rajasthan’s Kota city due to the lockdown imposed to curb the spread of Covid-19 outbreak, reached Beed on Tuesday evening. More students hailing from different parts of the region are also expected to come back in the next few days. Meena Tupe, police sub-inspector with Shivajjnagar police station, said the students were accompanied by a group of seven parents. "All the students and parents underwent health check-up immediately after arriving at Beed. None of them reported symptoms like fever, cough and cold. Still, all of them have been asked to remain quarantined at home for the next 14 days as a precautionary measure," she said. Tupe said contact details and addresses of all returnees from Kota have been noted down. "All students returning from Kota will be under official supervision and asked to contact designated authorities if they develop any symptoms related to Covid-19," she said. As per authorities, around 1,500 students from different parts of Marathwada are believed to be stranded in Kota. Earlier, NCP MLC Satish Chavan had raised the demand for safe return of students from Marathwada stranded in Kota.  The issue was also raised with the district guardian minister Subhash Desai. Known as the major educational hub in the country, Kota houses several coaching classes that impart training to students wanting to pursue professional courses like engineering and medical.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/17-students-from-marathwadastuck-in-kota-return-home/articleshow/75458426.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Pay full April salary to workers, says government advisory||JAIPUR: The state government on Wednesday issued an advisory for industrial units and commercial establishments to pay salaries or wages of workers or labourers for the month of April without any deduction. The advisory issued by industries department said all the payments should be made through various online platforms. “The employers should not deduct salary of workers during the lockdown and the April salary should be paid on time. In this moment of crisis, they need to be supported,” said Subodh Agarwal, additional chief secretary, department of industries. However, many industry representatives said it is difficult for them to pay the salaries as there is no income with trade and commerce remaining shut throughout the world. “Somehow, we managed to pay the salary of March to our workers without any deduction for the lockdown period despite challenges of cash flow. 90% of MSMEs don’t even have money to pay their creditors and for their own household expenses. We are battling a crisis of our own. We cannot pay wages and salaries. This order will bring more harassment and legal consequences,” Navneet Jhalani, joint secretary, Federation of Rajasthan Textiles and Handicrafts Exporters. Some sections of the industry had suggested that the funds in Employees’ State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) be used to give relief to workers, but leading trade unions in the country had opposed the idea on the ground that the purpose of the fund is different. Even the Union labour ministry had rejected the idea. However, there was an expectation that the Centre or the state governments will help the employers with some contribution so that they can pay the workers. “Many of the industry associations have written expressing the inability of the factory owners. We wanted some help either from the state government or the Centre. But they have put the burden on us,” said an industry representative of VKI. They said the government already knows the precarious condition of the MSMEs and that’s why they have instructed banks to roll over the interest and EMIs. “They are aware that MSMEs are in a mess and now they want us to pay workers for the lockdown period,” the factory owners said. The legality of the advisory also came into question with many interpreting that it is an advisory and they are not mandated to pay. “Whichever industrial unit is in a position to pay, they should do so on compassion ground. But we don’t think, we will be legally challenged for not complying to the advisory,” some association members said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/pay-full-april-salary-to-workers-says-govt-advisory/articleshow/75460313.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Hyderabad||650 Brahma Kumaris from Telangana, Andhra Pradesh stuck in Rajasthan||HYDERABAD: With the Centre on Wednesday issuing fresh guidelines allowing stranded students, migrant labourers, pilgrims and tourists to their home states if they do not have symptoms of coronavirus, 537 Brahma Kumaris followers from Andhra Pradesh and 120 from Telangana, who are stuck in their headquarters at Mount Abu in Rajasthan, are breathing easy now. The Brahma Kumaris had gone to Mount Abu on March 17 for their annual spiritual programmes (till March 22) and have been stuck there since then. With around 1,500 from Maharashtra leaving for their native places in the last two days following the Maharashtra government giving a green signal, the Brahma Kumaris from both Telugu states are now hoping that they can also go back to their native places. Kondepudi Madhavi, a native of Rayavaram in East Godavari district in AP, told TOI that many of us came from Vishakapatnam, East Godavari, West Godavari, Vizianagaram and Krishna districts. “We arrived in Mount Abu on March 17. Many of them have left and around 6,000 of us are stuck. Those from Maharashtra have left recently.” BK Hema, Brahma Kumaris centre in charge of Rajahmundry, said that 44 followers from Rajahmundry had come to Mount Abu on March 16. “Once the lockdown was announced, we were stuck here. Many of those who are stuck are from farming families. As this is a harvest season, they need to go back,” she said. She said their main worry was over welfare of their children back home. She added, “We have maintained social distancing and took all precautions to avoid contracting coronavirus. Every one of us had one room each.” The followers appealed to Union minister G Kishan Reddy, AP CM YS Jaganmohan Reddy and former CM Chandrababu Naidu to help them reach AP early.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/650-brahma-kumaris-from-t-ap-stuck-in-raj/articleshow/75459469.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
April 30, 2020||Goa||Goa: GMPF echoes government plea for restarting mining at earliest||PANAJI: Goa Mining People’s Front (GMPF) on Wednesday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah to consider requests by the state government and governor Satya Pal Malik for early resumption of mining activities through legislative cure. Sawant and Malik have recently written to the Union government, seeking amendment of the relevant mining act to restart mining in Goa. Mining operations were halted on March 16, 2018, crippling the livelihood of over 3 lakh Goans due to job losses, GMPF president Puti Gaonkar said “Two years since mining activities were suspended, Goa has witnessed its worst phase in terms of employment generation, while also affecting the state’s revenue stream. With the tourism industry also severely hit due to the ongoing Covid-19 crisis, it has robbed the livelihood of many Goans and further aggravated the state’s precarious economy,” Gaonkar said With the Goan economy already facing headwinds on account of mining stoppage, coupled with the downturn in the tourism sector that could continue for over a year due the current pandemic, it is imperative that the mining industry resumes at the earliest, GMPF stated. “Due to the mining halt, the loss of revenue to the exchequer is estimated at Rs 7,000 crore for the past two years,” Gaonkar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gmpf-echoes-govt-plea-for-restarting-mining-at-earliest/articleshow/75460319.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Goa||Increased resting, social media usage during lockdown an escape mechanism: GIM researchers||PANAJI: Two professors at the Goa Institute of Management (GIM) have carried out a survey covering 231 respondents across the country to gauge their psychological response and coping behaviour during the Covid-19 outbreak and the resultant lockdown. In the survey by Divya Singhal and Padhmanbhan Vijayaraghavan, it was found that during the lockdown, respondents showed high involvement with social media, watching online movies and shows, and prolonged resting. This prolonged engagement with social media, watching movies, and continuous rest or sleeping can be viewed as an escape or coping mechanism, the GIM faculty members noted. More than 50% of the respondents (140) reported that their social media usage has gone up, as well as their time spent in watching movies and shows through online media. Over 150 respondents felt that reading forwarded messages on Covid-19 was depressing, said Singhal and Vijayaraghavan. “A majority of the respondents have become conscious of any bodily changes, sensations, mild cold, cough, sneezing, and experience concern and attribute them to the symptoms of Covid-19,” said Singhal, who is also chairperson of the centre for social sensitivity and action at GIM. She said 41% of the respondents reported that they are not doing any physical activities such as yoga during the lockdown period, and 57% also did not practice any mind-calming techniques like meditation. Seventy percent of the respondents said that they spend most of their time during lockdown resting, around 74% were happy they got more time to spend with their family due to the lockdown. Singhal said that the respondents have resorted to coping by seeking social and emotional support by connecting with their friends and relatives, as well as spending more time with their family members, which can be viewed as social support-seeking behaviour. “Findings from various studies state that social support, especially from family, acts as strong protective factor for anxiety, and reinforces the belief that support resources are available to them,” Singhal said. As news of Covid-19 started gaining momentum, the researchers said they realized a certain degree of vulnerability and worry. “This research idea stemmed from our personal motivation to know how people were feeling, reacting and coping with the pandemic,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/increased-resting-social-media-usage-during-lockdown-an-escape-mechanism-gim-researchers/articleshow/75460317.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
April 30, 2020||Madurai||Madurai: Overflowing sewage adds to woes of street in containment zone||MADURAI: Overflowing sewage has been a major problem for the residents of Rajaji street in ward number 30 of Madurai Corporation, which also falls under a containment zone in the city. S Kannan a resident said that sewage has been overflowing since April 23 due to a burst and has flooded the streets. The residents say that their problems have increased as their locality is within the containment zone of Melamadai. “We have to move out in a restricted way and the borewell is dry. We are dependent on private water suppliers for drinking water needs. But on Wednesday the road was so flooded that I could not buy a pot of water due to its unhygienic condition,” he said. Rani, a resident, said that being in a containment zone they feel fearful to even walk on the road, but are forced to do so to purchase groceries and milk. “But, now we are worried that we will get sick due to the sewage stagnated on the roads. It has now started turning green and mosquitoes are also breeding in it,” she said. Kannan said that they had lodged a complaint with the Corporation’s control room and people who had come to the spot had told him that the problem was big and that it could not be repaired immediately. “This is not acceptable, they should give us a solution to this problem which can cause an outbreak,” he said. Corporation sources said that the issue would be attended at the earliest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/overflowing-sewage-adds-to-woes-of-street-in-containment-zone/articleshow/75460316.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Vadodara||Highest single-day deaths in Vadodara, 4 succumb||Vadodara: Four persons including a man and three women died succumbed to Covid-19 infection, the largest number of single-day deaths reported in the city, on Wednesday. As many as 22 others also tested positive. The series of deaths began at 12.15am on Wednesday and by noon, four persons had died. The total number of deaths due to Covid-19 in the city now stand at 19. The deceased include Mohini Brahmkhatri (66), Salmabibi Mansuri (75), Feroze Pathan (54) and Mohammed Tyrewala (65). Two of the deaths took place at the GMERS Hospital, Gotri and two at the SSG Hospital. Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) officials said that the deceased had co-morbid conditions like diabetes, blood pressure and heart ailments. Their age also led to their condition turning critical due to the infection. The 22 positive cases included media professionals including two from Delhi and their driver. A photojournalist, journalist and a video editor of a local news bulletin also tested positive for Covid-19. Sources said that as per the new guidelines, those testing positive were given the option of staying in quarantine at home if they had necessary facilities. Those choosing this option have to give an undertaking that they will not violate quarantine conditions. While the number of positive cases was high, sources said that a reason for this was also the high number of tests conducted. Against around 150 or 200 samples a day, 310 samples were tested since Tuesday evening. The total number of Covid-19 cases in the city now stands at 285.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/highest-single-day-deaths-in-vadodara-4-succumb/articleshow/75457891.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Goa||Quepem officials rush to Devosa Tank with groceries||QUEPEM: On Tuesday, a team from the Quepem administration, led by joint mamlatdar Rosario Carvalho, talathi Sadanand Dessai and a circle inspector distributed groceries to 28 needy members belonging to four families that reside at Devosa Tank.  The move was spurred by a report published in TOI on April 28. Authorities handed over 100kg of rice, 50kg dal and 50 noodles packets to the four families, who have been living in four huts without power, water and a road for over half a century. Since the mamlatdar’s vehicle couldn’t pass through the untarred road, authorities asked the family members to come to the main road to collect the groceries. Quepem municipal councillor Luiza Carvalho told TOI she also distributed grocery items to the four families on Tuesday, arranged by the local MLA and meant to be distributed to all needy families in Devosa and Gaonkarwadda. On why these four families were left out, she said that she was not aware groceries had not been delivered. “We distributed seven bags of groceries to these families, each bag containing 1kg rice, 1 litre cooking oil, 1kg salt and 1kg wheat flour,” said Carvalho. On Wednesday, while TOI was at Devosa Tank with the Gaonkar family members, a sub-inspector from the civil supplies department, Sarang Naik, came to return an APL card which belongs to one of the families. When TOI questioned him as to how an APL card was issued to a family living belowthe poverty line instead of a PHH (priority household) card, he said that “they are eligible for a BPL card (PHH) and all they have to do is to submit an application, as we have now seen their living conditionsand also checked their family status online”. The Gaonkar family also told TOI that officials from the civil supplies department, including inspector Gorakh Rajadhyax and Naik, had visited them on Tuesday along with the fair price shop owner, and had checked their ration cards. “They clicked photographs of our two BPL rations cards and returned them to us, but took our APL card along with them,” a family member said. The APL card entitles the family to only 8kg rice per card, at Rs 12.5 per kg. However, if this were a PHH ration card, the family would have received 25kg of rice at Rs 3 per kg, and another 25 kg of rice free under the Pradha Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKAY) scheme. The owner of the fair price shop, Cydron D’Souza, confirmed that the officials of the civil supplies department had asked him to accompany them to the Gaonkar families on Tuesday. He added that the ration card of Sakhu Gaonkar, having seven registered members on the PHH card, was issued 35kg of rice on March 30 at Rs 3 per kg, for the April quota, and another 35kg was issued free under the PMGKAY scheme on April 10. D’Souza also said that the ration card of Sunita Gaonkar was given 25kg rice on March 30 for the April quota and on April 11 another 25kg was issued to them free .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/quepem-officials-rush-to-devosa-tank-with-groceries/articleshow/75460323.cms||Johnny M
April 30, 2020||Aurangabad||Gurdwara dismisses claims of pilgrims infected in Nanded||Aurangabad: The Nanded gurdwara board officials on Wednesday brushed off claims that some pilgrims had contracted the Covid-19 infection while stranded in the city. Reports appearing in a section of the media have stated that eight pilgrims tested positive while being checked in Punjab after their return.The gurdwara official said the pilgrims were examined and given required medical assistance while they were in Nanded city. “None of them reported positive for Covid-19 or even developed any other serious health complications while they were in the city,” gurdwara board member Gurmeet Singh Mahajan told TOI.About 4,000 pilgrims from Punjab were stranded in Nanded due to the lockdown after their arrival for the Hola Mohalla festival. About 1,000 of them were sent back to Punjab in three batches — on April 23, 24 and 25 — in private buses and mini-buses arranged by the gurudwara authorities at the Langer Saheb facility at Nagina Ghat in the city. The remaining 3,000 pilgrims left for their home state on April 27 evening in 80 luxury buses sent by the Punjab government.The gurudwara officials alleged that the Punjab authorities, instead of screening the pilgrims on arrival, had taken them to their respective hometowns in that state. Mahajan said it was only through certain media reports that the gurudwara had learnt that some pilgrims had turned positive. “But we do not have any official communication from Punjab,” he said.Mahajan said 332 pilgrims had stayed at a facility in the Sachkhand Saheb Gurudwara premises while 3,800 pilgrims had stayed with the Langar Saheb facility which is being looked after by Sant Baba Narinder Singhji and Sant Baba Balwinder Singhji of the Dera Sant Baba Nidhan Singhji, Nagina Ghat. “The gurudwara board had submitted to the authorites concerned the district-wise list of pilgrims who had stayed in Nanded,” he said.Ravinder Singh Modi, a senior gurudwara board official, said a group of 90 pilgrims had left Nanded city in private vehicles on April 18 without informing the gurudwara authorities or other authorities. They were eventually stopped at Indore and placed in isolation for some days. They were also booked by the Nanded police on April 19 for violating the lockdown, as well as by the Indore police. Modi pointed out that Nanded had reported only two positive cases so far — one from the Peer Burhan area and another who had a travel history to Punjab. After being quarantined, both tested negative in subsequent tests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/gurdwara-dismisses-claims-of-pilgrims-infected-in-nanded/articleshow/75458476.cms||Syed Rizwanullah
April 30, 2020||Pune||PMC to let patients with mild Covid-19 symptoms go for home quarantine||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation on Wednesday decided to let patients showing mild Covid-19 symptoms and pre-symptomatic people to go home from institutional quarantine facilities after producing affidavits assuring that they would follow the isolation guidelines. Patients having enough space at home for home quarantine would be given this option. Currently, around 2,000 people are in institutional quarantine facilities in the city. A senior official of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) said, “The number of positive or symptomatic patients is increasing day by day with repeated screening and survey in sealed as well as other areas of the city. Accommodating all these patients in institutional quarantine is proving to be a tough task because of limited beds available in the centres. So, the option of allowing select patients to go home is being explored. It will reduce the load on the civic infrastructure.” According to the PMC officials, the decision to allow select patients to choose home quarantine provided they gave an affidavit was taken based on the instruction from the Union government. The guideline issued by the Union ministry of health and family welfare for home quarantine stated, “Very mild/pre-symptomatic patients having the requisite facility at his/her residence for self-isolation will have the option for home isolation.” State health minister Rajesh Tope, who was in Nashik to review the situation in Malegaon, said, “I have just been told by Mumbai Municipal Corporation commissioner that the ICMR (Indian Council of Medical Research) has issued fresh guidelines through which we can home quarantine asymptomatic patients if they have facilities and if the can do so. Mumbai has 83% asymptomatic patients and most of them can be home quarantined, if they are able to do so. This will help us to accommodate more patients who lack such facilities at their home.” In Pune, the senior PMC official said a patient would have to sign an affidavit saying that he/she would abide by the guidelines and rules laid down for home quarantine before leaving the institutional quarantine facility. These patients would have to make sure that they do not venture out of houses and contribute in any way to the spread of the virus. The PMC official said they had come up with a cellphone application to track the patients in home isolation. The patients willing to go back home and follow the norms set for quarantine would be monitored through it. Pune divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar said the state government was likely to come out with a detailed guideline on home quarantine. Pune collector Naval Kishore Ram said a uniform rule on home quarantine cannot be implemented. “It is impossible to allow home quarantine for mildly symptomatic persons in slum areas. The state will have to issue the necessary guidelines on it,'' he said. (With inputs from Nisha Nambiar in Pune and Abhilash Botekar in Nashik)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-to-let-patients-with-mild-covid-19-symptoms-go-for-home-quarantine/articleshow/75460329.cms||Prasad Kulkarni
April 30, 2020||Goa||Navy families step up to neuter, treat over 400 stray dogs in Vasco||PANAJI: With almost 70 people being bitten by stray dogs every day in Goa, the rising canine population remains a cause for concern. The situation is no different in the port town of Vasco. With a bustling international airport and several schools there, the Indian Navy, especially the families of some naval officers, decided to do their bit. Since January, an animal birth control initiative of INS Gomantak has succeeded in sterilising and treating over 400 stray dogs. The Navy tied up with the Worldwide Veterinary Service’s Mission Rabies truck to catch, vaccinate, sterilise and release the dogs according to guidelines set by the Animal Welfare Board of India. The programme began last year when Nisha Padhi and Sagorika Chaudhary, wives of two naval officers, began to catch and sterilise dogs every Friday with support from a veterinary doctor and leading hygienist, M S Reddy, from INS Gomantak. “It was then decided to undertake animal birth control on a larger scale, and not limit it to once a week, to help control the stray population rapidly. This decision included vaccination of our community dogs against rabies so that both, humans and strays, have a healthy and safe environment,” Padhi said. INS Gomantak decided to collaborate with Mission Rabies by providing logistics, accommodation and food for the 11-member team. “Sterilising animals eliminates the desire to find a mate. This means fewer animals wandering into traffic and chasing or biting people while protecting a litter,” Chaudhary said. After sterilising the dogs around INS Gomantak, the team headed to Chicalim and Dabolim to tackle the stray population around the naval residential quarters. The team found that the dogs suffered from skin diseases, open and infected wounds and some dogs were so badly injured that they required amputation.  To treat these dogs, the Navy relied on Dr Lysandra Kaye Da Costa, who performed over 400 surgeries. Once treated, the dogs were returned to the same location they were picked up from, Padhi said. This, she said, prevents non-neutered dogs from moving in. “Fights over territorial boundaries are common where sources of food and shelter are limited. With fewer litters being born, competition for food and shelter is lessened and there is an overall improvement in quality of life for the animal,” Chaudhary said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/navy-families-step-up-to-neuter-treat-over-400-stray-dogs-in-vasco/articleshow/75460325.cms||Newton Sequeira
April 30, 2020||Goa||Goa: Lack of material, transport woes mount for industries||PANAJI: The state government may have permitted industrial units to commence operations through clear guidelines, but manufacturing firms continue to face hurdles in movement of raw materials and finished products. While some units find themselves struggling to source raw material, other units say that even finished products cannot be transported since their clients in Maharashtra or Bengaluru remain shutdown. Another significant factor that has thwarted plans to open industrial units is the scarcity of thermal scanners, which the Centre’s guidelines say is a must for firms to commence operations. “There is no raw material wih some units because of the suppliers in other states remain shut down,” said Verna Industries Association president Blaise Costabir. He also said that despite the state government making it clear that transportation of goods should not be hindered, trucks carrying raw material and finished products continue to be stopped at borders. A nationwide CII survey found that movement of raw material and finished goods came up as a major hurdle. Only 15% of the respondents answered that the movement is timely, while 39% of the industrial units experienced delays and as many as 23% stated that raw material is not available. In Goa, the situation is similar, said president of Goa State Industries Association Damodar Kochkar. “Though industries have started, the issue is raw material is not coming in and our customer is at home, so we can’t sell,” Kochkar said. The CII survey showed that majority of firms in India are operating at less than 25% of their full capacity, with just 10% having plant utilisation of over 50%. An industrialist said that the situation is similar in Goa. He said that the industry has made multiple representations to the state asking for relief both in terms of easier line of credit and support in paying wages. President of Corlim Industrial Estate G R Shenoi said that some units in Corlim have yet to start operations. “It is not going as smoothly as we expected. To start, every unit needs to have thermal scanner guns and some of the smaller units still can’t get these devices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/lack-of-material-transport-woes-mount-for-industries/articleshow/75460331.cms||Newton Sequeira
April 30, 2020||Aurangabad||Optical stores open from Wednesday in Osmanabad||Aurangabad: The Osmanabad district administration has issued an order allowing the operation of optical stores from Wednesday. District collector Deepa Mudhol-Munde has issued a necessary notification to this effect, bringing relief to several patients. The move has prompted the demand for the opening of optical stores in other parts of Marathwada barring the containment zones of Covid-19. Prashant Washikar, a professional from Aurangabad city, said his spectacles were damaged around a week ago. “I am using my old spectacles now, but I have a slight headache. I could get an appointment with an ophthalmologist, but no optical store was opened to get spectacles,” said the 39-year old. Sainath Malshetwar, owner of an optical store in the city, said the district administration had expressed reservations in lifting restrictions on the operation of an optical store due to a relatively higher number of Covid-19 cases. “We have decided to wait till May 3 when the current second phase of lockdown is expected to get over. If restrictions continue, we will again approach the district administration with a request to open the optical stores in areas except for containment zone,” he said. Owners of optical stores from other parts of the region sought relaxation after the order in Osmanabad. Santosh Nirmal, an owner of an optical store from Beed, said eye-care should come under emergency services. According to optical store owners, different materials including glasses required for making spectacles are brought from Pune and Hyderabad among other places. “Besides lifting the restriction on the operation of optical stores, the government must facilitate hassle-free transportation of different materials required for making spectacles,” Nirmal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/optical-stores-open-from-wednesday-in-osmanabad/articleshow/75458495.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Madurai||No new cases in south TN for second day in a row||MADURAI: The southern districts went without any new Covid-19 positive cases for the second consecutive day on Wednesday with many patients also being discharged from hospitals. Kanyakumari and Ramanathapuram moved into the amber zone from being hotspots along with Sivaganga which had moved to the safer zone on Monday. Kanyakumari has not reported new cases for the past 14 days though 16 people tested positive in the district. Sivaganga reported only 12 cases and not reported any for nine days while Ramanathapuram with 15 cases had no new cases for a week now. But Dindigul is better placed as out of its total 80 cases 72 have been discharged from the Karur Government Hospital and no new case was reported in the past five days. A 94-year-old woman from Thommaiyarpuram was among the patients discharged on Wednesday. She said she had been in hospital for 15 days when the only thing she wished was to see her grandchildren, numbering over 70. Madurai with a total of 79 cases went without new cases for the second consecutive day and a total of 40 patients have so far been discharged from Government Rajaji Hospital. Theni has gone without positive cases for 12 days in a row with 37 of the 42 cases discharged. A woman succumbed to the disease in the district. Both Tuticorin and Sivaganga districts have not reported new cases in nine days. Tirunelveli had 63 patients 53 of whom have been discharged till date.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/no-new-cases-in-south-tn-for-second-day-in-a-row/articleshow/75460333.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Mumbai||No decision yet on formula to mark SSC exam papers||Almost two weeks after the state education department said it would not conduct the pending SSC exam, the board is yet to announce how it will mark the students. Examiners are also waiting to resume assessment of SSC and HSC answer sheets. On April 12, the state education department announced that the pending Geography paper for SSC students will not be conducted and they would instead announce a marking scheme to evaluate the students. The education department set up a panel to find a solution. However, with no announcement yet, teachers and parents are beginning to get anxious. “The state must announce the formula so that if someone doesn’t agree to it and wants a clarification, it would further delay the admissions,” said an SSC teacher. School education minister Varsha Gaikwad did not respond to the query from TOI. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/no-decision-yet-on-formula-to-mark-ssc-exam-papers/articleshow/75458526.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Pune||Cop in Pune's Naidu hospital points to flaws in its Covid-19 care||PUNE: Inside the quarantine facility at the PMC-run Naidu Hospital For Infectious Diseases, patients wear the same mask and the same set of clothes for 10 days. Many share the same bathroom and toilet too. It is a cause for worry. “For the past 10 days, I have been using a single bathroom and toilet along with 17 other Covid-19 positive patients. Some have been using the same masks and clothes,” a Covid-19 positive police constable undergoing treatment at Naidu Hospital said on Wednesday. The constable, in a telephonic conversation, told TOI that he thinks he was infected while he was on duty taking action against people on the road during the lockdown. Fear also runs high among those kept in quarantine here. On Tuesday night, a police constable had breathing difficulty. His wife, who is also Covid-19 positive, began crying. “We called the nurses for help. They came after an hour and gave him saline. We had to wait near him throughout the night to monitor the saline drip and his condition,” his colleague said, adding that while they realise that the medical staff must wear a PPE before entering the ward, the patient must get quick help. He said some police inspector or constable from the special branch inquires about their health. “No senior officer is bothered about what we are going through. The top brass should make separate arrangements in the hospital for police personnel,” he added. He was given tablets for the first five days after admission to the facility and the doctors visit once a day, he said. “For the past five days, my temperature and blood pressure are being monitored. We get get poha or upma for breakfast and two chapatis, some vegetable and dal rice for lunch and dinner in packets. While we do not expect elaborate meals, what we get is not sufficient,” he added. He also raised concerns about hygiene in the ward. “There are 10 patients in the ward from different parts of the city, and another seven are in the next ward. All of us use one bathroom and one toilet. We cannot maintain social distancing. We brought our clothes, masks and soaps or we too would be in the same pathetic state like the others,” he said. The top brass have declared monetary help for the policemen who tested positive for Covid-19. “Instead, they should provide separate treatment facility for us. What will we do with the money if we do not survive?” he said. The constable said after his treatment and the quarantine period he can go home, but there are chances of his other colleagues suffering which the senior policemen should prevent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cop-in-naidu-hosp-points-to-flaws-in-its-ncov-care/articleshow/75460343.cms||Mihir Tanksale
April 30, 2020||Goa||Portal for stranded Goans in India||Panaji: After the ministry of home affairs issued guidelines for interstate travel of stranded persons, the state government will launch a web portal on Thursday for connecting with Goans stranded in different parts of the country in order to get them back. “I welcome the order allowing interstate movement of persons who are stranded in different places in the country. We will launch a web portal for Goans stranded across India and will workout their transit plans,” said CM Pramod Sawant. A senior officer said that the portal is ready and it will be activated early on Thursday morning. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/portal-for-stranded-goans-in-india/articleshow/75460349.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Hyderabad||TSHRC seeks report over illicit liquor sale||HYDERABAD: Telangana State Human Rights Commission (TSHRC) sought a report over the sale of illicit liquor from Madhya Pradesh at high prices by traders in Kaghaznagar division from superintendent, prohibition and excise department, Kumram Bheem Asifabad. The report was sought following a complaint by Dr Palvai Harish Babu, Congress in-charge, Sirpur constituency, Kumram Bheem Asifabad district. The TSHRC sought the report by June 5. Harish Babu demanded a comprehensive inquiry by state excise officials on illegal alcohol trafficking in the constituency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tshrc-seeks-report-over-illicit-liquor-sale/articleshow/75459516.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Madurai||14 wild birds rescued from hunter, released in Ramanathapuram||MADURAI: Fourteen live birds - six Shikra, three White Ibis and five Grey Francolins - were rescued by the forest department from a hunter’s house in Ramanathapuram district on Wednesday. Since the birds were healthy, they were released in a nearby sanctuary. The accused, K Veeraiyan, 60, of Theerthandathanam village near Thondi in Ramanathapuram district was fined Rs 25,000. “Shikra usually feeds on smaller birds and cannot be caught easily. The accused had caught the birds from their nest when they were young and used it to hunt smaller birds like Myna,” Ramanathapuram forest range officer, S Sathish said. Hunters use Shikra to hunt birds similar to native breed dogs being used for hunting hare. Satish said that hunting birds as a sport and for meat has become a hobby for miscreants during the lockdown. He said that they conducted a search in Veeraiyan’s house based on a tip-off that some of the birds he had hunted were captive and alive. On Wednesday, the range officer and department personnel searched the house and found the birds. They also recovered cages, traps and nets from the house. On the direction of wildlife warden A S Marimuthu, Rs 25,000 fine was slapped on Veeraiyan. He was also booked under sections 9, 39, 40 and 54 of The Wildlife Protection Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/14-wild-birds-rescued-from-hunter-released/articleshow/75460345.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: 13 years on, aviation firm to get Rs 40 crore||HYDERABAD: The Telangana high court on Wednesday directed Telangana and AP to pay Rs 40 crore to Agni Aviation Consultants, an aviation firm that conducted cloud seeding operations in several drought-hit areas in the united state of AP in 2007, 2008 and 2009. The bench of Justices M S Ramachandra Rao and K Lakshman pronounced the verdict after hearing the pleas of Agni Aviation Consultants and wing commander KT Sabastian who accused the two states of dodging payment to them despite conducting cloud seeding operations in drought-hit areas that now fall in AP and Telangana. Though some amount was paid for the operations conducted in 2007, the state did not pay for the remaining years although it had got the same firm to conduct the operations during the next two years. With the bifurcation of the state, the payment was delayed further. The Telangana government refused to pay the firm stating that the operations were conducted in the then-AP state and that its districts did not benefit. It also raised the issue of limitation of three years for claiming the money. “Since the 3-year time limit was over, it need not pay now,” it contended. The bench said the plea for money was filed by the firm before the high court in 2016 and former chief minister N Kiran Kumar Reddy agreed to pay Rs 40 crore to the firm, so the limitation clause will apply from 2013. “If seen this way, the plea was filed before the expiry of the three-year period,” the bench said. The bench also said that cloud seeding may sometimes help neighbouring districts depending on the direction of the wind. The bench directed AP and Telangana to pay Rs 40 crore to the firm at 58:42 ratio with 9% interest from 2007, 2008, and 2009 respectively. The bench also slapped costs of Rs 25,000 on each of the two states for dodging the issue for so long.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/13-yrs-on-aviation-firm-to-get-rs-40cr/articleshow/75459525.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Aurangabad||Elderly couple from Aurangabad stranded in Nainital for over a month||AURANGABAD: Retired banker Sharad Padwale and his wife Sharda, both residents of Aurangabad, had reached Nainital, Uttarakhand, on March 21 with the hope of having a memorable holiday. However, hope soon turned into fear when the lockdown was announced due to the outbreak of Covid-19. The duo has been stranded at the hill station for more than a month now amid depleting resources and unfamiliar weather conditions, which the septuagenarians find “extreme” Padwale (74) said on Wednesday, “I suffer from hypertension and diabetes. The weather here has been unpleasantly cold for both of us. We want to return to Aurangabad at any cost and praying for an end to the mental agony we have been experiencing for more than a month.” The elderly couple has been living in a small guest house run by Kumaon Mandal Vikas Nigam Limited and have been confined to their room during the lockdown. “It is raining here amid chilly conditions. The weather conditions are very different from Maharashtra. It was fine to get exposed to such weather for a brief period, but now we fear that it might take a toll on our health,” Padwale said. Sharda, his wife, said that her husband’s stock of medicines was running out. “We are desperate to return to Aurangabad. Other state governments are pulling out their citizens stranded in different parts of the country and we request the Maharashtra government to do the same for us. We expect rapid action,” she said. The couple’s daughter Mansi Padawale-Bokil, who lives in Pune with her husband, tried to reach out to different political functionaries and government authorities for the safe return of her parents, but to no avail. “We approached different authorities from Maharashtra and Uttarakhand, but so far all we received an assurance of help instead of any concrete measure. I am worried about my parents’ health as the weather condition at Nainital is very different. We are in touch with them on a daily basis through phone and hope for their safe return soon,” said the daughter. Congress leader Jitendra Dehade, who has brought the matter of stranded elderly couple to the state government’s notice through social media, said efforts were being taken to bring back the duo. “Maharashtra tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray has assured necessary intervention to bring back the elderly couple from Nainital. We hope that they reach back safely at the earliest,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/praying-for-end-of-mental-agony-says-elderly-couple-stranded-in-nainital-during-lockdown/articleshow/75458519.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Goa||Calangute police station first to log 100 curfew FIRs||PANAJI: The Calangute police station has become the first in the state to touch a century in registering first information reports (FIR) against curfew violators. Several people under its jurisdiction have been slapped with FIRs for loitering in the streets without any reason, not maintaining social distancing, spreading rumours and posting fake news. Most other police stations in North and South Goa have filed an average of 40 FIRs each. Goa has a total of 28 police stations. “Calangute police station recorded 101 FIRs under IPC section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant). This is the highest number of cases registered by a single police station in Goa,” DySP Edwin Colaco told TOI. In recognition of the efforts of the Calangute police station, North Goa SP Utkrisht Prasoon awarded Rs 5,000 and a certificate of commendation to its police inspector, Nolasco Raposo. The Calangute police station also registered the first narcotic case in the state during the lockdown. On Monday evening, its personnel arrested two locals for illegal possession of a drug estimated to be worth Rs 70,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/calangute-police-station-first-to-log-100-curfew-firs/articleshow/75460355.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Pune||PMC to shift Patil Estate residents following spike in Covid-19 cases||PUNE: The civic administration is set to shift residents from every alternate home in the Patil Estate slum to temporary shelters following the spike in Covid-19 cases. Officials said all high- and low-risk contacts in the slum were being sent to various quarantine facilities. Located close to the College of Engineering, Pune, flyover, the slum has so far registered 130 Covid-19 cases and emerged as one of the hotspots for the contagion in the city. The slum pocket comes under the Shivajinagar-Ghole Road civic ward, which has so far seen around 175 positive cases. A Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) official said the slum shared 75% of the ward’s Covid-19 load. “The administration is ensuring health check-up of all residents in the slum and counselling them about social distancing,”he said. The Patil Estate slum area extends up to Shivajianagar railway station, beyond which the locality is equally congested. The PMC had sealed the area on April 13 after the slum pocket started reporting cases. The slum is located on both sides of the old Pune-Mumbai highway and at a key junction, from where the roads lead to Khadki, Sangamwadi, RTO and the city’s central parts. The official said, “The recent spike in cases is because of effective contact tracing and screening of people. We will tell people from families with many members to shift to the shelters. This will be applicable for those living in very small homes.” Local MLA Siddharth Shirole said. “The administration has deployed additional staffers at the slum and the containment plan is being modified as per the requirements.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-to-shift-patil-estate-residents-following-spike-in-covid-19-cases/articleshow/75460361.cms||Sarang Dastane
April 30, 2020||Puducherry||Puducherry seeks 2 lakh PPE kits from Telangana||HYDERABAD: At a time when the Telangana government is requesting the Centre for personal protection equipment (PPE), N95 masks and a financial package to combat the pandemic, V Narayanaswamy-led Puducherry government is seeking the help of the state to deal with the Covid-19 situation. Narayanaswamy wrote to Telangana CM K Chandrasekhar Rao on Tuesday seeking two lakh PPE kits and N95 masks, 20 lakh three layered surgical masks, 2 lakh gloves, 5,000 litres of sanitiser, 30 types of medical supplies apart from 20 lakh paracetamol tablets and 10 lakh antibiotics. Narayanaswamy said that the union territory has only limited revenue sources and largely depends on tourism. With coronavirus hitting the tourism sector hard, Puducherry is staring at a financial crisis. “Though our government is taking all possible measures to tackle the situation with available resources, we need a lot more. In this precarious situation, Puducherry administration requires material and equipment to mitigate the crisis,” the chief minister said in his letter. Lauding the efforts of the Telangana government in controlling the spread of the virus and looking after the people, the Puducherry CM recalled how Puducherry and the erstwhile united Andhra Pradesh used to work together during natural calamities Sources in the Telangana chief minister’s office confirmed receiving the letter and said that KCR would take a call soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/puducherry-seeks-2l-ppe-kits-from-t/articleshow/75463881.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Puducherry seeks 2 lakh PPE kits from Telangana||HYDERABAD: At a time when the Telangana government is requesting the Centre for personal protection equipment (PPE), N95 masks and a financial package to combat the pandemic, V Narayanaswamy-led Puducherry government is seeking the help of the state to deal with the Covid-19 situation. Narayanaswamy wrote to Telangana CM K Chandrasekhar Rao on Tuesday seeking two lakh PPE kits and N95 masks, 20 lakh three layered surgical masks, 2 lakh gloves, 5,000 litres of sanitiser, 30 types of medical supplies apart from 20 lakh paracetamol tablets and 10 lakh antibiotics. Narayanaswamy said that the union territory has only limited revenue sources and largely depends on tourism. With coronavirus hitting the tourism sector hard, Puducherry is staring at a financial crisis. “Though our government is taking all possible measures to tackle the situation with available resources, we need a lot more. In this precarious situation, Puducherry administration requires material and equipment to mitigate the crisis,” the chief minister said in his letter. Lauding the efforts of the Telangana government in controlling the spread of the virus and looking after the people, the Puducherry CM recalled how Puducherry and the erstwhile united Andhra Pradesh used to work together during natural calamities Sources in the Telangana chief minister’s office confirmed receiving the letter and said that KCR would take a call soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/puducherry-seeks-2l-ppe-kits-from-t/articleshow/75459543.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Pune||Three more succumb to contagion, 104 people test positive in Pune||Pune: The Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) recorded a slight drop in fresh Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, with 104 people testing positive for the contagion as against 143 on Tuesday. Besides, three more people succumbed to the contagion in PMR on Wednesday, taking the total casualty tally in the region to 86 so far. As for cases, a total of 1,595 people have tested positive for Covid-19 in the region so far. Among Wednesday’s fresh cases, a maximum of 93 were reported in Pune municipal limits, followed by seven in Pimpri Chinchwad and four in rural parts of Pune. The case count in PMR had crossed the 500-mark on April 17 and took just a week from there to reach the 1,000-mark. The cases reached 1,595 on Wednesday, in barely five days. Civic health officials said all high- and low-risk contacts of the positive patients were under close watch and undergoing testing, besides institutional quarantine. The rigorous checks have led to constant rise in positive cases, they said. When it comes to the casualties, two were recorded in PMC limits, while one was recorded in PCMC areas. These included a 63-year-old man from Ganesh Peth, who had co-morbidity conditions, and a 71-year-old man from Tadiwala Road. The third casualty was recorded in a 50-year-old woman undergoing treatment at PCMC-run YCM hospital, Santosh Patil, additional commissioner, PCMC, said. Two turn positive in Dehu Road R Haritwal, chief executive officer of the Dehu Road Cantonment Board (DCB) said, “A family from the DCB limits flouted the curfew orders and returned from Yerawada on Tuesday night. We shifted them to PCMC-run Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial Hospital in Pimpri where they were tested. Husband, wife and son were found to be negative, while two daughters, aged 5 and 11 years, were found positive.” He added, “We are searching for primary, secondary and tertiary contacts of this family that may also have been infected. We have sealed the Shivajinagar area where they lived.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/three-more-succumb-to-contagion-104-people-test-positive-in-pune/articleshow/75460367.cms||Sarang Dastane
April 30, 2020||Vadodara||Volunteers to bolster Covid Army in city||Vadodara: With fears of Covid-19 cases multiplying in the coming months, the administration has started ensuring it has adequate workforce to handle the situation. The officials are looking to enlist volunteers for the Covid Army to manage any possible escalation in cases in the future. The top brass of various defence establishments in the city held a meeting with the civil administration led by officer on special duty (OSD) for Covid-19 Dr Vinod Rao on Wednesday. EME School Commander major general MJS Syali, air commodore Kuttappa from the Air Force Station and Brigadier Sanjog Negi from Indian Army remained present in meeting at the GEB guest house. Rao said the meeting discussed how a dedicated Covid care centre for defence personnel could be set up in Vadodara and various resources available with EME, Army and Air Force Stations in the city can be used in coming days. The possibility of defence personnel volunteering in the Covid Army if cases escalate during June-July was also discussed. Rao said that detailed planning had been started and would be finalized in the coming days. Necessary permissions to use the services of the defence personnel would also be obtained. Four positive cases were reported in the EME School last week. The civil administration assisted with doctors, medicine and sanitization. Many persons in EME are in self quarantine since then. The possibility of distributing homoeopathic and ayurvedic medicines helping in flu-like diseases in cantonment areas was also discussed. Various teachers associations in the city also held a meeting and expressed their keenness on joining the Covid Army voluntarily. Arrangements for providing training to the teachers were also being made. Master trainers would first be trained followed by training for all teachers who are willing to join the Covid Army.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/volunteers-to-bolster-covid-army-in-city/articleshow/75457938.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Seven positive cases take Telangana tally to 1,016||HYDERABAD: Telangana continued to report single-digit cases as the state had only seven coronavirus positive cases on Wednesday. In another relief, there were no deaths and the death tally remained at 25 only. Thirty five persons were discharged, including a 23-day-old infant. Thirteen children were also discharged. As on Wednesday, Telangana has a total of 1,016 Covid-19 cases. While active cases are 582, the number of patients who got cured stands at 409. In a bulletin, the medical and health department said GHMC accounted for all seven cases on Wednesday. Siddipet, Mahabubabad, Manchiryal, Narayanpet, Wanaparthy, Peddapally, Warangal (Rural), Bhadradri-Kothagudem, Nagarkurnool, Mulugu and Yadadri-Bhuvanagiri districts do not have any active cases. Health minister Eatala Rajender said it was heartening to see 13 children discharged. He said the youngest among them was the baby boy from Mahbubnagar, who contracted the virus from his father. “The boy was admitted to Gandhi Hospital on April 10. The doctors took good care of my son. I am happy my son is doing well now,” the mother said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/7-positive-cases-take-t-tally-to-1016/articleshow/75459555.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Rain, gust leave trail of destruction in four districts||RAJKOT: Unseasonal rains with thunder-showers and gust swept across several villages of Amreli, Rajkot, Bhavnagar and Botad leaving behind a trail of destruction on Wednesday. Two persons were killed when a house collapsed after a tree fell on it in Anida village of Khambha taluka of Amreli, said district officials. A total of three people were trapped in the debris of the house, one was rescued, while two others succumbed. The deceased — Ganpat Bhide (17) and Rajan Bhide (12) — are farm labourer, native of Madhya Pradesh. They used to work in the farm of Vipul Vandoriya of Anida village. Jayanta Sarkar, regional director, India Meteorological Department (IMD), said that there was no system at play for the rains in Saurashtra. "In our parlance, it's called convective activity - when the temperatures go very high, the local systems get formed that bring in light to moderate showers," he said. The IMD has forecast light rains and thundershowers at isolated places in the districts of Saurashtra namely Amreli, Gir Somnath, Junagadh and Rajkot on Thursday. However, dry weather would prevail in remaining districts of Saurashtra-Kutch, Gujarat region and in Diu, Daman, Dadra Nagar Haveli, stated the IMD weather bulletin. Meanwhile in Amreli district, several trees were uprooted in the villages of Savarkundla, Dhari and Babra talukas. The river that separates Savar and Kundla in two parts started flooding with its water gushing through the streets of the town. Rains accompanied by heavy winds uprooted trees by the roadside blocking the Savarkundla-Palitana, Savarkundla-Dhari and Amreli-Rajkot roads. “Two bulls died after being struck by lightning in a farm near Savarkundla,” said an official from Amreli district administration. In the villages of Dhari and Babra talukas, roofs of many houses and hoardings were blown away due to heavy winds. Also, many electric poles in these talukas got uprooted, disrupting power supply in some villages. A few rivulets that had gone dry due in Dhari taluka began flowing on Wednesday. Torrential rains also lashed the villages of Jasdan, Bhadala, Sardhar and Gondal talukas of Rajkot district. “In Bhavnagar district, Palitana taluka recorded unseasonal rain. A buffalo died after a wall collapsed on it in Gariyadhar town of Bhavnagar district,” said an official from Bhavnagar district administration. It is feared that the unseasonal rain and heavy winds might have destroyed the mango crop and onions. Huge stock of agricultural produce like wheat, cotton, cumin seeds and spices lying in the open in the market yards of different towns were also destroyed. Gulbhai Rathod, a farmer from Savarkundla said, “These rains will ruin the standing crop. The chickpeas, wheat and mung are currently ready to be harvested. The farmers who have mango orchid are also worried as the heavy winds have led to fruits dropping from the tree.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rain-gust-leave-trail-of-destruction-in-four-districts/articleshow/75458555.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Pune||Has lockdown worked? Answer lies in sewage||When India decides to lift the coronavirus curbs, two important questions will emerge. First, has the lockdown worked. Second, how will people know if the novel virus has returned after the lockdown. Well, answers can be found through testing the waste water. In 2016, traces of a polio strain were found in the sewers of Mumbai — two years after the World Health Organisation had declared the country polio free. It was a wake-up call that immediately refocused efforts to revaccinate children. READ THE FULL STORY ON TOI+||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/has-lockdown-worked-answer-lies-in-sewage/articleshow/75460372.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Chennai||Rediscovering TN mantra could revive tourism business||CHENNAI: After this long summer of being confined indoors, vacations too are not going to be the same, at least for the next few months. Social distancing restrictions and increased costs are going to change the way people plan and travel for leisure. With exotic locations out of the picture, tour operators are trying to get people to explore their own backyard. And with five Unesco world heritage sites dotting Tamil Nadu, the state tourism industry is trying to ensure that travel is not off the cards after restrictions on movement are relaxed. Pls read the entire story on TOI+For the tourism business, it's time to think local||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/rediscovering-tn-mantra-could-revive-tourism-business/articleshow/75459548.cms||Yogesh Kabirdoss
April 30, 2020||Bareilly||35-year-old being treated for Covid-19 first to die of the infection in district||Bareilly: A 35-year-old man who was admitted to a private medical college on Saturday and tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday, died during treatment at 3.40am on Wednesday. This is first Covid-19 death in Bareilly. The patient had been identified as a quack by the health department. The deceased, a resident of Hajiyapur in Bareilly city, had visited a 300-bed hospital on Saturday. Doctors referred him to the district hospital, but as his condition was serious, he was later shifted to the private medical college, which has been designated as Covid-19 Level 2 hospital. His test report arrived on Monday. The man had no travel history and his family claimed he did not come in contact with any positive patient. Though his wife and other relatives tested negative, they were quarantined at the medical college. A poignant video of the distressed wife, singing songs while watching her husband’s body from a window of the isolation ward in the hope he would wake up, has gone viral on social media. Hajiyapur locals who helped bury the body were given PPE kits. Before the burial, district epidemiologist Dr Meesam Abbas explained to them protocols to follow for the burial, and how to wear and remove the PPE kits. Hospital staff who delivered the body in a polybag wore three hand gloves each as precaution. After the burial, a disinfectant was sprayed over a 3m-radius of the grave. Meanwhile, a pool test of a healthcare team that included three doctors and three support staff of a private medical college, tested positive for covid. Their individual samples have now been collected to identify the infected person(s). District surveillance officer Dr Ranjan Gautam said, “The patient died during treatment at a private medical college. The cause of death is septicemia with hypotension. The person was suffering from novel coronavirus, Type 2 diabetes and bilateral pneumonia.” He added, “On Wednesday, a pool test of a team of six health staff tested Covid-19 positive. They had earlier been treating a woman at a private medical college in Bareilly, who was later referred to Rishikesh, where she tested positive for covid on Tuesday. We have collected individual samples of these six persons for Covid-19 test to identify the infected person.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/35-year-old-being-treated-for-covid-19-first-to-die-of-the-infection-in-district/articleshow/75458564.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
April 30, 2020||Pune||12 teachers suspended for missing survey duties in Pune||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has suspended 12 civic teachers and ordered an inquiry against them for not reporting to coronavirus survey duty. The civic body had issued show-cause notices to over 170 teachers, who were not attending the Covid-19 survey duties. The civic body is carrying out the survey since March across the city to look for suspected and positive patients. Over 750 teams have been formed to conduct the survey, which would cover the entire city in phases. PMC had earlier warned the erring teachers of suspension if they did not resume their duties.  “The work of dealing with the virus outbreak is going on at the war footing. Many civic employees are shouldering their responsibilities in this fight. But some are not adhering to their duties,” PMC additional commissioner Rubal Agrawal said. “These teachers have not reported on duty and have taken leaves without intimating their offices. They have not replied to the show-cause notices either,” Agrawal said. The teachers were chosen due to their vast experience in conducting such surveys. The surveyors are asking people questions pertaining to their health, travel history and symptoms for coronavirus infection. In the first phase, the areas within in the 3km radius of positive or deceased patients’ residences were checked. The whole city will be covered in subsequent phases. The survey has covered around 10 lakh houses in municipal limits, which also includes 11 merged villages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/12-teachers-suspended-for-missing-survey-duties/articleshow/75460377.cms||Prasad Kulkarni
April 30, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Isolation helps Prativa Ray put thoughts into words||BHUBANESWAR: Home confinement owing to the lockdown has not made much of a difference to Prativa Ray, a Jnanpith awardee, as it helps her put her thoughts together for writing. She imposed a self-styled confinement on herself from March 9 owing to the novel coronavirus outbreak after she returned from the All India Women’s Writers’ Conference in Agartala organised on International Women’s Day. “Even back then I had used a mask and was the only one to do so in the entire flight,” says Ray. She also cancelled her visit to Kochi for the diamond jubilee function of Kerala Writers’ Co-operative Society on February 14 after cases surfaced in the southern state. It was followed by the cancellation of her March 12 visit to Guwahati, where she was the state guest for a book fair. The pandemic also prevented her from going to Paris on March 24 as part of the Indian delegation to the World Paris Book fair that was called off. The change in schedule has not disturbed Ray as she herself puts it, “Since I have long retired from work, I largely stay home and go around shopping in the city for traditional saris at times.” She is using the time to integrate facts about the pandemic with philosophy to express her understanding of the situation through a column in an Odia newspaper. She is also working on her new novel, the subject of which she would rather not reveal until its publication. “My literature has always been lockdown literature. I write in solitude when everyone has retired for the day,” says Ray. The writer, who is an indulgent grandmother, is savouring every moment of making gulab jamun and rasagullas for her teenage granddaughter, who is preparing for competitive exams. “I make sure she takes her orange juice every day,” says the health-conscious Ray, who herself spends at least an hour walking and 30 minutes gardening at home every morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/isolation-helps-ray-put-thoughts-into-words/articleshow/75457114.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Rajkot||Livestock export from Tuna port gets govt nod||Rajkot: After livestock export was suspended in face of the coronavirus outbreak since March 20, work has resumed in Kutch’s Tuna port, India’s only designated port for export of livestock. With the increase in demand from the West Asian countries during the holy month of Ramzan, the Deendayal Port Trust (DPT), formally known as Kandla port, allowed export business to resume albeit with certain preventive measures with regard to Covid-19 protocols. India exports nearly 7 lakh goats and sheep every year, a bulk of which goes to Oman, Dubai, UAE and Muscat from where it gets delivered across the the Arab world. Exporters of Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Maharashtra mainly prefer Tuna port as their export destination. Talking to TOI, chairman of DPT, S K Mehta said, “Livestock got stranded in Kutch due to the sudden suspension of operations. We have allowed export of livestock with the condition to follow standard operating procedure set by the port health officer.” According to sources, demand for Indian livestock is rising in the West Asian countries after Ramzan began. Buyers have more faith on Indian goats and sheep than on those from neighbouring Pakistan because of its health and maintenance. Secretary of livestock exporters association, Adil Noor said, “We are currently tending to the pending orders which we could not fulfil because of the sudden lockdown and ban across the world. The first vessel started from Tuna port on Tuesday evening and we have assured the port authority to fulfil all conditions for export.” The crew members have to stay in quarantine for 14 days from the port of departure as per the guideline. The goat and sheep will be exported from this port using country craft.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/livestock-export-from-tuna-port-gets-govt-nod/articleshow/75458580.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Business||NephroPlus to hire 2,000 people by year end||Hyderabad: Amid the buzz about layoffs and salary cuts, Hyderabad-based dialysis services provider NephroPlus, which operates 203 dialysis centres across the country, has firmed up plans to ramp up to 250 centres and hire over 2,000 people by 2020 end, a top company official told TOI. Nephroplus, which currently has over 2460 beds across 120 cities in 20 states, also recently bagged a public private partnership (PPP) project in Bihar for setting up 20 dialysis centres over the next two months, NephroPlus founder & CEO, Vikram Vuppala, said. “While the country is going through the Covid-19 crisis, dialysis cannot stop. For Bihar and all over India, with the 7-8% attrition we are seeing due to Covid-19 concerns among staff as well as our growth plans, we need to continue to hire a lot of people, primarily clinical staff (technicians and nurses). We are planning to hire over 2000 dialysis technicians by year end,” Vuppala said. This despite a 10-15% revenue impact due to a nearly 25% increase in costs, including supply chain costs and rising Heparin prices, Vuppala explained. The domestic expansion plans come even as NephroPlus has put its international ambitions on hold due to the Covid-19 outbreak. It had raised $45 million from Bahrain’s Investcorp in November last year to fuel growth plans, which included foraying into Middle East and South East Asia. “We were about to launch a few centres in Jakarta, Indonesia but due to the Covid-19 shock and travel embargo, we took a conscious call to wait for 3-6 months to allow the cloud of uncertainty to clear. We and our JV partner realised that this crisis situation is not the right time to kick off the foray,” he said. As part of growth plans, NephroPlus also plans to expand the footprint of its Enpidia Training Academy, which was launched in 2012 to churn out dialysis technicians, from the existing 11 centres to around 26 through the franchisee route. “Being a niche healthcare segment, dialysis does not have many qualified technicians. As the country faces a dearth of trained dialysis technicians, we train potential technicians through Enpidia, which provides theoretical knowledge and practical training. Once they graduate, we hire them at our centres,” he explained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/nephroplus-to-hire-2000-people-by-year-end/articleshow/75450616.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
April 30, 2020||Allahabad||UP man dies in Dubai, kin await body||Prayagraj: The lockdown has turned into a virtual nightmare for the family of 33-year-old mechanical engineer Sandeep Kumar Pandey, who had died in Dubai on April 20 but his body could not be brought back to his home in Pratapgargh due to suspension of flights and travel restrictions. “Sandeep was working at a cement factory in Dubai where he died on April 20 following a massive cardiac arrest,” said his cousin Pushpendra Dwivedi, a software engineer who is settled in Pune, Maharastra. Following Sandeep’s death, the factory authorities had called up his brother-in-law Shivam Dubey and assured that they would make necessary arrangements to send the body back to India. However, Sandeep’s family living in Tikuri Dashrathpur village under the jurisdiction of Hathigawan police station of Pratapgarh district, is still to hear from the authorities. Disappointed over the delay, the aggreived family has been making tweets and phone calls to the ministry of external affairs officials and authorities concerned to get the body back from Dubai butto no avail. “Sandeep’s mother, 52, wife and two minor daughters, who live in his native village, have been appealing to the authorities to make arrangements so that his body could be brought back home,” Pushpendra said. He claimed that the authorities in Dubai have told him that they were awaiting clearance from the Indian government to send back the body. “We can bring the body back to the country via private aircraft if the Indian government allows us,” he said. He also added that Sandeep had gone to Dubai first time in January 2019 and came back about seven months back when his second daughter was born. He said, “As we are finding it difficult to move anywhere due to the lockdown, we have tweeted to the PMO, CMO (chief minister’s office), chief minister Yogi Adityanath, exernal affairs minister besides other authorities but have not received any reply till now.” SP Pratapgarh) Abhishek Singh said, “I have no idea about the incident as no one from the family has contacted us till now.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/up-man-dies-in-dubai-kin-await-body/articleshow/75433962.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Farmer killed in road accident||HYDERABAD: A 45-year-old farmer died and his 15-year-old son sustained injuries when their motorbike was hit by a Bolero at Keshampet on the city outskirts on Tuesday. Following the mishap, police removed a boulder from the accident spot to prevent further mishaps. Y Pandu of Subhanpur village along with son Shiva was proceeding on a motorbike from Subhanpur to Alwal village near Keshampet when the Bolero crashed into the bike. “There was a huge boulder adjacent to the road curve at the accident site, creating a blind spot. The Bolero driver drove at a high speed and hit the bike. Pandu and Shiva were rushed to a hospital. Pandu was declared brought dead, while Shiva is undergoing treatment. His condition is stable,” Shadnagar rural inspector MGS Rama Krishna said. Pandu did not have a driver’s licence and did not wear a helmet. After the accident, the Bolero driver fled from the spot. Using the vehicle registration plate that came off at the accident spot, police traced him and arrested him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/farmer-killed-in-road-accident/articleshow/75459571.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra activists step in to prevent animals coming out on roads||PUNE: Animal lovers from Kothrud and Bavdhan have come together to prevent forest inhabitants atop a hillock near the National Defence Academy, mostly peacocks, monkeys and deer, from venturing onto the roads in search of food and water, exposing themselves to accidents. Guarav Bhedasgaonkar, a member of the Pandit Bhimsen Joshi Udyan Nagrik Samiti at Bhusari Colony off Paud Road, said the members used 12,000 litres of water to refill small water spots in the forest, with the help of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) on Tuesday. “We collected contributions and purchased grains which had been kept aside by the grocers as waste and distributed it throughout the forest so that birds need not come out in search for food,” Bhedasgaonkar said. Prashant Kanojia, another member of the group told TOI, “As the water spots in forest started drying owing to the summer heat, peacocks and deer come out in search of water. Many a times they met with an accident or fell prey to stray dogs.” “Till the beginning of the monsoon, we will visit the forest every 10 days and refill the water spots as well as distribute food grains,” Bhedasgaonkar said. “Our members who used to go for a morning walk in the area used to fill the water spots and distributed grains, especially for the birds but everything stopped post lockdown,” Kanojia added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/activists-step-in-to-prevent-animals-coming-out-on-roads/articleshow/75460387.cms||Mihir Tanksale
April 30, 2020||Pune||Pune court tells woman to give virtual access of ailing son to husband||PUNE: A city civil court has directed a woman in Raipur to give a 30-minute daily virtual access of her four-year-old ailing son to her estranged husband residing in the city and give full disclosure of his health to the latter. The virtual access must be given on telephone or video calls between 12noon and 1pm every day as per the ex parte order passed on April 27 by joint civil judge senior division Rahul D Dange following a video conference hearing process. Lawyer Vikrant Shinde, representing the husband, told TOI, “The couple has been living separately for two years owing to compatibility issues and the man has not met his son for the last 14 months. He is running an export startup after stepping down as a corporate communication manager with an MNC. The woman is a government servant posted in Raipur.” The husband has filed a divorce petition, pending before the same civil court. He moved an application seeking virtual access to his child, stating that his son living with his estranged wife was very unwell and showing symptoms of Covid-19 infection, but she had blocked all means of communication with him and had refused to let him meet his child. She was concealing his son’s health condition after receiving test reports and this was further causing mental agony, he stated. Judge Dange held, “That the petitioner (husband) has come to know about the ill condition of his son, he being the father, has the right to know the health status of his son. No hardship will cause to the respondent if the permission is granted to the petitioner to have virtual access to his son through telephonic and video call. So far as regard other relief prayed by him in respect of providing necessary things to his child, the entire country being under lockdown, the said relief cannot be considered. Hence, the application deserves to be partly allowed.” The court, granting the virtual access, directed that showcause notice be issued to the respondent wife as to why this ex parte order should not be continued till further order or specified time. The same is returnable on August 10, when the matter is to be heard next.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/court-tells-woman-to-give-virtual-access-of-ailing-son-to-husband/articleshow/75460383.cms||Vishwas Kothari
April 30, 2020||Bareilly||Four test positive for Covid-19 in Sambhal district, tally goes up to 20||BAREILLY: Four people tested positive for novel coronavirus (Covid-19) in Sambhal, taking the district tally to 20 on Wednesday. According to nodal officer Dr Neeraj Kumar, a four-year-old boy and a nine-year-old girl are among the four new cases, while the other two are a 38-year-old man and a 15-year-old girl — all of them have already been quarantined. On Tuesday morning, a woman in Junavai village of Sambhal was tested positive for Covid-19, while in the evening three more people tested positive, said Dipendra Yadav, sub-divisional magistrate, Gunnaur. “The four-year-old boy is a resident of Rajpura, while the two girls and a man are residents of Nai Sarai locality,” said the SDM, adding that Nai Sarai is a hotspot area from where six people have been tested positive, so far. Chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Anita Singh told TOI, “The two girls are sisters and their parents have also been quarantined. They had given shelter to six Tablighi Jamaat members; of them, three Jamaatis had tested positive. Another man from the same locality who tested positive is a shopkeeper. He had also come in contact with the Jamaatis.” According to the CMO, the four-year-old boy who tested positive is a nephew of the Rajpura man who has already tested positive for the deadly virus. Dr Singh said they had sent 87 samples, out of which four were tested positive, while three samples would be sent again.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/four-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-sambhal-district-tally-goes-up-to-20/articleshow/75458585.cms||Pankul Sharma
April 30, 2020||Pune||Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial Hospital for Covid-19 patients: PCMC commissioner Shravan Hardikar||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: Pimpri Chinchwad municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar on Wednesday said the civic body-run Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial Hospital had been reserved for treating Covid-19 patients and citizens should visit DY Patil Hospital for treatment of other diseases and surgeries. Hardikar said this while answering the citizens’ questions during the second day of his five-day Facebook live session organized to create awareness about Covid-19. "It is impossible for people to go out from places where they are stranded. If one has to go out in an urgent situation in personal vehicle, one should take prior permission from police,” he said, appealing to people to go out only if it was necessary or to buy essentials. Hardikar said people should be careful while giving or taking food from neighbours and using public toilets. He added that the civic body was disinfecting hospitals and places, where positive patients have been found, with sodium hypochlorite. The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation was also conducting a risk analysis of the industrial sectors that could be allowed to open after the lockdown exit, the civic chief said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ycm-hospital-for-ncov-patients-hardikar/articleshow/75460381.cms||Siddharth Gaikwad
April 30, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot: 22-year-old raped in Rapar, three arrested||RAJKOT: Three persons were booked on Wednesday for allegedly raping a 21-year-old woman in two different locations in Rapar taluka in Kutch district. The accused were identified as Lakha Rabari, Soma Koli and Khana Rajput. “While Rabari and Koli had allegedly gang raped the survivor on the outskirts of Mowana village and had allegedly threatened to kill her, if she complained, Rajput had allegedly raped the survivor on the bank of Gedi village river and had also threatened her with dire consequences if she complained about the incident,” said an official from Balasar police station. The woman lodged a complaint after she became pregnant due to rapes. Meanwhile, the police have launched a manhunt for the accused. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/22-year-old-raped-in-rapar-three-arrested/articleshow/75458589.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Bhubaneswar||BMC open to relaxation despite positive test||BHUBANESWAR: Another day without a Covid-19 positive test would have placed Bhubaneswar from red to orange zone, a tag it had been actively pursuing over the past few weeks. But Wednesday’s positive result of a 77-year-old man, father an earlier positive person, dashed that hope. The city continues to remain in red zone with 19 active cases, 27 having recovered and one death. “There is a little difference. The new case is related to an old case from Madhusudan Nagar,” Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation (BMC) commissioner Prem Chandra Chaudhary said. According to the Union health ministry guidelines, a hotspot district can move from red zone to orange if it doesn’t report any positive case for 14 days. Bhubaneswar reported the case on the 14th day. It had last reported four positive cases on April 15. An orange zone can become green if it doesn’t report any positive case for 28 days. Chaudhary, however, said this one case will not alter the current scenario and there won’t be any containment in the area. “We will go for more aggressive testing. The BMC and police will continue monitoring and keep vigil to ensure social distancing is followed,” the commissioner added. The BMC, which brought in some relaxation on Tuesday by allowing shops selling electronic items to open as well as those selling electrical goods, mobile repair shops and garages, went into a huddle soon after the positive case was detected. “The relaxation will continue as usual,” the commissioner said, providing relief to those who had to keep their shops locked up for a prolonged period, affecting their livelihood. The BMC said despite the positive case, all shops including standalone ones and those located within residential complexes, except multi-brand and single-brand malls, can stay open. Besides, shops that repair and service electrical and electronic appliances, garages, tyre, battery and lubricant shops have been asked to open. The BMC has also allowed courier and home delivery of food besides book stores to open. The offices of big business establishments and industries have been asked to reopen with 25 per cent employee strength. A week ago, BMC had allowed construction of projects within its limits with labourers from its jurisdiction only. For that, it had to allow transportation of construction material between 10 pm and 5 am. The labourers should strictly belong to the area where the work is underway. Secondly, sale of construction material is allowed and shops selling them can open. Third, transportation of material from the shop to the site will have to be carried out at night, a BMC official said. EoM||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/bmc-open-to-relaxation-despite-ve-test/articleshow/75457131.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Hyderabad||TIFR, ESIC ink MoU on Covid-19 testing||HYDERABAD: Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR), Hyderabad and Employees State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) Hospital and Medical College, Hyderabad, signed a MoU for developing tests that can rapidly confirm Covid-19 infections. ESIC hospital will be testing the assays on human samples for purposes of validation. TIFR has contributed to the infrastructure by providing RT-PCR machine of ESIC Covid-19 testing facility. “TIFR Hyderabad will provide RNA prep and RT-PCR training to contribute towards generating a skilled workforce,” said TIFR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tifr-esic-ink-mou-on-covid-19-testing/articleshow/75459582.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Pune||Police give SPOs T-shirts||Pune: The Kondhwa police on Tuesday distributed T-shirts to 300 special police officers. The SPOs are on bandobast duty. A businessman Papu Padwal and an NGO ‘Mother Food Bank’ handed over 500 T-shirts to the police. Inspector Mahadev Kumbhar said they were in process of appointing 200 more SPOs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/police-give-spos-t-shirts/articleshow/75460394.cms||Asseem Shaikh
April 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana farmer dies while drying paddy||HYDERABAD: Yet another farmer died in Kamareddy district while drying the paddy that had become wet due to unseasonal rains. Chaakali Devaraju, 45, of Yadaram village in Bibipet mandal died on Wednesday. Villagers say it could be due to exhaustion as he was engaged in drying the paddy. This is the second such death in the district. On April 19, another farmer, who was also drying the wet paddy, reportedly suffered a heart stroke and died. Bhoomaiah of Polkampeta village was drying paddy at a procurement centre and suffered a stroke and died reportedly due to exertion.. Farmers have been complaining that rice millers were refusing to buy paddy or were calculating less weighment as the produce has more moisture. Meanwhile in Nalgonda, additional collector V Chandrasekhar visited the paddy procurement centre on the town outskirts and inspected the paddy. He assured the farmers that the paddy would be procured from them and that they should not be agitated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/farmer-dies-while-drying-paddy/articleshow/75459592.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
April 30, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Lockdown hits collection of mining revenue in April||BHUBANESWAR: The Covid-19 outbreak has caused a severe disruption in the state’s revenue base as there has been a sharp fall in the collection of revenue from the mining sector in April. This despite the state government having listed mining operations as an essential service and allowing mining activities to continue during the lockdown. By April 29, the collection from the mining sector is estimated at only Rs 284 crore, which is around 506 crore less than the amount that had been collected in the corresponding period of the previous year. Odisha had earned Rs 790 crore by April 29 last year from the mining sector. This has become a cause of grave concern for the state government as the sector contributes nearly 25% to the state’s overall revenue collection. “The fall in revenue from the mining sector is because of the fall in production and dispatch of minerals. When there is a fall in the dispatch of minerals, it will obviously hit the revenue collection,” state director of mines Deepak Mohanty told TOI. However, a senior government official said, “With just a day left for the month to end, we expect that the total collection during April would be around Rs 300 crore as compared to Rs 900 crore collected in April last year.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/lockdown-hits-collection-of-mining-revenue-in-april/articleshow/75457137.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Bareilly||Less than 10% students of primary schools attending online classes in Bareilly||BAREILLY: Of the total 3,21,000 students registered in primary and upper primary schools of Bareilly district, around 25,000 are attending online classes started by basic education department. After the schools were closed following Covid-19 lockdown in the country, the basic education department started e-pathashala to educate students through Diksha app and WhatsApp groups. Officials said most of the students in these government schools come from poor background and they don’t have smartphones. So, officials said students have been asked to listen to educative sessions on radio and Doordarshan. On Wednesday, district president of Uttar Pradeshiye Prathamik Shikshak Sangh, Satya Prakash Gangwar, said, “Apart from parents, even most of the teachers of primary and upper primary schools don’t have smartphones. In a village, parents of three to four children have smartphones. Besides, a few students who are added in WhatsApp groups do not respond to classes and to make e-classes successful, we need support of guardians.” Basic Shiksha Adhikari (BSA) Vinay Kumar said, “In the Diksha app, the higher authorities have uploaded educational videos and teachers have been asked to share it with students through WhatsApp groups. Besides, teachers are giving assignment through WhatsApp groups and later checking the work done by students. Even parents have been informed to download and use ‘top parent’ app which has educative videos for parents and students.” He added, “Many students don’t have smartphones but their families have normal phones. I have directed teachers to make group of 10-15 students and teach them through phone calls. They should give assignment to students over phone calls and should later call back to check if they have completed it or not." Besides, the state government has tied up with Doordarshan which is broadcasting one-and-a-half-hour session to educate students daily, he said, adding that the students have been asked to watch educational programmes on Doordarshan and listen to 15 minutes audio session on radio every day. A member of state resource group Anil Chaubey said, “We are trying to add as many students in WhatsApp groups as possible. We are also contacting their parents over phone calls to make them aware about the importance of e-classes. Besides, our priority is to teach, even if only a few students are available in a school.” Namrata Verma, assistant teacher, model primary school Unasi, said, “It also depends on the interest of teachers on how much he or she wants to make e-classes successful. I started teaching students through WhatsApp from March 21 even before we received a government order on it. As only 13 students are connected to WhatsApp group, I make phone calls to remaining five students and dictate them about lessons. I also shared schedule of educational programmes on Doordarshan and radio with parents to show it to their children every day.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/less-than-10-students-of-primary-schools-attending-online-classes-in-bareilly/articleshow/75458594.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
April 30, 2020||Pune||Pune: Tobacco, 4 cars seized||PUNE: The crime branch seized four cars in which four men had loaded cigarettes and other tobacco products to sell them illegally during the lockdown period, besides confiscating tobacco products worth Rs14 lakh. A police team found that the four men had taken out the tobacco products from their godown in Shivane to sell in different parts of the city illegally. In the meantime, the social security cell of city crime branch raided two illicit liquor dens located in Katraj and seized hooch worth Rs11,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/tobacco-4-cars-seized/articleshow/75460389.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Nagpur||70-year-old man from Mominpura is Nagpur’s second Covid-19 casualty||NAGPUR: A 70-year-old man who had tested positive for Covid-19 on April 21 and was undergoing treatment at Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Hospital (IGGMCH) died at 3.30pm on Wednesday. It is Vidarbha’s first death in isolation ward after being tested positive. In all earlier 10 cases, the positive status became known only after patient’s death. Number of Covid-19 deaths in city is now two, the earlier one being a 68-year-old person from Satranjipura. The two localities have become city’s hotspots for the epidemic. Dean of IGGMCH Dr Ajay Keoliya told TOI, “The deceased was a patient of chronic hypertension. His condition was stable since being admitted in Isolation Ward. He suffered a sudden cardiac arrest on Wednesday.” The patient was not on ventilator during nine-day treatment. “Patients of chronic hypertension can suffer sudden cardiac arrest. His condition deteriorated in no time and there was no scope for putting him on ventilator,” said Dr Sagar Pande, deputy medical superintendent of IGGMCH. Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe has reportedly sent a team from the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) to conduct a death audit. Mundhe told TOI, “Our team quarantined the person as he was family member of one of the positive persons. He was asymptomatic when admitted. We have to learn from things so need is to ascertain reason behind the death,” he said. NMC sources told TOI, “Deceased was along with his wife in the isolation ward. He was given oxygen and was stable. Then, he had lunch and died soon afterwards,” sources said. As per the guidelines, post-mortem of the deceased will not be performed. Last rites will be conducted as per protocol of the NMC with only five persons permitted in funeral. The deceased was among 13 tested positive from single family from Choodi Gully, Mominpura. He along with 27 family members was quarantined on April 19 after his 42-old-son tested positive on April 18. Positive persons from the family are admitted in IGGMCH and GMCH. Those who have tested negative are in Vanamati under institutional quarantine. The family belongs to the chain of cap seller (Mominpura’s first case) and Jabalpur-based Tablighi Jamaatis (TJs) who had tested positive before the family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/70-year-old-man-from-mominpura-is-citys-second-covid-19-casualty/articleshow/75459611.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
April 30, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal citizens help the hungry with ‘donate a meal’ drive||BHOPAL: As the corona lockdown continues, there are many in the city who wish to feed the stranded migrant workers and underprivileged sections of the society but are unable to do so as they themselves are facing a financial crunch during this time. To allow such people to make a small contribution, a voluntary organisation of the city has started 'donate one meal' campaign where Bhopalis can feed one hungry person for a day, week or throughout the month, depending upon their paying capacity. "In earlier days, families used to donate a meal to the poor every day before they themselves sat down to eat. 'Anna daan' was considered a pious act as it ensured that no one had to sleep on an empty stomach. Following the same concept, we began this initiative as we understood that even when people want to help the needy during the ongoing pandemic, they have been unable to do so as they are also facing financial problems", said Sunil Awsarkar, brand ambassador of Helpbox. He added, "As part of the campaign, we request families to prepare food for one person, with five-six rotis, a bowl of rice, dal and some vegetable curry, and donate it to a poor they see around their house, or deliver the packet to Helpbox, so that we can give it to the needy. Many people have responded to the call and happily started participating in this campaign as preparing for one extra person does not upset their budget." A number of people also chose to donate grocery, including wheat flour, rice, cooking oil, salt, potatoes, onions etc in place of cooked food, as groceries last longer. "People are coming out in large numbers to make donations. We have received around Rs 60,000 as donations and a lot of grocery. There are people walking 8-10 kilometres every day to make the donations. Some people are donating grocery that will last a week, while few others are making bigger contributions too. Even the donation of a bowl of flour is welcome," said Awsarkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/donate-a-meal-campaign-encourages-people-to-feed-the-hungry-through-small-contributions/articleshow/75458598.cms||Shuchita Jha
April 30, 2020||Bareilly||Two SHOs suspended for ‘tarnishing image’ of Pilibhit police||PILIBHIT: Station house officers (SHOs) of Jahanabad and Bilsanda police stations Mani Ram and Hari Shankar Verma, respectively, were on Wednesday suspended by superintendent of police Abhishek Dixit for allegedly tarnishing the image of the district police. According to the SP, the disciplinary action was taken after the charges levelled against the SHOs were found to be true by the preliminary inquiry. Action against Mani Ram was taken after Pilibhit Sadar circle officer Pramod Kumar Yadav filed his inquiry report on Tuesday, confirming that the SHO had misbehaved with one Durga Charan, alias, Anna, the husband of BJP’s Jahanabad area chairman Mamta Gupta and her family members at a public place, said police. The departmental action against Hari Shankar Verma was taken after additional superintendent of police (ASP) Rohit Mishra found him guilty of arranging a party at his police station on the occasion of his marriage anniversary on Sunday evening during the lockdown period. The party was attended by many people, including police staff and locals, the ASP observed in his report. The two SHOs were held liable for tarnishing the image of the district police in society and among the police fraternity, said the SP. “In both the matters, a final inquiry has been ordered by Pilibhit city circle officer Praveen Malik, who has been directed to file his report within a month, even as the police department gives three months for concluding such inquiries,” added the SP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/two-shos-suspended-for-tarnishing-image-of-pilibhit-police/articleshow/75458615.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Pune||Pune: At wits’ end, the Jeeves and Mrs Doubtfires struggle to make ends meet||PUNE: Imagine Bertie Wooster’s life without Jeeves or the absence of Mrs Doubtfire from Miranda’s life. These popular characters of house helps were the go-to people in the lives of their employers, who would turn to them for advice and insight, apart from assistance in getting through the day’s chores. Since the lockdown, thousands of Jeeves and Mrs Doubtfires in Maharashtra homes are at their wits’ end, wondering how to run their own kitchens. With no salaries for two months, many house helps, drivers and domestic assistants, are struggling to make ends meet. Around two lakh such people in Pune, Nashik, Aurangabad and Kolhapur cities are hoping the government will come to their aid, the way it did for the construction workers. In Pune, Shobha Shinde, 42, from NIBM Road turned to her kin to bail her out of the financial crisis. “I could not go to work due to the lockdown. My employers did not pay me this month. I have to pay my rent and medical bills for my ailing mother. I took loan from relatives but would have to replay soon,” she told TOI. Pune District Molkarin Sanghatna, an association of domestic help, had about 80,000 such workers registered with the labour commissioner in 2013. Medha Thatte, general secretary of the association, said by now the number would be over one lakh. “There is an uncertainty among the domestic helps in the city about whether they will be able to retain their jobs. Many of the stay in slums and almost every earning member of their family is jobless now,” she said. Santosh Athawale, 32, who worked as a driver in Boat Club Road, has not gone to work in April. “My boss’ business also took a big hit because of the lockdown. I don’t know if I will return to my job. Though I had some savings that will help me get through May, I don’t know what I will do in June,” said Athawale, who supports a family of five — his wife, their toddler daughter, parents and sister. Gharelu Molkarin Sanghatana in Kolhapur, which has over 10,000 domestic helps registered with the administration, said they have written to the state for their aid.Sushila Yadav, president of the association, said “We have written to the state government to provide livelihood grant of Rs 2,000 to each registered domestic help. The government has approved the same amount to construction workers.” After working for around 15 years as a domestic help in one of Aurangabad’s posh locality, Pramila Mankari is suddenly unemployed. After the lockdown was announced, she was told to stop coming to work. With no financial or social security, she and her husband, a rickshaw driver, have been left to fend for themselves. Like Pramila, Sunita Ohal, who worked as a domestic help and cooked rotis at a restaurant, has her plate full of woes. Ohal, her husband and five children stay in a rented house. She was asked to stop coming to work by the families and restaurant closed in the last week of March. “They only paid me for the days I worked. My elder daughter, who worked at a hotel and my husband, a plumber, are all without work,” she said, Her attempts to return to her village in Jalna were halted by the police. Madhukar Khillare, state vice-president of Unorganised Workers Union, said there were over a lakh housemaids and domestic helps in Aurangabad city alone. “We have 10,000-15,000 workers registered on Gharelu Molkarin Sanghatna, a union for househelps. However, the actual number of such workers is much higher. For the last two to three years, a welfare board established for these workers has been reduced to a formality, as the benefits provided through it have been stopped by the state,” Khillare claimed. Nashik has over 13,000 domestc helps registered with the Domestic Workers Union, many of whom have not been able to pay their house rent. Raju Desle, president of the union, said most of their members received the payment for March but were unsure about getting paid for April. Swati Mahajan, a domestic help in the Mhasrul area, said “My landlord allowed me to pay the rent in instalments. When two of my employers asked me to cook for them, I grabbed the opportunity. They make me wash my hands and feet before I begin to cook.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/at-wits-end-the-jeeves-and-mrs-doubtfires-struggle-to-make-ends-meet/articleshow/75460408.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
April 30, 2020||Rajkot||Man held for claiming to have corona medicine||Rajkot: A man was arrested on Tuesday night for uploading a video on social media and WhatsApp claiming that he had invented a medicine for coronavirus in Visavada village of Porbandar taluka. Police said the accused, identified as Raju Keshval (32), a science graduate, created a video claiming he was ready to give the medicine to the government if the government implemented schemes suggested by him. “Keshval also demanded that the medicine be tried on him first after infecting him with Covid-19. When the video came to our notice, in which the accused had given his identification and address, we went to his village and arrested him,” said Rajendra Kathad, head constable with Porbandar marine police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/man-held-for-claiming-to-have-corona-medicine/articleshow/75458611.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Servitors urge Naveen Patnaik to celebrate Rath Yatra without devotees||BHUBANESWAR: Daitapati Nijog, a prominent association of servitors of the Puri Jagannath Temple, on Wednesday wrote to chief minister Naveen Patnaik and urged the state government to celebrate Rath Yatra on June 23 without the participation of devotees. It was also held in the peak of the Spanish flu pandemic in the country in 1918, the Daitapati Nijog said. In their representation to the chief minister, the Daitapati Nijog further said Rath Yatra was observed during the 1857 Indian Rebellion or Sepoy Mutiny and several other crises in the country. “Though the festival was cancelled during attacks by Muslim rulers in the past, the precedence should not be exemplified,” the Nijog said, adding “The Rath Yatra is linked to the sentiments of millions of devotees. There may be discontentment among devotees if it is stopped this time,” the representation said. The Daitapati servitors perform key rituals from Debasnan Purnima, a major festival in the run-up to the Rath Yatra, until Bahuda Yatra (the return car festival) in the temple and on the chariots. “Lakhs of people had died owing to the outbreak of Spanish flu in 1918. Despite the odds, the Jagannath Rath Yatra was celebrated in a low-key manner that year. This time too, we can celebrate the festival with restrictions,” the Nijog said. Earlier on Monday, the 12th century shrine’s Mukti Mandap’s Brahmin scholars too had advocated a restricted Rath Yatra celebration. Daitapati Nijog’s secretary Durga Dasmohapatra said the government should celebrate the Rath Yatra with the help of servitors and police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/servitors-urge-naveen-to-celebrate-rath-yatra-without-devotees/articleshow/75457152.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
April 30, 2020||Mumbai||‘93% students don’t want exams during pandemic’||MUMBAI: A survey of 5,500 students conducted by St Xavier’s College’s economics department has revealed that 93% of them do not want the exams to be held during the Covid-19 pandemic. While the survey throws up the most obvious results, a majority of the students have cited concerns about safety in public transport (96.1%), parents’ unwillingness to send them to exam centres (92.9%) and also not being in the right mindset to appear for exams (87.1%). While more than two-third of the surveyed students said they are in self-quarantine, a third declared they live in containment zones. Though the survey was conducted among students from across regions in the country and abroad, 75% are from Maharashtra alone. Aditi Sawant, head of the department of economics, started the survey to gauge the general student sentiment and bring it to the notice of policymakers. “I get calls and mails from several students who say they are not in the right frame of mind to take the exams. Some of them have even tested positive for the virus. Many final-year students are worried the delay in getting their final marksheets could impact their job prospects (over 60%) and some worry about losing admissions to international universities this year,” said Sawant. Online exam, too, is not a solution, say students, as 76% said they are not trained in it and 36% do not have computers or laptops at home. Almost 50% said they do not have WiFi facilities. A majority agree they should be marked on their performance in the internal exams and the previous semesters. NCP MP Supriya Sule tweeted the results of the survey on Wednesday and even requested higher education minister Uday Samant to look into them. Samant reportedly told the media undergraduate and postgraduate exams are unlikely by May 31. St Xavier’s College principal Rajendra Shinde said it is not possible to conduct exams in the near future. “Trains need to start. Parents may not want to send their children. Maintaining social distancing will be a major issue.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/93-students-dont-want-exams-during-pandemic/articleshow/75458660.cms||Yogita Rao
April 30, 2020||Bareilly||Pilibhit: Private hospitals suspend surgeries fearing covid infection||PILIBHIT: Patients across Pilibhit are alleging that private hospitals in the city, mostly owned by doctors associated with the Indian Medical Association (IMA), are operating services in a highly discriminatory manner, paying scant heed to state government orders for the lockdown period. Most hospitals, for example, have suspended surgery during this period, apprehensive that patients could be Covid-19 infected. On March 30, the UP government issued letters to all DMs with directions to ensure that during the lockdown period, all private hospitals were operated in the common interest of patients. Chief secretary R K Tiwari issued directions for immediate legal action against hospitals that were found to violate the order. Countering the allegations, a district-level IMA office-bearer who wanted to remain anonymous, said, “How can we admit a patient for surgery in emergency, without being certain they are not Covid-19 infected? With results of covid tests taking between 48 and 72 hours at present, not only can an infected patient admitted to hospital end up transmitting the infection to medical staff, but also to society at large.” Responding to his fears, additional chief medical officer (ACMO) Dr Vijay Bahadur Ram said the health department was concerned about the Catch-22 situation. “We’re going to host training schedules for medical staff of private hospitals on protocols to follow while dealing with covid patients. One of these training sessions is to be held on May 2,” he said. “Covid-related logistics support is to be ensured by the private hospitals themselves. We hope the expert training combined with safety measures will be enough to clear doubts and fears among healthcare professionals with private institutions,” he added. Kalpna, a resident of Civil Lines North in Pilibhit city, said her son (29) had been diagnosed with stricture in urinary tract. He urgently needed urethroplasty, as the stricture obstructed his urine discharge. But urologists declined to operate upon him outright, she said, woefully. Meanwhile, district magistrate Vaibhav Shrivastav on Wednesday launched a telemedicine network for patients to seek medical advice from doctors via mobile phones. He said as many as 52 private doctors have agreed to take part in the service. They include pathologists, ophthalmologists, urologists, cardiologists, neurologists, general physicians, general surgeons, gynecologists, pediatricians, TB and chest specialists, orthopedic surgeons, radiologists and ENT (ear, nose, throat) surgeons. He added that cell phone numbers of these doctors have been widely circulated via newspapers and official channels. The timing for telemedicine services by these doctors has been fixed between 10am and 9pm, on the basis of 3-4 hourly shifts. ACMO Dr Ram is the designated nodal officer for the service. The DM added Dr Ram will be compiling figures of total consultations and related problems on a daily basis, and convey the data to ADM (judicial) Devendra Pratap Mishra for monitoring and action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/private-hospitals-suspend-surgeries-fearing-covid-infection/articleshow/75458603.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Dehradun||With 4 cases emerging from AIIMS Rishikesh, docs say hospital authorities not taking their safety seriously||Dehradun: As many as 100 medical personnel of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Rishikesh including several doctors and almost the entire staff of the pulmonary department have been quarantined after four cases of the novel coronavirus were reported at the institution in the last 3 days. All these cases were from the non-Covid-19-demarcated zone of the hospital. (The hospital premises have been divided into two zones — one, earmarked for Covid-19 patients/suspects and the other for non-Covid-19 cases). With positive cases emerging from the non-Covid-19 zone, there is a sense of apprehension prevailing in the premier institute, with some resident doctors alleging that not enough is being done to provide adequate protection to those working in the non-Covid-19 departments. A senior resident doctor who did not wish to be identified told TOI that the institute authorities have issued a notification that only staffers in the Covid-19 zone will be given Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) kits and N-95 masks while rest of the doctors and healthcare staff will be provided with surgical masks. “The notification issued on April 25 said that staff moving alone and not in crowded area or patient care don’t require any mask and that staff moving in other patient areas will use surgical masks as per need. Now, when all four cases, reported between April 26 to 28, are from non-Covid areas, we feel like cheated because of the misplaced priorities,” he alleged. Another resident said that while AIIMS, Delhi and other institutes have postponed all their academic events in wake of the pandemic, the administration in AIIMS Rishikesh is “forcing the residents to be simultaneously engaged in duties and academic activities like seminars, monthly assessments and other exams, thesis submission on time etc without any leeway.” Dean, hospital affairs, AIIMS Rishikesh, UB Mishra rubbished the allegations made by the residents and maintained that protocol regarding masks and PPE kits was in strict adherence to the guidelines of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). “We have 300 faculty members, 650 junior and senior resident doctors and around 1300 other healthcare workers at AIIMS Rishikesh and even if around 100 have been placed in quarantine, we are not short-staffed. The ICMR guidelines also say that we cannot ask everyone for Covid test before admission. We are ensuring full safety for our staff as well as patients,” he added. On the plaint by residents that they were forced to simultaneously engage in academic duties, the institute’s dean academics, Manoj Gupta said that only classes of senior residents are running but not of junior residents. “We are following social distancing and other necessary protocols while organising webinars etc. This is happening in all AIIMS across the country and not just ours," he added. The AIIMS administration further added that a section of people in Rishikesh are tagging AIIMS staffers as ‘Covid-spreaders’ and not letting doctors and nurses go back to their homes outside the campus, which was unfortunate. Public Relations Officer (PRO) AIIMS, Rishikesh, HM Thapliyal told TOI that “the local civic body in Muni Ki Reti area appeared to have pasted ‘quarantine home’ posters outside the houses of AIIMS staffers.” “We want to convey to people that all our staffers have got Covid-infected because they came in contact with infected patients. We are in service of people and it is unfortunate that we are being tagged as ‘Covid- spreaders’ instead,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/with-4-cases-emerging-from-aiims-rishikesh-docs-say-hospital-authorities-not-taking-their-safety-seriously/articleshow/75457181.cms||Ishita Mishra
April 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Job offers: Bits, IIIT-Hyderabad buck Covid-19 impact||HYDERABAD: The ongoing downturn in economic activity due to Covid-19 is not likely to have any adverse impact on the students of top premier technical institutes in the city as most campus recruiters have assured to stand by their offers made to students from institutes such as International Institute of Information Technology (IIIT) Hyderabad, Birla Institute of Technology & Science (BITS), Pilani and Hyderabad, among others. The placements officers of these institutes confirmed that there has been no negative impact as most of the students are hired for research & development and emerging technologies profiles, which will continue to be in demand. “To date, not even a single company has revoked offers given to our students. Most of the students are offered research-oriented jobs and Covid-19 or not, there will always be demand for such courses,” said a source from the IIIT Hyderabad adding that, however, when it comes to internships offers have slowed down. When it comes to BITS, Pilani, Balasubramanian Gurumurthy, chief placement officer, India and Dubai, confirmed that three companies have withdrawn their offers until now. “We are expecting that 2.5 to 3.5% of the total offers might be revoked due to Covid-19. But, the situation is not alarming. Further, our regular campus recruiters assured to hire these students,” said Gurumurthy adding that a total of 1754 students from all four campuses of BITS have received offers this year. A representative of another premier institute, which has three campuses in Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, and Karnataka said that campus recruiters said that the onboarding of students will begin post-lockdown. “Our students have nothing to worry,” said that representative adding about 5-10% of students who did not secure placements or are looking for a job due to change in plans will have an opportunity to sit for placements post-examination, which will be conducted after the lockdown is lifted. For those students, who are yet to be placed, they advised them to prepare for online interviews as recruiters might not be in a position to travel to the campus even after the lockdown. “Virtual interviews will be the new normal. If a student is interested in securing a job through placements post-lockdown, it would be wise if they prepare for online interview as travel restrictions might be in place even after the lockdown is lifted,” said a placement and training officer of a top institute.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/job-offers-bits-iiit-h-buck-covid-19-impact/articleshow/75460156.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
April 30, 2020||Vadodara||12 fresh positive cases push Anand tally to 77||Vadodara/ Anand: With 12 more people testing Covid-19 positive, seven men and five women in the age groups of 18 to 83 years, the total number of positive cases in Anand district reached 77 on Wednesday. All the fresh cases were reported from different parts of Gujarat’s coastal town Khambhat, where the total number of cases touched 60 by Wednesday evening. So far, a majority of cases had surfaced from Aling crossroads area, Dantar Wado and Akbarpur areas which lie in proximity. The new cases have surfaced from Gandhark Wado, Vijay Society, Pipda Sheri, Tran Darwaja, Kadiya Pole and Chitrik Bazaar areas of the town. In fact, four cases were recorded from Vijay Society alone, which so far had not witnessed any case. On Wednesday, five patients including three from Khambhat’s Dantar Wado and one each from Umreth’s Kansara Bazaar and Petlad’s staff quarters were discharged after their repeat test came negative of Covid-19. With this, currently 42 patients are under treatment in Anand district while 30 have been discharged and three have died. So far, samples of 620 persons have been tested, of which 543 have tested negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/12-fresh-positive-cases-push-anand-tally-to-77/articleshow/75457968.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Abnormal delay led to mom & baby’s death, say doctors||HYDERABAD: A 20-year-old woman and her newborn baby died in Hyderabad, not before five different hospitals refused to admit her on suspicion that she was a Covid-19 patient, officials said on Wednesday. While the woman died on April 27, a day after giving birth to a baby boy, the two tragic deaths became talk of the town on Wednesday after the State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) shot off letters to hospitals concerned and health department began an internal probe. Authorities said the woman, identified as Janeela, was in labour pain from the early hours of April 23, when she was first taken to a primary healthcare centre in Gadwal district, where she lived. She was already detected having ‘meconium liquor’, which is a sign of foetal distress, but by the time, she delivered her son on April 26, she had been referred to multiple hospitals, including the Covid-19 nodal centre, Gandhi hospital, where she tested negative for coronavirus, before she was taken up for surgery. The baby succumbed within hours of the delivery, while the mother died the very next day from complications on April 27. “I was tired of explaining our situation, but all the hospitals insisted on coronavirus test or just re-directed us elsewhere,” said Mahender, Janeela’s husband. The initial four hospitals, including PHC Rajoli, Government hospital Gadwal, Government hospital Mahabubnagar, all in the districts and Koti maternity hospital in Hyderabad, redirected her to Gandhi hospital for Covid-19 tests, as she had come from a containment zone in Gadwal, where five Covid-19 positive cases had been reported. She finally reached Gandhi hospital, where a Covid-19 test was done, before she was finally admitted at Petlaburj hospital. The authorities said she died of infection, but sources in the health department said the unusual delay in surgery and prolonged labour, had probably caused the tragic deaths. “In case of prolonged labour there is a lot of bleeding and the patient can succumb to post-partum haemorrhage. Since the uterus is stretched to the maximum during prolonged labour, it sometime perforates causing haemorrhage. Abnormal delay often results in birth asphyxia and seizures, resulting in the death of the baby,” said a senior doctor from a government hospital. Taking cognisance of the deaths, the State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) has sought an explanation from the state health authorities and notices have been shot to all hospitals. A probe revealed that Janeela had already developed complications when at the Primary Health Centre (PHC) Rajoli on April 23. “When she came with complaint of stomach pain, there was no dilation, so she was kept in observation. After 11 pm, she developed labour pain but there was very little dilation and by 8 am in the morning, still the dilation was very little but there was ‘meconium liquor’ and hence she was referred to the higher centre (District Hospital Gadwal),” said Dr Malakumtai, from the PHC Rajoli.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/abnormal-delay-led-to-mom-babys-death-say-doctors/articleshow/75460144.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Test those undergoing surgery but not emergency cases, says doctors||HYDERABAD: Doctors and administrators in private hospitals have called for coronavirus tests on patients undergoing surgery to reduce risks of contracting the infection. However, they are willing to allow an exception for emergency cases. “While in emergency cases, there is no scope for testing given the limited time available. Therefore, all possible precautions should be taken. But in case of planned surgeries these tests should be done to save lives,” said Dr P Raghu Ram, president, Association of Surgeons of India. “The costs of providing eight to ten personal protective equipment (PPEs) to operating theatre staff for each of such surgeries should also be taken into consideration. Covid-19 testing in this scenario, not only protects the operating team, but it also prevents these healthcare professionals from becoming potential super spreader,” Dr Rahu Ram added. However, the problem with pressing for mandatory testing for surgeries presents the problem of discretion of the hospital staff on the nature of an emergency, like in the case of Janeela where there was an unusual delay at several points including for coronavirus testing which was insisted upon, despite the case being an emergency. “While it is true that testing for coronavirus is important and can go a long way in preventing spread in the hospital and in doctors, in an emergency it can be disastrous. Instead, all precautions should be taken assuming that the patient is coronavirus positive patient,” said a junior doctor from the Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences (NIMS).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/test-those-undergoing-surgery-but-not-emergency-cases-docs/articleshow/75460150.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Irate farmer works bull to death||PALANPUR: Exhaustion and frayed nerves owing to less productivity during lockdown made a farmer invite hell’s wrath on a trespasser bull. He caused it to death in Rampura village of Dhanera taluka of Banaskantha on Wednesday. The accused 50-year-old Khengar Patel, who was booked for his brutality, had allegedly tied the bull to his tractor and made it run across the village non-stop. The animal ultimately died of exhaustion. According to an FIR filed against him, Patel allegedly caught the bull on Tuesday evening and tied the animal to his tractor and drove around the village non-stop with it as a punitive measure. “We have filed FIR under Cow Protection Act IPC sections 295A and 279,” police inspector S A Dabhi told TOI. “Patel has claimed that the bull frequently entered his farm and damaged crop which caused him financial loss. He wanted to teach it a lesson only and never intended to kill it,” Dabhi said. Patel had also buried the bull after it died. On Wednesday, the carcass was unearthed and sent for postmortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/irate-farmer-works-bull-to-death/articleshow/75458621.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Bengaluru||Rain wreaks havoc; Bengalureans wake up to flooded homes and streets||BENGALURU: Heavy rain battered Bengaluru in the wee hours of Wednesday, leaving roads in several localities inundated and damaging scores of vehicles parked outside houses. Rainwater entered many residences and basements, compounding citizens’ woes. Bengalureans who went to sleep to the pitter-patter of raindrops on Tuesday night were jolted awake by thunder and lightning past 2.30am. The rainfall was so intense that the trail of havoc it left behind was felt by residents holed up in their houses due to the lockdown. BBMP received nearly 43 distress calls about rainwater flooding homes and streets and uprooting trees. “Nearly 15 trees fell across the city and at least seven streets were completely inundated,” said a senior control room official, BBMP. Trees were uprooted near Maharani College Road, Garudacharpalya, Jeevan Bima Nagar, Channamanakere Achkiat, Basavanagudi and Bagalgunte among other areas. Waterlogging complaints were reported from localities like Konanakunte, Murgeshpalya, Koramangala 6th Block and Chokkasandra. Residents of Jayanagar II Block woke up to a nightmare. Cars parked outside were submerged in rainwater almost till the window level, while sewage gushed into their bathrooms. “Officials seem to have failed to act even after assessing and anticipating damage due to such rain. They always come up with excuses like poor infrastructure,” said KC Shekar, a senior citizen from Jayanagar II Block. According to him, there have been instances of officials asking him to redesign/rebuild his house instead of fixing the problem in the drainage and sewarage systems. A newly laid cemented road in Wilson Garden was also flooded, raising questions over the efficacy of concretisation of roads, something which the Palike is aggressively pursuing. “Usually, the road gets flooded during monsoon and as the rain abates, water level recedes, but after BBMP cemented the whole stretch, the condition has only got worse,” said Nikhil David, a resident. “The road which would dry up in one hour is now taking over three hours to get back to normal. We are forced to stay indoors till the water level recedes,” he added. A stretch of Hayes Road in Shantala Nagar ward of central Bengaluru caved in. BBMP officials said flooding of the basement of an under-construction building on the road was the cause. Migrant labourers stranded due to the lockdown in BTM Layout complained rain has added to their misery. “The food provided by BBMP is helping us beat hunger, but what about our shelter? Rainwater has entered our homes and we have nowhere to go,” said Nagarathnamma Siddaiah, a migrant living in Mahadevapura. Indian Meteorological Department officials said Karnataka is in the midst of a heavy rain spell, which will continue for three more days. “A deep trough has developed over interior Karnataka and accompanied by severe heating and moisture, it’s causing good rainfall,” said GS Patil, scientist, IMD, Bengaluru. “Coastal Karnataka and south Interior Karnataka will continue to receive heavy rainfall, accompanied by lightning and thunderstorms,” he explained, adding: “The city received 31mm of rain in 24 hours till Wednesday morning. This is the highest for a day this year.” According to Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre (KSNDMC), heavy rainfall in the range of 64.5mm to 88.5mm was recorded by 24 of its monitoring stations in west, southweast and southeast Bengaluru. Hegganahalli near Peenya recorded the highest: 88.5mm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/rain-wreaks-havoc-blureans-wake-up-to-flooded-homes-and-streets/articleshow/75458523.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Experts: T must take steps to strengthen community medicine||Hyderabad: Instead of being at frontline fighting Covid-19, Geeta (name changed), who has a decade’s experience in community medicine, is preparing notes on ‘how to stop epidemic’ to teach students. Geeta, faculty at one of the government medical colleges, said she doesn’t understand why epidemiologists, who have done MD in Social Preventive Medicine (SPM), are being asked to take online classes when the need of the hour is for them to put their teaching into practice. “The government is outsourcing jobs of SPMs to those with Master of Public Health (MPH) degree. We are ready to offer services free of cost and we have required skill sets,” she said. Scores of doctors, who specialise in community medicine, said during this pandemic at least 70% of them are taking online classes and remaining 30%, who are engaged in Covid-19 related work, are given ‘lame desk jobs’. “We are trained to do sampling, mass screening, isolation, research, prepare Integrated disease surveillance programme (IDSP) reports. These are currently being carried out by MPHs, ANMs, nurses, or some other professionals without proper training,” said PS Vijayender, who works as senior resident in a private medical college. Stating that most of them are opting for teaching jobs because of less pay and non-availability of regular jobs in government sector, they said that at least now the state should start hiring, instead of offering contract jobs to epidemiologists, to strengthen preventive medicine. A senior official, who is part of handling the pandemic, said no matter who is on the field, they have to follow guidelines issued by WHO, ICMR, Indian governent and Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The official said even association of SPMs released guidelines, which are being followed across India. “If SPMs are interested to do voluntary work, they should approach the Directorate of Public Health & Family Welfare or Directorate of Medical Education,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/experts-t-must-take-steps-to-strengthen-community-medicine/articleshow/75460224.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
April 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana decides to allow stranded to travel home||HYDERABAD: Following the directions of the Union ministry of home affairs allowing inter-state movement of people, the Telangana government has decided to permit people from other states and those stranded in Telangana to move to their respective states. The stranded people have been advised to be in touch with the state nodal office for transport. The decision was taken at a review meeting held by chief secretary Somesh Kumar on Wednesday night. The government appointed IAS officer Sandeep Kumar Sultania as a nodal authority for the purpose and a protocol system was developed for the movement of stranded people. Officials said a letter has been addressed to chief secretaries of all states to provide details of persons stranded in Telangana. They been requested to make transport arrangements to pick up the people from their states. Nodal officers of the respective states should get in touch with Telangana nodal authority for facilitation. Officials said the Telangana nodal authority would arrange for screening of the persons and passes to asymptomatic persons for the journey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-decides-to-allow-stranded-to-travel-home/articleshow/75460189.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Bengaluru||A student who supported his teacher’s activism||In the deluge of tributes paid to actor Irrfan Khan, who passed away on Wednesday, one that touched many hearts and perhaps even surprised some comprised photos shared by activist and theatre personality Prasanna Heggodu. The photos — taken by former TOI photographer Nethra Raju — show Khan with his writer-wife Sutapa Sikdar spending time with Heggodu and other activists in a dilapidated building in Badanwal, Karnataka. Heggodu’s connection with Khan goes back to their National School of Drama (NSD) years. “While I taught in NSD, he was a part of two of my productions which I directed. Later, after he passed out, he did a third one called Blue Horses on Red Grass that was based on a Russian play by Mikhail Shatrov. Irrfan was very young and he played Lenin and he gave such a brilliant performance that it was later telecast on a national channel,” Heggodu recalls. “He had been in touch with me since and was deeply interested in my activism,” says Heggodu. Many years later, when Heggodu was releasing his book on acting called The Indian Method in Acting, he would have Khan do the honours. Spending time in Badanwal Recalling the Badanwal Satyagraha, which Khan and his wife took part in and will now forever be etched as a memory in those photographs, Heggodu says: “This was some six and a half years ago. We’d held the Satyagraha in a dilapidated old building in Badanwal, one of the oldest khadi centres in the country that was visited by Mahatma Gandhi. Irrfan and his wife were so interested that they drove down all the way from Mumbai to spend an entire day with us in that building. They cooked, cleaned, ate with us.” Khan’s interest in farming, khadi movement et al, he says, continued through the years which saw him become an internationally renowned actor. “I knew he was really interested in these issues because he bought land in Igatpuri to pursue farming and he actually spent the last few years doing just that. When I was on an eight-day fast recently, his wife called me and I spoke to both of them. He told me, “We have spent lots of money on my treatment. I am now sending you money for your cause.” Next day, I saw they’d transferred Rs 40,000 into my bank account for my organisation.” As far as his student’s legacy as an actor goes, his guru says, “As an actor, he started this trend of acting that was natural, using few expressions, and so he is going to bother us for a long time.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/a-student-who-supported-his-teachers-activism/articleshow/75458856.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Bhopal||20,000 migrant workers from MP brought home||BHOPAL: More than 20,000 migrant workers from MP stuck in other states have returned home in past few days. Informing this, health and home minister Narottam Mishra said that 7,000 more workers would be evacuated from Rajasthan on Wednesday and another 3,000 from Uttar Pradesh. He said that migrant workers stranded in Goa are also being brought back. Buses for the purpose would be provided by Goa government and MP government would pay the fare. In- charge of control room set up to monitor evacuation work, additional chief secretary, ICP Keshari had said on Tuesday that 2,500 workers would be brought back from Gujarat on Wednesday and another 5,000 the next day. Meanwhile, state government has clarified to all the district collectors and SPs not evacuate workers from the hotspot areas as specified in the Union government website. Parents willing to go to places outside the state to retrieve their children can be issued e-pass if they have conveyance of their own. They should be given one pass for to and fro journey. No passes would be given for journey from or to Bhopal, Indore and Ujjain districts in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/20000-migrant-workers-from-mp-brought-back/articleshow/75458630.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Co-working spaces make room for rent revision in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: At a time when industry predictions indicate that the co-working sector will suffer a major blow due to the lockdown, as they cater to a large section of startups and mid-sized enterprises, big players in the city say they are charting out plans to tackle the situation – from increasing working hours and revision of rentals to enhancing sanitation standards and incorporating social distancing norms. “Several of our clients have requested for discounts, waivers or deferment in payment of rents. We are discussing our options right now,” said Karan Chopra co-founder of Table Space Technologies that has six lakh square feet (sft) of leased space in the city. The firm is, however, not too perturbed about a reduction in seat strength as it primarily deals with large companies. “We certainly have nobody pulling out of our spaces,” Chopra said though agreeing to the industry witnessing a “flattened curve” for at least two quarters. In case of Awfis – another significant player – the situation is much the same. “Customers are certainly more cautious now. There is a small percentage of clients (3% to 4%) who aren’t coming back. But most others are either looking at a cut -- in rent or number of seats – or are ready to continue with the existing model,” said Amit Ramani, founder and CEO. He added that his firm is already rolling out measures – like being open from 7 am to 10 pm to allow staggered work hours – to make their spaces ready for post lockdown. His plans to double the 7,000 seats in the city might, however, take longer to realize now. Other measures being taken by them include setting up of special Covid-19 help desks, limiting the entry of visitors, mandatory temperature screening among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/co-working-spaces-make-room-for-rent-revision/articleshow/75460171.cms||Sudipta Sengupta
April 30, 2020||Nagpur||Mominpura: 28-year-old gives birth to baby hours after testing positive||NAGPUR: A 28-year-old woman from Mominpura gave birth to a baby girl a few hours after testing positive for Covid-19 at Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Hospital (IGGMCH) on Wednesday. She is the first corona positive patient to deliver a baby in Vidarbha. Head of obstetrics and gynaecology department of IGGMCH Dr Prashant Uikey told TOI, “Both mother and her girl are doing well. The woman was in labour pain when she reported to IGGMCH on April 28. Being from Mominpura, which is one of the two hotspots of Covid-19, we collected her swab samples and sent them for tests as per protocol. Her reports came back positive. The delivery was conducted in the morning on April 29. The baby girl is the first child of this woman,” Dr Uikey said. The delivery was normal and all parameters of the baby too are reportedly normal. Her weight is 2kg. After testing positive for Covid-19, the mother and child were shifted to a separate cubicle in the Covid-19 isolation ward. The baby is still with her mother but at a safe distance. Doctors said, “We are monitoring vital health parameters of both mother and baby in regular manner. As breastfeeding is safe and does not infect the baby, we are allowing the mother to breastfeed.” Samples of the baby for Covid-19 were collected and reports are likely to come on Thursday. But the case has increased the worries of Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC), as it is the third new case from Mominpura. She is reportedly a resident of Ansar Nagar in Mominpura, and not from the existing corona chains. Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe said, “NMC organized a special camp to collect swab samples as part of antenatal care for three days from April 26 to 28 in Mominpura and Satranjipura. The initiative was to ensure good health of expecting mothers and their babies. Despite requests time and again, only around 150 of 251 expectant mothers gave samples. We are taking nine steps and expecting only one step from people, which is cooperation. Still, we are not getting correct information and necessary help from people,” he said. One of the earlier 26 positive cases from Mominpura is from Ansar Nagar, but it is a MP-based Tablighi Jamaati, who was camping at city’s Markaz ‘Lal Building’. Some 23 are from Takia Deewanshah and form one chain of transmission. One person tested positive from Timki and a woman (TB) patient from a locality adjacent to Takia Deewanshah. With the latest woman, the number of cases from Mominpura in Central Nagpur increased to 27. Two more persons — 27-year-old man and 33-year-old woman — from Satranjipura also tested positive on Wednesday. The two were under institutional quarantine. The number of positive cases from this locality has increased to 86. With the latest three, total number of positive cases from the district is 136, of which 63.23% are from Satranjipura and 18.85% from Mominpura. Two have died, 42 have been discharged and remaining are undergoing treatment. Also, on Wednesday, reports of a 27-year-old man came positive from Nagpur Veterinary College of Mafsu. This is the first positive came from this VRDL. NMC has again started to quarantine people from Satranjipura, with 402 shifted on Wednesday night. Total number of quarantined from this area has thus increased to 1,408.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/28-year-old-gives-birth-to-baby-hours-after-testing-ve/articleshow/75459637.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
April 30, 2020||Pune||Districts’ officials wait for Maharashtra's instructions to ferry workers||The huge exercise to move inter-state migrant workers back to their villages will get underway after the state government issues orders for their transportation, Pune collector Naval Kishore Ram said on Wednesday . There are over one lakh migrant workers from Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka and others in Pune district who may want to go back. The ministry has allowed movement by road. But Ram said only those who want to go back or have no work here may leave. “Lockdown relaxations may happen eventually, workers staying at construction sites and those working for infrastructural works will have work. They can continue staying on their sites and work can commence maintaining social distancing. We will appoint a nodal officer to talk to each worker and check for the status of work before they are allowed to travel,'' he told TOI. The inter-district movement of over 38,000 cane workers is in progress. At least 35,000 more will be shifted to their hometowns in the state, he said. The district administration in Kolhapur has initiated steps to collect information on migrant workers. Most are in shelters camps. Marathwada, comprising eight districts, has 179 shelter camps set up by the district administrations where over 16,000 migrants are currently housed. Authorities said they would plan in coordination with their counterparts in other states for arrangements to send the workers to their respective hometowns. These stranded people can be sent to their hometowns via state transport buses, a senior official said. “We have 1,901 workers in our shelter camps, but a large number of people live in the villages and travel to Nashik for work. They would want to go home. These numbers will have to be ascertained,” Nitin Mundaware, deputy collector and incident command of shelter camps in Nashik, said. The authorities in all the districts will have to monitor the health of all the workers who want to return to theri villages before they leave the state. They will have to watch out for carriers of infection to prevent the coronavirus spread to the villages. Two labourers have been diagnosed with Covid-19 positive in Nashik district. A UP bound workers in a shelter camp tested positive on April 15 while six of the high risk contacts tested negative. Another labourer was walking to Bhandara from Mumbai when he was stopped by the police on April 16 and admitted to a hospital where he tested positive for the infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/districts-officials-wait-for-state-instructions-to-ferry-workers/articleshow/75460416.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Goa||Serendipity Arts Festival goes digital||Panaji: Serendipity Arts Festival has launched a new digital experience for all those who are living in lockdown. Titled ‘SAF 2020 x You', the digital initiative is being hosted on the different social media platforms of the festival. “At a time when people across all nations are hurting, and lives have been disrupted, the arts brings us together and helps us stay connected. SAF 2020 x YOU celebrates the human spirit, the ability to support each other, and to come out on top of any crisis with the human spirit and humanity intact,” said Sunil Kant Munjal, founder patron, Serendipity Arts Foundation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/serendipity-arts-festival-goes-digital/articleshow/75460434.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Kozhikode||Three more recover in Kozhikode||Kozhikode: Three more persons were discharged from the Kozhikode government medical college hospital (KGMCH) here on Wednesday after they tested negative for Covid-19. Those discharged on Wednesday were a 20-year-old resident of Changaroth, a 41-year-old hailing from Azhiyur and a 35-year-old man from Edacheri. With this, the total number of persons recovered rose to 20 in the district. Of the 24 Covid-positive cases reported in Kozhikode so far, 20 persons recovered and the remaining four are undergoing treatment in KGMCH isolation ward. A total of 1,125 persons are under observation at hospitals and houses. Of these, 48 are under observation at the KGMCH isolation ward. Of the 998 samples tested so far, 937 of them tested negative for Covid-19. District collector Sambasiva Rao directed squads to check all vehicles arriving at Valiyangadi with goods. The interdistrict and interstate vehicles coming to Valiyangadi will be allowed in through only one entry. Officials deployed at border checkposts will issue a health slip after carrying out medical screening of all the drivers and their helpers of interstate vehicles transporting goods to the Valiyangadi wholesale market. The collector also directed the Kozhikode corporation secretary to ensure the sufficient number of toilets for the interstate vehicle drivers and helpers. The divisional fire officer was entrusted to disinfect the Valiyangadi and surrounding areas. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/three-more-recover-in-kozhikode/articleshow/75457204.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Bhopal||MP CM meet BJP workers, seeks feedback on Covid status||BHOPAL: The Madhya Pradesh BJP has called upon the farmers to teach a lesson to the Congress for its failure to keep its farm loan waiver promise. On Wednesday, Chouhan discussed with the BJP workers, mandal and district presidents about the Covid-19 situation in the state and urged them to provide feedback on the schemes being run by the state government for the poor and needy. Chouhan also decided to form Deendayal committees in all the rural and urban areas to monitor and provide feedback to the government on the current situation. A day earlier, state agriculture minister Kamal Patel had asked the farmers to register FIRs against former chief minister and ministers of previous Congress government for betraying them in the name of farm loan waiver. The BJP has assured that all the farmers will get relief, Patel said. BJP state spokesperson, Rajneesh Agrawal said, “there are several farmers who are trapped in the cumbersome registration process, but have failed to get loan waiver benefit. If they are not filing cases, they should at least punish the Congress during elections in a democratic way." Making a scathing attack on previous Congress government, the BJP state spokesperson said that it was the Congress government that failed to control the Covid-19 spread in the state during initial period. The government only pleaded ignorance and complained about paucity of funds instead of addressing the problem. The Congress, however, reacted sharply to the BJP's move. Congress said that Congress waived off farm loans of 23 lakh farmers in first phase. "Congress government had waived off loans of 23 lakh farmers up to Rs 50,000 in the first phase of loan waiver. These farmers will teach a lesson to the BJP during the by-polls. Cases must be registered against BJP leaders for misguiding farmers," said Congress state media coordinator, Narendra Saluja.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/shivraj-meet-bjp-workers-seeks-feedback-on-covid-status/articleshow/75458658.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Rajkot||Two killed in truck-bike collision||Rajkot: Two labourers were killed when the bike they were riding on had a head on collision with a truck coming from the opposite direction on Dhrol-Jodia Road near Lakhtar village of Dhrol taluka in Jamnagar district on Tuesday night. The deceased were identified as Dilip Bawada (30) and Surman Pachaya (25).“The accident occurred on a single lane road. Due to non availability of street light, the visibility was very poor. Due to poor visibility, the bikers could not realize that they were driving on the wrong side of the road,” said an official from Jodia police station. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/two-killed-in-truck-bike-collision/articleshow/75458644.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Rajkot||RMC releases Rs 33L refunds||Rajkot: Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) has cancelled the bookings of all its 17 community halls and three auditoriums and released Rs 33 lakh as the refund amount. There were 215 bookings for the community halls, while 31 bookings for the auditoriums. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rmc-releases-rs-33l-refunds/articleshow/75458661.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Bhopal||Fried food out, health food trends this Ramzan||BHOPAL: This Ramzan, Sehri and Iftar has gotten more healthy and balanced as a lot of Muslim families observing Roza are replacing fried snacks with fruit smoothies and rice pudding. To avoid weight gain in absence of physical activities during lockdown, they are choosing sprouts and soaked dry fruits in place of nukhti, khari and pakoras. Many felt the change was necessary as the stay-at-home orders have drastically reduced physical work, and sports. Dieticians and fitness experts of the city also suggest more innovative snacks, cooked with minimum oil and all kinds of fruit smoothies for Iftar and Sehri. Noted architect of the city S M Hussain who is observing Roza with his family members said that he has insisted all the members to have fruits, sprouts, home-made sharbat and fresh juices during Iftar instead of deep fried samosas, kachouris. “Earlier we used to go out for morning and evening walks and so even when we had heavy meals, it did not upset the stomach. We could easily digest everything. But as we have not had any physical exercise, sparing the little strolls around the garden, we cannot afford to eat jalebis, nukhti, as it will take a toll on our health,” he said. Fitness trainers and dieticians are also suggesting healthier and tastier options for Iftar. Busting the myth ‘healthy is tasteless’, consultant dietician Jyoti Sharma gave ideas for wholesome, delicious, and light snacks that can be enjoyed by everyone. “Instead of pakoras, grilled paneer cutlets with lots of vegetables, can be an alternative healthy and tasty option. People observing Rozas need to have a hydrating and nourishing meal during Iftar as so that they can fight the heat. Fruit smoothies, shakes, can quench thirst and hydrate the body, keeping one from having a heatstroke. For Sehri, they can opt for fruit salads, and rice pudding so that they have enough calories to last all day long. If they wish to eat papads and chips, they can roast them instead of frying,” she suggested. Gym owner Huzefa said that he had made special diet for gym members observing Roza to suit their Sehri and Iftar schedules coupled with light exercises to help them avoid gaining weight. “People are unable to exercise like they did before so they are only accumulating calories. It is important to eat light and exercise during lockdown else people will gain a lot of weight. We have included items like soaked raisins, dry fruits, choora-dahi, fruits, dahi-paratha and simple homemade omelettes, roti-sabzi, poh, sewainya or kheer for the month of Ramzan. ” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/fried-food-out-health-food-trends-this-ramzan/articleshow/75458676.cms||Shuchita Jha
April 30, 2020||Delhi||Delhi Police will use new tech to track dubious online profiles||NEW DELHI: A special software is being procured by Delhi Police to identify suspicious profiles by tracking activities on social media and internet-enabled platforms, sources have confirmed. The system will also have the ability to trawl over the Darknet. Through this technology, data from Facebook, Twitter, Reddit, Instagram, VKontakte and chat platforms like Slack, Threema, Wechat, Line, Telegram, etc will be analysed to identify suspicious profiles based on their “likes, tweets and shares”, documents accessed by TOI suggest. “Multiple reports will be generated from different platforms, including hashtag information. The system will automatically calculate sentiments/mood against a piece of text, classify it and extract themes out of it,” said the source. The source added, “The system will be able to identify people on the social network based on their email ID and phone number. It will identify trends and key influencers against a particular event. It will also collect all timeline activities, including tweets, interactions and retweets.” An officer said that the system will have the ability to collect both followers of the target and users followed by him/her. “Police want the system to identify geolocations wherever possible for check-ins, pictures, tags and tweets. The operator will be able to collect all latest hashtags and its results from Twitter. The software will support Twitter Rest API to extract information from historical data,” the document suggested. The image analysis feature will have facial recognition capability to search for photographs of suspects and public figures trending on social media. It will also have the feature to provide offline video analysis to identify suspects. The system will allow the user to have multiple views in terms of trends, timelines, viral media and users’ views and reactions. “All analysed information will be provided in visually rich form, like maps, tag clouds, flowcharts and sort lists,” said an official. The tech will also have crawlers to analyse news reports from various platforms. It will be built on a big data repository to handle a large amount of information, added the official. Regarding privacy concerns, police have clarified that the programme will only extract data from open source (o-sint) and not hack into devices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/police-will-use-new-tech-to-track-dubious-online-profiles/articleshow/75460428.cms||Raj Shekhar
April 30, 2020||Pune||NGOs give free food at doorstep||Pune: Several NGOs have set up community kitchens and are delivering cooked food to the needy at their doorstep free of cost.  The NGO Sarva Dharam Samabhav has opened kitchens in Kalyaninagar, Koregaon Park, Yerawada, Hazrat Shadwal Baba Dargah. Haddya Social Foundation, has been giving food to 2,500 people in Kondhwa. Kausarbaugh Social Welfare Foundation, has been supplying packets to around 1,700 people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ngos-give-free-food-at-doorstep/articleshow/75460420.cms||Asseem Shaikh
April 30, 2020||Pune||FTII alumni remember acting giant & frequent collaborator Irrfan Khan||PUNE: The late acting giant Irrfan Khan was no stranger to the Film and Television Institute of India (FTII). In fact, he supported the institute and recognized its role in the film industry during its tumultuous days a few years ago. For some of his friends, collaborators, and acquaintances from the institute, Irrfan was a wise, funny, and versatile man. In the early 1990s, Irrfan acted in a number of student diploma films and he also frequented the FTII campus hangouts, including the Wisdom Tree. At one of these hangouts Sankalp Meshram, a 1991-batch editing student, met Irrfan. The actor ended up staying at Meshram’s hostel room for a couple of weeks in 1992. “Sutapa (Irrfan’s wife) was staying at the girls’ hostel and Irrfan was also there, either as part of a student exchange programme with the National School of Drama (NSD) or as part of a student film. We were hanging out by the Wisdom Tree and we decided Irrfan should also stay at the boys’ hostel. We were the same age. We were all struggling at the time but he was noticed in the film Warrior and his career took off,” Meshram, a multiple National Film Award-winner, recounted. Irrfan played cricket as a teenager and his skill as a batsman was endorsed by one-time colleague Dharam Gulati, a cinematography graduate from FTII. Gulati, and others, including Naseeruddin Shah, Tom Alter, would practice cricket on weekends in Mumbai. Gulati worked as the cinematographer in the Doordarshan series Kahkashan, a series on famous Urdu poets, and one episode was based on the poet Makhdoom Mohiuddin, whom Irrfan portrayed as one of his first lead roles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ftii-alumni-remember-acting-giant-frequent-collaborator-irrfan-khan/articleshow/75460418.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
April 30, 2020||Hubballi||When Irrfan Khan slept on mat in solidarity with teacher Prasanna||HUBBALLI/MYSURU: Theatre personality and activist Prasanna said Irrfan Khan was a truly gifted actor and his death is an irreparable loss to Indian cinema. Prasanna shared a special bond with Irrfan, the Bollywood star who passed away in Mumbai on Wednesday. Prasanna said he has had no contact with many actors he trained, but Irrfan was not one of them. “Irrfan was one actor who was always in touch with me even after completing his training when he was my student at the National School of Drama in the 80s. He was very keen about my activities like Satyagraha, protests and other activities,” he said. Prasanna said Irrfan was hardworking and a keen observer as a student. “He would try to overcome lapses in his acting immediately by learning the tricks of acting in detail and in a very professional way. He would practice it rigorously till he became perfect in that,” said Prasanna who last spoke to Irrfan the previous week. Prasanna said he planned to meet Irrfan in Mumbai when the Bollywood actor returned to India after treatment. However, he could not meet his star student as he had gone to his farmhouse in Igatpuri to celebrate the birth of a calf. Irrfan featured in some plays directed by Prasanna including the lead role in “Laal Ghaas Par Neele Ghode”. From plays to satyagraha Prasanna and Irrfan’s association went beyond theatre and acting. Perhaps the best exhibition of their personal connection was when Irrfan joined the Badanavalu Satyagraha, spearheaded by Prasanna in April 2015. He participated in the movement to promote Gandhian thoughts before leaving for Budapest where he shot for a Hollywood film. The movement also called for promotion of sustainable living. Much like its spirit, Irrfan slept on a grass mat and savoured finger millet malt with jaggery tea. When he and his wife Sutapa Sikdar walked through the nondescript village near Nanjangud, they won the hearts of one and all. He spoke about reverse migration through the revival of village economy. He opposed urbanisation and supported the concept of self-sufficiency in villages. “He was such a nice person and very much concerned about society,” recalled Prasanna.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/when-irrfan-khan-slept-on-mat-in-solidarity-with-teacher-prasanna/articleshow/75457215.cms||Basavaraj Kattimani
April 30, 2020||Agra||Eight more test positive for Covid-19 in Aligarh||Agra: Eight more persons tested positive for Covid-19 in Aligarh on Wednesday, taking the tally in the district to 32. Talking to TOI, chief development officer (CDO) Anunay Jha said two of the infected persons are the husband and 5-year-old nephew of a pregnant woman from Hathipul, who had earlier tested positive. The other six, including a teenager, are all males and hail from the same area. He added that Hathipul has now been declared a hotspot and only healthcare and sanitation staff will be allowed in, while essential items will be home delivered. He further said that a 15-year-old girl from Etah has also been tested positive while being admitted at AMU’s JNMC. Meanwhile, two more persons from Mathura tested positive, including a 24-year-old woman who is the wife of an advocate, and 60-year-old man who had gone to Metro Hospital in Faridabad for a check-up. Mathura CMO Sher Singh said after being diagnosed for Covid-19, the man returned to Mathura and was admitted to KD Medical College. However, the CMO did not include the patient’s name in Mathura’s covid tally, as “he was diagnosed in Faridabad”. The total number of positive patients in the district is now 14, he said. “A total of 1,047 samples have been tested so far. Of these, 733 were found negative and reports of 289 are awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/eight-more-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-aligarh/articleshow/75457199.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Amaravati||Andhra Pradesh: Focus shifts to virus containment clusters in red zones||AMARAVATI: In an aggressive approach to contain the spread of Covid-19, the state government has segregated red zones into three different clusters and directed district collectors to go for micro-level management. The government has designated 73 zones as very active clusters, 55 active clusters and 73 dormant clusters within existing red zones depending on the number of positive cases in each cluster. Chief minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy reviewed the latest status of Covid-19 containment measures with senior officials at the CM’s camp office on Wednesday. The officials said the state was on the right track as it had increased screening of patients in all districts. Special chief secretary (health) KS Jawahar Reddy said 13 clusters within the red zones have not reported a single positive case in the last 28 days. He said segregating red zones into micro clusters would help district administrations take up effective measures to contain the virus spread. He said 27 of the 29 positive cases in Guntur district came from Narasaraopet town and the new analysis will provide a focused approach. The chief minister directed the officials to entrust the third joint collector to be appointed in the district with the task of overseeing the YSR telemedicine wing in the districts. He said YSR telemedicine would be the new normal post-lockdown system and help people take medical aid without leaving home. The officials explained that trial testing has begun at Srikakulam medical college lab and labs in Ongole and Nellore were being readied. They said all three laboratories would start functioning by Saturday. Covid-19 tests on the suspects identified during the family survey would be completed within three days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/focus-shifts-to-virus-containment-clusters-in-red-zones/articleshow/75458668.cms||Samdani MN
April 30, 2020||India||Aarogya Setu ‘OK’ must for central govt staffers||NEW DELHI: All central government employees were on Wednesday directed to immediately download ‘Aarogya Setu’ App on their mobile phones and confirm their status as “safe” or “low-risk” before setting off for their work place. Seeking strict adherence to the directions for improved safety of all government staffers, the department of personnel and training instructed all officers and staff, including outsourced personnel, to run a check on their status on the App prior to starting for office. If their status shows them to be “moderate” or “high” risk on the basis of “recent contact with any infected person”, they shouldn’t attend office and self-isolate for 14 days till their status is “safe” or “low-risk”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/aarogya-setu-ok-must-for-central-govt-staffers/articleshow/75461746.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Agra||Four cops, including SI, test +ve for Covid-19 in Firozabad||Agra: A week after a lockdown violator tested positive after being caught by Ramgadh police, four cops, including a sub-inspector (SI), have tested positive for Novel Coronavirus on Wednesday, taking Firozabad tally to 105. Inspector general of police, Agra range, Satish Ganesh said, “The corona positive patients include three constables and one sub-inspector. All the four cops have been shifted to isolation facility.” He said, “Some days ago, a local resident who was caught violating the lockdown tested corona positive prompting us to quarantine at least 27 policemen. We have received four sample reports from Saifai Medical College, 23 are still pending.” According to police, six men were arrested on April 14 in Ramgadh area for violating lockdown. Later on April 23, one of the apprehended youths tested positive. As the Ramgadh SHO and 22 cops are still in quarantine, charge of the police station has been given to inspector Anoop Kumar. According to the health department of Firozabad, with seven fresh cases, the Covid-19 positive tally is now 105. Two of the seven cases are contacts of Firozabad mayor’s camp office computer operator. The third case is related to the DM camp office. “Contact tracing of the seven new corona positive cases has been initiated as per protocol,” Firozabad CMO Dr S K Dixit said. In Agra, over 90 policemen have been quarantined after two kitchen staff members, including a woman (civilian) of Agra Police Line, were tested Covid-19 positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/four-cops-including-si-test-ve-for-covid-19-in-firozabad/articleshow/75457225.cms||Arvind Chauhan
April 30, 2020||Nagpur||Father-daughter duo gets discharge after 34 days||Nagpur: A person from Jaripatka and his 11-year-old daughter were discharged from IGGMCH on Wednesday after making full recovery from Covid-19. They were in Covid-19 Isolation Ward for 34 days. It has come as a big relief for the man as he was staying with his minor daughter at Isolation Ward despite having tested negative and recommended for discharge on April 11. He was the assistant at the shop of Khamla businessman who tested positive on March 25. Over 120 persons from Khamla and Jaripatka were quarantined of which 10 had tested positive including father-daughter of Jaripatka. The shop’s manager and his daughter from Khamla are still at Isolation Ward as samples of the girl were positive even on Wednesday. The manager is staying with his 16-year-old daughter at Isolation Ward despite having tested negative and recommended for discharge on April 11. Two more from Satranjipura— 25-year-old man and 8-year-old boy were discharged from GMCH.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/father-daughter-duo-gets-discharge-after-34-days/articleshow/75459653.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra to go ahead with plasma therapy trials: Rajesh Tope||PUNE: Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope on Wednesday said plasma therapy trials for Covid-19 will continue in the state. The minister’s statement to TOI comes a day after the Union government said the procedure, until its efficacy is fully proven, should only be used for research and not as a regular line of treatment for Covid-19 patients. Plasma therapy is the transfusion of antibody-rich blood plasma from recovered Covid-19 patients into those who are critically ill with the infection. Tope maintained that these are trials that have been allowed and more centres in the state would be roped in once they meet Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines. “We have centres approaching ICMR for permission to conduct plasma therapy trials. We will back this as research and trials are important. In Mumbai, the first patient to have received this therapy — a 50-year-old man at Lilavati hospital — is recovering well. We are now scheduling another patient from Nair hospital in Mumbai. We would want other centres, especially those in Pune, to carry out similar trials,” he said. Both Pune and Mumbai have emerged as Covid-19 hotspots. For Pune, Tope suggested that the civic administration start the process of securing consent from people for trials. He said the plasma therapy trial in Mumbai was carried out as per protocol and with clearances from donor, receiver and the ethics committee. “The municipal commissioner adhered to all the norms when it was carried out. We are readying for more trials,” he said. Pune divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar told TOI that officials have contacted 28 recovered patients, who are currently undergoing counselling. “We are in talks with the ICMR authorities. We expect to receive approvals for the trials within a day or two. Our team is reaching out to those who have recovered from Covid-19 for their consent. We are meeting all criteria. Those in the trials should be above 18 and weigh at least 55kg. Women participants should have borne one child or more,” he said. Hospitals across several states have applied to the ICMR for permissions to start plasma or immune therapy. Health officials in the state government said centres in Kolhapur, Solapur and Nagpur too are likely to carry out trials after securing approvals. Minister for education Amit Deshmukh said permissions from the ICMR have come through for almost all medical colleges, which will now start trials soon. “The entire process will be executed by the colleges' respective deans, who are ready to start the therapy. We are fully aware that these are trials, but they need to be done as we don’t have a vaccine yet,” he said. Meanwhile, the government is planning to set up 20 new Covid-19 testing labs across the state. Three of the labs have already been given approvals and are likely to become operational soon. Currently, there are 50 laboratories across the state with a testing capacity of 10,000 swabs per day. These new testing labs will add the capacity of testing swabs for Covid-19 by another 3,500.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/maha-to-go-ahead-with-plasma-therapy-trials-tope/articleshow/75460423.cms||Nisha Nambiar
April 30, 2020||Kochi||Kerala DGP denies nod to MLA to travel to constituency||KOTTAYAM: An MLA from Kottayam, who represents a constituency in Kannur, is in a tricky situation as he finds it difficult to visit his constituency during the lockdown. K C Joseph, who has been representing Irikkur assembly constituency in Kannur continuously since 1982, has got stuck at his home in Kottayam, where he was under quarantine for 28 days. Now, he alleges that the government is not permitting him to travel to Irikku. Joseph was quarantined after he came into contact with a Congress leader in Idukki, who was confirmed with Covid-19. “After completing my quarantine period, I wanted to go to my constituency for carrying out some relief work on Wednesday,” Joseph said. He had sent a mail to DGP Loknath Behera on Tuesday, seeking permission for his travel. In his reply email on Wednesday morning, the DGP denied Joseph permission. The DGP cited that since Irikkur is in Kannur district which falls in the red zone, police are not in a position to accord travel permission. Joseph said he was planning to travel in his official Innova car accompanied by his driver and personal security officer. He had sought to travel from Kottayam to Kannur via Muvattupuzha, Trissur, Malappuram and Kozhikode. Joseph termed the denial of travel as discriminatory. “When ministers are travelling between red zone Kannur and orange zone Thiruvananthapuram without any restriction, why are they showing this discrimination to me,” he asked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/dgp-denies-nod-to-mla-to-travel-to-constituency/articleshow/75457243.cms||Jaikrishnan Nair
April 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Asymptomatic cases: Govt readies home care guide||Ahmedabad: Public hospitals have already begun to fill with asymptomatic Covid-19 patients leading health authorities to quickly localizing the central guidelines for home isolation of asymptomatic Covid-19 patients. Authorities in the city have begun to offer asymptomatic patients at Samras hostel in Navrangpura this option. No permission from residential societies will be required. If the patient opts to be home quarantined, the government or the local body will first inspect the home and then move forward. “There is no other option now with the growing number of cases, so government facilities can remain available to those whose conditions worsen,” says a senior Ahmedabad municipal official. Municipal commissioner Vijay Nehra said, “A detailed instruction manual is being prepared for the purpose before the option is extended to all. A team of health experts will visit the home and inspect the room, and record the number of other residents, including children, the elderly or those with co-morbidities before reaching a decision.”“A properly ventilated room with an attached toilet exclusively for the patient is a must. Sanitizer, gloves and biohazard bags will be provided and all necessary arrangements will be made at each home,” says the senior municipal official.A list of asymptomatic patients at SVP hospital and Asarwa Civil Hospital is also being drawn up. “A big challenge will be those who live in congested areas as awareness activities will have to be extended to neighbours in such localities, so that the patients or their families are not harassed,” said the AMC official. Their refuse will have to be doused with sodium hypochlorite solution before flushing into the sewage system. “The solution disintegrates the virus,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/asymptomatic-cases-govt-readies-home-care-guide/articleshow/75459732.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Kochi||KEIL flags down plastic waste from red zones||KOCHI: Disposing non-biodegradable waste piled up at material collection facilities in red zone districts has become a daunting task for authorities. This refuse has been piling up on the premises of the Kerala Enviro Infrastructure Ltd (KEIL) in Ernakulam following the Covid-19 outbreak. KEIL officials have asked Clean Kerala Company, which collects waste from local bodies in the state, to desist from using their campus as a landfill. On Thursday, six trucks carrying waste from Kozhikode were prevented from entering the premises of Fertilizers and Chemicals Travancore Ltd (Fact) in Ambalamughal, where KEIL functions.  “We had informed Clean Kerala not to transfer the waste from Malappuram, Kannur and Kozhikode districts. Our employees have raised objections to treating waste from the Malabar area. They are scared and say they would stay away from work. Since we don’t want to put our employees at risk, KEIL informed Clean Kerala not to transport waste from red zones,” a KEIL official said on condition of anonymity. The clearing of waste from material collection facilities (MCFs) in Malappuram, Kozhikode and Kannur has been suspended for want of a disposal site. “We transport the waste after disinfecting it properly. But KEIL refused to treat it following objection from employees. We hope they will treat the six loads, currently awaiting permission to enter their premises. We will find a new place within two or three days to dispose of remaining rejected waste,” said a Clean Kerala Company official in Kozhikode. The six trucks were finally allowed to unload at KEIL late on Thursday on the condition that no more waste from red zones will be moved to the facility. The non-biodegradable waste from Kasaragod will not be transported to other districts for the time-being. “A recycling agency will be identified to remove all the clean and dry waste from MCFs. The remaining waste will be kept at the MCF itself. It will be cleared later. The current issue is due to vehicles carrying waste from all districts reaching a single point where it is treated. We will sort it out soon,” said Sreejith L K, senior assistant manager with Clean Kerala Company.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/keil-flags-down-plastic-waste-from-red-zones/articleshow/75457227.cms||T C Sreemol
April 30, 2020||Nagpur||First in Vidarbha: Death in isolation ward, baby born to Covid-19 mom||On a day when Vidarbha recorded its first Covid-19 patient’s death in IGGMCH isolation ward in Nagpur on Wednesday, the city also witnessed its first corona positive patient delivering a baby, also in the same hospital. After recording double digit increase in Covid-19 positive cases for five days in a row, Vidarbha registered only six new patients on Wednesday. These include three from Nagpur and one each in Amravati, Yavatmal and Akola. With this, the total number of patients in Vidarbha has gone up to 300. A 70-year-old man, tested positive on April 21, breathed his last in Nagpur, while 28-year-old woman from Mominpura gave birth to a baby girl a few hours after testing positive for Covid-19. What could be a matter of concern for all, Amravati recorded yet another death of a suspected Covid-19 patient — a 72-year-old man. His swab samples are yet to be tested. The suspect from Sukali area, who was suffering from cold and cough, was admitted to Covid Hospital on Monday, but died on Tuesday night. “We have put five members of his family in institutional quarantine and other contacts are being traced and quarantined,” said Amravati collector Shailesh Naval. Swab test reports of Amravati’s Kanwar Nagar paan vendor, who died at Covid Hospital three days ago, are also awaited, said an official who confirmed that 25 members of his family have been home quarantined. Four patients from Nagpur and one from Buldhana were discharged on Wednesday, taking the total number of recovered patients from the region to 82. Amravati has already seen seven deaths — highest in Vidarbha. If the two suspects (now deceased) also test positive, it would be a major cause of concern for the administration. So far, 6,598 persons have been screened in Amravati and swab samples of 1,156 have been tested. Of these, 28 have been tested positive, 843 negative and 278 reports are awaited. Yavatmal, which is already in the Covid red zone, heaved a sigh of relief on Wednesday as only one person tested positive. Total active positive cases in the city are now at 76. There are 314 persons admitted to the GMCH isolation ward of whom 238 are presumptive cases. In the last 24 hours, four suspected cases have been admitted to the isolation ward. Officials informed that reports of 1,125 out of the 1,148 swab samples sent to Nagpur lab have been received so far and 1,039 have tested negative. 150 persons have been kept in institutional quarantine, while 884 in home quarantines so far. Meanwhile, district collector MD Singh has rolled back his new time schedule for essential services from 12 noon to 3pm and now it is rescheduled from 8am to 12 noon daily. Similarly, the ban on two-wheelers on the city roads has been lifted. The containment areas will follow the set norms strictly. The collector has also brought Patipura and Dorlipura areas, mostly inhabited by labourers and slum dwellers, under the containment zone. Here the residents are on the verge of starvation due to loss of livelihood, say activists.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/1st-in-vid-death-in-isolationward-baby-born-to-covid-mom/articleshow/75460432.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||State to ramp up Covid-19 testing capacity to 6k a day||Gandhinagar: As the number of Covid-19 cases in Gujarat increases, the state government plans to greatly ramp up its daily testing capacity over the next two or three weeks.At present, the state government has a maximum testing capacity of 3,700 per day. As the pandemic situation worsens, the government is focusing on increasing testing capacity.A key source in the government said the testing capacity at all government colleges where Covid-19 tests are being conducted will be increased over the next fortnight or so. “At present, we have a testing capacity of about 3,700 tests per day, while we have been conducting between 2,500 and 2,700 tests per day across the state. If the need arises, the government will increase daily testing capacity at government colleges to about 6,000 a day,” the source said.The source said that the government is expecting that a few more private laboratories will also get Covid-19 testing permission. “Since the government of India has allowed asymptomatic patients to be isolated and treated at home, the government is exploring the option of more aggressive testing. By mid-May, testing capacity is likely to be about 6,000 persons per day,” the source said.So far around 56,000 Covid-19 tests have been done in the state, of which 3,774 returned positive. A total of 181 persons have died and 434 have recovered. More than 41,000 persons are under quarantine in the state. Ahmedabad alone accounts for more than 2,500 cases, followed by Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/state-to-ramp-up-covid-19-testing-capacity-to-6k-a-day/articleshow/75459678.cms||Kapil Dave
April 30, 2020||Nagpur||SRPF brought in to keep tab on Covid-19 hotspots in city||Nagpur: Two groups of State Reserve Police Force — Gr-13 and Gr-5 or IRB-2 — were again deployed in Covid-19 hotspots of city. It comes as the citizens in containment areas were not co-operating and were not following social distancing and other norms. City police chief BK Upadhyay claimed SRPF deployment was to keep check on citizens. “The SRPF was deployed around 20 days back but had been withdrawn. Now we have called it back. It is a reinforcement for us, as we were facing manpower crunch. Most of their deployment is in containment areas to ensure norms are followed and disease does not spread to other areas,” he said. He also said SRPF deployment was not limited to Nagpur. “It is taking place across the state including in cities like Pune and Mumbai. SRPF will give local police a bit of relaxation,” he added. The Gr-13 has been deployed in Zone 3 of police department. This includes areas under Tehsil, Lakadganj, Shanti Nagar and Ganeshpeth police stations. The bulk of deployment is under Tehsil police, which has areas like Mominpura. While Tehsil received six sections, Lakadganj, Shanti Nagar and Ganeshpeth stations received two sections each. The Gr-15 or IRB-2, has been deployed in Zone 4, Zone 2, Zone 5 and its two sections have been kept as reserves. While Zone 4 received one section, Zone 2 and Zone 5 received one platoon each. TOI had earlier reported several instances in which citizens from containment area were roaming or hiding in other areas exposing others to the outbreak. Earlier, 10 people from Satranjipura, a Covid-19 hotspot, were found hiding in a godown at Kalamna. While two children of a couple which was relative of Satranjipura deceased, were also hiding in Bhaldarpura area. Zone 1 with areas like Hingna, Sonegaon, MIDC, Bajaj Nagar, Wadi and Pratap Nagar will not have any SRPF deployment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/srpf-brought-in-to-keep-tab-on-covid-19-hotspots-in-city/articleshow/75459663.cms||Viraj Deshpande
April 30, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Panel set up to audit Covid-19 deaths, plan strategies to reduce mortality||VIJAYAWADA: Andhra Pradesh government has constituted a nine-member state level-committee for an audit of all the deaths related to Covid-19 to have a deeper understanding of the disease and prepare new strategies for treating the other Covid-19 patients. The committee will be chaired by the director of medical education (DME). The committee will conduct a verbal autopsy with all stakeholders to identify the cause of death. Officials of medical and health and family welfare department said the panel would include, professors of forensic, community and general medicines so that the actual reason for the deaths can be understood. This will help the medical department in treating other coronavirus positive patients and reduce the fatalities. The committee would submit its report to the state nodal authority for Covid-19 and commissioner of health and family welfare. Special chief secretary Dr KS Jawahar Reddy said the committee would analyse the trends and use the data to predict future trends and plan management strategies and suggest measures to reduce mortality in state. Andhra Pradesh has reported 31 Covid-19 deaths, making it the only state in southern India with the highest number of coronavirus deaths. Kurnool district reported nine deaths (highest in the state) followed by Guntur and Krishna districts with eight deaths each. Covid-19 has claimed four lives in Anantapur district and two lives in Nellore district.Of the total 31 Covid-19 deaths in the state, over 90% of the deceased persons were above 55-years-old.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/panel-set-up-to-audit-covid-deaths-plan-strategies-to-reduce-mortality/articleshow/75458708.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Agra||Four Covid-19 suspects discharged from quarantine turn out to be positive||AGRA: In an alarming incident, four Covid-19 suspects were discharged from a quarantine centre on the National Highway-2 on Tuesday night. Later, the four were found to be Covid-19 positive. The four had reached home and came in contact with multiple individuals. According to officials of district administration, three were traced and brought back to the centre with the help of police. One of them is still out. Last week, the district administration had developed an institutional quarantine centre for suspected Covid-19 cases at a private college on NH-2. The centre has a capacity to host 600 people. So far, 117 people have been admitted there. Sources said, on Tuesday night around 1am, the four individuals, residents of Khattekpara under Hariparwat police station, were discharged from the quarantine centre, and they later tested positive. On getting information, senior officials of the district administration, swung into action. A search operation was launched. Police used mobile surveillance system to track the four. In the morning, three of them were shifted to an isolation centre, whereas one was not found at home and his mobile phone was switched off. Till evening, the police were unable to reach out to him. On Wednesday, additional district magistrate (protocol) Pushpraj Singh said, “The first report of the four tested negative. The result of the second round of sample testing was then awaited. The four were creating much nuisance at the centre and wanted to go home to get clothes and other items of utility. They were allowed to leave to come back after getting the required items. Later, the four were found positive. So far, three have been tracked and shifted to isolation ward. Teams are searching for the remaining one." Meanwhile, principal secretary Alok Kumar, who has been appointed by the state government as nodal officer for Covid-19 containment in Agra has sought an explanation from the district magistrate Prabhu N Singh within 24 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/four-covid-19-suspects-discharged-from-quarantine-turn-out-to-be-ve/articleshow/75457233.cms||Deepak Lavania
April 30, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot: Leopard that entered ship not rescued yet||RAJKOT: The leopard which had sneaked into a ship beached at Alang recycling yard on April 25 continues to play hide and seek with rescuers. Despite placing a cage one of the only route through which it can come out, the leopard has still not been caged. In fact, the goat kept as a bait inside the cage, died, hearing the leopard’s road, forest officials said. At the same time, it is also suspected that the wild cat may have escaped from the ship. But sources said that the ship is surrounded by sea and it would be difficult for it to escape. Deputy conservator of forest Sandeep Kumar said the leopard reportedly had also killed a dog and taken the body inside the ship. “The spot where it may be hiding is very dark and the rescue team cannot take a risk of entering,” Kumar said. The leopard had entered the tanker named King Kong 2 beached at plot 153. It was spotted by the security person of the plot, Half of the tanker has been cut for the recycling.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/leopard-that-entered-ship-not-rescued-yet/articleshow/75458714.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Bhopal||More family time, no exam stress: Suicide calls on Dial-100 take a dip in Bhopal||BHOPAL: A comparative study of suicide-related calls received on Dial-100 from across the state during this Covid-19 lockdown period — between March 24 and April 24 and in the same period during the past three years — shows that the number of calls increased every year. Calls received from Bhopal too increased every year during the same period. However, as per the data, the comparison of suicide-related calls received during the 32-day period of lockdown with 32 days before lockdown shows that reporting of suicide-related information on Dial-100 has decreased in the lockdown. In a period of 32 days before lockdown from February 21 to March 23, a total 3,530 calls from across MP were received on Dial-100 while during lockdown from March 24 to April 24, as many as 2,133 calls were received. Seventy five suicide-related calls were received from Bhopal during 32 days of lockdown while 214 calls were received in 32 days before lockdown from the city. Cops look at this development positively. Police officials said the data shows that suicidal tendency in people decreased when they were with their families and spent time together. Police also maintained that information is received on Dial-100 during lockdown just like before, but many positive reasons can be attributed to the decrease in suicide-related calls. Some of them are that youngsters were free of exam pressure as this is the time when exams are usually held. Exam pressure is one of the main reasons witnessed in many suicides reported earlier. Youngsters like young professionals and students were with their families, so loneliness, which is also one of the reasons behind many suicides, was eliminated. All this might have led to the decrease in suicide-related calls. SP (Dial-100) Beena Singh said that Dial-100 classifies suicide-related calls in two categories. The first is abetment in which a person complains that he or she is being pressured to take the extreme step by others like family members, relatives or friends. The second is suicide threat in which a person, who has decided to take the extreme step, informs Dial-100, or anybody who thinks that he spotted any other person trying to kill himself and for reporting a suicide case. SP Singh said that the call takers at Dial-100 are trained on how to respond in such cases and save lives. They are trained in such a way that if they receive a call from a person, who has decided to commit suicide, they talk to them and persuade them not to take the drastic step. In the meantime, the call takers inform their team leaders about such calls and the team leaders inform the police station concerned so that immediate help is provided to that person. In many cases, Dial-100 FRV saved lives of people while they were trying to kill themselves.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/more-family-time-no-exam-stress-suicide-calls-on-dial-100-take-a-dip/articleshow/75458703.cms||Sudeept Mishra
April 30, 2020||Agra||Mathura jail inmates to make polythene-based PPE kit for staff, sanitation workers||Agra: Mathura jail is all set to start the production of polythene-based Improvised Personal Protection kit, developed by IIT-Kanpur researchers, for use of its staff and sanitation workers at the forefront of Covid-19 battle. Confirming this, senior superintendent of Mathura jail Shailendra Maitri said that these kits had been developed by IIT-Kanpur and after seeing the technique on youtube, the NGO engaged in rehabilitation and reforms programme in jail complex developed 20 pieces. “We have received it today and will soon start its production in the jail so we can protect our staff too,” Maitri said. He told TOI that the improvised kit will costs between Rs 150-200 per piece which is far cheaper than other PPE kits that cost around Rs 850. “In a temporary jail, our staff and cops usually interact with the accused before testing them for Covid-19 and there are high chances of the spread of infection. This kit is reusable after sanitisation,” he added. Shipra Rathi of the NGO Khajani Welfare Society said, “We have taken suggestions from medical professionals before preparing the kit. This is not for doctors but for those who are exposed to the infection as they work in high risk areas like sanitation workers, cops, jail staff.” She told TOI that they have followed WHO norms of sealing the plastic kit without stitching it. “There is a face mask, latex gloves, shoe covers, arm covers, body cover and a cotton cap in the kit,” Rathi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/mathura-jail-inmates-to-make-polythene-based-ppe-kit-for-staff-sanitation-workers/articleshow/75457246.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Goa||Kashmiris stranded in Goa seek governor’s aid||PANAJI: While the lockdown has separated several people from their loved ones, for two brothers from Kashmir’s Nawhatta area, the ongoing curbs prevented them from bidding a final goodbye to their father who passed away last week. Amir and Tahir Hussain Khan had come to work in the North Goa coastal belt, but found themselves trapped in the lockdown implemented to fight Covid-19. They are part of at least 1,200 Kashmiri families stranded in Goa. Desperation to return to the Valley is high as most of the Kashmiris are running out of cash and have paid rent only till May. They have sent an SOS to their former governor, Satya Pal Malik, and the J&K administration asking for help to return to their homes in the Valley Malik, now the governor of Goa, has asked the state government authorities to reach out and provide food supplies and other groceries to the Kashmiri businessmen and workers. Although the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) on Wednesday allowed people stranded across the country to travel across states and return to their homes, the announcement did little to cheer the Kashmiris. The Centre has said that buses will be used by states to ferry stranded passengers home, but the Kashmiris point out that travelling by bus over a distance of 2,700km is just not viable as the number of vehicles required to transport all of them will be significant. “The buses will have to make multiple halts along the way for food and sleep. It is not practical as some of us could get the virus along the way,” said Manzoor Ahmed Khan, stranded in Candolim. “It would be better if the government organised flights for us,” he said. “Our only request, either to the Goa government of the Kashmir administration is to help us reach home. Please take us away from here,” said Khan. Nearly all the Kashmiris are part of Goa’s tourism sector, selling gems, handicrafts and carpets to foreign tourists who visit the sunny state. “Most spend nine months in the hope of earning something but this year the tourism season was bad and now because of the coronavirus our business is completely destroyed,” said Srinagar Resident Bilal Ahmed who is living on rent in Baga. Moreover, nearly 70% of the Kashmiris who are in Goa are here with their families. Mayor of Srinagar, Junaid Azim Mattu spoke to Malik and requested him to help residents of Srinagar and other districts who remain in Goa. Malik informed the North Goa collector and other state government authorities. “We don’t have work here and we aren’t sure how to go back. We want to go home since our family is worried about us,” said Sameer Ahmad Bhat. The North Goa collectorate and IAS officer Kunal have reached out to a few Kashmiris to try and provide assistance. “We have noted the issue. We assure that due assistance and requisites will be provided,” an officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/kashmiris-stranded-in-goa-seek-guvs-aid/articleshow/75460447.cms||Newton Sequeira
April 30, 2020||Nagpur||Vidarbha records 300th Covid-19 case, 48 days after first one||NAGPUR: Vidarbha recorded 300 confirmed Covid-19 positive cases on Wednesday. Interestingly, 222 of these 300 are in Nagpur and Yavatmal districts, with 174 of them recorded in the last ten days — between April 19 and 29. First case in Vidarbha was reported on March 11, and 300th case on April 29, the 48th day of the pandemic in the region. Of these 300 cases, only 21 were recorded in March, between March 11 and 31. Rest 277 were recorded from April 1 to April 29. Even in April, only 50 cases came to fore between April 1 and 9. In the next ten days, between April 10 and 19, total 68 cases were registered. The last 10 days of April — between April 20 and 29 — registered a total of 161 cases. This means, Vidarbha moved towards the peak of Covid-19 during the last 10 days of April. Highest number of 42 confirmed positive cases were recorded on April 25. After this, the number of confirmed cases has constantly coming down. If we refer to the general graph of Covid-19 cases worldwide, this happens after the peak. Statistically, if we consider 42 cases on April 25 as the peak, the number of cases will go down from here onwards. On April 29, only six new cases were found in the region, which signals the same. “Statistical study of Covid-19 graph worldwide shows similar movement. It would be early to predict, but the present development of Vidarbha’s curve is moving towards flattening,” said microbiologist Dr Ankush Mohod. Another important feature of Vidarbha’s Covid-19 trend is low mortality rate and high recovery rate of patients. Till date, 11 deaths have been registered so far, but only one of the deceased was in isolation ward, that too on April 29. Earlier, all 10 deceased were detected positive after their death in either non-Covid ward or in Covid hospital as suspects, and not confirmed cases. Initial observation of doctors is that the mortality rate depends on virus strain. “Mortality rate varies as per the strain of novel coronavirus. As per known studies, there are several strains of this virus. Two known strains are S-strain and L-strain. Out of these, L-strain is considered as more dangerous,” said Dr Milind Bhrushundi, an expert on viral diseases. Recovery rate of Vidarbha is 27.33%, which is way higher than Maharashtra state (14.4%) and also more than the national rate (23.3%). This is due to the fact that more than 85% patients here are asymptomatic. Many of them are young and below 50 years of age. Recovery rate of young patients has been high worldwide.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vidarbha-records-300th-covid-19-case-48-days-after-first-one/articleshow/75460464.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
April 30, 2020||Delhi||Delhi minorities panel chief Zafarul Islam Khan’s post sparks row||NEW DELHI: A day after his statement evoked a sharp reaction on social media, Delhi Minorities Commission chairperson Zafarul Islam Khan on Wednesday said that he had never tried to tarnish the image of India and accused media organisations of distorting his views. Khan said he was a “patriot” to the core and had always “defended” his country abroad. “I have not complained against my country to any foreign government or organisation, nor do I intend to do so in future. However, at the same time I have always been vocal about the problems in our country like any other. But we and our political, constitutional and judicial system are capable of tackling them,” Khan clarified. The clarification came after Khan in his Facebook post on Tuesday said that Hindus would face an “avalanche” if Indian Muslims complained to the Muslim world about their “hate campaigns, lynchings and riots”. “Thank you Kuwait for standing with the Indian Muslims! The Hindutva bigots calculated that given the huge economic stakes involved the Muslim and Arab world will not care about the persecution of Muslims in India,” Khan had posted. He, however, clarified on Wednesday that his tweet was in the “background” of how the “issues of Muslims” — lynching, riots, media bashing or redressal of their problems in political and administrative processes — were being dealt with. “I have always defended my country in the Arabic media… According to my knowledge, Indian Muslims have never complained against their country to outside powers. I, like other Indian Muslims, believe in the rule of law, the Indian Constitution and the fine institutions our country has,” Khan said. He, however, added that the United States Commission on International Religious Freedom in its recent report had mentioned that religious freedom in India deteriorated sharply last year as the government allowed “campaigns of harassment and violence” against Muslims and other religious minorities to continue. Meanwhile, Delhi BJP functionaries demanded Khan’s removal as the chairman of the minorities commission for his remarks. In a letter to lieutenant governor Anil Baijal, BJP MLA from Rohini and former leader of the Opposition in Delhi assembly, Vijender Gupta, said that despite being on a constitutional post, Khan had “defamed” the country and “threatened” the people of India of “dire consequences”. “He has tried to malign India by spreading lies and creating communal enmity. Strict action should be taken against Zafarul Islam Khan for his anti-national activities that may have far-reaching consequences for national security,” Gupta said. Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor wrote to police commissioner SN Srivastava demanding registration of a case against Khan for his post that could “provoke both the Muslim and Hindu communities and disturb the law and order situation”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/minorities-panel-chiefs-post-sparks-row/articleshow/75460461.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Thane||Thane reports 23 more patients, former MP and wife recover||THANE: As many as 23 people tested positive for Covid-19 in Thane on Wednesday, 10 of whom are from the densely populated Waghle Estate. Eight of these 10 patients had come in contact with a social worker. So far, Thane city has reported around 279 positive patients, more than 50 of whom have been discharged so far. “A social worker from that area and his father tested positive a few days ago. Thereafter, around 50 high-risk contacts of the man were tested as he had distributed food and provided help to them. Thirty-two of them tested negative, a few were tested twice and some results are pending,” said Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner, TMC. Twenty-three positive cases were reported from Kalwa, Mumbra and Uthalsar too. Meanwhile, a former MP (45) and his wife recovered from Covid and were discharged from a Thane-based private hospital late on Tuesday. They were admitted to the hospital around a fortnight ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/thane-reports-23-more-patients-former-mp-and-wife-recover/articleshow/75458755.cms||Shrutika Sukhi
April 30, 2020||Agra||Quarantined rly staffer waiting for Covid19 report for 8 days, hangs self; sample tests -ve later in the afternoon||Agra: A 59-year-old railway employee who was quarantined and was waiting for his Covid-19 report for eight days allegedly committed suicide on Wednesday morning in Firozabad district. Sample taken from the deceased man, however, tested negative for Covid-19 later in the day. The man had also left behind a suicide note.The staffer was found hanging in the Tundla-based private hospital, which was earlier turned into a quarantine facility. He was a fourth-grade employee posted at the carriage and wagon department in Tundla and hailed from Raipur in Chhattisgarh. According to the district administration, the staffer and seven other railway employees were quarantined after a senior section engineer of the carriage and wagon department in Tundla was tested corona positive after he had come in contact with Covid-19 patients at a private hospital on NH-2 in Agra.After being informed of the suicide case, a police team and senior officials of the district administration reached the quarantine centre to investigate the matter. Firozabad district magistrate Chandra Vijay Singh said, “The reason for suicide is not clear as the victim had not mentioned any motive for taking the extreme step in his one-page suicide note. His Covid-19 sample test report was awaited as the first sample taken on April 20 was found inconclusive on April 23. Another sample was taken on April 28.”In his suicide note, he asked his elder son to take care of the family and also recover cash (Rs 67,000) which he had kept under his bed at his government accommodation and Rs 4,000 from his trouser pocket.Meanwhile, a railway official, on condition of anonymity, claimed that the situation inside the quarantine facility was poor. In the initial days, there was scarcity of drinking water and the railway employees were kept in one quarantine ward along with other civilians. The situation here improved only after we made several requests to the district administration. “The medical staff was not very helpful. Two days ago, the staffer complained of stomachache and demanded some medicine but his pleas were ignored,” president of North Central Railway Karmchari Sangh of Tundla unit S K Gupta said in press statement.Refuting the allegations, the district magistrate said, “Each railway employee was provided a separate room, doctors and other medical staff round the clock. There was no report of misbehaviour by any medical staff and necessary items, including food and water, were provided to the quarantined people.”Meanwhile, on a special request by the DM Saifai medical college conducted a test of the deceased and found his sample negative for Covid-19. At the time of filing this report, the victim’s body was sent for post-mortem and his relatives were on the way from their native place. Inspector general of police Agra range Satish Ganesh said, “The Tundla-based quarantine facility is one of the best in Firozabad. The victim was given a private room with attached bathroom and toilet and hygiene level was maintained regularly.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/quarantined-rly-staffer-waiting-for-covid19-report-for-8-days-hangs-self-sample-tests-ve-later-in-the-afternoon/articleshow/75457255.cms||Arvind Chauhan
April 30, 2020||Kolhapur||City wards to face water cuts today, IMD predicts thunderstorms for next few days||Kolhapur: The city wards of A, C, and D are set to face water cuts for the second time this week on Thursday, as the civic body plans to replace the damaged transformer at Nagdewadi. Gusty winds and sudden change in the current supply is considered to because behind the damage to the transformer. The Kolhapur Municipal Corporation had to shut the pumping station on Thursday for getting the transformer repaired. On Tuesday, the same wards faced water cuts due to a damaged valve at Balinga pumping station. The repair work was completed on Tuesday itself, however, the water supply was at low pressure to the affected areas. "We learned about the damaged transformer on Wednesday afternoon. The water supply was stopped immediately. However, we have filled the elevated storage tanks and will be releasing water from these tanks for some time. No water supply will be there on Thursday. We are hoping to get it repaired immediately and then start the water supply. We have water tankers which will be deployed to the affected areas," said a senior hydraulic official requesting anonymity. Meanwhile, heavy rain and gusty winds for over 30 minutes were reported in some parts of the city. In rural areas, there was damage to a school, a petrol pump, and shelter homes. The electricity supply to some parts of the city was cut for over two hours due to the damage to the electricity transformers, substations, and poles. The IMD Mumbai has predicted that thunderstorms and gusty winds are likely to occur in Kolhapur and nearby Sangli districts||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/city-wards-to-face-water-cuts-today-imd-predicts-thunderstorms-for-next-few-days/articleshow/75458739.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Nagpur||MLA Hostel inmates forced to begin roza sans drinking water||Nagpur: Several Covid19 suspects quarantined at the MLA Hostel claimed to have started their Wednesday’s roza (fast) without drinking water during sehri after the administration didn’t provide them potable water since late Tuesday night. An inmate from Mominpura shared videos of the tap inside his MLA Hostel room which was actually an extension of the washroom water connection. “Only signages have been put up but there are no water coolers in the corridor. No packaged water too was provided with food. We asked our relatives to bring water from home. But police didn’t allow them to send the cans inside. Officials asked us to use the wash basin tap for drinking water. But we realized, it was an extension of water supply for toilet,” said the inmate. The situation forced many of them to start their roza without water on Wednesday. Sub divisional officer Shekhar Gadge said the facility has municipal corporation water supply. “Corporation water taps are there in every kitchen. Nothing from outside is allowed in institutional quarantine as there is fear of infection spreading further,” he said. Gadge referred queries regarding provision of drinking water coolers in corridors and in rooms to state public works department, which runs the facility. Officials said so far foreign-returned inmates were staying at the hostels. “As per their standard, we were providing packaged water. A day ago, NMC chief Tukaram Mundhe asked to stop giving bisleri water to inmates,” officials said. The officials added that RO system was fitted at several points and the corporation water too was filtered. Mundhe didn’t answer to TOI’s calls and messages. An inmate said, “We are brought as corona suspects and have been told to take care of ourselves. What if we fall sick by drinking the tank water coming in the taps. Does the administration actually wants us to fall sick.” Meanwhile, Satranjipura residents quarantined at VNIT hostels complained of not getting food till late on Wednesday night. On April 27, over 250 residents had gone hungry and faced problem while they were shifted from the locality to institutional quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mla-hostel-inmates-forced-to-begin-roza-sans-drinking-water/articleshow/75459700.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
April 30, 2020||Pune||Priority eludes sanitary pads in Pune||PUNE: Sanitary napkins have come to assume the lowest priority in the list of essentials for women from financially backward classes and those in shelter homes across the city. Inspector Maya Deore of the Chaturshringi police said, “ People in shelter homes are not let out and they have no means to get access to napkins. Thus, I contacted a voluntary organization National Youth Union (NYU). Jointly, we have distributed sanitary napkins in a slum and various shelter homes.”  “We are helping by distributing a pack of 12 sanitary napkins to these women,” said Arijit Biswas from NYU.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/priority-eludes-sanitary-pads/articleshow/75306963.cms||Ardhra Nair
April 30, 2020||Goa||29 Newton ESMA invoked Pharma||Panaji: The state government on Wednesday invoked the Essential Services Maintenance Act, thus pre-empting and prohibiting any strike by employees of pharmaceutical and ancillary units in the state. In a public notice, the government said that it has prohibited strikes in the service or employment in units manufacturing or distributing pharmaceutical products or other related ancillary activities in Goa. The order has been implemented with immediate effect, from Wednesday. Meanwhile, president of the Goa Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association Dr Praveen Khullar said that the association did not make any representation requesting that ESMA be invoked. Since the nationwide lockdown was imposed, the state government has tried to ensure that drug manufacturers remain operational due to the need for life-saving drugs. The government has also asked all authorities to ensure that workers employed in the pharma industry are not stopped from working.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/29-newton-esma-invoked-pharma/articleshow/75460465.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Kolhapur||No update on academic calendar : SUK||Kolhapur: Shivaji University, Kolhapur’s (SUK) vice-chancellor Devanand Shinde on Wednesday said that they are still awaiting the University Grants Commission (UGC) guidelines on the academic calendar and examinations. Shinde, who is part of the panel constituted by the state government to look into the academic calendar and examinations across state universities, said that fake news in the name of UGC is doing rounds, which needs to be avoided. “We are still awaiting guidelines. And when we receive them, we will discuss those with all the vice-chancellors across the state universities and then take a call on the upcoming academic session,” he said, adding that until then the stakeholders, including students, should avoid any kind of distress on the academic or examination news.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/no-update-on-academic-calendar-suk/articleshow/75458754.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Ahmedabad’s Covid-19 testing rate highest in the country’||AHMEDABAD: The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation has achieved a Covid-19 testing rate of 4,197 tests per million people, which is the highest test rate in the country. Municipal commissioner Vijay Nehra said so far laboratory tests were performed in 22,902 cases in the city and 2,038 tests were performed with test kits. With these the total number of Covid-19 tests conducted in the city were 24,940 till Tuesday, which was 4,197 tests per million people. Nehra had said on Tuesday that Ahmedabad now has the highest test rate per million people in the country and it was three times that of Delhi which had the highest tests per million people earlier. AMC officials said of the 56,101 tests conducted in the state, 44.45% were done in Ahmedabad city. The officials added that AMC was able to detect the high number of cases due to intense surveillance. In the fourth week of April, surveillance teams visited 5 lakh houses and screened 22.12 lakh people. Of these, 4,281 samples were collected and 290 tested positive, said health officials of AMC. So far, 18,220 samples were taken by AMC field staff and of these 1,263 tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/citys-testing-rate-highest-in-the-country/articleshow/75459737.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Pune||Duty first, say 2 frontline doctor couples working at Pune's Naidu hospital||PUNE: Doctor Mahesh Gude has a visually-impaired father, an arthritic mother and two young children, but that hasn’t deterred him and his wife Alaknanda, also a doctor, from resolving to treat coronavirus patients. Nikhil and Rutuja Gore, another doctor couple who married recently, were anxious at first but picked up the courage to join the battle against the infection. Both couples were deputed to the Naidu hospital here about seven weeks ago when the first Covid-19 positive case was detected in Pune. The Gudes had already told the district hospital in Manchar where they worked about their willingness to join Naidu hospital. They have rented a separate flat near their parents’ to avoid spreading the infection to them. Their children, aged 6 and 11, are taken care of by their grandparents. “We have not informed our neighbours about our profession or where we work. Within a week of deputation at Naidu hospital, we realised that my parents and children will be at risk. So we rented a house and stay separately,” Mahesh Gude said. His father is totally blind and requires constant help. “Before I decided to join the Covid-19 workforce, I spoke to my parents and they supported our decision. Both my parents are high risk and so are my children, but my duty to the people is important,” he said. Gude has worked in earthquake-hit areas and in the Kumbh Mela in his 20 years of service. Alaknanda said she joined her husband whole-heartedly. “I sought the permission of my parents-in-law and started working at Naidu hospital 10 days after my husband joined there. I feel for my children who are managing without us, but they don’t complain. They know we are treating patients,” she said. The couple sends essential items to the parents and children. The entire family meets once a week. The Gores were working with the district hospital in Baramati. “When they told us that we will have to start at Naidu hospital, there was anxiety. That was when just one or two patients were around. I thought about it for a few days and had some fears since we saw the situation around the world. The only positive was that my husband was going to be working in the same hospital. We took up the assignment,” she said. “During those eight hours of duty, we had different experiences with patients. Initially, patients came from well-to-do families but now a majority are from the slums. There is a contrast and dealing with each patient is a learning experience,” Gore said. The Gores handle counselling and medical management of precautions while treating Covid-19 patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/duty-first-say-2-frontline-doctor-couples-working-at-naidu-hospital/articleshow/75460457.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
April 30, 2020||Goa||A little corner in Chinchinim sees a ‘miraculous’ agricultural turnaround||MARGAO: After 45 years, the farm belonging to the Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK) at Durga, Chinchinim is in full bloom. The paddy seedlings which were transplanted in January this year over an area of 3.5 acres have reached the harvesting stage, and preparations are already on at the center for the second crop. Farmers have started dropping at the farm to take in the success story which some refer as, “nothing less than a miracle.” While half the area has been already harvested, the remaining part will be harvested next week. “It was challenging, and I am glad we have been sucessful,” says Sanjeev Mayekar, project coordinator of the KVK’s south Goa district office at Margao, who was responsible for converting the barren land into agro-cover. Mayekar said the outcome has been “phenomenal.” “When I took charge in June last year, I identified this land as suitable for paddy cultivation using improvised paddy seeds. However, it was swamped with mangroves and marine vegetation. We cleared it for cultivation. There was also ingress of saline water. The topography is such that there would be reverse flow of saline water every time we tried to drain it. What was most important was the identification of salt-resistant variety of paddy seeds that would withstand this highly saline environment in the khazan land,” Mayekar said. KVK selected Goadhan 1, 2, 3 and 4 varieties of paddy seeds developed by ICAR scientist Dr Manohar KK. Field tests had been conducted but mass cultivation hadn’t been done. The success of the experiment at Durga farm has now paved the way for Goan farmers to try such premium paddy seeds in khazan lands which are largely lying fallow. Mayekar said, “The benefit of these seeds is that they are suitable for using mechanized methods right from transplanting to harvesting, unlike traditional Korgut seed variety. If Goan farmers opt for these, it will help in reviving khazan agriculture in Goa.” The KVK is now preparing to cultivate the second “kharif” paddy crop. “Apart from these Goadhan varieties, we have also identified some landrace seeds (not developed by seed companies) that are still grown in some pockets of the state. We need to select long duration, high-yielding seeds and then adopt some traditional techniques of farming which are now hardly being used by farmers,” Mayekar said. “We have lost some of these traditional skills along the way, and they need to be revived to restore the glory of agriculture in the state.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/an-agricultural-turn-around-in-a-little-corner-of-chinchinim/articleshow/75460452.cms||Govind Kamat Maad
April 30, 2020||Agra||Two cops among 26 test +ve for Covid in Agra, dist tally now 430||Agra: Two constables of Agra police were among 26 new Covid-19 positive cases reported in Agra on Wednesday, taking the district tally to 430. Out of these, one case was related to a bank manager of a national bank and a resident of Tajnagri colony, two cases were related to sanitation worker of SN Medical College (SNMC), three linked to a private hospital on National Highway-2, a resident of Kotwali locality who had been distributing food in lockdown, two contacts of an infected nurse of SNMC, while three cases were related to a wholesale medicine seller who had tested positive earlier. The cases of two constables come just five days after a constable cook (follower) of Agra police lines was found Covid-19 positive, forcing the police to shut down their kitchen which was serving food to more than 300 cops daily. Two constables were posted at Sikandra police station, and one at Agra dial 112 unit of Chhatta police limits. Nine cops who came in contact with the corona positive cops have now been quarantined. Speaking to TOI, superintendent of police (city) Rohan Botre said, “The two cops have been sent to isolation facility. Contact tracing has begun to quarantine people who met the cops in the last few days. The Covid-19 sampling, too, will be done.” He further said, “Cops are the frontline force working round the clock even in hotspots. So, we are not sure as who is the first contact and from whom the two constables got infected.” Notably, 29 cops of UP police, including four sub inspectors, four head constables, 15 constables and one constable cook (follower) have tested positives in Kanpur, Agra, Firozabad, Varanasi, Bijnor and Moradabad. Chief medical officer Mukesh Kumar Vats said, “All the 26 new Covid-19 patients have been shifted to an isolation facility. A team of doctors is attending to them. People are being screened in the area around their houses and the places they had visited. Their contacts are being identified. We will conduct a health check of all these people." According to the health department, out of the 327 cases which have surfaced in Agra, at least 105 are related to people who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi and their contacts, while 95 cases are linked to a private hospital on the NH-2. Another 25 cases are related to a private hospital in Rakabganj locality and a clinic in Ghatiya Azam Khan locality. Besides, 60 cases are related to healthcare workers and their contacts, while 26 are linked to those who had travelled abroad and their contacts. Meanwhile, six vegetable sellers, a medicine seller and a milk seller have been tested Covid-19 positive. These people are unaware of their source of infection. “So far, 95 people have been cured and discharged. People who had come in contact with any Covid-19 patients are being screened. Area around these places where the infected were staying is being sanitised. At present, there are 32 active hotspots in the city. They are being closely monitored. We are doing massive sampling in these areas," the CMO added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/two-cops-among-26-test-ve-for-covid-in-agra-dist-tally-now-430/articleshow/75457276.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Kolhapur||Sanctuaries to remain closed indefinitely||Kolhapur: The forest department has decided to keep all sanctuaries closed indefinitely until further orders in the state. A letter was issued to all the forest offices across the state on April 27 by Nitin Kakodkar, the principal chief conservator of forests (wildlife). Not just the sanctuaries, but national parks, tiger reserves and coastal biodiversity centres too have been asked to remain closed until further instructions. The Koyna wildlife sanctuary and the Chandoli national park in Satara, Sagareshwar sanctuary in Sangli, and Dajipur sanctuary in the Kolhapur district are already closed for all tourist activities. V Clement Ben, the chief conservator of forests, Kolhapur, told TOI that all the sanctuaries have been closed until further orders. The staff members are exercising extreme precaution in light of the pandemic. “We have distributed sanitizers, masks and gloves to the staff members, since regular patrolling in the core forest areas is continuing. We have also distributed some of the material to the people living in a few hamlets in the jungle areas,” he said. According to Ben, over the past few days, there has been a surge in the poaching activities across the region. The officials have booked at least eight cases and a few hundred people associated with them. “Keeping a tab on poaching remains one of the biggest challenges and our staff members are working hard,” he said. Meanwhile, the wildlife census organised every year at the Dajipur sanctuary, near Radhanagari, has been cancelled this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/sanctuaries-to-remain-closed-indefinitely/articleshow/75458787.cms||Piyush Bhusari
April 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Businesses to face ‘no-mask’ fines between Rs 2k and Rs 50k||Ahmedabad: The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation has decided to revise fines for vendors, shopkeepers or shop workers not wearing masks to between Rs 2,000 and Rs 50,000, effective May 1. The licence of the erring shop, mall or stall will also be suspended for three months.Municipal commissioner Vijay Nehra said that to curb the spread of SAR CoV-2, every citizen will have to wear a mask as will workers at malls, shops or stalls. The AMC will first provide free masks and sanitizers to all handcart vendors and will impose penalties after that.“For citizens not wearing masks, the penalty will range from Rs 1,000 to Rs 5,000. From May 1, if a roadside vendor is found without a mask, they will be fined Rs 2,000 and his licence will be suspended for two months. Similarly, if a shopkeeper or his workers are caught without masks, they will be fined Rs 5,000 and the shop’s licence will also be suspended. A fine of Rs 50,000 will be imposed on supermarkets malls if their staffers or security guards are caught without masks,” said Nehra.Shopkeepers will also have to ensure that not only their staff but also customers wear masks and their hands are sanitized when they enter. Nehra added that customers in the habit of touching everything will have to be allowed to touch only what they want. He said it was decided to give roadside vendors masks and sanitizer for free. Women’s self-help groups were asked to make masks, with 3.5 lakh such masks being bought by the AMC. Nehra said that the new penalties were imposed after 7,797 potential ‘super spreaders’ such as vegetable or milk vendors, garbage collection workers, grocers and pharmacists were checked and 2,098 samples were collected. Of these, 115 were found to be infected with the novel coronavirus.He said that the estate department of the AMC has been asked to ensure that proper distance is maintained between neighbouring handcart vendors. He said that officials have also been instructed to ensure that positions for customers queuing up to a vendor are also marked at safe distance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/businesses-to-face-no-mask-fines-between-rs-2k-and-rs-50k/articleshow/75459739.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Bhopal||Banda patient’s travel history traced to Panna, admin on alert||BHOPAL: Administration in Panna is on alert after a positive case of Covid-19 with travel history to Panna was found in neighbouring Banda on Wednesday. He had stayed for a day in a quarantine centre of a village in Panna before leaving for Banda. After his travel history was scanned, swab samples of his contacts were taken on Tuesday and report is awaited. The man who was found positive in Banda had travelled from Munbai and had returned last week to Panna. He along with five others, had travelled by truck to Panna. After their arrival, he was isolated along with his co-travellers at a quarantine centre in Simariya village, bordering UP. Later, when people were segregated according to their domicile, he was sent to Banda where he was found positive on Wednesday, sources said. In the last few days, more than 14000 labourers have returned to Panna. Besides, 28 students have also returned from Kota. An estimated 7000 people from Panna are still stuck up at different places across the country, shared sources. Chief medical and health officer of Panna, NK Tiwari said, “Travel history of the man found positive in Banda was tracked down on Tuesday; eight people from our district were his first contact persons and swab samples of all of them were sent for test. All of them are under medical supervision at Covid care centre”. He added that second contact persons of the patient, were also identified, and they were also sent to Covid care centres. “ There is no need for anxiety as none of them had any contact in public zones,” said CMHO. Till now Panna, Chattarpur and Damoh in Bundelkhand continue to be in green zone with no positive case of Covid-19||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/banda-patients-travel-history-traced-to-panna-admin-on-alert/articleshow/75458779.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Agra||Uttarakhand Governor steps in to ensure food for 500 needy children in Agra||AGRA: Uttarakhand Governor and former mayor of Agra Baby Rani Maurya has stepped in to ensure supply of food and other essential items to families of 500 underprivileged children in Agra based on a request by Nirmala Dixit, a member of UP State Commission for Women. This came after child rights activist Naresh Paras had approached Nirmala for "help" when his repeated requests to district administration "failed". Nirmala Dixit who is also daughter in-law of Kamla Dixit, sister of late Atal Bihari Vajpayee, told TOI, "Governor of Uttarakhand is daughter of Agra. She always remains concerned about well being of the underprivileged sections of society. Besides, she is very passionate about women and child rights. She went out of her way to ensure urgent help for over 200 families." At the time when efforts are being made to provide assistance to deprived and marginalised across the country, needs of certain underprivileged communities remain unaddressed by the Covid-19 response systems. ‘Nazar Battu’ makers and handmade hunter (whip) manufacturers of Agra were among such communities. Around 500 children of 205 families were badly affected during the Covid-19 lockdown. They were struggling for daily food. Once Naresh approached Nirmala, the latter in a telephonic conversation, informed the Governor of Uttarakhand about the plight of the families. That made all the difference. Arrangements were made so that provisions reach these families. On Wednesday, Naresh told TOI, “These two communities migrated from different places to Agra decades ago. They do not have any documents, and hence couldn’t get the benefit of PDS services by the district administration.” “Even though the Agra police was providing food packets to these families, it was clearly not enough. Also, the supply used to come in the afternoon, and till then children were left hungry. Some concrete step had to be taken. So, I approached UP State Commission for Women for help,” he said. When the Governor directly approached the district administration of Agra, they started getting their act together. Nirmala herself went to the localities and distributed ration. Sushila, one of the hunter makers said, “We received packets of flour, rice, pulses, salt, spices, refined oil and sugar. Now, we can feed our children properly. Officers have assured us of more supplies. They also enquired about our health.” The ‘Nazar Battu’ making community migrated to Agra from mainly Ayodhya 20 years ago. They prepare ‘Nazar Battu’ made of lemon and chilies and sell it in the busy markets of Agra. The 45 families of this community reside in Sadar Tehsil area. The community that manufactures handmade hunters resides in Indra Nagar area of Agra. Income of these 115 families is totally based on sale of the hunters they make. Women make hunters while men go to the markets to sell.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/ukhand-governor-steps-in-to-ensure-food-for-500-needy-children-in-agra/articleshow/75457289.cms||Deepak Lavania
April 30, 2020||Kochi||Stranded islanders to be ferried home||KOCHI: Lakshadweep administration has begun the process of evacuating 500 islanders, who are stranded in Kerala, in separate ships over the next few days, said sources. Officials said a ship with 80 islanders will set sail from Kochi on Thursday after obtaining Covid-19 negative results from an ICMR-approved private lab. Most passengers are patients who came to Kochi for treatment with their kin. "…Lakshadweep administration has decided to transport Lakshadweep patients, who had gone to mainland and were stranded there due to lockdown, along with their escorts, to their respective islands as per previously issued guidelines," said an order issued by the department of port shipping and aviation, Lakshadweep administration on April 28. As per the order, MV Arabian Sea, MV Lakshadweep Sea, MV Corals and MV Kavaratti will transport stranded islanders, while maintaining social distancing. Officials added that patients would be divided on the basis of their native islands before transportation. "On Thursday, we intend to ferry patients from Kadmat, Amini and Agatti. Their checking process has been completed. Those going to other islands will be evacuated in subsequent days as soon as their negative reports are received," said the source in Kochi. He said social distancing will be followed during the journey. "Ships have a seating capacity of 300 and we are taking around 80 persons per ship. On Thursday, we are expecting to send up to 85 persons," said the source, adding that proper sanitisation and the use of mask would be ensured. The order stated that no mainland-island movement will be allowed once transportation of stranded islanders is complete. The final ship will ferry stranded islanders from Minicoy Island and it will reach Lakshadweep on May 4. Lakshadweep had earlier transported islanders who were stuck at islands back home through special inter-island services. The last passenger ship from mainland had reached Lakshadweep on March 25. However, cargo vessels are continuing service.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/stranded-islanders-to-be-ferried-home/articleshow/75457303.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Be safe: Keep your friends far away||Ahmedabad: Sector 7 police of Gandhinagar district booked a man living in the capital town as he had hosted his friend from Khambhat who turned out to be Covid-19 positive. Both of them were later booked for spreading the infectious disease by Sector-7 police, even though the Khambhat man had come to Gandhinagar for orthopaedic treatment. The FIR filed with Sector 7 police states that Nagin Patni, 50, had hosted his friend Amrut Chunara, 63, who had come from Khambhat town in Anand district last week for treatment at a Gandhinagar hospital for an orthopaedic problem. During his treatment, Chunara fell in a bathroom and suffered a brain haemorrhage. He was rushed to a private hospital in Gandhinagar where he had to undergo a Covid test which is mandatory according to the state health department protocol, said inspector J H Sindhav of Sector 7 police. Chunara’s test showed that he was Covid-19 positive and all the relevant authorities were informed that a person from Khambhat had been diagnosed with corona and he was hosted by a man in Gandhinagar, said Sindhav. Sindhav said that as Chunara was confirmed positive and had been hosted by Patni, it was mandatory for police to register an FIR against them as they violated the lockdown and were negligent, which may prove fatal to others. Both of them were booked under IPC Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), said Sindhav.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/be-safe-keep-your-friends-far-away/articleshow/75459723.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: 62-year-old man with several co-morbidities beats Covid-19||MUMBAI: On Tuesday, when a 62-year-old patient and his wife were leaving Jaslok Hospital in an ambulance after a 49-day stay, many doctors and nurses turned up to say goodbye. After all, despite a litany of complaints—diabetes, hypertension, kidney failure and bladder cancer—he had beaten Covid-19. When statistics the world over show that patients over the age of 60 with co-morbidities form over 70% of the Covid toll, the private contractor’s survival is a medical miracle, said his son from Sydney, Australia. The man was, in public health terms, the ‘Case 0’ or the ‘index patient’ as far as Jaslok was concerned. That is, his Covid infection triggered off a chain of coronavirus cases among the hospital’s resident doctors, nurses and allied staff. Almost 40 staffers were detected Covid-positive in the past one month. “We had a ‘junoon’ (obsession) to ensure he gets well,’’ said Dr Shruti Tandon, who is in charge of intensive care where the patient was moved into on March 26. “Many of us felt if he got well, Jaslok, too, would get back on its feet,” said a nurse involved in his care. (The hospital has not been admitting new patients as many of its staffers are in quarantine). The Pimpri contractor came to Jaslok Hospital for the first time in February with kidney failure. “As he had protein leak in his urine, we admitted him on March 11,” said Dr Sudhirranjan Dash. He was detected with bladder cancer as well. Doctors said he underwent a cancer removal surgery and a second minor procedure to prepare an access route for dialysis. A day before the national lockdown was announced on March 24, he was diagnosed with Covid. In the Covid ICU, he developed complications and needed ventilator support for six days. On March 29, the ICU team felt he was sinking and changed all his tubes in order to check microbial infection. “And it worked well as he started recovering thereafter,’’ said Dr Tandon said. As Jaslok Hospital was ‘shut’ for new admissions, most consultants took on specific tasks—right from arranging transport for nurses, food or entertainment—to help out. Incidentally, the patient received a four-day course of HCQS (hydroxyl chlorquinine sulpate) and a range of antibiotics, but none of the other experimental drugs given to Covid patients. The team relaxed on Tuesday only after the patient’s son sent a message from Sydney on the Jaslok Covid ICU phone: “My father is back home and sitting on his favourite couch.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/62-yr-old-man-with-several-co-morbidities-beats-covid/articleshow/75460481.cms||Malathy Iyer
April 30, 2020||Goa||May’s 2nd week may see ‘heat wave’ in Goa||Panaji: The state government has said that Goa may experience a ‘heat wave’ from May 8 to 14. The state government has therefore issued a list of dos and don’ts to handle the situation if it arises. The state administration has also issued a cautionary warning to government departments to be prepared for the week. However, while there is a possibility of the ‘heat wave’, the India meteorological department (IMD) said that temperature rise may not meet the criteria for a heat wave, since temperatures need to cross 37 degrees C. The average maximum temperature in May is 33 degrees C. “Even though it may not necessarily meet the meteorological criteria for declaring heat wave, it is advised to take precautions and inform the public to be cautious, as the forecast is for about 4 degrees C higher than normal,” said IMD scientist Rahul MC. On Wednesday, Panaji recorded a high of 34.5 degrees C. “The temperature together with humidity conditions may affect comfort levels,” Rahul MC said. The IMD’s extended range forecast, which reaches the third week of May, shows that the maximum temperature in the second week could be 3-4 degrees higher than normal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mays-2nd-week-may-see-heat-wave-in-goa/articleshow/75460474.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Goa||In Mapusa, house tax payment at doorstep||SALIGAO: The Mapusa Municipal Council (MMC) on Wednesday became the first municipality in Goa to introduce a smart integrated point of sale (POS) machine for online tax payment. The civic body has collaborated with Axis Bank to start the system of electronic payment of taxes. The POS machine, with geo-tagging facility, will help the municipality collect house taxes and shop rents from the doorstep of residents and shopkeepers. The council has procured two of these machines. These were inaugurated on Wednesday by Mapusa MLA Joshua D’Souza in the presence of MMC chairperson Ryan Braganza, chief officer Clen Madeira, assistant audit officer Bhanudas Naik, councillors and bank officials. “This machine will bring in more revenue to the municipality as people will be able to pay their taxes without the hassle of waiting in queues,” the Mapusa MLA said. Elaborating on the new facility, Madeira told TOI that once the house or shop number is entered into the POS machine, details of taxes due will be displayed. The assessee will then have to enter their name and phone number, and also an email address if available. Once the debit or credit card is swiped, the PIN entered, and the transaction is successful, details of the same will be immediately sent via sms and e-mail. “The machine will be taken to every ward by our staffers. I appeal to the people not to come to the municipality to pay their taxes and instead, pay them electronically from their homes,” Braganza said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/in-mapusa-house-tax-payment-at-doorstep/articleshow/75460466.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Vijayawada||Finish spillway work at Polavaram by June: YS Jaganmohan Reddy||AMARAVATI: Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy has directed officials to complete the spillway work at Polavaram project by June and rehabilite all project-displaced families. He reviewed the progress of the Polavaram project in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak with senior officials at the camp office on Wednesday. Officials explained that a month’s time has been lost owing to the lockdown. Moreover, supply of cement and steel was hit owing to the same reason. Supplies have resumed last week and more stock is expected in the next few days, they said. The chief minister asked senior officials to coordinate with the industries and transport departments to ensure supplies to the project site. “Ready the fresh blueprint, including micro-level planning, to take the work ahead. We should not miss any deadlines regarding the completion of the project,” the chief minister said. He asked officials to keep the last year’s flood in the Godavari river in mind and plan work accordingly. He asked West Godavari district collector Revu Mutyala Raju, who participated in the review via videoconference, to step up relief and rehabilitation works for the identified oustees. He also directed officials to get the designs cleared by the Polavaram Project Authority (PPA) at the earliest. Jaganmohan Reddy also reviewed other priority projects of the state government and directed the officials to expedite the work as soon as the lockdown was eased in respective zones. Irrigation minister Anil Kumar Yadav and special chief secretary (irrigation) Adityanath Das were present at the meet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/finish-spillway-work-at-polavaram-by-june-cm/articleshow/75458783.cms||Samdani MN
April 30, 2020||Amaravati||Finish spillway work at Polavaram by June: YS Jaganmohan Reddy||AMARAVATI: Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy has directed officials to complete the spillway work at Polavaram project by June and rehabilite all project-displaced families. He reviewed the progress of the Polavaram project in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak with senior officials at the camp office on Wednesday. Officials explained that a month’s time has been lost owing to the lockdown. Moreover, supply of cement and steel was hit owing to the same reason. Supplies have resumed last week and more stock is expected in the next few days, they said. The chief minister asked senior officials to coordinate with the industries and transport departments to ensure supplies to the project site. “Ready the fresh blueprint, including micro-level planning, to take the work ahead. We should not miss any deadlines regarding the completion of the project,” the chief minister said. He asked officials to keep the last year’s flood in the Godavari river in mind and plan work accordingly. He asked West Godavari district collector Revu Mutyala Raju, who participated in the review via videoconference, to step up relief and rehabilitation works for the identified oustees. He also directed officials to get the designs cleared by the Polavaram Project Authority (PPA) at the earliest. Jaganmohan Reddy also reviewed other priority projects of the state government and directed the officials to expedite the work as soon as the lockdown was eased in respective zones. Irrigation minister Anil Kumar Yadav and special chief secretary (irrigation) Adityanath Das were present at the meet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/finish-spillway-work-at-polavaram-by-june-cm/articleshow/75462561.cms||Samdani MN
April 30, 2020||Mangaluru||Survey ordered to lay groundwork for e-learning||Mangaluru: The department of public instruction (DPI) is testing the waters to harness ICT (information and communication technology) tools as a means to impart education to students. Noting that technology needs to be utilised to impart education in the present scenario, the DPI commissioner, in a circular dated April 28, has directed deputy directors of the department to conduct a survey in all government, aided and unaided schools, for availability of smartphones with parents of students, as well as teachers. The circular, a copy of which is with TOI, also seeks to know if these smartphones have internet connectivity. The department has directed school principals to upload the above information using the Student Achievement Tracking System (SATS). This data will form the basis for the department to roll out e-learning in the future, which has become a buzz word, said minister for primary and secondary education Suresh Kumar. Incidentally, Suresh Kumar on Tuesday had requested HRD minister Ramesh Pokhriyal, during the latter’s video conference with education ministers from different states, to help them provide tablets to poor students. The survey is a first step in our intent to move towards e-learning, in what could be the new normal, said Suresh Kumar. “Most families may not have the luxury of owning tablets, or have reliable internet connectivity,” he said. Citing the example, where electronics major Samsung had provided tablets to select government schools, to foster e-learning, Kumar said these tablets can be used only for learning content. “We will request them to provide the same as part of their CSR or at a subsidised price,” Kumar said. The survey will also help DPI update data about internet penetration. The minister said that e-learning cannot happen if students do not have access to tablets or smartphones. In a related development, heads of schools have sent out messages in class WhatsApp groups, on information sought by the department. The message sought the name of student, mobile number of parent, email id, parents’ name, and if students could access classes online. Schools have instructed parents to create Gmail ids for students, if they do not have one, so that schools can use Google classroom, to teach them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/survey-ordered-to-lay-groundwork-for-e-learning/articleshow/75457304.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
April 30, 2020||Nagpur||Nitins reach out to Muslims with Covid-safe Ramzan plan||Nagpur: With majority of Covid-19 cases coming from Muslim-dominated Mominpura and Satranjipura localities, political leaders cutting across party lines reached out to the community members. In a meeting held at the district collectorate on Wednesday, social activists and clerics were urged to motivate community members to abstain from practices that may lead to further spread of infection during the month of Ramzan. The meet, convened by district guardian minister Nitin Raut, was also attended by city MP and Union minister Nitin Gadkari. Raut told TOI that he had personally gone to invite Gadkari and it was an attempt to put across a message that political leadership and bureaucracy was with the community in ensuring their well-being. “However, certain practices that happen during Ramzan like eating in the same plate, gathering during namaz etc need to be avoided. The community leaders have agreed to cooperate,” said Raut. The minister said that the meet was organized after a large number of cases were detected from Mominpura and Satranjipura. Some of the activists present in the meet raised their voice about the community being singled out. There were also calls to have sample survey combing for Covid-19 cases all over the city, instead of drives in limited areas. On this, Raut told the gathering that a large number of samples have already been taken, though the numbers can be high from areas where positive cases were found. Other leaders present were state’s minister for animal husbandry Sunil Kedar and former MLA Satish Chaturvedi. Among the bureaucrats who attended the meet include district collector Ravindra Thakre, NMC chief Tukaram Mundhe, commissioner of police BK Upadhyaya and divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar. Social activist Shabbir Ahmed Vidrohi said mass quarantining had led to social ostracizing of families. “Measures are needed to alleviate the economic hardships faced by lower income group on account of the lockdown. Action like sampling should not be limited and cover all,” Vidrohi told TOI. He suggested as it happens during malaria survey, health workers should collect samples from door-to-door, instead of mass quarantining. Dr Naeem Khan, a radiologist who was active during the anti-NRC-CAA movement, also called for a random screening of population across the city. There may be several asymptomatic Covid-19 positive persons in the city who can only be found if a sample survey is done covering all localities, said Dr Khan. He said instead of mass quarantining, swab samples can be taken from homes and only the positive cases can be put into isolation. Khan also complained of delay in getting test results which leads to extended stay at quarantine centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nitins-reach-out-to-muslims-with-covid-safe-ramzan-plan/articleshow/75459711.cms||Shishir Arya
April 30, 2020||Kolhapur||Civic body starts health check up of its employees, around 700 screened||Kolhapur: The Kolhapur Municipal Corporation has started conducting health check-ups of its employees working tirelessly in the frontline to curb the spread of Covid-19. According to a civic official, around 700 workers of the health department have so far been tested for various other ailments along with Covid-19. A panel of doctors has also been set up by the civic body to carry out the health checks at various civic-run hospitals and health centres. Many private ayurvedic doctors are also voluntarily assisting the KMC's health teams and suggesting diet for boosting the immunity. Civic chief Mallinath Kalshetti said, "So far no major outbreak of Covid-19 has been seen the in city. However, we have initiated the drive to disinfect various public spaces and survey the patients with symptoms. We have found that the health workers who are in the frontline are more likely to get infected by the coronavirus. Thus, we have started the general checkup of these workers. If we found anyone with Covid-19 like symptom we ask the worker to get screened immediately and get the test done from our Covid centres." Kalshetti said that no worker has tested positive for coronavirus and all the 3,000 health workers will be checked in coming days. "Following this, the health of their family members will also be checked. We had appealed the the ayurvedic doctors to volunteer for conducting the health check up. They have recommended some immune boosting formulations for the health workers. Accordingly, I appealed to the merchants to provide us the required spices. They have donated over 120 kg of the raw material costing Rs 45,000 using which the workers can prepare the potion at home and regularly consume it," Kalshetti said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/civic-body-starts-health-check-up-of-its-employees-around-700-screened/articleshow/75458812.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Cops stop ambulance, patients made to walk to hospital||AHMEDABAD: Noorjahan Shaikh had to carry her two-year-old sick daughter, Ayman, to a Paldi hospital from Victoria Garden on the eastern side of Ellisbridge, because the ambulance they were in was not allowed through a check post by cops on Wednesday morning. Another patient, Arif Shaikh, also had to leave an ambulance and walk to SVP Hospital on the other side of the river, because police did not allow the vehicle to pass, saying it was being used to traffick liquor. While this bit of intelligence about bootlegging, sent to the control room, turned out to be false, the officer on duty did not let the ambulance go further.  The ambulance was from Dariapur and belongs to an NGO, Jamiat Ulama-e-Hind. PSI Vinod Sorathiya of the SRP stopped the vehicle and checked it. The PSI allegedly misbehaved with the ambulance driver so that the NGO sent a lawyer to resolve the issue. Advocate Irshad Mansuri, who went to the police post, said, “The ambulance was detained for nearly three hours without reason. The PSI also abused the driver and accused him of being a ‘virus spreader’. We have decided to file a complaint against the officer.” ACP Sagar Sambda said, “We have initiated an inquiry against the PSI and shifted him to another post. The officer apparently had an issue because people sitting in the ambulance were not wearing masks.” The ambulance driver, Usman Qureshi, said, “The cops checked the ambulance and then the PSI picked a quarrel with me. He scolded me for ferrying people without making them wear masks. There was a child to be taken to a hospital in Paldi, but the passengers then left on foot.” Noorjahan said, “My sister and I went to Dr Hasmukh Shah in Paldi for my child ” “The police officer was not willing to listen to anybody. The sick child kept crying, but the policemen were unperturbed. After a long wait, my wife and I decided to walk to the hospital,” Arif Shaikh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cops-stop-ambulance-patients-made-to-walk-to-hospital/articleshow/75459749.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Dehradun||Stranded residents clang utensils to ‘wake up’ government||DEHRADUN: Hundreds of migrants from Uttarakhand stranded in various states have started a unique protest by beating utensils at their homes in order to send out a ‘message’ to the state government for not doing enough to rescue them. A video, in which over 15 migrant workers can be seen clanking utensils, has gone viral in social media platforms. “At first, we clanked thalis following the PM’s appeal, but now we are doing it to wake up the Uttarakhand government to do something for thousands of us stranded in different places," Navin Singh, one of the workers who is in the video, told TOI. Singh hails from Rudraprayag district and works as a salesman for a Delhi-based company. There is no exact estimate of the number of migrants in other cities but the figure could well be in several thousands. The Uttarakhand government had a few weeks ago earmarked an amount of Rs 50 lakh for facilitating their return to the state. Uttarakhand additional resident commissioner in Delhi Ila Giri, when contacted, did not divulge details about the money spent in providing ration and other essential items to stranded migrant workers. Meanwhile, on being asked about the reason for the delay in bringing back those who are stranded, state transport secretary Shailesh Bagauli said, "We have been rescuing stranded people from Kota in Rajasthan and Prayagraj in UP. Arrangements to bring migrant workers from other states would be done as per the guidelines of the central government." However, those who are stranded say that the state government should have been more pro-active. "The other state governments — Gujarat and UP — are rescuing people from Uttarakhand and other states. What is stopping the Uttarakhand government to help its own people is incomprehensible," said Delhi-based Mushi Singh Rana, who works in a hotel and lives with his family in Mayur Vihar Phase III. There are also others like Bablir Rawat, originally from Pauri Garhwal, stuck in Mumbai with six other friends. "We are calling up the MLAs of our region but no one is coming forward to help us. So far, no one from the state government has come to our rescue." Activist and president of Mumbai-based Kautik Foundation, Kesharsingh Bisht, told TOI that he had written to all the MLAs of Uttarakhand to arrange for buses to take over 15,000 migrant workers from Mumbai. He added that several organisations are providing ration to the migrant workers but what they need is the state government’s help to return. State government spokesperson Madan Kaushik meanwhile said, "Our government is in talks with other state governments to facilitate the return of migrant workers. The latest guidelines from the central government have come on Wednesday and the work of bringing them by buses is underway now."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/stranded-in-several-states-ukhand-residents-resort-to-thali-bajao-protest-to-wake-up-state-govt-to-rescue-them/articleshow/75457323.cms||Yogesh Kumar
April 30, 2020||Nagpur||Kharra eaters in panic after Ytl case||Nagpur: The news of a kharra seller testing positive for coronavirus and spreading it to others in Yavatmal has spread panic among addicts in the city. Many had been getting their daily supply of kharra delivered at the doorstep from pan kiosk owner’s home in the same fashion as in Yavatmal case. Some are thanking their stars at having discontinued kharra consumptions as their supplier ran out of raw material. Those who had kept some stock discarded the pouches. However, die-hard addicts have refused to give up the habit and are finding excuses that since they don’t live in a Covid-19 hotspot they are safe. RST cancer hospital director Dr Shubhrajit Dasgupta said this was a good opportunity for addicts to quit kharra. “The news will certainly instill some fear in the minds of kharra eaters. Nagpur is already oral cancer capitals of India. Tobacco in any form should be discouraged. As far as spread of coronavirus is concerned, the advice is to stay away from kharra and pan masala. There is no guarantee the persons selling these products would be maintaining personal hygiene,” Dr Dasgupta said. Its deputy medical superintendent Dr Amol Hedaoo said kharra eating was without doubt a bad habit. “It is better to stay away from it as well as tobacco at other times too. Spread of virus is more with tobacco as it is rolled on the palm and shared,” he said. Dr Hedaoo, who is consultant of head and neck surgical oncology, said they had noticed a lot of their patients eating kharra and tobacco though all pan kiosks are closed. “The sale must be stopped. So far it is available, people continue to eat. We counsel patients but they say leave it to fate,” he said. “We monitor all visitors to the office. Relatives and patients walk in with kharra and tobacco. Many times patients have kharra in mouth even during check up,” Dr Hedaoo said. For Anant Nagar resident Shailesh Kumar (named changed) short supply of material at his kharrawala came a blessing in disguise. “I had last bought kharra around April 24. I am a bit scared now. The seller’s home is in same area and he was selling it for some extra bucks,” he said. Kumar said his friend from another area wasn’t convinced kharra packets could infect them. His friend informed that in some areas, readymade kharra was coming from slum pockets. “Panwalas are hiring daily wagers to make large quantities of kharra. They get around Rs100 each. Each pouch sells for Rs50,” the man said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/kharra-eaters-in-panic-after-ytl-case/articleshow/75460480.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
April 30, 2020||Kozhikode||Engineering students design and develop mask holders||Malappuram: A group of engineering students of MES Engineering College, Kuttippuram, has come up with a ‘mask holder’ to avoid difficulties caused by the continuous usage of face masks. The mask holder was designed and developed by final year mechanical engineering students of the college, Muhammed Hafsal, Faheem MCP, Abdulla Fayees and Saheem M. The students demonstrated the device which was manufactured using PLA plastic, before district collector Jafar Malik and district medical officer (DMO) K Sakkeena on Tuesday. The developers saidthose wearing masks can hang them on the holders and that they can tighten or loosen them as per need. The device is reusable after sterilization. They said that the device would be useful to those continuously using face masks, including health staff, police officials, students, etc. The device designed at the modern fab lab of the college makes it easier for those who are wearing a mask, said I Rahmathunza, head of the department of mechanical engineering. She said that each holder costs around Rs 20 and that the price can be reduced through large-scale production, which is under consideration of the college.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/engineering-students-design-and-develop-mask-holders/articleshow/75457332.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Goa||Allow Covid -ve sailors to home quaratine: AAP||MARGAO: Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has objected to forcing Goans entering the state to compulsorily go for paid quarantine in a hotel in Panaji and demanded that it be made optional for those who wish to pay for some better facilities. Calling such forcible action as “nothing but loot of the common man,” said AAP convener Elvis Gomes. Stating that AAP would write to the ministry of home affairs, Gomes said, “The government is ordering quarantine and on the top of it, forcing people to pay. I don’t think it is fair especially for the poor” said Gomes. He said that for those who test negative, home quarantine should be allowed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/allow-covid-ve-sailors-to-home-quaratine-aap/articleshow/75460484.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Containment zones in 3 Gandhinagar areas||AHMEDABAD: Over the past three days, four major residential localities, including those close to places where senior bureaucrats live in Gandhinagar, have been declared containment zones. They include Sector 8C where 271 homes are under the quarantine zone; Sector 2B, with 730 homes in the zone; and Sector 7D, with 282 in the zone. AHMEDABADSeveral retired bureaucrats and police personnel live in these areas. On Wednesday, Sector 3C was declared a containment zone. A doctor from the area serving at LG hospital and posted at the Nikol Covid care centre has tested positive. In all, 6,400 persons have been put under quarantine in Gandhinagar. The necessary roadblocks and police arrangements have been put in place to restrict the movement of people. Meanwhile, Gandhinagar Municipal Corporation (GMC) opposition leader Shailendrasingh Bihola has requested that there should be a complete bar on people entering Gandhinagar from Ahmedabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/containment-zones-in-3-gnagar-areas/articleshow/75459720.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Bhopal||Human roar scares off tiger, tribal in MP lives to tell about it||BHOPAL: A 45-year-old villager from a ‘primitive tribal group’ was attacked by a tiger in the core area of Bandhavgarh Tiger Reserve on Wednesday morning – and lived to tell about it. This is the fifth big cat attack in Madhya Pradesh in the past three weeks, and the first survival. Three women were killed by tigers in Bandhavgarh and Pench, and a leopard killed a child near Satpura Tiger Reserve earlier. What saved Ramsuhavan Baiga from joining the toll was a group of brave friends, and, of course, his toughness. Like the others, Ramsuhavan was collecting mahua from the forest floor when the tiger struck. It went for his neck, but the tribal’s reflexes saved him. The tiger dug its fangs into his shoulder and began dragging him away, taking swipes at his neck. His four friends, instead of scattering in panic, charged at the tiger, screaming at the top of their lungs. The tiger hesitated, let go of Ramsuhavan, and bounded back into the jungle. “As soon as the tiger grabbed him, his friends started screaming. The tiger dropped him and left,” said BTR field director Vincent Rahim. “It could not grab his neck. His collar bone is broken, though.” Ramsuhavan was alive but bleeding badly. His friends tied up his wounds with cloth and carried him back to their village after which forest guards were informed. He was taken to a local hospital and then referred him to Jabalpur for further treatment,” said the officer. Rahim said villagers have been advised not to venture into the jungle, especially core and buffer areas, for mahua collection but to no avail. There have been multiple tiger attacks on villagers collecting mahua around BTR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/human-roar-scares-off-tiger-tribal-lives-to-tell-about-it/articleshow/75458832.cms||P Naveen
April 30, 2020||Kolhapur||Satara’s Karad city emerges as new Covid-19 hotspot||Kolhapur: The Karad city in Satara district, with more than 30 positive cases in the past few weeks, has emerged as a Covid-19 hotspot. The district administration has imposed a strict curfew and various other measures to contain the infection. Satara district collector Shekhar Singh said the fact that most of the patients are high-risk contacts of the earlier patients and that they have been traced successfully is a good sign. He urged all citizens to follow strict home-quarantine measures. He added that in many cases, it had been observed that the citizens stepped out of their houses and interacted with each other. This needs to stop, Singh warned. “There is a pattern here and to break the chain of the infection, everyone must cooperate. At the same time, he insisted that the citizens should not outcast the ones who have been advised home-quarantine,” he said. According to Singh, in the Karad taluka, as many as five containment zones have been formed and a total lockdown has been in order from April 23. The future of the lockdown and the restrictions on the movement will be decided after further review. He said that citizens should not panic since the district has shown a good recovery rate. There is an 85% chance that people who contract the infection will not require any critical support. The vulnerable age groups, however, need to be looked after, which includes senior citizens and the children below 5 years. 10-year-old and 75-year-old discharged A 10-year-old child and a 75-year-old woman were discharged from the Krishna Medical College in Karad after their successful recovery from Covid-19 infection. They both tested negative in the two post-isolation tests done within a span of 24 hours. The staff members of the medial college cheered and showered flower petals on the recovered patients at the time of their discharge from the hospital. 2 more positive in Satara district The Satara district saw two more Covid-19 positive cases on Wednesday, taking the total tally of positive patients to 43. Of them, 33 are active cases, while eight patients have recovered from the infection. There have been two casualties. Wednesday’s cases are being treated at the Satara district hospital and sub-district hospital in Karad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/sataras-karad-city-emerges-as-new-covid-19-hotspot/articleshow/75458831.cms||Piyush Bhusari
April 30, 2020||Nagpur||Buldhana ban on azaan calls on loudspeaker lifted||Nagpur: After the Covid-19 lockdown prohibited all religious congregations, in Buldhana district the police had also prohibited azaan (prayer call from the mosques) from loudspeakers. The ban was only lifted after a clarification from state home minister Anil Deshmukh. The move had drawn flak from the community, as the leaders said that even as gathering at mosques was not happening, azaan was still required to know the prayer timings. During the month of Ramazan, azaans are also required to know the time for breaking and starting the fast. District collector Suman Chandra maintained that there was never a ban on azaan as part of Covid-19 lockdown. “Only gathering for namaz is not allowed,” she said. Locals, however, said that the ban was imposed by the police. When community leaders complained that the ban continuing, superintendent of police (Buldhana) Dilip Bhujbal said the ban has now been lifted. It happened after the home minster clarified and also put it up on social media. Bhujbal said initially the ban was imposed considering that azaan was part of namaz, so it needed to be prohibited as well. Bhujbal also clarified that the ban was only on azaan through loudspeakers. The original order at the time of lockdown had imposed restrictions on all kinds of religious gathering and also namaz. It was silent on azaan, however. It was interpreted that since namaz and azaan, which is the call to attend the prayer, go together, even the latter needs to be prohibited. There are lines in the azaan in which people are told to come over for prayers. Clerics, who were asked if they could delete the specific lines, refused, said the officer. Ishrar Deshmukh, a social activist and a YouTuber from Buldhana, said calls are being made from mosques on loudspeaker urging people to pray at home. However, as soon as an azaan call is made, a police vehicle rushes to the spot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/buldhana-ban-on-azaan-calls-on-loudspeaker-lifted/articleshow/75459719.cms||Shishir Arya
April 30, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Elderly must be shielded when restrictions are eased: Doctors||VISAKHAPATNAM: Medical experts are of the opinion that the general population can be led towards developing herd immunity in a graded and well-planned manner as it has been six weeks since the first Covid-19 case was reported in the state. However, the elderly and people with compromised immunity should be kept shielded while the younger population with higher immunity can be exposed to develop herd immunity. Herd immunity is indirect protection from infectious diseases in which a large part of the population develops immunity through exposure to an infection or virus. Speaking to TOI, Dr P J Srinivas, joint secretary (south zone) of Indian Public Health Association (IPHA) and doctor at the community medicine department of King George Hospital (KGH) said, “It is time that public go about their routine job and develop herd immunity by being exposed to the infections and letting their own immune system or body fight the virus by developing antibodies. However, it has to be done in a planned and graded way based on various parameters like the place, age, fitness level of the persons. Older people or those with co-morbid conditions and weak immunity should be shielded with social distancing measures and not be made a part of the herd immunity experiment. Also, one has to ensure that the rapid test kits are giving accurate results about the presence of antibodies, that is, sensitivity and specificity of the test should be at least 90%”. Experts state that persons showing the presence of only IgG antibody but not IgM in rapid antibody tests indicate growing immunity to the virus by already being exposed to it through a secondary or tertiary source. Dr P V Sudhakar, principal of Andhra Medical College (AMC) and member of the district Covid-19 control committee said, “Since the virus had been first reported in India on January 30 and in AP on March 12, immunity must have already started developing in the society. Since the last few days, rapid antibody test is being done.” He added, “The presence of IgG antibody has been noted in some asymptomatic healthy individuals, which indicates even though they have come in contact with Covid-19 infected individuals directly or through a secondary source in the past, they have started developing immunity now. However, those having IgM antibody in their blood indicates the infection is recent and the virus is active in them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/elderly-must-be-shielded-when-restrictions-are-eased-docs/articleshow/75458822.cms||Sulogna Mehta
April 30, 2020||Mysuru||Minister raises Rs 73L for upkeep of Mysuru zoo||Mysuru: District minister ST Somashekar on Wednesday handed over a cheque for Rs 73.16 lakh to the Mysuru Zoo authorities for the upkeep of animals. The fund was raised by the minister from people in Yeshwantpur assembly constituency which he represents. During his last visit to the zoo last week, the minister, on learning that the authorities were finding it difficult to manage maintenance expenses due to lokcdown, donated Rs 25,000 to help them feed 16 big cats at the centre. On the same day, the minister adopted a five-year-old elephant Chamundi for one year by paying Rs 1.75 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/minister-raises-rs-73l-for-upkeep-of-mysuru-zoo/articleshow/75457358.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Vadodara||Amul launches immunity booster beverages||Vadodara: In the wake of COVID-19 outbreak, home grown dairy giant Amul has started rolling out range of immunity booster beverages. As the Ayush ministry has released guidelines on steps that people should take to boost immunity, the Gujarat Co-operative Milk Marketing Federation (GCMMF) that markets brand Amul has launched ‘Haldi doodh’ or the golden milk. Amul will soon roll out ginger milk and tulsi milk too. “This is the first food product targeted towards Covid-19,” R S Sodhi, managing director of GCMMF told TOI, adding that ‘Haldi doodh’ was earlier test marketed. “But we believe this is the right time to launch this product as it is an immunity booster as per guidelines of the Ayush ministry,” he said. The beverage is being manufactured by Amul Dairy, Anand which has capacity to produce two lakh packets per day. “We are also adding other healthy and immunity booster drinks including ginger milk and tulsi milk which will be launched soon,” he said. “Turmeric is a widely researched spice commonly used in cooking, as a dietary supplement and even for beauty purposes. Turmeric is also referred as a super food world over for various health promoting properties,” a release issued by GCMMF said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/amul-launches-immunity-booster-beverages/articleshow/75458002.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Nagpur||79% people want lockdown lifted in dists with no Covid-19 cases after April 14||NAGPUR: Seventy-nine per cent citizens are in favour of unlocking all districts with no Covid-19 cases after April 15, while 63% citizens favour keeping public transportation systems (air, rail, bus) shut in districts that are kept locked post May 3. However, 47% citizens are for continuing lockdown till last week of May. These are the findings of a survey conducted by LocalCircles, which works with states and central governments to take social media to the next level. The 3-poll survey, which was conducted last week and results declared on Tuesday, received more than 24,000 votes from 254 districts across India. The ministry of home affairs (MHA) issued a notification on April 24 in conjunction with the April 15 notification, permitting all stand-alone shops and establishments to operate even to sell non-essential items in districts which lie outside the red or containment zones. “People have been divided in their opinion on how unlocking of unprecedented 40-day lockdown should be done. Some are in favour of complete unlocking while others want a partial unlocking. Hence, LocalCircles conducted a survey among citizens to know their views on the process of easing lockdown,” said Akshay Gupta, general manager, LocalCircles, Delhi. In the first question, citizens were asked about districts with new Covid-19 cases after April 15, how Centre should go about lockdown after May 3. To this, 20% said the government should keep them fully locked till May 23, or another 20 days, while 27% said it should keep them fully locked till May 31. However, 47% said these districts should be unlocked fully post May 3, but hotspots within the districts should be kept locked. Only 5% said they should be fully unlocked post May 3. A month after the nationwide lockdown, the Centre has allowed neighbourhood shops selling both essential and non-essential items in residential areas to open provided they work only with 50% strength of workers, ensure compulsory wearing of masks, and strictly adhere to social distancing norms. To another question about districts with no new Covid-19 cases after April 15 or no Covid-19 cases at all till date, 7% said such districts should be kept fully locked till May 23 while 12% said such districts should be kept fully locked till May 31, but 67% said these districts should be unlocked fully post May 3, and only the old hotspots should be kept locked. Only 12% want the government to unlock them fully after May 3, even if there are old hotspots that were identified prior to April 15. Interestingly, 79% citizens are in favour of unlocking districts with no cases or no cases after April 15, and 67% want just old hotspots in such districts to be locked post May 3. However, shops in marketplaces and malls will still remain closed till May 3, while relaxations will not be applicable to coronavirus hotspots and containment zones. Gupta said, “Citizens want lockdown to be carefully lifted with clear segregation between hotspots and non-hotspot areas. They also want the government to ensure that all containment zones are completely cordoned off.” When asked how should the public transportation (air, rail, inter-city buses) function after May 3, 32% said all inter-district transportation systems must be kept shut, while 29% said only inter-district transportation between unlocked districts must be opened, while 34% said all inter-district transportation facilities must be opened with restrictions in lockdown districts. “The survey shows that public opinion is in favour of opening lockdown in all districts with no Covid-19 cases after April 15, while keeping only hotspots under lockdown. LocalCircles will be submitting the findings to central and state governments to decide the way forward,” said Gupta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/79-people-want-lockdown-lifted-in-dists-with-no-covid-19-cases-after-april-14/articleshow/75460489.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
April 30, 2020||Nagpur||Cops take to cooking, cleaning and washing to protect families||Nagpur: While most cops resort to washing their own clothes after returning home from their lockdown duties, some of them also have to cook and clean, too, as they had already ensured that their families were sent away to protect them from contracting any disease. After strenuous duties of around 12 hours or more on the roads, hospitals, quarantine facilities and other places, many cops nowadays have to spend another couple of hours at home after returning exhausted to wash their uniforms, clean the place, utensils, cook and complete other domestic chores as they have opted to live alone rather than with their families. Though the statistics of the Mumbai police personnel found Covid-19 positive touched 100, including three deaths, the city cops have not taken a back seat fearing contracting the disease, but they have devised plans to fiercely shield their wives, children and rest of the family from being harmed for being in their proximity. Lakadganj police station’s sub-inspector Sandeep Kale had sent his pregnant wife to her mother’s place in Aurangabad by car, around 600km away, as soon as the lockdown was declared. “I knew that now my duty would be on the road, sensitive places and also among the crowd and so did not want my wife and her health to get affected which would have also traumatized the baby,” he said. “Today, I maintain my home and also look after my own needs by cooking, cleaning and washing after coming back. I have no complaints,” said the officer. Crime branch’s constable Shyam Gorle claimed to have mastered the art of preparing tasty and healthy khichdi for himself at home as he too sent his family to his native place in Khairi after the lockdown. “It becomes very difficult to prepare an elaborate meal with a jaded body after working under the sun for 12 hours,” he said. “I make a simple khichdi and other easy-to-cook recipes because there are other domestic chores too which I need to attend to at the same time,” he said. Senior inspector Anil Takshande, a father of two, keeps his cap and belt in the car. “The uniform is dipped in the warm and detergent-mixed water kept outside the rooms. Later, I rush to the bathroom for a wash,” said Takshande who was on duty outside Covid-19 wards. Senior inspector Narendra Hiware of Lakadganj police station, whose jurisdiction includes the Covid epicentre of Satranjipura, said he had never washed his tiffin boxes ever but he does it now after returning from his high-risk job to shield his family from contracting any disease. “I dip my clothes in warm water kept outside, clean my tiffin box, take a shower and then step inside the house,” he said. Senior PI Jayesh Bhandarkar of Tehsil police station said he first enters a separate chamber outside the room to change after returning from work. Assistant PI Keshav Wagh, father of a three-year-old daughter, said his primary concern is his family which may get affected due to him. “I clean my shoes with sanitized paper and after that, I keep them on the terrace,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cops-take-to-cooking-cleaning-and-washing-to-protect-families/articleshow/75459750.cms||Soumitra Bose
April 30, 2020||Delhi||CBSE clears the air, Boards not cancelled||NEW DELHI: The board exams for classes X and XII, pending due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown, will be conducted at the first possibility and there is no move to do away with the remaining exams, CBSE officials said on Wednesday. This put to rest the speculation that the pending Class X exams for northeast Delhi have been cancelled. On April 1, CBSE had announced via a circular that it would conduct Board exams for 29 subjects, including six Class X subjects for the northeast Delhi, 11 Class XII subjects for NE Delhi and 12 Class XII subjects for all India. Denying any change in the decision, CBSE controller Sanyam Bhardwaj issued a statement, saying: “With regards to conduct of Class X examinations, several queries are being received by CBSE. In this context, it is reiterated that examinations of Class X as stated in the press release dated April 1, 2020 will be conducted by CBSE. Adequate time of 10 days will be given to all stakeholders before starting the examinations. Examinations of all the subjects of Class X and XII mentioned in the press release will be conducted after assessing the situation once the lockdown is over.” In its April 1 release, CBSE had clarified that it would conduct examinations for only main subjects that might be required for promotion and crucial for admissions in higher educational institutions. “As and when the Board is in a position to hold examinations, it shall hold examinations only for the 29 subjects.” The Class X subjects for NE Delhi include Hindi Course A, Hindi Course B, English Comm, English Lng & Lit, Science, Social Science. The Class XII subjects for NE Delhi include English Elective -N, English Elective -C, English Core, Mathematics, Economics, Biology, Political Science, History, Physics, Accountancy and Chemistry. The Class XII exams for Business Studies, Geography, Hindi (Elective), Hindi (Core), Home Science, Sociology, Computer Science (Old), Computer Science (New), Information Practice (Old), Information Practice (new), Information Technology and Bio-Technology subjects will be held across India, including in NE Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cbse-clears-the-air-boards-not-cancelled/articleshow/75460490.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Vadodara||150 reach workplace on 2-wheelers, fined||Vadodara: Around 150 workers from Manjusar and Waghodiya GIDC estates were penalized by Vadodara rural police for going to their workplace on two-wheelers by defying lockdown rules. Police said that the owners of the companies operating in the two GIDC estates were told to arrange transport for workers, but they did not. Instead, they insisted that their employees reach the workplace on two-wheelers. On Monday morning, cops reached the industrial area and told the workers that their employers are solely responsible for this. “We gave them the choice that either they can pay the fine of Rs 500 each on the spot or we will take vehicles to the police station from where they can get it released later after paying the penalty,” said a police official. “We had warned the employers that they should arrange the transportation facilities for the workers on April 20 itself but nothing was done so we had to take an action,” the police official said adding that a report about it was also submitted to the district collector. “We have held meeting with the association of Manjusar GIDC and they have assured that they will arrange transportation for their employees and practice social distancing,” said sub-inspector B D Jadeja of Bhadarwa police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/150-reach-workplace-on-2-wheelers-fined/articleshow/75458331.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Salem||11 placed under home quarantine in Krishnagiri||KRISHNAGIRI: Eleven people, including nine members of a doctor, who is working in Villupuram GH and tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday, have been placed under home quarantine in the Krishnagiri town. The doctor came to visit his family at New Housing Board area in Katikanapalli panchayat on the outskirts of the town on Saturday on leave. After spending two days there, he returned to Villupuram on Monday. On the same night, he showed symptoms of the virus. “The health department tested his blood and throat swab samples,” a senior official said. He said the results turned positive on Wednesday. The Villupuram district administration immediately alerted Krishnagiri collector S Prabhakar, who in turn ordered health officials to quarantine nine of his family members and two neighbours who came in contact with him. The doctor’s wife is also a doctor, who is working in the government hospital in Krishnagiri. “We have collected throat swab samples from all the 11 people and results will be out on Thursday,” Prabhakar told TOI. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/11-placed-under-home-quarantine-in-krishnagiri/articleshow/75459759.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Business||Covid-19: Spate of salary cuts, layoffs & leave reduction||BENGALURU: A number of companies are looking at ways to cut costs, as the Covid-19 pandemic plays havoc with consumer demand. Hardcastle Restaurants, which owns and operates McDonald’s restaurants in west and south India, plans to defer 40% of the fixed salary, excluding retirals, of the top management from April to September. Employees a level below would have a 25% deferment. SpiceJet, one of the most financially stressed Indian carriers, on Wednesday told its pilots they won’t be getting any salary for April and May. Pilots operating cargo flights, the only ones allowed in the lockdown, will be paid for the hours flown. Coronavirus outbreak: Live updatesChennai-based software-as-a-service firm Zoho said it will cancel staff bonuses. Founder Sridhar Vembu said there would be no layoffs. There’s no salary cut either for now. “We have our own assets and have no debt, so the impact is not as severe,” Vembu said. Capgemini, for the first half of the year, ending June 30, has capped leave balances at 15 days. The reduction means there may be less to be paid out for leave balances in case an employee is quitting or retiring. Capgemini has also asked all non-billable employees, those without projects, to apply for leaves with immediate effect, while continuing to seek billable opportunities. In case of insufficient leave balance, they can avail of advance leave. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsAutomation Anywhere, the robotic process automation company last valued at $6.8 billion, is said to be laying off 10% of its employees. Co-founder Mihir Shukla said their growth projections are lower than planned before Covid-19, and they will reduce the workforce and realign the organisation. The company has a big presence in India, but Indian employees are said to be not impacted yet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/spate-of-salary-cuts-layoffs-leave-reduction/articleshow/75459755.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Salem||Three Covid-19 patients recover, discharged from Salem MCH||SALEM: Three Covid-19 positive cases were discharged from the Salem Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College and Hospital on Wednesday after testing negative. Dean Dr R Balajinathan, medical superintendent Dr. P V Dhanapal and other doctors gave a warm send-off to the three patients. “We have advised them to be at home quarantine for another 14 days,” the dean said. Salem district had 31 Covid-19 positive cases. Of them, 20 have already been discharged after testing negative. “Until Wednesday morning, we had 11 in-patients under treatment. Three persons got discharged the same evening,” he said. At present, only eight active cases are there in the hospital. In the evening, Salem collector S A Raman inaugurated a thermal scanner machine at the entrance of the collectorate. Corporation commissioner R Sadheesh, police commissioner T Senthil Kumar, S P Deepa S Ganigar and other officials participated in the event.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/three-covid-19-patients-recover-discharged-from-salem-mch/articleshow/75459767.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Kolhapur||Over 2 lakh eggs consumed daily in Kolhapur||KOLHAPUR: A primary estimate of the daily consumption of eggs in the city in the last one week has touched to around two lakhs. The sudden increase in the consumption of eggs in a city having population of around 6.5 lakh people has surprised the suppliers. One of the main reasons for increase in the consumption of eggs is the spike in prices of poultry and meat. Chicken which was sold for Rs 160 per kg per kg before Covid-19 pandemic has now touched Rs 220 per kg. The same goes with meat prices too. Mutton prices, too, have shot up to Rs 600 per kg from the previous Rs 500 per kg. Shortage of products is believed to be the reason for increasing prices. On the other hand, the price of eggs has not changed. One egg currently costs Rs 5 in retail shops and Rs 4.30 if purchased in bulk. Mohsin Shikalgar, an egg and poultry seller said, “The demand for eggs has increased. The sale which used to be around 1.5 lakh eggs per day has now gone above Rs 2 lakh in the city. We are surprised by the sudden surge in demand for eggs as during normal days, hotels and cake-bakers require huge number of eggs. However, since all hotels and cake shops are shut due to lockdown, there is no demand for eggs from them. We are charging Rs 220 per kg for chicken as there is supply shortage. We, too, are purchasing it at exorbitant rates from traders.” The another major contributor of the sudden increase in demand for eggs is the recipes that are demanded from the men and children from their mothers. Mothers too are happy as they get lot of time to make the eggs based preparations. Gauri Jadhav, an accountant by profession and a resident of Kasba Bawda said, "As compared to normal days we have more egg and non vegetarian dishes prepared at home during lockdown days. I myself tried making cakes of different flavours. For makings cakes eggs are required. For alternate days we have omelette in the breakfast with bread and butter, which was the case before lockdown. Everyone is sharing the photos of the cakes and pastries they make at home by watching online shows, so it makes people like me who do not get time due to my work, also try the dishes in the ample time i have currently."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/over-2-lakh-eggs-consumed-daily-in-city/articleshow/75458858.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Delhi||Coronavirus: Samples pending for tests in Delhi up 7 times in 1 month||NEW DELHI: The numbers of swab samples pending for tests in Delhi has gone up seven times over the last one month — from 470 on April 1 to 3,295 as on April 29. Officials say this delay is causing serious problems in identifying positive cases, tracing their contacts and even in deciding whether a patient has recovered and he or she can be allowed to go home or not. Delhi has 20 labs — 8 government-run and 12 private labs — that are approved for Covid-19 testing, which is among the highest for any city in the country. Some of the swab samples from the state are also sent to National Institute of Biologicals in Noida, which has an automated machine that undertakes 1,000 tests a day and has a faster turnaround time. But, according to an order issued by the Delhi health secretary Wednesday, NIB, where majority of the city sam ples were being sent over the past 15 days, wasn’t releasing reports expeditiously. All deputy commissions shall ensure no sample is sent to NIB till May 3. The sample shall be distributed among the other government and private labs, so as to ensure that the results are received within one day of submission of sample to the respective lab,” the health secretary ordered. This may, however, not contain the crisis of pendency of tests results totally. Of the eight government labs in Delhi, five are run by centre and one of them is run by the Army Research and Referral hospital. Some of them, for example the lab run by National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) and AIIMS, get swab samples from states like UP, Rajasthan and Jammu & Kashmir as well. “The Centre has directed us to expedite testing for Delhi and we are taking measures to ensure the same,” said an NCDC official. Only two labs run by Delhi government, one at Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences (ILBS) and another one at Maulana Azad Medical College (MAMC), are approved for Covid-19 testing. Sources said their combined capacity for daily testing is less than 500 at present which isn’t sufficient to meet the increased demand. “RT-PCR test, which is recommended for Covid-19, takes five to six hours. Specialised manpower is required to perform the task. We cannot expand the testing limits beyond a point,” said an official at ILBS. Dr J C Passey, medical director of Lok Nayak hospital, said their lab is running the clock and 70-80 tests were being conducted daily. “We are in the process of procuring automated extraction system machine which will help us scale up testing capacity to more than 400 samples daily,” he said. Recently, the state government made arrangement for sending swab samples to private labs for testing. The head of one such lab said they weren’t receiving enough samples as government would prefer to use its own lab first. “We are charging Rs 3,500 if the sample is sent to us. If we have to go and collect the samples too, reimbursement amount comes to Rs 4500 per person,” he said. RT-PCR testing for Covid-19, which has been approved by the ICMR, takes longer than rapid kit tests and it requires specialised manpower. Delhi had initiated screening of persons in high-risk zones using rapid kit tests, but that remains suspended as its results were found to be inconsistent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/samples-pending-for-tests-in-delhi-up-7-times-in-1-month/articleshow/75461774.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
April 30, 2020||Salem||No takers for social distancing in Salem after total lockdown ends||SALEM: Residents of Salem, which saw an extended 4-day total lockdown that ended on Wednesday, threw caution to the winds and congregated in large numbers across shops and markets to stock essentials. The rush at shops and markets was so heavy that several health officials sounded alarm on the real threat due to non-compliance of social distancing norms. On an average, at least 100 people could be seen standing at grocery shops, vegetable markets and meat stalls before 6 am. “We could not buy anything as all shops were shut since Saturday morning... so we have come out to stock on essentials,” said B Usharani, a resident of Ammapet. The district administration had imposed the total lockdown since Saturday in corporation areas. A huge posse of people could be seen at all temporary vegetable markets functioning at the Old Bus Stand, New Bus Stand, Hasthampatty, Suramangalam and Ammapet. Police commissioner T Senthil Kumar said criminal cases had been registered against around 100 people for not maintaining social distancing norms on Wednesday. He advised people not to venture out in groups as the chances of contracting Covid-19 are still high. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/no-takers-for-social-distancing-after-total-lockdown-ends/articleshow/75459794.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Kolhapur||Solapur records 13 Covid cases on Wednesday||Kolhapur: Solapur district recorded has 13 fresh Covid-19 cases on Wednesday. With this, the total number of Covid-19 cases in the district rose to 81, of which 75 are active. According to the district administration, the newly identified patients are the close contacts or the high-risk contacts of the earlier positive patients. There are nine men and four women among the newly identified cases, of which 10 are close contacts of the earlier Covid-19 patient. One of the 13 people has Severe Acute Respiratory Illness. All the Covid-19 patients are being treated at the Solapur civil hospital. Milind Shambharkar, the Sopalur district collector, said that three patients have been identified from Sadar Bazar area and three from Indirangar area, while one each from Siddharth Housing Society, Ambedkar Nagar, Shamanagar, Markenday Nagar, Shaniwar Peth, Shastrinagar, and Tai Chowk area. “On Wednesday, we received results of 117 pending throat swab samples, of which 13 tested positive. Till date, we have tested 1,624 people, of which 1,169 have tested negative and 81 have tested positive. As many as 374 throat swab samples are still pending,” he said. Meanwhile, Sangli has recorded another Covid-19 case on Tuesday. A 94-year-old woman in Kameri village has tested positive for the infection. According to the reports, she was a high-risk contact of the patient, who used to work at the Krishna Medical College in Karad. She is being treated at the Government Medical College and Hospital in Miraj and is said to be stable. The Sangli district has registered a total of 30 Covid-19 cases till date, of which only 3 are active.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/solapur-records-13-covid-cases-on-wednesday/articleshow/75458872.cms||Piyush Bhusari
April 30, 2020||Nagpur||‘Thalassemia patients shouldn’t delay transfusion’||Vidarbha has high prevalence of sickle-cell and thalassemia. Dr Vinky Rughwani is director of Thalassemia and Sickle Cell Centre and has been working in the field of blood disorders since decades. He spoke about issues arising during lockdown for these patients – most being children and youths— and how to deal with them. Q: What is the blood transfusion scenario during lockdown? A: Thalassemia patients require blood transfusion at regular intervals. As per government rules, they get blood for free from blood banks. There is no shortage of blood during lockdown because demand for blood has gone down in hospitals as they are not conducting planned surgeries. But, thalassemia patients need fresh blood for transfusion. Blood stored for more than seven days is not ideal for them. So, many of them are facing problems now. Q: What kind of problems these patients are going through? A: First, patients are not getting fresh blood. Second, travelling for transfusion has become difficult due to lockdown. Many patients reside in faraway villages and cannot manage travelling passes. They are just postponing their transfusion. Some have delayed it for up to two weeks. Now, they are waiting for lockdown to open. Q: Will it result in rush for transfusion once lockdown is lifted? A: For sure. And we must avoid it. Because, even after lockdown, it will be important to follow social distancing rules. In our centre, we take utmost care to keep patient and doctors infection-free. These patients can get infected very easily. Q: Why blood disorder patients are more at risk of Covid-19? A: Regular blood transfusion already compromises the immunity of these patients. Many have to undergo splenectomy – a surgery to remove spleen which is delicate organ near the stomach. The spleen is an important part of the body’s immune system. Such patients are at high risk of Covid-19. Q: What is going to be the solution for all these issues? A: Voluntary blood donation should be promoted. Even if we relax lockdown, it wouldn’t be easy to conduct huge blood donation camps in near future. So, individuals should come forward and donate blood. This alone will ensure stock of fresh blood for these patients. Vidarbha has more blood disorder patients so donating blood is necessary here. Q: What will be your message to common people? A: Covid-19 scenario is unprecedented. But this virus is not transmitted through blood. Blood donation and transfusion is safe. I appeal to healthy people to donate blood and blood disorder patients not to delay their transfusion because of Covid fear.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/thalassemia-patients-shouldnt-delay-transfusion/articleshow/75459786.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
April 30, 2020||Surat||Two more test Covid-19 positive in Bharuch||SURAT: With two more testing positive for Covid-19, including a 11-year-old girl, the total positive cases in Bharuch touched 27 on Tuesday. Farhana Shaikh, 31 and her 11-year-old daughter, Ashafia Shaikh, residents of Munda Falia in Bharuch town tested positive for the virus on Tuesday. The mother-daughter duo are the relatives of Covid-19 patient Irfan Shaikh, 41, who had passed away in the Vadodara hospital last week. Health officials said that two persons from Munda Faliya in Bharuch town have died due to Covid-19. On April 19, 60-year-old, Memuna Bekriwala, who was suffering from co-morbid condition had passed away at the Jayaben Modi hospital in Ankleshwar. Two days after her death, her relative identified as Irfan Shaikh, 41, passed away in the Gotri hospital in Vadodara. Sources said that about 14 coronavirus patients have been discharged from the Jayaben Modi hospital in the last one week following their recovery. However, about nine other positive patients are still undergoing treatment at the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/two-more-test-positive-in-bharuch/articleshow/75436865.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Business||Pharma cos rush to develop drugs for Covid-19 patients||Rupali.Mukherjee@timesgroup.com Mumbai: Even as Glenmark Pharma received a regulatory nod to initiate clinical trials of anti-retroviral drug Favipiravir on Covid19 patients, other Mumbai-based firms are also readying plans to manufacture the product to cater to the sudden demand. These include BDR Pharma and API (active pharmaceutical ingredient) manufacturer Lasa Supergenerics. Favipiravir is an anti-viral drug approved in Japan for treating influenza, including those that are oseltamivir-resistant, and has recently shown promise as a potential treatment for coronavirus, creating a spike in its demand in India and globally. Anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine, or anti-retrovirals/anti-virals like Favipiravir and Lopinavir, are increasingly being used worldwide for Covid treatment, while doubts have recently risen on Gilead’s anti-viral medicine Remdesivir, as it did not report encouraging results in initial clinical trials. Glenmark has received approval from the country’s Drugs Controller General to start clinical trials in May on 150 mild-to-moderate patients of Covid-19, the first such company, sources say. The trials will be conducted in hospitals across Gujarat, Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh — which are Covid hotspots — with a 14-day dosing period, while the study period is 28 days. The first dose is given twice a day (1800mg twice) on day 1, and then from day 2 to 14, it is 800mg twice a day, a company official confirmed to TOI. Another company BDR Pharma has developed the API and formulation for two anti-retrovirals Favipiravir and Remdesivir, according to its CMD Dharmesh Shah. “We started work on this very early, and were awaiting clarity on the regulatory process. Now we will submit our application on Favipiravir to the regulator for trials on around 100 subjects. Even though initial data regarding Remdesivir is not positive, we will continue our efforts and wait for full-blown trials, as it’s a promising molecule,” he stated. Gilead has a patent on the drug in India. So, for a generic version, the option of seeking a licence will need to be explored. Lasa Supergenerics chairman Omkar Herlekar said an API of Favipiravir being developed with technical know-how from the Institute of Chemical Technology is in the final stages, and commercial production is expected by May-end. “We have a capacity of 12 metric tonne-per-annum and are flooded with global orders and requests from MNCs here for the API,” he added. Further, Strides Pharma announced it has developed and commercialised Favipiravir tablets, a generic version of Avigan of Toyama Chemical, Japan. Strides is the first domestic company to have commenced the export of Favipiravir, and will apply to drug authorities to commence necessary studies and make the drug available to Indian patients expeditiously. Earlier, Cipla promoter Dr Y K Hamied had told TOI in an interview that the company is initiating development of raw materials of promising anti-viral compounds — Favipiravir, Remdesivir and Bolaxavir — with the help of government laboratories.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/pharma-cos-rush-to-develop-drugs-for-covid-19-patients/articleshow/75437415.cms||Rupali Mukherjee
April 30, 2020||Hubballi||Online trade gains momentum in NK cities||Hubballi: The online platform for sale of groceries, fruits, vegetables and medicines involving local traders is getting good response in various districts. Many people in Hubballi-Dharwad, Belagavi and other districts are now completely relying on online business to place orders for their monthly grocery, medicines and other essential things. Online grocery and other businesses have become a huge hit. People are now becoming tech-savvy by placing orders using their smartphones during the lockdown period. Soon after the decision of the Union government, the authorities in the major cities of North Karnataka have chalked out plans to make available groceries, vegetables and medicines at the doorstep of people to prevent them from venturing out to buy these things and these online platforms have recieved huge response. Both the cities have witnessed more than 10,000 online users so far. Byrathi Basavaraj, minister for urban development, said that Hubballi-Dharwad Municipal Corporation, Belagavi Municipal Corporation and Davangere Municipal Corporation other corporations are helping people in purchasing day to day requirements through online platform. A meeting will be convened soon to discuss measures to make this system more effectiveeven after the lockdown is lifted, Rajaneesh Ganjyal, managing director, Trinity Technologies and Software Solutions, who worked behind creating online platforms at various municipal corporations, said still there is room for including many services including tax, electricity bills and other payments, so that people without coming out can get services at their fingertips. Suresh Itnal, commissioner, HDMC, said, “We are working on utlising the online platform more effectively. We are also planning to add e-commerce. Keeping Ramzan festival in mind, we are also planning to create a platform for online meat service,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/online-trade-gains-momentum-in-nk-cities/articleshow/75456134.cms||J Abbas Mulla
April 30, 2020||Kozhikode||Kerala vets operate pup in Malaysia||KOZHIKODE: Amid the Covid- 19 lockdown, veterinary doctors from the Kerala Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (KVASU) carried out a tele-guided surgery to save the life of Max, a two-month-old puppy, 3,000 km away in Malaysia. The Miniature Pinscher puppy weighing just 800 grams was diagnosed with the rare condition of vascular ring anomaly when it was brought to Dr Shibu Sulamian at the Penang Veterinary Hospital in Malaysia. Shibu, an alumnus of KVASU, sought the help of Dr Sooryadas S, assistant professor, College of Veterinary and Animal Science (CVAS), Pookode, after realizing that the puppy could be saved only through a complicated open thorax surgery. The live tele-guided surgery that lasted five hours was carried out on Tuesday with a team of surgeons sitting at the KVASU campus in Wayanad watching the live video feed from the hospital to guide Dr Shibu and others who did the hands-on surgery at the Penang hospital Shibu told TOI over the phone from Malaysia that Max was recovering well and has started taking liquid food. It will have to be kept under observation for another 24 hours. “It was for the first time in my 11-year career. I came to know that KVASU had done a couple of thoracic surgeries and so I wanted to exploit that experience of Dr. Sooryadas through the tele-guided surgery. We had carried out a mock procedure the day before to test the network and connectivity and also we pre-assessed the anesthesia and analgesic part before the patient was prepared for the procedure,” Shibu said. The varsity had used its online teaching facility to receive the live feed from the Malaysian hospital and provide voice guidance to the doctors. “The open thorax surgery was a bit complicated and posed a surgical and anesthetic risk as the puppy weighed less than 1kg, and it required a dedicated team of surgeons. Vascular ring anomaly is a rare condition that can only be corrected through a complicated thoracic approach and we have had experience doing it,” Sooryadas added. He said that they were able to see the close up of the field of operation and could give guidance to the doctors in Malaysia on the incisions and other procedures to be made. Sooryadas said that to his knowledge, Max would be the smallest puppy in the world to have undergone an open thorax surgery for correction of vascular ring anomaly, that too in a tele-guided manner. Vascular ring anomaly is life threatening because food is not moved properly through the oesophagus and regurgitation occurs. The KVASU team who participated in the tele-guided surgery included Dr Jinesh Kumar NS and Dr Jisha G Nair. CVAS Dean Dr Koshy John and hospital head Dr Bipin KC provided support for the surgery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/kerala-vets-operate-pup-in-malaysia/articleshow/75457417.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Two plasma units ready, none eligible to receive them yet||BENGALURU: Though Bengaluru-based HCG Cancer Centre obtained approval from the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) to start clinical trials of convalescent plasma therapy on critically ill Covid-19 patients, two units of plasma donated by two persons remain unused. Reason: None of the seven patients in ICUs across the state is eligible to get plasma under the therapy protocol. The trials were formally launched in collaboration with Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute (BMCRI) last week. Dr SR Jayanthi, director and dean, BMCRI, said no patient in their Covid-19 ward currently requires plasma therapy. “All patients have been stabilised. We don’t have anyone in severe condition, who requires plasma. As and when there is a need, the plasma units can be used,” she added. Currently, seven patients in Karnataka are in ICUs. Of them, one 54-year-old Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) patient from Hongasandra is at the Trauma Care Centre of BMCRI. “He is improving and doesn’t require plasma therapy now,” said doctors treating him. Two other Bengaluru patients, a 62-year-old man and a 64-year-old woman (both SARI cases), are in the ICU of a private hospital. However, they aren’t being considered for plasma therapy as they are under private care. The purview of the clinical trial of plasma therapy approved by the DCGI is only for patients treated at BMCRI. According to sources in the know, one set of treating doctors at BMCRI is resisting plasma therapy trials on patients, while another is batting for it. They also pointed out that nothing stops the government from shifting critically ill patients from other hospitals to the Trauma Care Centre to enable plasma therapy. Another 62-year-old woman on ventilator in a Bengaluru private hospital doesn’t require plasma therapy as she has been cured of the infection and is battling stroke and sepsis now. There is one patient each in ICUs in Mysuru, Bantwal of Dakshina Kannada and Belagavi. “Being on ventilator support and low oxygen saturation are prerequisites for plasma therapy,” said doctors. In Karnataka, there seems to be less scope even to conduct clinical trials further, unless a patient develops complications and is treated in the ICU of BMCRI. “Outside of a clinical trial, it’s not an approved therapy. That’s why we are doing a Phase 1 clinical trial that will ascertain it’s safety and, alongside, give important answers to move forward,” said a doctor. Doctors working on the ground said the stored plasma can be used within one year and won’t go waste. They refused to give details of the donors’ blood group, given the mandate from the government to not divulge such information. The donor’s and recipient’s blood group should match in case of plasma therapy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/two-plasma-units-ready-but-none-eligible-to-receive-them-yet/articleshow/75459280.cms||Sunitha Rao R
April 30, 2020||Coimbatore||Focus on helping people, don’t play politics: BJP leader||COIMBATORE: Political parties must focus on giving hope to people at this time of pandemic rather than criticising the Centre, said BJP leader Pon Radhakrishnan on Wednesday through an online press meet. Responding to questions about allegations of irregularities in purchasing rapid test kits and the lack of transparency in PM CARES fund, he said leaders of all political parties should focus on giving people hope at this juncture and not just criticize the Centre. “People have said the rapid test kits are faulty. We should focus on proper testing. Political leaders should focus on giving hope to people,” he said. Responding to the allegations of non-transparency in PM CARES fund, he said the Modi government has been beyond corruption and its functioning is transparent. “Why are people criticizing it now? There is a time for doing politics, during elections. We shall talk then,” he said. Commenting on the allegation that the Centre was biased in providing compensation to states, and Tamil Nadu not getting the amount it sought, he said as a Tamil, he wished the state gets more funds. “But the PM has been functioning by taking into account all problems and the possibility of future problems as well. He is not biased.” On the complete lockdown in some corporations across the state, he said no government was experienced in handling such a pandemic and they were trying out things. “But the crowding of people in some areas the day before the complete lockdown could have been avoided,” he said. Commenting on the controversy around actor Jyotika’s statement on temples being maintained well and schools and hospitals being neglected, Radhakrishnan said BJP gives importance to education. “We are affectionate towards Jyotika’s family. But she should have avoided the statement,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/focus-on-helping-people-dont-play-politics-bjp-leader/articleshow/75459799.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Mumbai||CM dials PM as guv sits on MLC seat plea||Mumbai: More than a fortnight after the cabinet urged him to nominate chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to the legislative council, governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari will seek the opinion of attorney general K K Venugopal on the matter. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday spoke to Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the delay in his appointment to the upper house by Koshyari. An NCP minister said Thackeray knocked at the doors of Modi and sought his cooperation in resolving the crisis, bringing to his notice that if no decision was taken then he would have to quit office. “As there was no response from Koshyari, Thackeray dialled the PM,” he said. A cabinet delegation told Koshyari that in the larger interest of the state and for political stability, it will be better if the decision is taken in a reasonable time, within five to six days. “We told the governor to please not wait till May 27, the last date for the CM to become a member of either of the houses of the state legislature. Yes or no, tell us as early as possible. In the event Koshyari rejects the proposal, we will have to weigh legal options,’’ he said. The NCP minister said the cabinet first took the decision to nominate Thackeray from the governor’s quota on April 9 and reiterated it on Tuesday, which was “personally communicated” to the governor.  “During discussion with Koshyari, he informed a delegation led by Ajit Pawar and Jayant Patil that before taking any decision he will consult the attorney general,” he said. The NCP minister said that under the constitution it was binding on the governor to implement the recommendation made by the cabinet. “I think our constitution is clear, there is no scope for interpretation. It’s a settled law, the governor is bound by the decision of the cabinet,” he said. In a tweet, Pawar said that to end the instability, particularly when the entire state led by Thackeray was geared up to tackle the coronavirus, it would be appropriate for Koshyari to appoint the chief minister to the legislative council. The NCP minister said that in the event that Koshyari refused to appoint Thackeray, the Congress, the NCP and the Shiv Sena together would examine legal options. “We can move the Supreme Court urging it to suspend the six-month clause in view of corona or approach the ECI for holding elections to the nine seats of the legislative council as early as possible,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cm-dials-pm-as-guv-sits-on-mlc-seat-plea/articleshow/75460502.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Mysuru||Shortage of blood as lockdown shuts donation camps||Mysuru: The impact that Covid-19 has had on the healthcare sector is multi-dimensional. One of the problems that many hospitals are facing is arranging blood for patients, particularly those in imminent need of it. It is little wonder then that kin and friends of several patients have been flooding social media sites with pleas to voluntary donors for blood. Several private multispecialty hospitals across the state are grappling with shortage of blood for emergency cases. Director of the Mysuru chapter’s Blood Helpline Karnataka Mohammed Zeeshan admitted that the Covid-19 infection had drastically altered the medical situation across the country. “Before the crisis erupted, we could arrange blood in a matter of one or two hours, but it is taking us nearly six hours now,” said Zeeshan, adding that most hospitals had closed their blood banks down, which had compounded the problem. “Only a few big hospitals have blood banks of their own. Consequently, arranging blood has become a daunting task. But we are ensuring that those in need are getting blood through donors,” he said. President of the Peace and Awareness Trust in Mudigere taluk in Chikkamagaluru Itaf Bilagula said that the lockdown had prevented his organisation from holding blood donation camps. “But I am doing what I can, and arranging blood for those in dire need of it by reaching out to those I know,” Bilagula said. However, government officials deny that there is any shortage of blood. Officials in the health department pointed to the deferment of all major surgeries and the drastic reduction in the number of road accidents owing to the lockdown to state that the demand for blood had come down as a consequence. “The bigger problem is the non-availability of essential medicines in a few villages since medical representatives are unable to visit rural areas owing to the lockdown,” said an official. Head of the Krishna Rajendra Hospital blood bank Dr BS Manjunath said: “Yes, the number of in-house donors has come down. From 40 to 50 donors who came forward to give blood in one week prior to the lockdown, the number has come down to 12 to 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/shortage-of-blood-as-lockdown-shuts-donation-camps/articleshow/75457406.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Kolhapur||Bindu Chowk sub-jail inmates moved to Kalamba jail||Kolhapur: The jail administration has shifted all inmates from Bindu Chowk sub-jail to Kalamba jail in order to accommodate new inmates and ensure safety amid the outbreak of Covid-19. Hence, the sub-jail will be occupied by the new inmates. As many as 127 prisoners from Bindu chowk sub-jail were shifted to Kalamba jail on Wednesday after conducting medical examination of all the inmates. Sharad Shelke, the jail superintendent of Kalamba central prison said, “The arrangements have been done to ensure that the inmates of Kalamba jail are kept safe from the coronavirus.” “Since the lockdown was imposed, we have taken all the precautionary measures to ensure that the jail premises remain safe and we are strictly monitoring the movements of the people going out of the jail to ensure that they are not carriers of Covid-19,” he said. “With the cases piling up with the police stations, the courts may start operating with full swing after lockdown is relaxed or lifted. There are chances of the court directing accused people to Kalamba jail. As a precautionary measure, we have decided that the new entrants will be kept in Bindu Chowk sub-jail so we have shifted 127 prisoners from the sub-jail to the Kalamba jail,” he said. “Now the new inmates can occupy the sub-jail for the time being. This is the precautionary measure to ensure that the jail premises remain free from coronavirus,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/bindu-chowk-sub-jail-inmates-moved-to-kalamba-jail/articleshow/75458892.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Kolkata||Patients suffer as central Kolkata healthcare checks into ICU||KOLKATA: A healthcare crisis is looming over central and north central Kolkata with almost all hospitals and private clinics in the belt shutting down after several patients and medical staff started testing positive. Family members of those requiring non-Covid care have been making panic calls to doctors to figure out where to take their patients for treatment. Jorasanko MLA Smita Bakshi said she would speak to the health department to resolve the issue. Most of these health facilities are located in containment zones of Burrabazar and Central Avenue. “It is a concerning thing that four big hospitals in the area are either shut or unable to function properly,” said Bakshi. Marwari Relief Society and Matri Mangal Pratishthan and Eden Hospital have been sealed after patients and medical staff were found Covid-19 positive. At Medical College & Hospital, one of cities biggest hospitals, healthcare facilities have been heavily truncated after several patients, doctors, nurses and other workers tested positive. The OPD is shut while the emergency department is working at almost half its strength. Absence of transport options has made it difficult for people to ferry patients to medical facilities located at far-off places. “My father had a severe bout of food poisoning on Sunday. But I did not know where to take him because all hospitals in the neighbourhood are shut. I had to take him to a nursing home in Bagbazar in a rickshaw. He is doing well now but I shudder to think what will happen if anybody suffers a fracture or a cardiac arrest,” said Vishnu Agarwal, a resident of Armenian Street. Even for minor ailments like viral fever and common cold, physicians are not available as all the private clinics are shut. Almost all pharmacies in these pockets have visiting doctors but in the Covid season, most of them are unavailable. “A relative was suffering from fever last week but there was no doctor available in any of the central Kolkataclinics,” said Sarthak Das, a resident of Waterloo Street. A functionary from Marwari Relief Society said they had no plans to reopen the hospital in the next few days. “Everyday, hundreds come with numerous health related complaints. Most of them are locals so we cannot take any chance,” said the functionary. At Medical College, a senior functionary said that most of their healthworkers were not coming to work out of fear. “Once a few cases were detected in the residential quarters, the healthworkers have got scared. Many of them are reluctant to come to work. After many people were detected positive, many were sent to quarantine.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/patients-suffer-as-central-kol-healthcare-checks-into-icu/articleshow/75459811.cms||Zeeshan Javed
April 30, 2020||Nagpur||1,339 citizens fined Rs17.64L for dumping garbage, urinating in open||Nagpur: In abject disregard for Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) efforts to keep Nagpur clean amid coronavirus scare, people continue to dump garbage or urinate in public places. The NMC Nuisance Detection Squad (NDS) or civic cops caught 1,339 citizens who were made to cough up Rs17.64 lakh as fine during the lockdown period so far. According to the NDS data compiled from March 25 to April 24, maximum cases were filed in Dhantoli zone where 265 persons were caught for various civic nuisance and fined Rs2.36 lakh. In Mangalwari zone, 192 nuisance mongers were made to pay Rs2.54 lakh fine while 149 persons in Laxmi Nagar zone paid Rs1.11 lakh fine for similar offences. The civic cops also caught 145 people under Nehru Nagar zone and recovered Rs1.46 lakh fine. To a query, NDS officials said Dhantoli zone registered highest cases due to opening of temporary vegetable market outside Yeshwant stadium. Most of the nuisance mongers were penalized here, the officials said. The NDS team also penalized 43 shopkeepers and collected Rs2.30 lakh fine for keeping prohibited plastic items, especially polythene carry bags. The NDS drive also exposed that even during lockdown period many Nagpurians continue to hold events by blocking public roads. The team led by commandant Veersen Tambe recovered Rs9 lakh fine from 584 persons for blocking public roads. Stocking construction material on roads and footpaths also led to action against 218 persons who were fined Rs2.42 lakh. Pre-lockdown, the civic cops used to penalize on an average 222 Nagpurians every day but now the number has come down. The civic cops have also slapped a fine of Rs40,000 on an undergarment showroom in Ganjakhet for keeping it open in violation of lockdown norms. The NDS team also found over five workers inside the shop. Civic nuisance Zones---Cases---Fines Laxmi Nagar---149----1.11 Dharampeth---106---1.47 Hanuman Nagar---103---1.09 Dhantoli---265---2.36 Nehru Nagar---145---1.46 Gandhibagh---83---2.25 Satranjipura---140---1.99 Lakadganj---69---1.04 Ashi Nagar----87---2.29 Mangalwari---192---2.54 (Approx fine in Rs lakh) 301 paid Rs1.08L fine for not using mask The civic cops caught 301 people for not wearing masks in public places and recovered Rs108,900 fine from them. “The highest number of violators were caught at temporary vegetable markets,” NDS commandant Veersen Tambe said. The team started penalizing people without masks from April 15. According to the data available between April 15 and April 28, the civic cops caught 123 people without masks from Dhantoli zone, followed by 45 under Nehru Nagar and 44 in Satranjipura zone. Similarly, action was taken against five persons under Laxmi Nagar zone, three under Mangalwari zone, 43 under Dharampeth zone, two under Gandhibagh zone, 6 under Lakadganj zone and 24 under Ashi Nagar zone. Yuva Sena demands ban on kharra Yuva Sena activist Vikram Rathod has demanded ban on ‘kharra’ in entire Vidarbha, especially in Nagpur, after Yavatmal witnessed a spurt in Covid-19 cases due distribution of kharra by a pan kiosk owner who was found positive. Rathod had helped the Food and Drugs Administration (FDA officials raid an illegal kharra making unit at Wathoda in city. Rathod had submitted memorandum to the chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, FDA minister Rajendra Shingne and district collector in this regard. “Chewing of kharra has increased cancer patients in the region,” he said while citing other health reasons for seeking an immediate ban.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/1339-citizens-fined-rs17-64l-for-dumping-garbage-urinating-in-open/articleshow/75459820.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
April 30, 2020||Coimbatore||Student’s body found in river||UDHAGAMANDALAM: After 20 hours of search, body of a college student was retrieved from a river near Marapalam in the Nilgiris on Wednesday. S.Akil, 20, a resident of Burliar and a second-year student in a private college in Coimbatore, had drowned while bathing in the river along with his friends on Tuesday evening. Fire service personnel and forest field staff had conducted a search on Tuesday in vain. The body was retrieved on Wednesday morning and was sent for postmortem. Police have registered a case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/students-body-found-in-river/articleshow/75459806.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Kolkata||Calcutta HC, Alipore court special bench suspend work||KOLKATA: The Calcutta high court has postponed all hearings for Thursday after a kin of the staff pool car driver contracted the Covid disease, sources told TOI on Wednesday. The special bench of Alipore district judge court too has been postponed till further order as the same driver also ferried its staff as well. In a notification, the registrar general of Calcutta HC notified that in view of unavoidable exigencies, the chief justice had passed the order that there would be no court proceeding on Thursday. This will also include hearing through video-conferencing. “The administrative orders notifying the sitting of benches on May 4, 7, 12 and 15 are hereby recalled. From May 1, apart from the division bench to be presided over by the Chief Justice, there will be two division benches and one single bench for taking up extremely urgent matters on such dates as may be notified under the order of the Chief Justice. All Division Bench and Single Bench matters filed so far and to be filed afterwards, shall be kept in a pool and will be allotted to these benches. Each bench shall be allotted a maximum of 40 matters on a particular day," the order stated. The sitting of these Benches will be notified two days before the date of the next court sitting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/calcutta-hc-alipore-court-special-bench-suspend-work/articleshow/75459834.cms||Subrata Chattoraj
April 30, 2020||Goa||CM Pramod Sawant visits basilica, to meet stakeholders for way forward||Panaji: Chief minister Pramod Sawant has called for a meeting with all stakeholders to decide the way forward for the protection of the Basilica of Bom Jesus, which currently faces threat of deterioration. “I have assessed the situation on the ground. We will hold a meeting with all stakeholders and only after taking them into confidence will we discuss and plan the way forward,” Sawant told reporters in Old Goa after inspecting the basilica. “This is a long-pending issue. It is the duty of the central as well as state government to preserve world heritage monuments.” “At present, we have told the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) to first complete the work of roof repair as soon as possible. It should be completed before the end of May,” the CM said, adding that he has also given instructions to the ASI to carry out anti-termite treatment. The basilica’s rector, Fr Patricio Fernandes, expressed the need for a coordination committee so that proper conservation of the monument can be taken up. “Only then will we be able to progress with the work, else there will be continuous deterioration,” he said. He also expressed difficulties in attending to the needs of the world-famous monument, as although it is managed by the Jesuits, it is under the care of the ASI. “We are in charge, the Basilica is ours, but we cannot do anything for it. We should be able to assist because we can do it properly and professionally,” he said. In his letter last week to the chief minister, ASI, Goa Archbishop and others, he said that water entered the structure because of neglect by the contractor appointed by the ASI to complete roof repair work. He also suggested that the ASI hand over responsibility of the structure to the Church if it cannot carry out its duties and protect it. St Andre MLA Francis Silveira, who was also present for the inspection on Wednesday. On Tuesday, deputy CM Chandrakant Kavalekar also inspected the structure and assured support from the government’s side. Curtorim MLA Aleixo Reginaldo Lourenco, in a letter to the CM, asked him to request the ASI to finish all maintenance and repair work of the basilica on a war footing before it suffers any more damage. Lourenco also highlighted the communal harmony in Goa, adding that during the pandemic, Goans of diverse faiths displayed unity by praying to Goemcho Saib (St Francis Xavier, whose mortal remains are in the basilica), as well as to goddess Lairai and Our Lady of Miracles. He said that Goans believe that as long as Goemcho Saib is in the state, Goa will be protected from all kinds of natural and human-made disasters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sawant-visits-basilica-to-meet-stakeholders-for-way-forward/articleshow/75460514.cms||Lisa Monteiro
April 30, 2020||Business||Small businesses seek staff cover in a bid to restart||BENGALURU: Businesses are queuing up to buy group health covers after a government order requiring companies to mandatorily provide insurance for workers if they open up during the Covid-19 lockdown. The new category of buyers include supermarkets, retail chains, pharmacy stores and food processing factories. “This week, we launched a new group cover exclusively for SMEs, where insurance coverage is between Rs 50,000 and Rs 2 lakh,” said New India chairman and managing director Atul Sahai, adding, there was a large demand for the policy. Coronavirus outbreak: Live updatesContractors of city corporations and state governments are in discussions to buy cover for sanitation workers and garbage disposal crews. But there has not been any demand from contractors in the construction, textiles, chemicals, fertilizers and mining industry. Other uninsured workers include the 1.5 crore truck drivers, contract labourers at the wholesale vegetable & grain markets, loaders and vendors in APMCs. “Corporates have always bought group health cover. But now they are cutting costs by reducing cover for dependents. Some companies are asking employees to pay for parents’ coverage,” said Star Health Insurance chief executive Dr S Prakash. The All India Motor Transport Congress (AIMTC) has asked the government to cover truckers under a government policy. This could be similar to the Rs 50-lakh Covid-19 death compensation cover purchased by the government for health workers, said AIMTC chairman Bal Malkit Singh. He said truck owners were facing cash problems as they have not been paid. More on Covid-19Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage21-day lockdown: What will stay open and what won'tHow to quarantine yourself at homeTrust the newspaper for your daily verified newsThe Karnataka Employers Association (KEA) has sought clarity from the state labour department as to whether coverage under the government’s Employee State Insurance (ESI) scheme is adequate or additional health insurance needs to be bought. State labour departments of Karnataka and Tamil Nadu have said they are seeking clarity from the Centre in this regard. Garments and textile workers do not have health insurance but are covered under the ESI. “The problem is not for those earning below Rs 15,000 as they all have ESI. It is for mid-level staff, earning 15,000-25,000,” said Tiruppur Exporters Association president Arumugam Sakthivel. The association has over 3,500 factories as its members. Sakthivel said that currently 10-15 factories are producing cloth masks for the domestic market after buying insurance for workers and supervisors. A hundred more factories may start production if exports are opened up. Workers in tea, coffee, rubber & pepper plantations and factories in the southern states are covered under ESI according to United Planters’ Association of Southern India (UPASI). This association has sought clarification on the need to provide cover for migrant workers as plantations are required to have in-house medical facilities under the Plantation Labours Act, 1951. “We often do not know the names of workers who are brought by contractors in groups of 10-15 for two-three months from Bihar and Jharkhand,” said UPASI member Suresh S.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/small-biz-seek-staff-cover-in-a-bid-to-restart/articleshow/75459873.cms||Rachel Chitra
April 30, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Hospitals plan to bring patient level back to near-normal||KOLKATA: Even as chief minister Mamata Banerjee urged hospitals not to refuse patients, several private facilities across the city declared on Wednesday that they were gearing up to expand their operations and gradually scale up patient-care services. Many have started preparing blue prints and standard operating procedures (SOPs) to return to normalcy. Task forces are being formed and many are planning to resume elective surgeries next week. “We should be able to take up elective surgeries in about a week’s time. An SOP is being prepared on how to hop back to normalcy,” said Rupak Barua, group CEO, AMRI Hospitals. A special task force, comprising all medical heads of hospitals under the group, is being headed by Barua. The task force and senior consultants have started working on a blueprint on how to go about it. Hospitals, however, are facing two big challenges currently. First is the lack of manpower and the second is patients’ reluctance of going to hospitals for the fear of infection. Most hospitals across the city have a good number of its healthcare workers under quarantine. Some healthcare workers are under treatment after they tested positive. Many hospitals have also rationalized the use of their workforce due to reduced occupancy. “On Wednesday, we had to send 11 nurses on home quarantine as some asymptomatic patients, including one who came with abdomen pain and an upset stomach tested positive later. Getting manpower has become a challenge,” said an official of a corporate hospital off EM Bypass. Along with private hospitals, chief minister Mamata Banerjee also appealed to doctors to open their chambers and attend to patients in emergency. “Private nursing homes should also resume services,” Banerjee said at Nabanna on Wednesday. A majority of hospitals has been using online counselling system either through phone or video conferencing. They said that this cannot help all patients as many need hospital care. “We have never closed any of our services, including OPD. But where are the patients, apart from emergency and symptomatic ones? We have put up 260 healthcare workers on hospital premises and guesthouses in the nearby areas. Some are commuting regularly from home so that we can provide uninterrupted services,” said Dr Sudipta Mitra of Peerless Hospital. Private hospitals said that with the government relaxing norms on Covid-19 testing for patients who need to undergo surgeries, doctors will now be more confident about taking up more cases. “Right now, we are operating with a lower workforce, considering the social distancing norms and also due to the fact that we have fewer patients. Apart from emergency surgeries, we have conducted few elective surgeries as well. The management is working out a plan to resume services like OPD,” said a source at Fortis Hospital. R Venkatesh, facility director at Rabindanath Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences, said that the hospital has been tending to patients during the lockdown, with dialysis, emergency and non-emergency admissions, OPD and, emergency surgeries. “Our staff is fully functional and working on skeletal rosters. As patient numbers pick up, the rosters will be tweaked to ensure adequate workforce is available to attend to them,” said Venkatesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/hosps-plan-to-bring-patient-level-back-to-near-normal/articleshow/75458918.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
April 30, 2020||Kolhapur||Five held for cutting birthday cake with sword in Kolhapur||KOLHAPUR: The city police arrested five people for assaulting policemen and cutting a birthday cake with a sword at Rajarampuri junction road on Tuesday night. The arrested individuals have been identified as Rishikesh alias Gendya Babaso Chougule (21, resident of Shahunagar), Shankar alias Anushka Babu Devgad (23, resident of Jagrutinagar), Nitin alias Bob Dipak Gadiyal (20, Rajarampuri), Arjun Birsing Thakur (21, Daulatnagar) and Pankaj Ramesh Pawar (29, Rajarampur). Police said that one suspect is still absconding. “On Tuesday night, our patrolling team spotted six people gathered at a chowk and were preparing to cut the birthday cake with a sword. When our team requested them to disperse as the lockdown is imposed, they instead roughed up with police and ran away from the spot. Our team later searched their whereabouts and nabbed them on Wednesday,” said a police officer attached to Rajarampuri police station. Police have arrested them under section 353 (Assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 269 (Negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 323 (Punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (Intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace), 143 (Punishment), 147 (Punishment for rioting), 148 ( Rioting, armed with deadly weapon) and 149 (Every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in the prosecution of common object) and section 7, 25 of Disaster Management Act, 2005 and section 2, 3, 4 of Maharashtra Covid-19 Act, 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/five-held-for-cutting-birthday-cake-with-sword/articleshow/75458910.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Face masks mandatory from today, police to fine violators||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The state police have decided to penalize people who do not wear masks while going out in public places. State police chief Loknath Behera issued an order on Wednesday in this regard. According to the state police chief, the penalty will be levied under Section 290 of Indian Penal Code which pertains to punishment for public nuisance. The penalty for this offence is Rs 200. However, if a person is found to be repeating the offence, he or she would be fined an amount of Rs 5,000. Police have taken this step in the wake of relaxation on lockdown restrictions at many places across the state after Covid-19 positive cases have come down. With more shops opening under new circumstances, more people are going out in public as part of work or for shopping. However, majority of there are still reluctant to wear masks. For example, there were relaxation on public movement in Thiruvananthapuram city police limits from April 20 onwards and police started booking people for not wearing masks from April 22. Since then, a total of 595 persons have been booked for not wearing mask in public place. Cases were registered invoking provisions under Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance. But this move failed to evoke any positive response from the people as a result of which the department has decided to impose stricter measures like levying penalties. DGP Behera said in his statement that people are free to use masks made of any type of garment, including home-made masks, handkerchiefs or towels to cover the face. Meanwhile, there has been complaints from various corners that police levied penalties from people even before the state police chief issued an order in this regard. One such case was reported in Medical College police station limits in the capital city in which a person was charged a fine of Rs 1,000 for lockdown violation for allegedly not wearing a mask. Responding to this issue, Thiruvananthapuram city police commissioner Balramkumar Upadhyay said that this might have happened because the officer involved might not have clarity about the measures to be taken. The issue would be looked into and appropriate corrective measures would be taken, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/face-masks-mandatory-from-today-police-to-fine-violators/articleshow/75457459.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad therapist offers music relief to Telangana’s coronavirus frontline warriors||HYDERABAD: As mental health professionals across the globe emphasise upon the emotional strain Covid-19 pandemic and subsequent lockdown has put people under, a city-based music therapist is doing her bit sooth the nerves of healthcare professionals battling coronavirus. A post graduate diploma holder in medical music therapy from Chennai School of Music Therapy, 47-year-old Anasuya Ravikanti has been reaching out to doctors and healthcare professionals by providing therapy for 15 to minutes over phone. “I provide therapy by giving simple instructions to the listened and humming some tunes. I have also mixed some yogic technique to the process,” Ravikanti told TOI. According to her, sound and words are the most efficient way to stimulate the mind and emotions. Combining techniques of yoga with the process further helps reduce anxiety and accelerates the relaxation process. While she used to charge patients earlier, she is providing her services to doctors now for free. Speaking to TOI, Dr G Ravindra , professor head of department of CT surgery at the Gandhi hospital, said that he availed the relaxation therapy from Anasuya. “ I felt relaxed, stress free and rejuvenated after the therapy” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/city-therapist-offers-music-relief-to-ts-coronavirus-frontline-warriors/articleshow/75459847.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
April 30, 2020||Kolhapur||Power looms in Ichalkaranji not likely to start operations||Kolhapur: Even though the government has provided relaxation in lockdown for industries across the country given they follow certain rules, the textile and power looms in Ichalkaranji are not likely to begin operations. Most of the workers working in the textile town, which used to produce 1.25 crore metre of cloth daily, hail from Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh. And owing to the Covid-19 outbreak these workers are in no mood to stay back. Prakash Awade, MLA from Ichalkaranji constituency, said, "More than 50% of the workers that were working in various textile and power looms in the region have gone to their native places We have managed to retain remaining workforce by providing them daily food and other essential material required to sustain during lockdown. They also want to go to their native places after lockdown is lifted. We expect that they will return Ichalkaranji after visiting their homes, but this will delay in starting the textile units." He added, "Though the government has granted permission to start the industries, the textile units cannot start operations because the cloth making is a chain process. We need to start power looms that produce yarn, and then with the help of yarn cloth is produced which is further processed and then sold in the market. The shops should be open in the market for selling the cloth. It will take more than one month for the whole chain to function efficiently after the lockdown is lifted." Awade also informed that the raw material produced in Ichalkaranji is sold in the markets in Ahmedabad, Surat, Mumbai and Delhi. "Unless the traders place orders from these places to the industrialists for production of cloth, the industries won’t take risk to start production," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/power-looms-in-ichalkaranji-not-likely-to-start-operations/articleshow/75458925.cms||Vivek Waghmode
April 30, 2020||Hubballi||After four-week lull, third Covid-19 case in Davanagere||Davanagere: For four weeks, Davanagere district had not registered a single Covid-19 case, and was consequently declared a ‘Green Zone’. With the government planning to issue a fresh set of guidelines for a phased resumption of economic activities in safe areas, the district administration was gearing up for the eventuality. However, a fresh case of Covid-19 reported in the district on Wednesday after a prolonged gap has poured hot water over their plans. This is the third Covid-19 case in the district. However, with the first two patients having recovered and subsequently discharged, there were no active cases in Davanagere till Wednesday. The hopes of stakeholders in various businesses who were anticipating a slow, but sure return to normalcy in the district have now been dashed. Sources in the district administration said that police were mulling the possibility of allowing movement of vehicles in and around markets. Incidentally, there was no mention of Davanagere in the morning bulletin released by the state health department. The development was confirmed by the state government in its evening bulletin. Davanagere qualified for the tag of ‘Green Zone’ since not a single case of Covid-19 was reported in the district since March 27. Ironically, a day after it made it to the list of safe areas, a 35-year-old woman, a nurse at a primary health centre in Davanagere with no travel history, has tested positive for the novel coronavirus. The patient had an influenza like illness and was being treated for the same. She was a resident of Bhashanagar, which has now been sealed along with other areas in the neighbourhood. The entire neighbourhood has now been declared ‘containment area’, confirmed Davanagere deputy commissioner Mahantesh Bilagi. As many as 20 individuals known to be the patient’s primary contacts, including members of her family, have been quarantined at a hotel, and their throat swabs sent to the laboratory for testing.  The district administration is working on tracing her secondary contacts. Meanwhile, Bilagi appealed to patients who had been undergoing treatment with the woman at the PHC for the past 15 days, and anyone else who had come in contact with the patient in question report to the designated covid hospital in Davanagere. The PHC at Bhashanagar was sealed shut on Wednesday. The DC further said that the lockdown would be enforced stringently following the reporting of the fresh case, and all relaxations of its norms would now be revoked. With inputs from SA Gangaraju||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/after-four-week-lull-third-covid-19-case-in-davanagere/articleshow/75457455.cms||Basavaraj Kattimani
April 30, 2020||Kochi||5,400 tonne of waste remain piled up in Kerala||KOCHI: The lockdown has restricted the transportation of tonnes of plastic waste stockpiled at various places, resulting in all material collection facilities (MCF) in the state getting filled up. Around 5,400 tonnes of non-biodegradable waste remain piled up at 837 MCFs set up at local bodies across the state. Clean Kerala Company Ltd, which has been entrusted with the task of clearing the waste from the MCF, could not do so for the last one month due to lockdown restrictions. As all the MCFs have been filled up and more waste, kept at houses, is to be transported to the facilities once the lockdown ends, the state government has given permission to the company to clear the existing non-biodegradable waste from its collection facilities. “We could not clear around 5,400 tonnes of non-biodegradable waste piled up at the 837 MFCs in the state due to lockdown. The MCFs are already full and hence, we have started clearing the waste in Ernakulam, Pathanamthitta, Kottayam and Thrissur districts. We will clear all the existing waste by May 15 when ‘Harithakarma Sena’ workers can resume their work and bring the non-biodegradable waste collected from houses to MCFs once the lockdown ends,” said Sreejith L K, senior assistant manager of plastic waste management, Clean Kerala Company. The existing waste from MCFs are transported to 147 resource recovery facilities (RRF) in the state to segregate them. The clean and dry plastic waste will be auctioned off to recycling agencies in each district once the lockdown ends. Rejected plastic waste, which cannot be recycled, will be shredded into particles to be used in road works. While the rest of the rejected waste, which cannot even be shredded, will be capped at the campus of Kerala Enviro Infrastructure Ltd (KEIL) in Ambalamughal, where tonnes of flood waste was also treated the same way in 2018. “We have been entrusted with the task of treating hazardous industrial waste. Since Clean Kerala Company is a government agency, we landfill the non-biodegradable waste being transported by them. KEIL treats it along with the hazardous waste following all the norms of pollution control board, ensuring the waste is not causing any pollution to the waterbodies,” said an official. Ernakulam district stockpiles large quantities of waste than any other district in the state. Around 500 tonne of waste remain stockpiled in MCFs in the district. Clean Kerala started clearing legacy waste from the MCF in Chottanikkara recently. Once ‘Harithakarma Sena’ (green army force) resumes work, local bodies should ensure the safety of them in view of Covid-19. They should provide the workers with personal protection equipment (PPE), gloves, mask and sanitizers. The government has already allotted fund in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/5-4k-tonne-of-waste-remain-piled-up/articleshow/75457500.cms||T C Sreemol
April 30, 2020||Nagpur||‘It’s local spread, but 143 units with 10k beds ready to tackle Covid’||Amravati divisional commissioner Piyush Singh is heading coronavirus control drive in the division having five districts — Amravati, Akola, Yavatmal, Buldhana and Washim, of which four are in red zone save Washim. In an exclusive talk with TOI , Piyush Singh speaks about plans to tackle the Covid challenge. Excerpts: Q: Deaths are being reported from different localities, specially in Amravati and most deceased don’t have any travel history. So, is it a local or community spread? A: It is a local spread. The first three cases of Yavatmal had Dubai travel history, while most of the other cases are linked to a single source. Q: Corporation and district administration have claimed that they have conducted door-to-door survey of thousands of people. Still deaths are being reported. Is this a failure of the survey? PS: Door-to-door survey was done in containment zones in all five districts. It enabled us to identify primary and secondary contacts of confirmed cases. Deaths were reported before the survey and after that also. Due to awareness generated by this exercise, people themselves came forward with vulnerable cases. It is a continuous process. Q: More than 100 samples from Amravati, including that of a deceased woman, were not properly collected. Who is at fault for this? PS: The samples are sent to either Nagpur or Akola. During this process, maintaining cold chain during transportation, proper volume of sample and availability of kits at the lab level also play a role in the outcome. Report can be inconclusive due to a variety of reasons and no one can be blamed for it. Till date, 3,047 samples have been sent from Amravati division for testing, a majority from Amravati and Yavatmal districts. Q: Is contact tracing being done properly? PS: Contact tracing exercise is done perfectly. We are able to trace 100% contacts of Covid confirmed cases across the division. Q: Source of infection for most of the deceased is still untraced. PS: The first three Covid positive persons in Yavatmal came from Dubai, so it is clear they got infection there. For remaining cases, they are high risk close contacts of a single source. Q: Are institutional quarantine facilities enough? Thousands of people are being home quarantined, but there is no data available about institutional quarantine. PS: We have set up 88 Covid care centres (bed capacity 6,276), 35 dedicated Covid health centres (bed capacity 2,179) and 20 dedicated Covid Hospitals (bed capacity 1,735) in the division. It is in these facilities suspects are kept in institutional quarantine till their test reports come. As on April 29, 447 persons are in institutional quarantine. Q: Those who are home quarantined can be asymptomatic carriers. Administration/police are expected to keep check on their movements. PS: For every confirmed positive case, we identify high and low risk contacts. Both these contacts are shifted to institutional quarantine as suspect cases and their samples are sent for testing. Once the report comes, further action is taken. Positive persons are treated in isolation ward, while negative persons are sent home for 14-day quarantine. Therefore, we cannot say those who are in home quarantine are asymptomatic carriers. Q: What is the strategy to bring Amravati, Akola, Yavatmal and Buldhana out of the red zone? PS: In Amravati and Yavatmal, cases have come from one containment zone only from where we have picked up all high risk and low risk suspects and kept them in institutional quarantine. All the positive active cases are asymptomatic. We have also further tightened up lockdown. In Akola, new cases have come from outside the existing containment zones. Accordingly, new containment zone has been created and contact tracing has begun. Samples of high risk contacts are sent to lab, while samples of low risk persons will be taken after five days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/its-local-spread-but-143-units-with-10k-beds-ready-to-tackle-covid/articleshow/75459862.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Chennai||TN looking for a spark in the dark||CHENNAI: With less than 100 hours for the lockdown to end and restart of factory operations, industries in the state continued to grope in the dark with the lone ray of hope coming from the chief minister on Wednesday that some factories will be allowed to reopen on Monday. It’s akin to waiting at a traffic signal for the green light. If you are an industrialist with a factory in the state, you will know under which zone your factory will fall under — red, amber or green, by Sunday, alongside other operating guidelines to commence production from Monday. While the neighbouring Kerala released an exit strategy report on April 6 and Karnataka on April 8, the Tamil Nadu government is still gathering information at ground level and drawing up a colour-coded map which captures the enormity of Covid-19 cases in an area. Officials from departments of health, revenue administration and disaster management and Tamil Nadu e-governance agency have mapped and colour-coded areas based on the number of Covid-19 positive cases, sources said. The green zones will be allowed to reopen first and then amber with severe restrictions and red will be allowed only if the parameters turn green. Until April 23, a total of 187 out of 388 blocks in the state were categorised as green blocks where there are nil cases in 28 days. While 173 blocks categorised as orange blocks where less than 15 cases reported, and the 28 blocks are under red category. The numbers are dynamic. Red is where more than 15 cases or doubling time is less than four days, orange (less than 15 cases) and green (nil cases in the last 28 days), based on the severity of Covid-19. This complex, yet dynamic, map is getting ready. This will pave way for the reopening locked factory gates. The expert committee for exit strategy headed by state finance secretary S Krishnan has concluded two sessions with industrialists and MSME sector and expected to make a presentation before the chief minister on Friday. Though continuous processing industries are allowed to reopen, the operational guidelines coupled with lack of support from police and other agencies scuttled the industry’s requirement to go full throttle. Coimbatore collector K Rajamani said that the government sought suggestions on reopening of industries in the district. "The government also wanted to know the pros and cons of reopening the industries", he said. Arid Virudhunagar district will start collating details on resumption of operations. "The daily wage workforce in these sectors is between 5 lakh to 6 lakh. We have to be careful in analysing the pros and cons of opening various industries as any small mistake would result in an outbreak. We will discuss with the industries and submit a report," Virudhunagar district collector R Kannan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/looking-for-a-spark-in-the-dark/articleshow/75459843.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Vijayawada||Workers in shelter camps can register with local authorities for skill mapping||VIJAYAWADA: The state government on Wednesday released a set of additional guidelines for activities allowed outside Covid containment zones in accordance with directives of the Union government. It also laid down a standard operating procedure for movement of stranded labour. The new guidelines allow relaxation to agricultural and horticulture activities, agro-based companies for plantation, processing, packing and marketing, electrical works, construction activities, e-commerce and operation of shops. All small grocery shops and mini market complexes can be opened, excluding shopping malls. The new guidelines which permit migrant workers to work in any area within the state were necessitated following renewal of activities outside containment zones from April 20. Thousands of workers employed in industry, agriculture, construction and other sectors have been housed in state-run shelter camps, following the outbreak of Covid-19. Even though a majority were shifted to nearby government shelters, some workers are still struggling in makeshift accommodations near their workplaces and agricultural fields. As per the order released on Wednesday, migrant labourers currently residing in shelter camps should register with the local authority concerned. This will pave the way for skill mapping and finding suitable work for them. However, if a group of migrants wishes to return to their place(s) of work within the state, they will be screened and asymptomatic persons would be transported to their respective workplace. It may be noted that labour will not be allowed to leave the state. During their bus journey, social distancing norms would be followed. The buses used for transport shall be sanitised as per the guidelines of the health authorities. The local authorities shall also provide food, water, and other necessary items for the journey. The guidelines also included a standard operating procedure for sign-on and sign-off of Indian seafarers at the Indian ports. For the sign-on, shipowner or the placement service agency will identify the Indian seafarers for a vessel. The seafarers will intimate their travel and contact history for the last 28 days to the shipowner or the agency by email, as per the procedure laid down by the Director General of Shipping (DGS). The seafarer would be examined by a DGS-approved medical examiner, as per the guidelines prescribed for this purpose. For sign-off, the master of a vessel, coming from any foreign port, or a coastal vessel from any Indian port, while arriving at its port of call in India, shall ascertain the state of health of each person on board. The master should also submit the ‘maritime declaration of health’ to health authorities of the port and port authorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/workers-in-shelter-camps-can-register-with-local-authorities-for-skill-mapping/articleshow/75457505.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Madurai||Madurai boy donates savings to Covid relief fund||MADURAI: An eight-year-old boy has donated his Rs 825 savings towards the state government’s Covid-19 relief fund. The boy, P Balaji, studying Class III, is a resident of Muthuramalingapuram village at Thiruchuli taluk in Virudhunagar district. He handed over his savings to the Thiruchuli block development officer a few days back. Speaking to TOI, the boy’s father, K Pandian said that he owns a taxi and his wife runs a small mess in the village for their livelihood. He said that his daughter Priyadharshini,12, and son Balaji are studying in a government school in the village. “After the lockdown was announced, I was unable to undertake trips and my wife closed the mess. Though we are surviving with a meagre amount of savings, we distribute free food to 10 needy people in the village everyday,” said Pandian. Balaji, who noticed his parents distributing food, brought his hundial savings stating that he wanted to donate the money to the needy who are facing hardships. “I was very happy that my son wanted to help the needy by donating his savings,” said Pandian.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/boy-donates-savings-to-covid-relief-fund/articleshow/75459867.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Industry starts taking baby steps to restart operations||CHENNAI: While the industry welcomed the government’s first announcement of restarting economic activity, it was equally flummoxed as lack clarity on resumption could delay things further. "We are just four days away, and with a national holiday and a weekend in between, we don’t have time. A factory cannot be ready overnight. It needs preparation before employees can walk in. We are still waiting for the government nod," an auto parts maker said. Factory heads say they want cohesive, workable and practical operational guidelines to be spelled out immediately. "We don’t know, as yet, whether our factory comes under amber or green zone. If it is amber, how are the guidelines different? I have no clue," he said. For instance, take the case of a car maker. The fully built car cannot roll out of the factory unless all its vendors are allowed to operate without any hindrance. "Even if one part is not available, the car cannot roll out. Our care and maintenance people have kept the factory ready. We are waiting for guidelines," said BC Datta, VP, Hyundai Motor India Ltd. Hyundai’s factory in Sriperumbudur will welcome its employees with disinfectants, thermal sensors and hand sanitisers. "Our factory buses, which are configured to pick up 60 people in a trip will now bring in just 30. Changes in the shop floor factoring social distancing, asking employees to use the canteen in batches are some of the things we are doing," he said. Hyundai may begin single shift operation as against a three-shift one before lockdown. Some others, like Salcomp, have readied plastic curtains between two employees, besides providing them with face shields as employees work facing each other in some processes. "We have made changes internally. We are now waiting for operational guidelines from the government. It is absolutely important that we restart without much delay as our competitors in China and Vietnam have already started production," said Sasikumar Gendham, managing director at Salcomp Manufacturing India Private Limited, manufacturers of mobile phone parts. While all eyes are focussed on the manufacturing processes, it is learnt that the tech industry has sought at least 10% of its workforce to be allowed to attend office. "Factories are located outside city limits, while most tech campuses are in the city. We don’t know what a green zone is. And everyone thinks we can work from home, which is not the case in reality," said a HR head of a tech firm. Even as the state is still to list out the modalities to restart businesses, some including Daimler which had planned to restart lines on May 4, have said it might take a few more days as it needs time to prepare after the state spells out the requirements. As a first step it might have just a fourth of its staff to attend work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/industry-starts-taking-baby-steps-to-restart-ops/articleshow/75459872.cms||Rajesh Chandramouli
April 30, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Fallow land cultivation to be focus of Rs 3,000cr agri project||Thiruvananthapuram: With a renewed focus on agriculture and allied livelihood activities like animal husbandry and fish farming to overcome the post-pandemic economic crisis as announced earlier by chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, the state government has decided to implement a comprehensive project in the sector with an estimated spending of Rs 3,000 crore in the first year. The project, to be implemented by the agriculture department from next month, will focus primarily on cultivating fallow lands. And according to the figures with the department, there are 1.09 lakh hectres of fallow land in the state. “The project will be implemented utilising Rs 1,500 crore from the annual plan fund of the local self-government department (LSGD) and other departments and an equal amount would be mobilised as loans from NABARD and the cooperative banking sector,” the CM said on Wednesday. The local bodies, which have already submitted their annual plan, will have to revise the plan to allocate funds for the project and resubmit it before May 15, the chief minister said. The government is in possession of the details of fallow lands available in each local body, where cultivation will be promoted either by the owners themselves (with the support of the government) or by self-help groups, Kudumbasree units or panchayat committees with the consent of the owners, he said. Aimed to achieve food security and self-sufficiency, the project which is getting ready its final draft will also be encouraging participation of youth and returnees from abroad, and youth clubs will be registered across the state for the purpose, Vijayan said. “The agriculture department will coordinate with various other departments to facilitate required loans and government subsidies,” he said urging the cooperative societies to provide interest-free loans or loans at a low interest for farming under the project. With an added focus on vegetable cultivation, the government will also establish cold storages across the state and provide vehicles with cold storage facilities for transportation. Focus will also be on value-added products with the support of industries department, setting up more markets for farm produces and tapping the potential of digital marketing, the CM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/fallow-land-cultivation-to-be-focus-of-rs-3000cr-agri-project/articleshow/75457525.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Get doctor or hospital nod to test yourself for Covid-19||KOLKATA: The state government on Wednesday said Covid-19 tests can be conducted of people who have a medical recommendation. The government has also given its nod to 15 medical college hospitals to start using TrueNat, a diagnostic machine for tuberculosis, for Covid-19 screening. “Whether it is a private or government testing facility, one has to follow ICMR guidelines. According to ICMR norms, someone cannot go to a laboratory and get themselves tested. The person will have to go through a private or a government set-up. If s/he chooses the former, the person will have to go to a government hospital, the samples will be collected after check-up. If the person is positive, s/he would be asked to get admitted or recommended home isolation based on medical advice. If s/he is negative, s/he will be allowed to stay at home,” chief secretary Rajiva Sinha told reporters. ICMR had recommended the use of the TrueNat beta CoV test on Truelab workstation as a screening test. A health department officer said, “TrueNat is a machine that is used for detecting drug resistant TB. It is an easy to use, small, battery-operated machine using a chip-based technology. It can be used in small set-ups like a primary healthcare centre. A test can take just about 60 minutes.” The positive samples screened in this method will have to undergo confirmatory RT-PCR tests, according to ICMR guidelines. The step, sources said, is being introduced after ICMR asked states to halt the rapid test rollout. Bengal had planned to use rapid-test screening in high-risk and also in low-prevalence zones. Sinha said: “Bengal has a capacity to test 1,405 samples in a day. In the last 24 hours, we have tested 1,397 samples. This is nearly 100% capacity. We have been trying to work in multiple shifts to run at our full capacity. Till today, Bengal has tested 14,620 samples.” The state had earlier said it was seeking approval for 10 more testing laboratories in Bengal. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had said, ‘Testing is now increasing everyday because we have got more testing centres. Other states have got more testing facilities, so they are testing more. The approvals are given by the Centre. There is no dearth in effort’.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/get-doc-or-hosp-nod-to-test-yourself-for-covid-19/articleshow/75459869.cms||Saibal Gupta
April 30, 2020||Hubballi||Karnataka: After a four-week lull, Davanagere reports third Covid-19 case||DAVANAGERE: For four weeks, Davanagere district had not registered a single Covid-19 case, and was consequently declared a ‘Green Zone’. With the government planning to issue a fresh set of guidelines for a phased resumption of economic activities in safe areas, the district administration was gearing up for the eventuality. However, a fresh case of Covid-19 reported in the district on Wednesday after a prolonged gap has poured hot water over their plans. This is the third Covid-19 case to be registered in the district. However, with the first two patients who tested positive for the novel coronavirus having recovered and being subsequently discharged, there were no active cases in Davanagere till Wednesday, and the hopes of stakeholders in various businesses who were anticipating a slow, but sure, return to normalcy in the district have now been dashed. Sources in the district administration said that police were mulling over the possibility of allowing movement of vehicles in and around markets. Incidentally, there was no mention of Davanagere in the morning bulletin released by the state health department. The development was confirmed by the state government in its evening bulletin, one that has come at a most inopportune time for the residents of Davanagere. Davanagere qualified for the tag of ‘Green Zone’ since not a single case of Covid-19 had been reported in the district since March 27. Ironically, a day after it made it to the list of safe areas, a 35-year-old woman, a nurse at a primary health centre in Davanagere with no travel history, has tested positive for the novel coronavirus. The patient had an influenza like illness (ILI), and was being treated for the same. She was a resident of Baashanagar, which has now been sealed along with other areas in the neighbourhood. The entire neighbourhood has now been declared ‘containment area’, confirmed Davanagere deputy commissioner Mahantesh Bilagi. In all, as many as 20 individuals known to be the patient’s primary contacts, including members of her family, have been quarantined at a hotel, and their throat swabs sent to the laboratory for testing. The district administration is working on tracing her secondary contacts. Meanwhile, Bilagi appealed to patients who had been undergoing treatment with the woman at the PHC for the past 15 days, and anyone else who had come in contact with the patient in question report to the designated covid hospital in Davanagere. The PHC at Baashanagar was sealed shut on Wednesday. The DC further said that the lockdown would be enforced stringently following the reporting of the fresh case, and all relaxations of its norms would now be revoked. - With inputs from SA Gangaraju||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/after-a-four-week-lull-davanagere-reports-third-covid-19-case/articleshow/75457538.cms||Basavaraj Kattimani
April 30, 2020||Goa||We are looking after crew, following norms: Karnika||PANAJI: Days after chief minister Pramod Sawant said the Karnika wasn’t showing willingness to test its seafarers for Covid-19, owner and operator of the cruiseliner, Jalesh Cruises, has refuted the CM’s statement. The CEO and president of Jalesh Cruises, Jurgen Bailom, said that the company is taking full responsibility for its crew and is cooperating fully with the guidelines laid down by the government. He said that they have even been in talks with the government for a “potential ship charter for government requirement during the pandemic”. On testing their crew, Bailom said that the seaport public health office in Mumbai has given them clearance. Sawant on Monday had said that the Karnika wasn’t showing willingness to test its seafarers and that they were not following the mandatory standard operating procedures laid down by DG shipping. The company has stated that Karnika arrived in Mumbai on March 12 from Dubai without any passengers, with 669 crew, and has been in India ever since and that its crew has not left the ship and has been in self-quarantine. “The government of India introduced several initiatives and directives in order to curtail the spread of Covid-19. As a precautionary measure, Jalesh Cruises decided to take the ship at outer anchorage of Mumbai as a self-imposed quarantine. The crew’s 14-day self-imposed quarantine period ended on March 26,” Bailom said. The 93 Goan crew in a letter to the CM on Monday appealed to be granted permission to be home quarantined as they cannot afford paid quarantine facilities of Rs 3,000 per head per day for 14 days. They added that most of them have not completed their contracts and so their wages have dried up and they have no other source of income where most are the sole earning member of their family. The letter signed by all states that they have already been self-quarantined on the vessel for 42 days and that 133 seafarers domiciled in and around Mumbai were allowed to disembark on March 31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/we-are-looking-after-crew-following-norms-karnika/articleshow/75460528.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Trichy||No new positive case for fourth straight day in central region||Trichy: While central Tamil Nadu recorded no new Covid-19 positive cases for the fourth consecutive day, a 95-year-old woman bounced back from the viral disease and went home on Wednesday. A total of five patients including the woman, all from Dindigul, got discharged from Karur medical college hospital. The elderly woman had got the infection from her grandson who was part of the Tablighi Jamaat conference in Delhi. The medical college staff were extra cautious about her keeping in view the fact that the lone casualty at the hospital was a 95-year-old man. “But she was not comorbid and except for low vision and slight immobility, she was responding well to the treatment and could be discharged after cure in 14 days,” said dean Rosivennila. Survived by over 70 grandchildren, she was well supported by her family members while psychological counsellors at the hospital too played a vital role in keeping her cheerful, said the dean. Karur medical college, which is the Covid-19 hospital for Dindigul and Namakkal districts, has 14 cases under treatment from these districts. With the lone patient from Karur expected to be discharged on Thursday, district finds itself in a reasonably good position with no new cases over the last 12 days. On April 23, a family of six patients got discharged from the hospital including an 86-year-old male. Despite being comorbid, he could be cured and sent home along with his family members. Two patients from Kumbakonam and Papanasam were discharged from Government MCH in Thanjavur on Wednesday. A total of 33 patients from among 55 positive cases recorded in the district have been discharged so far. Five patients were discharged from government MCH in Tiruvarur out of whom four were from Nagappattinam and one from Tiruvarur. The hospital still has 18 patients from Nagapattinam and 13 from Tiruvarur district under treatment. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/no-new-positive-case-for-fourth-straight-day-in-central-region/articleshow/75459886.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Madurai||13 salons functioning in Virudhunagar penalised||VIRUDHUNAGAR: Thirteen salons, which were functioning in Virudhunagar by violating the lockdown conditions, were fined by the municipality officials on Tuesday. Virudhunagar municipal commissioner S Parthasarathy said a special team, comprising sanitary inspectors and swachh inspectors, involved in inspection work, found the 13 salons functioning at different places. The shop owners were fined Rs 200 each and warned to shut shop till the lockdown is eased. Parthasarathy said that in an attempt to strictly enforce the lockdown conditions, fine is being imposed on the people and shopkeepers who fail to wear masks and maintain social distancing. So far, Rs 1.50 lakh was collected from the people and shopkeepers in Virudhunagar for not wearing masks and not maintaining social distancing, he added. Similarly, Tuticorin Corporation officials have also sealed 14 salons which were functioning by violating the curfew conditions. Officials have warned the hairdressers that stringent action would be taken against them if they function.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/13-salons-functioning-in-virudhunagar-penalised/articleshow/75459883.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Group of friends rises to occasion, helps vulnerable||HYDERABAD: For a group of friends from Siddipet, what began as an exercise to help 200 families by providing them essentials turned into a resolve. Saiprem Sammala (30) and his friends — Thippireddy Mahesh Reddy, Dilip Reddy, Reddy Vijender Reddy, Preeti Biryani Naveen, among others — have been pooling in money to distribute essential items among migrant workers hailing from Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Chattisgarh, Odisha, Andhra Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh at Ranganayaka Sagar. They distribute vegetables, rice, pulses, eggs, water bottles and biscuits. “We do not want anyone to go hungry,” Saiprem said. The friends saw workers from UP walking from Hyderabad to their native place and stopped them at Siddipet to give them provisions. “We want to continue with our mission till the time lockdown ends,” Saiprem said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/group-of-friends-rises-to-occasion-helps-vulnerable/articleshow/75459899.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
April 30, 2020||Kochi||Mobile hospital to treat lifestyle diseases in Thrissur||THRISSUR: For the first time in Thrissur district, Mala grama panchayath and Holy Grace Group have arranged a moving hospital facility during the lockdown period to provide medical assistance to those in need. The mobile hospital aims to provide medical assistance to tackle lifestyle diseases, said panchayath officials. People can register their names with the community health centre and the moving hospital team will check the patients and provide medicines to them. The team will inspect the patients in each region on the fixed days. The moving hospital will provide medicines in the next 10 days free of cost. The medicines are bought with the help of panchayath fund, said officials. “Most of the people suffering lifestyle diseases have no way to visit the hospital and meet the doctor due to the lockdown. The moving hospital aims to assure medicines to the patients during the lockdown,” said an official from the panchayath. Kodungalloor MLA V R Sunilkumar flagged off the moving hospital facility on Tuesday. Mala panchayath president Shoba Suresh, vice-president Gowri Damodaran, secretary T G Madusoodanan, panchayath health standing committee member Biju Urumis, Holy Grace institutions Chairmen Jose Kannampilly, Vakkachan Thakkolkkaran and Sani Edattukaran also attended the function. Mala Panchayath health standing committee chairman Biju Urumis said, “The moving bus consists of a medical officer, nurse, pharmacist, lab technician, junior health inspector, junior public health nurse (JPHN). Each ward members and health standing committee chairman will also join the team.” “The project aims to provide urgent medicines to the needy patients in the region. The project has already started and distributed medicines to eight wards under the panchayath,” said Urumis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/mobile-hosp-to-treat-lifestyle-diseases/articleshow/75457561.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Delhi||DU session to now end on May 15||NEW DELHI: Delhi University has revised the date of the last day of classes for the ongoing semester, in view of the lockdown. Now the session will end on May 15, as against the earlier announced date of April 28. May 15 is also the last date for the submission of online examination form. Issuing a circular, the university said, “In view of the unprecedented situation prevailing in the world leading to the lockdown in the country till May 3, the university has partially modified the academic calendar, by extending the date of dispersal of classes for the even semester from April 28 to May 15.” The university is yet to notify the examination schedule, after it withdrew the earlier schedule. However it has asked students to fill the examination form online by May 15. According to DU, till date more than 1.5 lakh students have filled up the examination form using the student portal. With students complaining about problems in filling the form, the university has asked them to contact their respective colleges/institutions for resolution. “If the problem is not resolved by the institution, students are advised to contact Shri Kapil on 9711754093 or Shri Anand on 9971969562 between 11 am to 4 pm,” said the university circular. Students can also email their query to examination.form@exam.du.ac.in.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/du-session-to-now-end-on-may-15/articleshow/75460546.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Madurai||No pre-bail for man who tried to run over cop||MADURAI: The Ramanathapuram principal district and sessions court denied anticipatory bail to a man who was arrested in a case registered for attempting to run over a cop who tried to stop his tractor which was involved in illegal sand mining. The prosecutor said petitioner S Mahakrishnan along with others were transporting illegally mined river sand in a tractor near Govindhamangalam village. Police booked 6 people including him. The petitioner submitted that he is the husband of R S Mangalam panchayat president and that a false case was registered against him with political motive. The prosecutor submitted that 6 people involved in illegal sand mining attempted to run over a policeman during vehicle inspection. 3 people were arrested and investigation is on. Taking into consideration the offence the bail plea was dismissed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/no-pre-bail-for-man-who-tried-to-run-over-cop/articleshow/75459904.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Trichy||People with faulty phones want shops, service centres to be open||TRICHY: These days, mobile phones have become a major link for people to connect, especially for those who are working from home. Closure of mobile phone shops and service centres during the lockdown has become a cause for concern for people who want to buy a new one or repair their gadgets, especially in the containment zones and those working from home. People who lost their phones or those with faulty phones are finding it difficult to connect with their loved ones in various parts of the world. Almost all works are directed over phone by the officials and all the frontline workers including police, health workers, fire service personnel, and volunteers are relying on cell phones during this crucial hour. T Uthayakumar from Srirangam said that he used to browse all kinds of news and information on his mobile phone, particularly about the pandemic spread. After my phone developed a problem with the battery, I am not able to get latest development on the Covid front, he said. “My daughter is studying abroad. I used to talk to her every day. However, I could not do it for the last five days. Though the problem with the phone is simple, I could not set it right as the entire service centres remain closed,” he said. “My phone’s display has damaged. I could not use it anymore. I have to buy a new one. But all the mobile shops are shut. I could not order a new one online also. I am forced to manage with my wife’s mobile phone,” P Kathaperumal, who is working from home for a software company, said. The government should allow mobile phone shops and service centres to function with required restrictions, he added. S Basha, who is running a mobile phone service centre at Rockins Road in the city, said that from day one, he had been receiving calls from his customers. However, I could not help them as all the tools and spares are at the shop, he said. H Mujipur Rahman from Palakkarai said, “Though my centre is closed, I am doing service from my home. But the problem is that I could not get spare parts due to the lockdown.” Seamless communication and coordination becoming essential are crucial these days. However, closure of mobile phone shops and service centres has affected many people, state general secretary of Tamil Nadu Vanigar Sangangalin Peramaippu Ve Govindarajulu said. “Our association functionaries met the chief minister last week and appealed to him to allow mobile shops and service centres to function. The Centre has already allowed such facilities to function,” Govindarajulu added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/people-with-faulty-phones-want-shops-service-centres-to-be-open/articleshow/75459896.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
April 30, 2020||Chennai||Covid impact: Fumigation, disinfection costs double||CHENNAI: Disinfecting and fumigating factory floors and offices just ahead of reopening after the lockdown has pushed up the costs by more than double. Updater Services, the country’s largest facilities management provider, has seen its demand double. "Apart from one-time fumigation, companies have booked us for daily fumigation services too. With higher demand, the pricing has risen up by 25%," said Managing director Raghunandana Tangirala. The cost for one-time fumigation is now revised to Rs 4-Rs 5 per sq ft, and Re 1-Rs 1.50 per sq ft for a daily service. Apart from chemical disinfectants, even natural ones are gaining acceptance. "We are currently supplying such disinfectants to major temples, manufacturing units, corporate offices, government spaces and even sending them abroad," said Abhaya Kumar Jain, founder-chairman of Nanolife. The green nanotechnology company’s products have been certified "safe and effective" by the directorate of Indian Medicine, he said. E-home maintenance company Housejoy has increased prices by 10%-20% in fumigation services during the lockdown. "This is partially due to disinfectant workers demanding higher wages, since they fear exposure to this deadly infection," said founder and chief executive officer Sanchit Gaurav. Housejoy offers fumigation services for homes and offices. "We charge about Rs 4 per sq ft for commercial entities, while for home the price starts from Rs 1999 onwards," he said. Trained technicians with proper PPE (Personal protective equipment) like chemical masks, goggles and gloves are being deployed. Aerial disinfection will also be carried out as well, where the targeted area - ACs and ventilation systems - will be exposed to the disinfectant for an hour. "Usually, a fumigation process would take 1.5-2 hours, and we advise companies to opt for an overall disinfection once every three days, irrespective of the daily sanitation process which they follow," he added. Courier service provider Blue Dart Express (part of Deutsche Post DHL Group) said it fears higher exposure to infection as it sees high footfalls from the public. Its CMO and head of business development Ketan Kulkarni said they had a separate Covid Fund which covers these sudden expenses. "We have tied-up with a national fumigation service provider for our facilities in metro cities, and with local agencies for tier 2 and 3 cities. We have teams trained to clean frequently touched surfaces - machines, door handles, trolleys. We also follow social distancing norms, maintaining a 6-ft separation across all our facilities, besides staggered break timings to avoid crowding."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/covid-impact-fumigation-disinfection-costs-double/articleshow/75459892.cms||Mamtha Asokan
April 30, 2020||Trichy||Employers told to help Bihari workers get aid||TRICHY: Pudukottai district administration has asked factories and industries, who roped in labourers from Bihar, to facilitate them to avail Rs 1,000 Covid-19 relief announced by Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar. The Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Tuesday announced Rs 1,000 for all those stranded in different parts of India. While Bihar was the first state to make such an announcement, natives of Bihar need to submit Aadhar, copy of passbook of their bank account and their photograph onto www.aapda.bih.nic.in to avail the benefit. They can call helpline 011-23792009, 23014326, 23013884, 0612-2294204, 2294205 for further information on the announcement made by Bihar government. Pudukottai collector P Uma Maheswari has asked factories industries and individuals, who engaged Biharis in their industries, to facilitate them for the assistance from Bihar government. According to the labour department, over 800 people are working in factories, industries, construction sites and even self-employed in some places. An official from the labour department said that instruction has been given to all industries and their owners to help their Bihar workers get assistance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/employers-told-to-help-bihari-workers-get-aid/articleshow/75459907.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Mysuru||20 Covid-19 patients discharged in Mysuru in last three days||MYSURU: There is a rapid increase in the number of Covid-19 patients being cured and discharged in Mysuru. In the last three days, 20 patients were cured of Covid-19, including 7 on Wednesday, and were discharged from the designated covid hospital here. After a lull of three days, another resident of Nanjangud tested positive for Covid-19, on Wednesday. This case is also connected to the Nanjangud pharmaceutical firm. The 26-year-old patient, came in contact with an infected patient, connected to the Nanjangud cluster. About 7 patients were discharged on Wednesday, 8 on Tuesday, 5 on Monday and 4 on Saturday. There was a rise in the number of admissions of Covid-19 patients since late March and early April, but three weeks later, the tally of Covid-19 cases is declining, which is a good sign. Mysuru deputy commissioner Abhiram G Sankar said that there have been a total 90 Covid-19 cases in the district so far, out of which 58 people have been cured of the illness, and discharged from the designated covid hospital. As on Wednesday, Mysuru has 32 active cases. Mysuru Medical College and Research Institute dean and director, C P Nanjaraj, confirmed that a SARI patient was discharged and shifted to a private hospital, from the designated covid hospital, to get treated for another illness. Mysuru now 5th in state, for active Covid-19 cases The discharge of seven patients on Wednesday, has put Mysuru in the fifth place, in the tally of active Covid-19 cases, in Karnataka. Last week, Mysuru was at the top of the list, in terms of number of active cases. Covid-19 patients being continuously discharged over the last few days, helped in improving the Covid-19 situation in the district. Bengaluru is in first place with 67 active Covid-19 cases followed by Belagavi-45, Kalaburagi-40 and Vijayapura-33.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/20-covid-19-patients-discharged-in-mysuru-in-last-three-days/articleshow/75457588.cms||Lawrence Milton
April 30, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Srikakulam man travels 2,000km to bring back ‘extended family’ from Gujarat port||VISAKHAPATNAM: Konada Narasingarao is neither a doctor or health officer, nor even a government official on duty. Still, amidst the lockdown, the president of Srikakulam district fishermen’s cooperative society decided to risk his life and travel some 2,024 kilometres to Veraval port in Gujarat to ensure the safety of 3,900 fishermen from the northern-most district of the state, who had got stranded in the western-most district in Gujarat. About a week after the lockdown was announced,when the district collector was forming a team of officials to travel to Gujarat with ration and other essentials for the stranded fishermen, Narasingarao volunteered to join the team. On April 5, the four-member team — comprising three government officials, two from revenue and one from the fisheries department, besides Narasingarao — left in a car from Srikakulam. After three days of tiresome journey, the team reached Veraval on April 8. “I have been living with these fishermen for years. I thought they would find some solace to see me at this time of distress. When the meeting was on at the district collector’s office I did not think twice before deciding to be part of the team,” Narasingarao, who is in his mid-40s and a village-level YSRC worker, told TOI. After distributing ration and completing other formalities, the three government officials returned to AP. But Narasingarao stayed back. For the next few days he perhaps had the toughest assignment of his life. He visited Mangrol, Dwarka, Porbandar and other fishing harbours in Gujarat, contacted all stranded fishermen from AP, and brought them all to Veraval. He also held meetings with government officials at different levels, spoke to local ‘patels’ (boat owners) and leaders of fishing community, coordinated and set up meetings between AP and Gujarat governments to chalk out an evacuation mechanism. “After a 28-year-old fisherman died in his boat cabin, the others got desperate to return home. We were allowed to stay only at the landing centres. Though the Gujarat government provided all help, the situation was not conducive to stay for long. Our frantic search to find out a passenger ship to return by sea route failed. Finally, thanks to the AP government, we were provided 70 buses on Tuesday,” Narasingarao, who hails from Balarampur village in Srikakulam, said. All the 3,900 fishermen, including Narasingarao, are expected to arrive on Friday. Meanwhile, back home Narsingarao’s children and wife are waiting eagerly for his return. “Now that my job is done I want to go back to my family. Actually, I am not a leader of these fishermen. To me they are like my extended family. This was the least I could do for them,” was his parting submission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/srikakulam-man-travels-2000km-to-bring-back-extended-family-from-gujarat-port/articleshow/75459943.cms||Arpit Basu
April 30, 2020||Kozhikode||Body of missing Kollam woman exhumed from friend’s house||PALAKKAD: The body of a woman was exhumed from the residential compound of her friend at Manali in Palakkad Town on Wednesday. After arresting the friend, a music teacher, police said they were suspecting that the deceased could be Suchitra, 42, who had been missing from her home at Naduvilakkara, Kottiyam, in Kollam. The woman, a beautician trainer at a parlour in Pallimukku, Kollam, had been missing since March 17. Police said the woman and the arrested youth, hailing from Kozhikode but residing in Palakkad, had been in a relationship. Suchitra had reportedly told her employer around 4pm on March 17 that she was going to Alappuzha to nurse her ailing father-in-law. Though she had initially applied for three days’ leave, the next day she later sent an email, requesting an extension for five more days. The woman, however, told her parents that she was heading to Ernakulam to conduct classes for beautician trainees. When she went incommunicado, her parents lodged a complaint with Kottiyam police on March 20. Police said the woman was divorced. When the probe made no headway, the parents moved a habeas corpus petition in the high court, and received an order for a crime branch probe. Crime branch sleuths tracked her phone locations and zeroed in on the youth. Investigators located the man on Tuesday, and sealed his house. During interrogation, the man admitted that they were in a relationship, and added that she had committed suicide after a quarrel. Police said he later confessed to the murder, and led them to the body, buried close to a compound wall. The man also reportedly said that the woman’s insistent demand for living together forced him to eliminate her. Investigators, however, were yet to believe his version. The body has been sent for a forensic examination to confirm the identity of the deceased. The man has been married to a woman from Koonampayikkulam in Kollam. He met Suchitra during a visit to his wife’s house. (With inputs from Kollam)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/body-of-missing-kollam-woman-exhumed-from-friends-house/articleshow/75457585.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Six-month-old dies in Gujarat, parents abandon body||AHMEDABAD: A 6-month-old girl died in Civil Hospital on Tuesday, after being admitted on Monday due to complications not related to Covid-19. When the hospital staff searched for kin of the girl, they couldn’t find anyone and informed Naroda police. DCP, Zone-4, Neeraj Badgujar said the infant’s parents, Bharat Damor and his wife, residents of Naroda, had come to Civil Hospital with their daughter on Monday. “On Tuesday, the baby died due to some other complications. She hadn’t been admitted for Covid-19, but for some other illness. Damor and his wife left the body of the girl in the hospital and went away. How they managed to reach Dungarpur is being probed as the borders are sealed,” Badgujar said. He added that currently the body of the baby has been kept in cold storage at the Civil Hospital, and they are making arrangements for the cremation. Inspector K B Rathod, who handled the investigation, said, “We went to the place where Damor used to live in Naroda. We were able to trace his cousin. He rang up Damor and asked him to return for the baby’s cremation, but he refused and gave permission to the police to cremate the baby.” Police said after Damor refused, they contacted Dhambola police station of Dungarpur district. The police there contacted Damor, but he said he won’t be able to come to Ahmedabad and gave a statement to Dhambola police giving permission to Naroda police to cremate the baby.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/couple-abandon-baby-girls-body-go-home-to-dungarpur/articleshow/75459277.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Trichy||Unorganized workers turn small-time veggie, fruit vendors to make ends meet||TRICHY: As the curfew to curb Covid-19 left several labourers from the unorganized sector income-less, these workers decided to turn into small-time vegetable and fruit vendor in the streets of the city. They have brought the vegetables close to the residences and prevented people from visiting major vegetable shops in the area. While many vegetable vendors have set up their stalls on the streets, some have rented pushcarts to sell vegetables and fruits. S Selvam, 57, who worked in a printing press near East Boulevard Road in the city, has turned into a vegetable vendor. He is now going to all the streets and making good business. “After the imposition of Section 144, my employer asked me to come when regular work would resume. However, noticing that people are wandering around various places to get fresh vegetables, particularly in interior areas, I decided to take up a new avatar. Since it is a pushcart, I am able to carry the veggies wherever I want. My relative, who is also a vegetable vendor, is helping me,” he said. When Woraiyur market was shifted to a ground of a private college, many vendors went there. However, K Lakhsmi, one of the vendors, shifted her stall to ESP Street in Woraiyur. “Since I bring fresh vegetables at their doorsteps, the residents of this street stopped going out to purchase it. Several vendors also occupy a prominent place on various streets and are selling without violating any norms,” Lakhsmi stated. Like Selvam, many people have begun selling fruits. “We are selling grapes, oranges, pomegranate, guavas and apples because several big fruit stalls are yet to open,” said S Krishnamoorthi, who sells fruits in Shastri Road. Meanwhile, A Ganesan, who is renting out pushcart to vendors, said he had 100 carts and now all have given on rent. “I have given out around 20 pushcarts to the people who were running tiffin stalls. I told them not to pay any rent till they resume their business again considering their state,” Ganesan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/unorganized-workers-turn-small-time-veggie-fruit-vendors-to-make-ends-meet/articleshow/75459924.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
April 30, 2020||Nagpur||CBSE rubbishes exam cancellation rumours||Nagpur: The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) issued a statement on Wednesday to put an end to rumours rife on social media that remaining board exams will be cancelled. The board’s controller of examination (CoE) Sanyam Bhardwaj made it clear there is no change of position in CBSE’s stand from its April 1 circular. That particular circular had made it clear about which subject exams were still pending and in which area. The April 1 circular is crystal clear that Std X exams, for specific subjects, will be held only for north-east Delhi area. That is because examinations could not be conducted there as per schedule due to deteriorating law and order situation on account of rioting. CBSE mentioned names of all the papers which will be conducted for Std X only for this particular region. For Std XII, the board will conduct exams across the country for some important subjects. List of these subjects has already been declared and available on CBSE’s portal as well. New examination dates will be decided only after lockdown is over and an assessment of the prevailing situation is conducted. Uncertainty over exam dates must not worry students as they will get ample time to prepare for the big day. Bhardwaj reiterated that at least 10 days prior notice will be given before starting the board examinations. CBSE has time and again told students and parents not to believe in social media forwards regarding any activity of the board. TOI had reported about the April 1 circular in detail the very next day itself.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cbse-rubbishes-exam-cancellation-rumours/articleshow/75459936.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
April 30, 2020||Chennai||Disregard for lockdown norms triggers clusters in Chennai||CHENNAI: On April 19, a fireman from Perambalur had a duty call. Accompanied by three colleagues, they left for Karur where a fire in a garbage yard in the city’s suburbs had to be put out. By the time the team reached the spot, scores of onlookers, including staff of the corporation and municipality and members of the public, had gathered, in violation of the lockdown. "It was a big crowd, maybe 200 people. In the afternoon, someone gave us food packets. Later in the day we returned home," said the fireman from his hospital bed in Trichy. The fire had been put out but on April 25, the 33-year-old man tested positive in a random test. Health officials are still cracking the puzzle as to how he could have contracted the infection. As a worried government consulted experts, held video meetings with district collectors and worked hard to devise a lockdown exit strategy, flagrant disregard for norms by the public has seen the mushrooming of Covid community clusters. While China exercised military discipline to contain the spread in Wuhan, authorities in Chennai, Chengalpet, Coimbatore or Kanyakumari have not been so lucky. In Chennai, a man, who decided to defy the lockdown and keep his saloon open, tested positive. In Chengalpet, a pregnant woman attended a birthday party held furtively under the lockdown shroud, tested positive. Teams of health and corporation staff have been working hard to trace their contacts. In Coimbatore, six police personnel deployed at a containment zone in Podanur were infected. One of them told TOI: "Few people adhere to the rules. Though they are not allowed to come near the barricade at exit points of the containment zone, no one listens." In Tenkasi, a post funeral ritual and a puberty event held in a containment zone in Puliyangudi town saw at least 30 people being dragged into the Covid net. In Kanyakumari, a young man asked to quarantine himself on his return from abroad via Chennai in the third week of March, went visiting friends in Nagercoil the whole day, got into a brawl with a friend, and infected him and five others. "People are yet to get responsible. In a containment zones, people behave like they are in a social camp. They are supposed to remain indoors. But, we see them moving around freely," said Additional Commissioner of Police (North Zone) R Dhinakaran in frustration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/disregard-for-lockdown-norms-triggers-clusters/articleshow/75459928.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Trichy||Trichy has no Covid cases, but health officials continue random sampling||TRICHY: With the recovery of three more patients on Tuesday, Trichy city has become free from Covid-19 positive cases. Meanwhile, the public health department is not leaving any stone unturned and closely monitoring random sampling on pregnant women, people with severe acute respiratory illness (SARI) and influenza like illness (ILI) in containment zones across the district. While heaving a sigh of relief that all patients in the city have been cured of the disease, health officials are still apprehensive over its likely penetration into the community. A source in the public health department said that it is too early to rule out that all the Covid-19 positive cases have been identified and treated. “There may be asymptomatic carriers of the viral disease. Our focus is now on the three categories of the people. In the past one week of random sampling, none of them tested positive. It may not be the case always,” said the official. Nine areas in the corporation, one in municipality, three in town panchayats and seven in rural areas have been brought under the containment zone in the district. Pregnant women, people with SARI, ILI in the containment areas are being traced and their samples sent to the hospital. Sources said that there were no new SARI cases in the past three days in the containment areas while ILI cases were reported in small numbers. Trichy district administration is hopeful of making the entire district free of positive cases once the final six patients from rural areas are discharged by the end of this week. As of Wednesday, two patients from Somarasampettai and four patients from Thuvarankurichi are being treated at the Mahatma Gandhi memorial government hospital (MGMGH). Out of the 39 Tablighi Jamaat delegates, a lone patient is still under treatment. Of the total 51 cases in the district, 39 patients got the infection primarily, while 12 others were their family and secondary contacts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/city-has-no-covid-cases-but-health-officials-continue-random-sampling/articleshow/75459938.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Police step in to help kin of dead in Andhra Pradesh||HYDERABAD: A 32-year-old womon was helped by the RC Puram police of Cyberabad commissionerate with shifting her husband’s body to their native place in Kurnool district and perform the final rites. “The man’s health had started deteriorating recently and he was admitted to a hospital in Pathancheru. He passed away while undergoing treatment due to complication developmed by epilensy on Tuesday,” said RC Puram inspector J Ramesh. According to the inspector, as family members did not offer any help to Fathima to conduct the man’s last rites, she approached the police. “SI Koteswar Rao and constables spoke to the parents of deceased, village elder, local SI and members of religious community. They ensured that funeral is performed at his native place on Wednesday. SI gave Rs 10,000 to the family for expenses,” the inspector said. In another humanitarian gesture, Kanchanbagh constable P srinivas, helped a poor family in Maruthi Nagar by giving them Rs 10,000 to perform the final rites of a woman who died of heart attack. Police lent a helping hands yet again when CP Rachakonda helped a man who had undergone eye surgery by transporting him to his village in Narsampet mandal of Warangal district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/police-step-in-to-help-kin-of-dead/articleshow/75459934.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Goa||Marella crew to be tested on Thursday||PANAJI: All the crew of Marella Discovery, who arrived at staggered intervals by late Tuesday night and early Wednesday morning, have been lodged at the private quarantine facility at Patto. They will be tested for Covid-19 on Thursday and the results are expected to be out by Saturday. In addition to the crew from Marella Discovery, two seafarers who arrived at the Goa border with e-passes have been quarantined at the same facility but will have to pay for the quarantine. One arrived on Sunday and the other on Wednesday. “The two seafarers came on their own and didn’t disclose details. They applied for the e pass and directly came to the checkpost,” ports secretary P S Reddy said. The two seafarers will pay Rs 3,000 per day for 14 days for quarantine in the hotel at Patto. President of the Goa seafarers association Frank Viegas expressed happiness on the return of the seafarers and said the government can learn from this experience as it prepares itself to bring in the thousands of others stranded. “After this experience, the government should ensure that it is a smooth operation for the rest who will follow. They should not be stranded anywhere,” he said. The last bus carrying crew from Marella Discovery arrived in Goa from Mumbai post 3am on Wednesday after almost 20 hours on the road. The bus which was also carrying two seafarers who had to be dropped at Pune and in the vicinity had to take alternative roads as some were blocked. What also took time was the strict security check at each checkpost along the way. “The roads were blocked at many places. Police were checking at every few kilometres. They were doing their job but the checking took a lot of time. Instead of taking driving along main roads, we had to take inner routes,” one of the seafarers in the last bus told TOI. The seafarers disembarked at Mumbai port on April 23. They received clearance to leave after their Covid-19 test results came negative. The government on Thursday received a communication from Angriya stating that they will not be signing off their crew as they require them for evacuation operations of Indians overseas. As for Karnika, the government wrote to the company asking for its plans with regard to the crew. “We have asked them if they want to sign off the Goan crew. They said they’ll get back to us tomorrow,” Reddy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/marella-crew-to-be-tested-today/articleshow/75460553.cms||Lisa Monteiro
April 30, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka government banks heavily on booze||BENGALURU: Banking on revenue from liquor sales post the lockdown, the state is seeking the Centre’s permission to open manufacturing and retails outlets from May 4. With liquor shops shut since March 24 and to remain so at least till May 3, the excise department is staring at a loss of Rs 2,050 crore. On Tuesday, chief minister BS Yediyurappa requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to allow liquor sales at least in green zone districts. The state is awaiting guidelines for the post-May 3 exit plan expected to be issued on May 1 or 2. The state cannot decide on its own on this as the Centre has banned liquor sales across the country. The issue is expected to come up for discussion in the cabinet on Thursday; the council of ministers is meeting to find ways to kickstart economic activities wherever it is possible. “In fact, we wanted to open liquor sales on April 14 when the first round of lockdown ended. It’ll be detrimental to both government exchequer and economy if we continue to curb the industry. Both manufacturing and sales should start immediately,” said excise minister H Nagesh. He said efforts are on to resume liquor sales partially from May 3 and fully after May 15. The chief minister on Tuesday convened a meeting with officials from the finance department to take stock of the revenue position. The tax collection in April is hardly about 4% of the monthly target of Rs 10,500 crore. While the government was able to pay April salaries with savings from the previous year, the officials are learnt to have told the CM that the state would sink deep into debt trap if liquor sales are not resumed. “Though property and vehicle registrations have started, they cannot fetch revenue immediately. Even GST can yield only a little with the transactions are limited to essential commodities, whereas we can expect instant revenue from liquor sales,” said an official. The state expects a monthly revenue of Rs 1,900 crore from liquor sales and it was absolutely nil in April. The CM was told that the loss can be partially covered if the sales are allowed in May. The idea is to allow liquor sales in non-Covid areas and the lockdown norms can still be followed by banning inter-district movement and keeping the containment areas in isolation. Experts said the relaxation would not affect the ongoing efforts to curb the virus, provided social distancing is followed at outlets. “Reopening of liquor shops will solve many issues; burglary at shops and suicides and deaths due to consumption of hand sanitisers are on the rise,” claimed G Honnagiri Gowda, president of Karnataka State Wine Merchants Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ktaka-eyes-booze-to-fill-its-coffers/articleshow/75459230.cms||B V Shiva Shankar
April 30, 2020||Kozhikode||Kudumbashree micro enterprises hit by lockdown||Kozhikode: The lockdown has hit the livelihood of women-led enterprises based on the food and agriculture set up under Kudumbashree in Kozhikode district.The sudden declaration of lockdown has adversely impacted the revenue of Kudumbashree units that used to take orders over the phone and engaged in door-to-door delivery of items. The inclusion of district in the red zone as part of Covid-19 and travel ban following lockdown been a huge blow to Kudumbashree units and home shop business of the Kudumbashree. The travel ban has resulted in complete halt on door-to-door delivery of 82 food-based products manufactured by the members of 44 Kudumbashree home shops in Kozhikode.Sulaikha Bavutty, coordinator of Zoy Cakes and chocolate unit of Kudumbashree said that the monthly turn over has come down as low as Rs 500 from Rs 2 lakh after the lockdown. “The travel ban and lockdown has an adverse impact on our revenue. Seven families are depending on the income from the unit to meet ends. We are unable to give this monthly salary to our staff without income and all are eagerly waiting for the lifting of the lockdown to resume operation,” she said. “We set up the unit by taking loan and need to remit Rs 45,000 per month as monthly instalment. The prolonged lockdown is making us anxious about going forward,” she said.V Latha, secretary of Theertham packaged drinking water unit said that they mainly supply drinking water to shops and hotels in the Kozhikode city limits. “We set up the unit by taking Rs 25 lakh loan and need to remit Rs 55,000 per month as loan instalment. The sale of canned drinking water has come to 20 cans per day from 200 cans per day,” she said.According to the district Kudumbashree mission office, 2,020 micro enterprises are working under the 1,566 Area Development Societies (ADSs) and 82 Community Development Societies (CDSs). T Gireesh Kumar, assistant district mission coordinator of Kudumbashree said that some of the units working in the apparel and textile sector have jobs as they switched over to mask and cloth bag manufacturing. “Some home shop units too got a mirage income by making sanitizers, toilet cleaners and hand washers. The food-based and agriculture-based enterprises were the most affected,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/kudumbashree-micro-enterprises-hit-by-lockdown/articleshow/75457613.cms||Sreedevi Chitharanjan
April 30, 2020||Goa||Seamen’s association opposes paid quarantine||Panaji: The Goan seamen association of India has objected to the state government introducing paid quarantine facilities at the cost of the seafarers or shipping companies. In a letter to the CM and other government officials on Wednesday, president of the association Frank Viegas asked the government to rethink its decision considering the financial situation of the seafarers and their employers due to the pandemic. Forcing companies to pay for the quarantine facilities of their crew could have consequences for their future assignments, where they can refuse to hire them, he stated. “Showing no empathy to the Goan community and charging their own people, will have a ripple effect which can be avoided by showing kind and selfless aid. Hope the government of Goa will rethink its decision on paid quarantine,” Viegas stated. The association met with ports secretary and officials from the NRI commission on Tuesday. Talking to reporters after the meeting, Viegas said no other state is talking of paid quarantine. Founder of the association Dixon Vaz said paid quarantine would run into crores of rupees, which should not be extracted from companies. Viegas said no company will hire crew again after being forced to pay for quarantine facilities. “The CM is saying agents and the company are paying but we don’t know whether they are paying willingly. How will companies agree to pay for crew only in Goa? There is a hidden agenda,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/seamens-association-opposes-paid-quarantine/articleshow/75460562.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Trichy||Seven held for hunting wild hare in Karur||TRICHY: The forest department, on Wednesday, revealed that seven people were arrested on Monday in Karur district for hunting wild hare and other small animals. The incident came to light after the perpetrators from Samathuvapuram of Manmangalam took pictures with the dead animals and shared it on social media. While, wild hare is protected under schedule IV of the wildlife protection Act 1972, the accused have been booked under five different sectionsof the Act and lodged in jail. The arrested have been identified as Santhosh, 23, who is the main accused, Martin, 23, Dheenadayalan, 21, Siddharth, 21, Manikandan, 27, Veerakumar, 27 and Ajith, 23. The forest department took help from the district police to trace the phone number of Santhosh and arrest him and his accomplices. The inquiry revealed that all the accused are graduates and some were working in the Chennai. They had come to their native place during this lockdown. Sathosh, being the main accused, he had shared pictures on Facebook and as status on WhatsApp. Wild hare and other small animals could be found outside reserve forests in the central and southern district. It has been a traditional practice among rural folks living close to the forest to hunt them down for meat. “More than meat, they are deriving pleasure out of hunting as it involves chasing of such animals, killing it without thinking about the implications. Their arrest is a warning and lesson for others who have been indulging in such acts,” said Karur district forest officer A Anbu. Incidents of making videos of hunting and cooking and sharing it on social media have increased. We are now more alert as a special task force has been formed to keep an eye on people during this lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/7-held-for-hunting-wild-hare-in-karur/articleshow/75459957.cms||Sampath Kumar
April 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Three held for selling paan masala, tea||Ahmedabad: With no decline in demand for tea or tobacco, but with shops selling paan masala and cigarettes all closed, petty sellers are trying out novel methods to catch the eyes of customers and sell in black. Many are moving about in front of, or in the vicinity of the closed stalls with tea in jugs and tobacco pouches and cigarettes in gunny bags. Police arrested three such sellers on Tuesday. Two were arrested for selling tobacco products, and one for selling tea from a jug. All have been booked byt Gomtipur and Khokhra police for violation of lockdown norms and also under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897. Gomtipur police sources said a patrol team on Tuesday had spotted a man near Poatiyawad Three Roads with a cloth bag on his hand moving suspiciously in the road. “We were surprised to find paan masala packets in his bag. He identified himself as Dinesh Makwana, 77, of Gomtipur,” said a police official. On the same day, Gomtipur police arrested one Mohammed Imran Saiyed, 28, of Gomtipur. “He had a big jug in his hand. On checking we found tea in the jug, which he was selling. His customers fled from the spot,” said a police official. Khokhra police arrested Dashrath Patel, 60, on a tip-off from near Bal Bhavan in Khokhra. “He was carrying bidis and paan masala packets in a bag and selling them,” said a Khokhra police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/three-held-for-selling-paan-masala-tea/articleshow/75459287.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Nagpur||UGC for exams in July, NU to await govt instructions||Nagpur: In a first, the Nagpur University on Wednesday conducted its first ever online meeting where it discussed the report by University Grants Commission (UGC) on ‘Examinations and Academic Calendar’ along with other issues and took a slew of decisions. The UGC report gives general guidelines on conduct of examinations for all universities and other institutions across India. The university’s Board of Examination and Evaluation (BOEE), in its meeting through an online platform, decided to wait for the Maharashtra government’s guidelines on recommendations of UGC report. The meeting chaired by acting vice-chancellor Murlidhar Chandekar was attended by 13 members from their respective homes. “The members unanimously decided to waive late exam fees from the students who were supposed to appear in third and fourth phase of examinations, which were indefinitely deferred in view of Covid-19 outbreak. It was also decided to conduct viva-voce exams of PhD students in online mode,” BOEE director Prafulla Sabale told TOI. Explaining the UGC’s report, he said it had recommended conducting the exams from July 1 to 31 and declaring summer vacations in entire June with a view to maintain social distancing. “The apex body advised to continue classes through e-learning via apps like Skype and WhatsApp till May 15 and finalize the project/dissertation work till May 31. The results would be declared between July 31 and August 14 so that new semester can commence in September. While conducting the exams, the UGC strongly recommended maintaining social distancing,” he said adding that the UGC was hoping for reduction in Covid-19 impact by that time. The director informed that State Department of Higher and Technical Education had constituted a panel of four vice-chancellors for finding out ways and means to conduct exams after lockdown period. “The panel would now come up with recommendations based on UGC report. It has already studied exam patterns of all state universities. We will wait for government’s instructions,” Sabale said. # UGC’s timetable for this academic year: * Start of odd semester — January 1 * Classes suspension due to Covid-19 — Mar 16 * Classes via e-learning — March 16 to May 15 * Finalisation of project work — May 15 to 31 * Summer vacations starts — June 1 to 30 * Terminal semester exams — July 1 to 15 * Intermediate semester exams — July 16 to 31 * Terminal semester results — Before July 31 * Intermediate semester results — Before August 14||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ugc-for-exams-in-july-nu-to-await-govt-instructions/articleshow/75459965.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
April 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Restrain police from seizing vehicles during lockdown: AIMIM to HC||Charminar: The AIMIM has called on Chief Justice of Telangana asking for restrain on the police department seizing further vehicles of people during the lockdown. Syed Taraq Quadri told TOI that a letter was written to the chief justice saying that citizens were facing hardship in procuring ration, milk and medicines and step only to meet these needs. “In the process, not only are their vehicles being seized, but they are also being beaten. Although Hyderabad police commissioner has appealed to his subordinates to spare the lathy and be, ground realities are different,’’ said AIMIM president. - Omer bin Taher||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/restrain-police-from-seizing-vehicles-during-lockdown-aimim-to-hc/articleshow/75459967.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Trichy||Tea vendor held after fight with cop in Thanjavur||TRICHY: Police have arrested a tea vendor who got into a fight with a policeman at Thirupanandhal in Thanjavur district after a video clip of the encounter started circulating in social media. According to police, the tea vendor who attacked head constable Deepak, 31, of Thiruppanandhal police station was Nanthavarman, 25, of the same area. While Deepak was on routine patrol in Thiruppananthal town and surrounding areas, he noticed the latter selling tea from a drum on his cycle a few days ago. Since the lockdown was in force, the head constable asked Nanthavarman to wind up sales and go back. He told him that social distance cannot be maintained as people would came closer to have tea. Nanthavarman refused to leave and Deepak insisted that he go home. The tea vendor soon picked up a quarrel with the policeman and at one point things turned violent with both attacking each other. As the video footage of the incident went viral on social media, Thiruppananthal police registered a case and arrested Nanthavarman. Further investigations are on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/tea-vendor-held-after-fight-with-cop/articleshow/75459969.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Trichy||Counsellors busy resolving domestic violence cases in Trichy||TRICHY: While the state government grapples with increasing cases of Covid-19, counsellors at government and non-government organisations (NGOs) have been coming across complaints of domestic violence over financial and other issues during the lockdown. Earlier, Trichy range police had launched a programme to check on 14,930 victims of domestic violence in the past four years in Trichy rural, Karur, Pudkukottai, Ariyalur and Perambalur following news of women suffering harassment during the lockdown. The district social welfare offices (DSWO) across the state have also offered to help such victims if any. In Trichy, the efforts of DSWO started yielding result in the first week itself with five women complaining against their husbands. While three of them concerned financials issues, the other two were related to illicit affairs. Enquiries revealed that the loss of income of the male head of the family had triggered such issues. Despite dip in the income under lockdown, the expenditure on essential things could not be avoided. “When money becomes the cause of concern, some men force their wives to get financial help from their parents. If the women confront their husbands, it will turn into domestic violence,” said Trichy DSWO A Thamimmunisha. The protection officer, family welfare counsellor and other staff attached to DSWO would attend to the complaints either by providing counselling over phone or visiting them. The officials claimed that their intervention helped the couple sort out the issues between them. A family counsellor, T Rosy, attached to Kajamalai Ladies Association, visited some houses in the district to settle the dispute over a trivial issue between a couple. “Besides issues over financial problems, people are getting angry over petty issues like use of TV remote control, watching a favourite channel and handling children. We intervene and provide counselling to them,” said Rosy. On illicit affairs, the officials said that either the husband or wife was exposed to their partners while flirting over the phone at home during the lockdown. Some of the women embroiled in the issue even decided to leave their family and stay in the working women hostel run by the social welfare department. Whom to contact to report domestic violence in Trichy||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/counsellors-busy-resolving-domestic-violence-cases-in-trichy/articleshow/75459948.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Trichy||Goyal conveys PM pat for Karur MCH’s Covid work||TRICHY: Union minister of railways, commerce and industry Piyush Goyal conveyed Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s appreciations to Karur Medical College Hospital authorities for their effective handling of Covid-19 cases. The minister has called the hospital authorities that have been doing well in the fight against Covid-19 keeping the mortality rate significantly low. Speaking to TOI, medical college dean Rosy Vennila said that the Union minister told the hospital dean that he heard about the good work taken up by the hospital and the number of patients they have treated. “He wanted to know whether all the doctors and medical staff are safe and offered help in case and conveyed the message of the prime minister who personally wished to convey his congratulation to the entire healthcare team,” he said. The Union minister has conveyed his wishes to ESI hospital in Coimbatore apart from Erode and Kilpauk medical colleges. With the lone positive patient from Karur district who is expected to be discharged after recovery on Thursday, Karur finds itself in a good position without Covid-19 cases for the last 12 days. A 96-year-old man from Dindigul district was the only casualty at Karur Government Medical College Hospital because of Covid-19 and the hospital managed to cure most of the positive cases. He was suffering from age-related ailments and died without responding to treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/goyal-conveys-pm-pat-for-karur-mchs-covid-work/articleshow/75459976.cms||Sampath Kumar
April 30, 2020||Mysuru||Influx of workers into villages can worsen Covid-19 situation: MLA||Mandya: With the influx of thousands of people from Mumbai into villages in KR Pete and Nagamangala taluks, there are fears that it could cause the novel coronavirus to spread in these areas, which was raised in a meeting chaired by medical education minister K Sudhakar in Mandya. Sudhakar held a meeting with people’s representatives and district officials. Nagamangala JD(S) MLA Sureshgowda voiced his concern, that thousands of people from his constituency, who were residing in Mumbai, had sneaked into their native villages here, in violation of the lockdown, which could cause the novel coronavirus to spread. Sureshgowda urged the district administration to carry out testing for Covid-19, on a massive scale in his constituency, as there is a likelihood of the disease spreading in the villages there, due to the influx of people working in Mumbai. “A person from Satenahalli village in my constituency, who is a hotelier in Mumbai, tested positive for the novel coronavirus. He had entered the village by violating the lockdown. Like him, thousands of people have already sneaked into their native villages here. The Covid-19 case in Satenahalli village is just the tip of the iceberg. The district administration must start testing all the people who came here from Mumbai and Bengaluru,” Sureshgowda demanded. Sudhakar assured Sureshgowda that state government must take every possible step to detect and contain the spread of the novel coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/influx-of-workers-into-villages-can-worsen-covid-19-situation-mla/articleshow/75457647.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Patna||Bihar: 1,039 posts for SKMCH health facility approved||PATNA: The state government will create 1,039 posts of additional medical teachers and doctors as well as of technical and non-technical staff to provide healthcare and do teaching work at the newly established 662-bed centre on the SKMCH campus in Muzaffarpur. The decision was taken in a cabinet meeting on Wednesday. It also approved the creation of 81 posts of non-gazetted employees in the district courts of Nalanda, Rohtas, Nawada, Saran, Gopalganj, East Champaran, Vaishali, Darbhanga and Samastipur to assist in the expeditious disposal of pending cases. The cabinet also sanctioned the creation of 59 posts for the smooth functioning of Frozen Semen Bank at Maranga near Purnea. The appointment of eight personnel was also cleared to monitor the construction work at the sub-regional science centre coming up at Gaya. Besides, the cabinet extended the grace period for the payment of taxes by owners of commercial vehicles, passenger vehicles and trucks up to June 30 in view of the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/1039-posts-for-skmch-health-facility-approved/articleshow/75459267.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Nagpur||Eighth liquor shop burgled during lockdown in Nagpur||NAGPUR: After a brief pause, the burglars have targeted a liquor shop in city taking the tally of such burglaries to eight. The burglars broke into a country liquor shop on Tuesday and decamped with liquor worth Rs 18,000 at Tandapeth, Pachpaoli. The burglars entered by breaking the lock of the shutter. When the burglary came to light, owner of the shop approached Pachpaoli police where a case has been registered. Police are now scrutinizing CCTV footage from nearby spots to identify the miscreants. The frequent attacks on wine shops and bars indicates failure of police to keep check on miscreants even when there is virtually no traffic and most personnel are on the streets. All bars and wine shops have been closed since March 18 following corona lockdown. All the establishments were sealed by state excise officials. Earlier the burglars have targeted a country liquor shop in Kamptee and bars in Jaripatka, Gaddigodam, Koradi, Mankapur, MIDC and Nandanvan. Cops have advised owners to keep extra security at their shops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/eighth-liquor-shop-burgled-during-lockdown/articleshow/75459982.cms||Viraj Deshpande
April 30, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: Focus is on the five containment zones: GVMC commissioner||GVMC commissioner G Srijana has been leading the fight against Covid-19 from the front in Vizag. The number of positive cases in the district has dipped over the last one month due to the persistent efforts of the civic body under her leadership. With the fourth round of survey scheduled to come to an end by the end of the week, Srijana elaborated on the various measures taken to control the spread of the virus in the city. Excerpts... Is the surveillance survey being done in an accurate manner?It’s being done in an authentic way. We are collecting data on symptoms, like fever, dry cough, sore throat, shortness of breath etc. We have instructed all our 10,472 volunteers and over 600 ANMs to visit each and every house. We have 5.8 lakh households in the city. Each team should have an ANM or Asha worker. No survey can be taken up without them. This is a strict rule. The teams have been told to paste the sticker of the fourth-round survey on the walls of the house after completion. When will the survey get over? How many households have been covered so far?We started the survey on April 24 and plan to complete it in 10 days. About 3.04 lakh households have been covered so far, at an average of 70,000 households per day. Also, 1,355 symptomatic cases have been traced, at an average of about 200 per day. Whereever the teams come across symptoms of fever, dry cough, sore throat or shortness of breath, we immdiately send mobile teams to that area to collect samples. We have linked survey and testing and have one mobile team for testing in each zone of GVMC, which has eight administrative zones. But our main focus is on the five containment zones. When can we expect containment zones to become normal areas?If there are no positive cases by May 3 in the containment zones, relaxations would be allowed with some restrictions. No positive cases have been reported from the five containment zones for almost a month now. We have 2.5 lakh households in the 3km radius of the five containment zones plus the 2km buffer zone. Is there cooperation from public in the containment zones? Except restriction of movement, everything is under control and people are cooperating. This temporary inconvenience is for the larger good. We are addressing complaints of public on a daily basis. Groceries and vegetables are being door-delivered. Out of the 133 mobile rythu bazaars in the city, 70 are in the containment zones. How will civic schools cover the syllabus as the academic year has been delayed?Our first task is to check the spread of the virus. We may go for extra classes or more digital content. We have over 24,000 students in our 147 schools. We will focus on the issue once the lockdown is over. How tough is it to balance your duties, as commissioner and as mother? I am managing to balance it, with the support of my husband and mother. I have to extend my services to the public as a public servant because this is the hour of emergency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/srijana-focus-is-on-the-five-containment-zones/articleshow/75459974.cms||Siva G
April 30, 2020||Chennai||TN industries may reopen, but no date yet||CHENNAI: Indicating he favoured a staggered lockdown exit, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Wednesday said the state government would allow industries to reopen in green zones in the districts, but did not set a firm date. The cabinet will meet on May 2, a day before the nation-wide lockdown ends, and announce the details. Industry sources, however, say they will need a few days after permissions are in place to restart operations. “A factory cannot be ready overnight. It needs preparation before staff can walk in. We are still waiting for the government nod,” an auto parts maker said. District collectors have been asked for detailed reports on the industries and activities that could be allowed to reopen in a gradual manner in their jurisdiction. “The reports should reach the government by tomorrow. A panel formed to work out exit strategy will make a presentation to the CM on Thursday, based on which the cabinet note will be put up,” a source said. The Centre has categorized green zones as places where none has tested positive for Covid-19 for 28 days. Krishnagiri is the only district in TN in the green zone as it has not seen a single positive case. However, sources in government told TOI that for purposes of industrial activity, the geographical unit to determine a green zone would be the block in rural areas and corporation or municipal zone in urban areas. In a seven-hour video conference with collectors, the CM said, “The state government will issue orders to start the industries gradually in green zones in the districts. The collectors can take note of that order and allow all industries in the green zones.” Palaniswami said the Covid-19 spread was under control in all districts, except densely populated Chennai. Even as the virus spread was brought under control in rural areas, and to an extent in town panchayats and municipalities, it has not been the case in municipal corporations due to the dense population. The district collectors and Chennai Corporation commissioner have been told to submit a report on guest workers. They should ensure relief reached them and healthcare was accessible. “The collectors should see that farmers get access to equipment and inputs, besides movement of produce to the markets,” the CM said. On the MGNREGA front, the CM said workers should be divided into groups of 50. They should be given masks. Those above 55 years should be excluded and instead member of his or her family could be included. Police should intensify surveillance in containment areas and prevent people hitting the streets unnecessarily and also monitor inter-state borders strictly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-industries-may-reopen-but-no-date-yet/articleshow/75460001.cms||Julie Mariappan
April 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Action plan being drafted for those stranded in other states||Gandhinagar: After a notification on Wednesday by the Union ministry of home affairs, directing all states to arrange for safe inter-state movement of migrant labourers, students, tourists and other citizens, the state government has begun to draft an action plan to bring back those from Gujarat stranded in other states as well as send back migrant workers and other stranded citizens from other states to their respective native places.A key official in the government said that the notification by the Union ministry of home affairs has been discussed in details at the highest level in the government. “We will shortly review the demands by Gujaratis from other states including students, tourists and others. We will also review the demands from other states to allow their migrant workers to travel to their respective states,” the official said. He added that until now, about 9,000 migrant workers have been sent to Rajasthan and MP.As a result of lockdown restrictions to fight Covid-19, migrant workers, pilgrims, tourists, students and other persons have been stranded at different places in the country. Now, the Centre has permitted the movement of these stranded persons by road. They will be allowed to move between one state/UT to another state/UT, after the concerned states consult each other and mutually agree on procedure. It has also been decided that that on arrival at their destination, such persons will be assessed by the local health authorities, and kept in home quarantine, unless the assessment requires keeping the person in institutional quarantine. They will be kept under watch with periodic health check-ups.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/action-plan-being-drafted-for-those-stranded-in-other-states/articleshow/75459271.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Observe restraint while enforcing lockdown rules: Home minister to police officials||HYDERABAD: Home minister Mohammed Mahmood Ali has asked senior cops of Hyderabad to instruct field-level staff to not assault people and exercise restraint while enforcing lockdown rules. Referring to a few incidents of police assaulting people in Hyderabad, the minister while addressing a meeting of Hyderabad police commissioner Anjani Kumar and zonal DCPs on Wednesday said that wrong behaviour by a small percentage of cops brings bad name to the entire department and also to the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/observe-restraint-while-enforcing-lockdown-rules-hm-to-police-officials/articleshow/75460006.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Goa||Luizinho Faleiro asks PM for aid to help local business||PANAJI: Former chief minister Luizinho Faleiro has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi asking for financial support for Goan households and local businesses which have suffered due to the coronavirus pandemic. “Your government must also consider granting some sustenance allowance to Goan bread earners who have lost their employment and as such waiving-off the statutory fees as applicable to the varied sections of enterprise and activity so as to enable our fellow Goans to tide over these difficult times,” Faleiro said in his letter. He also appealed to the Prime Minister to ensure the safe return of NRI Goans. Meanwhile, state Congress president Girish Chodankar requested Goa Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education and directorate of education to make arrangements for the large number of students stranded outside Goa for them to answer the board exams this year. “Board should also give sufficient time to students to prepare again for exams and proposed time of 10 days before exams won’t be sufficient considering the uncertainty about dates and a long gap since exams have been postponed,” Chodankar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/faleiro-asks-pm-for-aid-to-help-local-biz/articleshow/75460590.cms||---
April 30, 2020||India||Twitter abuzz as White House ‘unfollows’ PM Modi||NEW DELHI: Twitter was abuzz on Wednesday with scornful reports that the White House had “unfollowed” PM Modi after “following” him a few weeks ago. Connections were drawn to the US sourcing hydroxychloroquine from India as the reason for the “follow”. Congress MP Rahul Gandhi also tweeted: “I’m dismayed at the ‘unfollowing’ of our President and PM by the White House. I urge the ministry of external affairs to take note.” Washington sources said the White House “follows” important handles from a country where a summit is happening with the US President. They “followed” Indian handles like PM and President when US President Trump was travelling to India in February. “It’s standard practice,” a source said. The White House does not follow foreign leaders and entities in normal times, sources said. The White House isn’t following any foreign leader at present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/twitter-abuzz-as-white-house-unfollows-pm-modi/articleshow/75461779.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Mysuru||IMD forecasts ‘near normal’ monsoon in Karnataka this year||MYSURU: The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD), in its first forecast for 2020, has predicted a ‘near normal’ monsoon, an announcement that could help lift the flagging spirits of the farming community. The suspension of agricultural activities during the first 21 days of the lockdown, coupled with the disruption in the supply chain, has aggravated the already perilous fiscal condition of the farming community. Experts have predicted that Karnataka is likely to receive either its normal quota or above normal rainfall this year. Between June and September, the state is expected to receive between 96% of its normal rainfall and 104%. The normal quota of rainfall for the entire state in these four months comes up to 840mm. The probability of deficit rainfall – lesser than 90% of the normal quota – is 1%, which experts point out provides no cause for concern. Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre (KSNDMC) director G Srinivas Reddy is optimistic about the fruits of the forecast. “It is a good sign. Data that even the KSNDMC has received indicates that the possibility of drought is very low,” he added. Relief from summer heat The spell of showers that have brought some relief to those suffering the stifling confines of home in the summer indicate good pre-monsoon rainfall in most parts of the state, shows KSNDMC data. Of the 30 districts in the state, 24 of the 30 districts in Karnataka have received above normal pre-monsoon rainfall from March 1 to April 27. Kodagu (-8%), Chikkamagaluru (-27%), Shivamogga (-21%), Haveri (-50%), Racihur (-30%) and Chitradurga (-9%) are the only districts where pre-monsoon rainfall has been below expectations. President of the Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha Badagalapura Nagendra said that the pre-monsoon showers had infused fresh hope in the hearts of farmers. “We have not had much difficulty in the procurement of seeds and fertilisers. Pre-monsoon rain is critical to our fortunes. Farmers in South Karnataka will suffer if the region does not receive copious rain prior to the monsoon. In most parts of the state, farmers have already started preparing for sowing. We are just hoping there are no extreme weather events this year,” Nagendra said.  Alert for todayThe IMD has issued a yellow alert for moderate to heavy rain (15.6 to 64.5 mm) in five districts of south Karnataka. There is also forecast for light to moderate rain in Mysuru and Mandya districts. The yellow alert has been issued for Thursday in Chamarajanagar, Chikkamagalur, Hassan, Kodagu and Shivamogga. As per the data of KSNDMC, on Wednesday, the highest rain in the state was recorded at 120 mm in B Seehalli village in T Narasipura taluk of Mysuru district. Bannur recorded 70 mm rain. According to farmers, hailstorm occurred in many villages in Hunsur and surrounding areas. Scattered rain has been reported from all the major hoblis of the entire region. Rain-related damages to both houses and agriculture have been reported from several interior areas including HD Kote and Periyapatna. The heavy rain has come as a big relief for the authorities as it has brought down the drinking water crisis in rural areas. According to authorities, drinking water crisis is not reported in any village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/imd-forecasts-near-normal-monsoon-in-state-this-year/articleshow/75456420.cms||Shrinivasa M
April 30, 2020||Vijayawada||With repair shops closed, drivers pray for a miracle||Vijayawada: Autonagar, a major truck maintenance hub, wears a deserted look despite the Union home ministry allowing truck repair shops to run. A fleet of broken down vehicles can be found parked on the roadside gathering dust. Speaking to TOI, Nagaraju, a specialist in diesel vehicles, said several mechanics are forced to stay home without wages despite there being a substantial demand for their service. “Personally, I have been receiving a lot of calls from my regular customers seeking roadside assistance for their vehicles. I had to refuse them as cops in the area are strictly enforcing lockdown,” said Nagaraju. On the other hand, thousands of trucks continue to cross Vijayawada highways carrying essential and non-essential cargo and they can only pray that their vehicles reach their destinations safely without breaking down. For instance, Jagvir Singh, a Punjab-bound truck driver had to sleep inside his vehicle for two days near Nidamanuru while searching for roadside assistance. With over seven mechanics refusing his call, he eventually had to wait for his employer to make the trip to the city with his in-house mechanics to fix it. “While some puncture repair shops on the highways are open, our main pit stop used to be Autonagar. Now, we can only pray that our vehicle doesn’t face any problem,” Jagvir Singh said. But even if mechanics are willing to offer their services, there’s another problem plaguing them — availability of spare parts. “Owners of spare parts shop are scared as some of them were booked by police for keeping their stores open. If it is a matter of cleaning, tightening or fixing a punctured tire, it can still be address. But beyond that if anything happens to the engine, brakes or other parts of the vehicles, the customer may might as well give up and walk home,” Ram Babu, a two-wheeler mechanic said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/with-repair-shops-closed-drivers-pray-for-a-miracle/articleshow/75457684.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
April 30, 2020||Mumbai||Business travel likely to pick up within 6 months post-lockdown||Mumbai: Business travel is likely to resume to pre-Covid levels within 6 months post-lockdown, according to a survey carried out by a hospitality firm, which said it had based its findings on responses from over 500 participants that included companies from IT, pharmaceuticals and FMCG sectors. “Eighty per cent respondents expect business travel to resume to pre-Covid levels in their organization within 6 months post-lockdown,” said the survey. But a total of 58% of corporates expect reduction of 15% or more in travel budget, it said, adding that 19% expect a reduction of less than 15%, while 24% corporates expect travel budgets to remain same post the lockdown is lifted. “While one-third of respondents said they would not move employees to lower-tier hotels to save expenses, the others said they are expected to make this transition to reduce their travel budgets,” the survey added. The Indian hotel market is more than $10 billion in size. The pandemic is expected to leave corporate businesses with less money to spend on travel, lodging and entertainment. “Nearly half of the respondents in this survey had a strength of more than 500 permanent employees. More than 10% of employees travel more than once a month at 45% surveyed organisations,” said the survey carried out by FabHotels. “Not surprisingly, hygiene and sanitization at the hotels is going to become extremely critical in the decision-making process of corporates. About 93% of respondents said they are likely to switch from unbranded to branded hotels post-lockdown for better hygiene and sanitization requirements for their employees. About 88.4% respondents said they are likely to revaluate their budget hotel partnerships post-lockdown,” it added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/business-travel-likely-to-pick-up-within-6-months-post-lockdown/articleshow/75457712.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Vijayawada||Rayalaseema districts report 22 new Covid-19 cases||TIRUPATI: Twenty-two new coronavirus cases were reported in Rayalaseema districts on Wednesday. Kurnool alone accounted for 11 cases. The total number of Covid cases in the district stands at 343 now. Kadapa and Anantapur districts reported four new cases each, taking the overall tally in the districts to 69 and 58, respectively. Srikalahasti in Chittoor district reported three cases. Chittoor district collector Narayana Bharat Gupta told reporters that all 35 wards in the Srikalahasti municipality have been declared as containment zone. Meanwhile, with state and central governments announcing certain relaxations to revive economic activity, Anantapur district collector Gandham Chandrudu said that 210 industries have been accorded permissions to begin their operations. Speaking to reporters on Wednesady, Anantapur collector said 232 industries had applied for permissions, out of which 210 got the green signal. Chandrudu said all industries have to strictly adhere to the guidelines to prevent the outbreak of the novel coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/rayalaseema-dists-report-22-new-cases/articleshow/75457704.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
April 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ensure proper drinking water supply, Gujarat CM tells collectors||GANDHINAGAR: Chief minister Vijay Rupani presided over the fifth consecutive cabinet meeting through a video conference amid the lockdown and reviewed the progress of various healthcare works and related matters on Wednesday. He directed district collectors to ensure that people do not face drinking water shortage. Providing details, Ashwani Kumar, the secretary to the CM, said that with the onset of summer, it is important that people do not face a shortage of potable water in any part of the state. “The CM has instructed district collectors to personally look into this issue and make arrangements for adequate supply of water,” Kumar said. He added that all defunct hand pumps should be immediately repaired and asked all officials to maintain hygiene around the pumps. Officials of all district administrations were advised to use thermal guns, hand sanitizers, and masks in areas like APMCs and market yards where there is a movement of people. The state government will purchase tuar dal from May 1 to May 5 at 103 godowns of Gujarat State Civil Supplies Corporation. The state government received 16,345 registrations for selling tuar dal. In all, 3,881 farmers have already sold 6,514 metric tonnes. The remaining 12,417 farmers can sell their produce from May 1 to 5. The farmers will be informed about the date and specific time slot through an SMS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ensure-proper-drinking-water-supply-cm-tells-collectors/articleshow/75459286.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Decomposed body found in graveyard||HYDERABAD: A decomposed body of an unidentified man was found in a graveyard at Mailardevpally on Wednesday. Police said they suspect that the man was murdered elsewhere and dumped at the graveyard. The murder took place about 10 days ago. Police registered a case under Section 302 (murder) of IPC and are trying to ascertain the identify of the victim.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/decomposed-body-found-in-graveyard/articleshow/75460026.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Kolkata||Dengue may add to Covid-19 misery: KMC||KOLKATA: Samiran Bose, a resident of Azadgarh (Tollygunge) and a government employee, is worried about his 10-year-old son who has been running a mild fever. Though friends and relatives have tried to assure him that it was not Covid-19, the possibility of his son having contracted dengue has him worried. Azadgarh, while not listed as a Covid-19 hotspot, is a dengue-prone area in KMC’s health department records. Two minors died of dengue in the locality last year. A section of KMC doctors shared Bose’s apprehension. Though dengue usually strikes Kolkata and its neighbouring areas later in the year, the manner in which the virus has been mutating and spurt of recent nor’wester showers have left them worried about an early strike this season. “In the past, we have seen dengue striking in as early as April in some parts of the city,” a doctor pointed out. A KMC official echoed his concern. “Though monsoon is still some time away, the recent showers could lead to emergence of breeding grounds for dengue mosquitoes,” he pointed out. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had earlier sounded an alert on dengue, asking all municipal corporations and municipalities to keep a close watch in dengue-prone areas. With KMC having to spend most of its resources to deal with the novel coronavirus outbreak, dengue has not been a priority this year. KMC physicians and health workers are ill-prepared to face the dengue threat, conceded a civic health department official. Civic doctors are particularly worried about areas in boroughs IX, X, XI and XII. Of these, borough X has been a ‘trouble spots’ for them. Tollygunge, Garia, Ramgargh, Golf Green, Lake Gardens, Anwar Shah Road, New Alipore, Chetla, Kalighat, Bhowanipore, Kidderpore, Behala are among other areas where dengue has been a recurring problem. Some areas off EM Bypass also need special anti-dengue drives. In north and central Kolkata, problem areas include Grish Park, Burrabazar, Rajballavpara, Chitpore, Amherst Street, Belgachia, Ripon Street, Elliot Road, SN Banerjee Road, among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/dengue-may-add-to-covid-misery-kmc/articleshow/75460016.cms||Saikat Ray
April 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Hester Biosciences to work with IIT-G on Covid vaccine||Ahmedabad: Ahmedabad-based Hester Biosciences Limited on Wednesday announced its collaboration with Indian Institute of Technology Guwahati to work on developing a vaccine against Covid-19. The agreement was signed on April 15. The pharma major and IIT Guwahati, expect the vaccine to be ready by the end of this year to begin studies on animal. The work is currently in its early stage of development.According to the company, the vaccine will be based on recombinant avian paramyxovirus-based vector platform. “The vaccine will be based on recombinant avian paramyxovirus-based vector platform. The recombinant avian paramyxovirus-1 will be used to express the immunogenic protein of SARS-CoV-2. The recombinant avian paramyxovirus-1 expressing the SARS-CoV-2 protein could be used as a vaccine candidate for further study,” a statement issued by the city-based pharmaceutical company mentioned.Dr Sachin Kumar, associate professor of the department of biosciences and bioengineering at IIT Guwahati, said it would be too early to predict the efficacy and immunogenicity of the vaccine. Commenting on the collaboration, Rajiv Gandhi, CEO and MD, Hester Biosciences, said, “In the current pandemic situation of Covid-19, IIT-G and Hester have collaborated to develop and manufacture a recombinant vaccine against Covid-19 Hester’s involvement would be from master seed development up to release of the commercial vaccine”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hester-biosciences-to-work-with-iit-g-on-covid-vaccine/articleshow/75459269.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Vijayawada||Outsourced RTC staff, porters plead for salaries||VIJAYAWADA: The outsourced employees and licensed porters in Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) have not been paid their salaries during the lockdown. The worker unions said the APSRTC management or the state government should come to their rescue. According to G Obulesh, state general secretary of All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC), 7,000 drivers and 8,000 other employees are outsourced employees of APSRTC. Apart from this, more than 6,000 licensed porters are dependent on APSRTC for their livelihood. While the owners and contractors have not paid salaries to drivers and other employees saying that APSRTC has not cleared their bills, the licensed porters are out of work since all bus services have been suspended due to the lockdown, said AITUC state president R Ravindranath. “The contractors have paid only part salary last month to outsourced employees. They are a worried lot since they do not when will they get salary,” said Chelasani Ramarao, honorary president, AITUC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/outsourced-rtc-staff-porters-plead-for-salaries/articleshow/75457724.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Goa||Stop forcing shipping firms to pay for quarantine: GFP||PANAJI: Goa Forward Party (GFP) on Wednesday said the state government should expedite efforts to bring back Goan seafarers and NRIs stranded abroad. It said the government should not “arm twist” shipping companies and cruise line firms to pay for quarantining the seafarers. GFP president Vijai Sardesai said, “We would be glad if the seafarer companies can afford and willing to pay the reasonable charges, but to demand that the seafarer companies pay for the quarantine of their repatriated crew as per the quarantine measures laid down by the state and adopting an attitude of pay or be damned is like holding a gun to their head – in other words, an extortion.” The International Labour Organisation said that under Regulation 2.5 of the Marine Labour Convention, 2006, seafarers have a right to be repatriated at no cost to themselves in the circumstances and under the conditions specified in the Code. The ILO’s Covid-19 guidelines for member states, which includes India, also state that members must permit the entry of seafarers holding a valid seafarers’ identity document supplemented by a passport, when entry is requested for the purpose of: (a) joining their ship or transferring to another ship; (b) passing in transit to join their ship in another country or for repatriation. GFP, which remains part of the NDA alliance, said that the government’s stance could jeopardise future job prospects for the Goan seafarers. Sardesai pointed out that many companies have taken care of the crew members for nearly two months and that most of the cruise liners are now on the verge of collapse due to the economic slump. The party said that the state government should simultaneously draw up detailed repatriation plans for Goan seamen stuck on foreign shores and for the hundreds of Goan origin NRIs who are stuck in other parts of the world. “While expressing our joy at the return of our seafarers from Marella Discovery, we also wish to express our disappointment at the way the whole operation was handled,” said Sardesai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/stop-forcing-shipping-firms-to-pay-for-quarantine-gfp/articleshow/75460619.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Two die after consuming spirit in Bhongir||HYDERABAD: Two persons who consumed spirit believing that it was liquor on Tuesday at Bhongir town succumbed on Wednesday. Shaik Babu, 35, Mohammed Riyaz, 22, were shifted to a local hospital. As their condition deteriorated, they were shifted to Osmania General Hospital, where they died while undergoing treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2-die-after-consuming-spirit-in-bhongir/articleshow/75460049.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Delhi||Home and away: The viral migration||NEW DELHI: Delhi government is working out a plan to bring back students, pilgrims, tourists and city residents stranded in different parts of the country due to the lockdown. It will also facilitate the repatriation of people to their home states from the capital. After the Union home ministry permitted inter-state movement of stranded people on Wednesday, the state government has begun the planning for the exercise. The people who want to leave Delhi will be screened and only those found asymptomatic of Covid-19 will be allowed to proceed. Those arriving in the capital too will be assessed by the health authorities and kept in home quarantine, unless they are determined to be requiring institutional quarantine. Under watch, such people will be subjected to periodic check-ups. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted: “The Union home ministry has issued an order with regards to the migrants. We are talking to other states. You will be informed after we complete all the planning. Till then, stay at home and follow the lockdown.” It is likely that Delhi government will initiate an online application system for those outside Delhi wanting to return home. A large number of competitive exams aspirants from Delhi are stranded in Rajasthan’s Kota district. Their parents have been requesting the government to evacuate them. There are students also stranded in Bengaluru, Pune and other places in India. The number of pilgrims and tourists stuck outside the city is not known, but they are estimated to be quite a few. Tagore Garden resident Arun Singh, whose daughter is in Kota preparing for her medical entrance examination, said that most of his daughter’s hostel mates have left. “She has been pleading with us to bring her home. It is very difficult for us to see her in such a state,” he said. Delhi government will designate nodal officers and develop standard operating protocols for sending and receiving stranded people. People in Delhi will be registered with the resident commissioners of the various states. Transport is likely to be by road, and social distancing will be strictly followed in sanitised buses. The government’s nodal officers will be in touch with the resident commissioners of other states for facilitating the movement of people to and from Delhi. At the moment, the majority of the migrant labourers are staying in government shelters and it will not be difficult for the state government to identify those willing to return home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/home-away-the-viral-migration/articleshow/75460631.cms||AlokKNMishra
April 30, 2020||Nagpur||Amravati: Six arrested in leopard trapping case||NAGPUR: Amravati forest officials arrested six suspects in the Khairi leopard trapping case in Paratwada range and have seized two more steel traps and 25 crude bombs from them. The six have been identified as Pradeep Pawar, Shridhar Bhosale, Sunil Pawar, Sudhakar Pawar, Dildas alias Champu Bhosale, and Atmaram Bhosale, all belonging to Pardhi tribe. All the accused are residents of Khairi where a trap was laid in a farm in which a leopard got trapped on April 25. Apart from two more steel traps, officials also seized handmade bombs used to kill wild boars, two live quails, one leg of a peacock, skin of monitor lizard, and weapons used to poach wild animals. The incident caused a flutter in the forest department as steel traps are used to poach tigers for their body parts and skin by organized gangs of Baheliya poachers from Katni in Madhya Pradesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/6-arrested-in-leopard-trapping-case/articleshow/75460044.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Chennai||These friends in Chennai ensure the poor don’t go hungry||CHENNAI: When the national lockdown was announced, Isaac Silvin Dass and his friends decided they had to do their bit to help society. So, 10 of them got together and pooled in their resources so that they could lend a helping hand to the needy. Every day since April 1, they have been out on the roads, serving breakfast and lunch to the poor in their locality. "We all stay in the same area and have been friends for the past eight years. And all of us have always felt the need to give back to society," says Dass, 24, who lives in east Tambaram and works with an IT company. " When the lockdown began, we felt we should do something to help. We can work from home and still get paid by our companies but there are many out there who have no source of income." Since one of their friend’s parents run a hotel, the group of 10 pooled in money to buy breakfast and lunch from them. "Every morning, from 7am to 9am, five of us go around Tambaram, Sanatorium, Chromepet, Sembakkam, Hasthinapuram, and Rajakilpakkam to give food to the homeless. It’s usually four idlis and a vada with chutney and sambar, pooris or pongal," says Dass, adding that they feed about 60 people every day. In the afternoon, the other five head out. "We serve variety rice – lemon, curd, tomato, and sambar rice with pickle," says Mohammed Rizwan, 25. "For lunch, we feed about 80 people." Apart from it, the group also hands out biscuits and water bottles to cops as well as sanitation workers they spot on the road. "Every other day, we also distribute 1khg rice and 1litre oil to poor families in the area," says Dass.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/these-friends-ensure-the-poor-dont-go-hungry/articleshow/75460037.cms||Priya Menon
April 30, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Arogya Setu key in arsenal to fight Covid-19||VIJAYAWADA: The state government will encourage people to the download the Arogya Setu app to better control the spread of Covid-19 in Andhra Pradesh. The commissioner (medical, health and family welfare) has been asked to ensure that people download the app during door-to-door surveys and other surveillance activities. The Union government designed the app to assist state governments and individuals control the pandemic. When an individual steps out of home, the app, based on an algorithm, alerts about the possibility of coming into contact with a Covid-19 positive patient. The app also assists authorities in contact tracing and encourages individuals to self-assess and take precautions. All public representatives, employees of state government and state PSUs, employees of central government departments and central PSUs working in Andhra Pradesh will be encouraged to download the app. Healthcare personnel, police, paramilitary forces and those interacting with Covid-19 suspects will also be asked to download the app.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/arogya-setu-key-in-arsenal-to-fight-covid/articleshow/75457714.cms||---
April 30, 2020||India||China in trouble, Ravi Shankar Prasad says exploit ‘adversity’||NEW DELHI: Communications and IT minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Wednesday made a fresh pitch for making India a global hub for electronics manufacturing, asking the industry to tap new opportunities arising out of “adversity”, in what is seen as a reference to the possibility of companies moving out of China in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. During an interaction, Prasad asked the industry to take advantage of new schemes notified by his ministry and emphasised the role of medical electronics industry “that is at a point of complete turnaround”. After transport and MSME minister Nitin Gadkari, Prasad is the second minister is as many weeks to refer to the problems in China, which is being blamed for the pandemic||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/china-in-trouble-ravi-shankar-prasad-says-exploit-adversity/articleshow/75461793.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Mangaluru||Migrant workers from other states stranded at Old Port in Mangaluru||Mangaluru: The sight that met the team of experts from the department of aquatic management at the College of Fisheries in the coastal city at Old Port, Bunder in Mangaluru on Tuesday was pitiable. Nearly 400 to 500 migrant workers, stranded in the city following the lockdown, have been staying at the Old Port. The team, headed by Prof Shivakumar Magada, head of the department, comprised professors Lakshmipathi and Annappaswamy, was at the Old Port to inspect the condition of the sea and the harbour, and assess the impact the lockdown had had on the quality of water. Prof Magadha told TOI that migrant workers from Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Odisha and Tamil Nadu were living at Old Port, which has a meagre two lavatories. “As a result, many of the men have taken to open defecation. The government must take note of their plight and ensure they are provided all basic amenities,” he added. The professor added that members of the boat owners’ association had been providing them food. Magadha also lauded the district administration’s efforts in sensitising the fishing community on the measures needed to be adopted to guard themselves against Covid-19. After their visit, the team held a discussion with College of Fisheries dean Senthil Vel, and other senior members of the faculty. They agreed on the need for the government to take steps to ensure decent living conditions for the migrant workers stranded at the port, while adding that lavatory facilities must be set up immediately for them. They added that the labourers must not be charged for use of the toilet facilities. ‘Port is cleaner’ The team of experts found that nearly a month-long hiatus in fishing activity had brought about a transformation at the Old Port. The quality of water of the sea lashing at the port was much better, while the harbour itself looked much cleaner, they said. They also pointed to the noticeable absence of the odour of fish and diesel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/migrant-workers-from-other-states-stranded-at-old-port-in-mangaluru/articleshow/75457738.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Pune||Favipiravir & Tocilizumab hold most potential in Covid-19 fight||PUNE: The Task Force for Repurposing of Drugs (TFORD) for Covid-19, which has been constituted by the Union government, has ranked Favipiravir and Tocilizumab as the drugs that show the most readiness and potential in the fight against the disease. This is the group's first assessment of several drug candidates for use in India against Covid-19. "Based on the scoring system, Favipiravir and Tocilizumab seem to show promise in terms of readiness and potential, amongst the 19 candidates profiled so far," said a release from the National Chemical Laboratory's Venture Center in Pune, which is helping coordinate the research. "Both these drugs have the potential to be manufactured in India. The TFORD developed an evidence-based scoring mechanism to assess drug candidates for their potential as Covid-19 therapy in India. There will be greater clarity on the potential of these drugs for treatment of Covid-19 as more clinical trial results are published in the coming weeks," the statement added. Favipiravir is an antiviral drug which has been approved in Japan. It is used for treating Influenza and is currently being tested in 18 clinical trials for Covid-19. Results from two studies have shown positive outcomes; data is awaited from the other trials. Tocilizumab is an immune-modulator approved for the treatment of several autoimmune diseases. It is being tested in 24 clinical trials for COVID-19 worldwide. Early results have indicated it can be a promising therapy for patients who are critically ill. “Drug repurposing means that the drug is already in use for some other ailment. Now, its use in effectively treating Covid-19 is also being tested. We are not just looking at antivirals, but a larger picture. For example many people have died of infection and possible inflammation due to Covid-19. Here, Tocilizumab can play a role," said Premnath V, the head of innovations at CSIR-NCL and director of the Venture Center, an incubator hub linked to the lab. "Remdesivir was being talked about as a potential drug for Covid- 19 but we do not rely on unpublished medical reports. Hydroxychloroquine too has mixed results so it's lower down on the scale. More clinical trials are awaited and we will have more results within a week or two," he added. The TFORD has been constituted by the principal scientific adviser to the government for inter-disciplinary assessment of drug candidates, coordination and to support informed decision making. "This is the first such readiness score and potential score we have prepared based on the assessment of molecules we are examining for repurposing of drugs. The scores reflect verified information available so far on clinical trials, efficacy, safety and readiness to manufacture the drugs,” Premnath said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/favipiravir-tocilizumab-hold-most-potential-in-covid-19-fight/articleshow/75438783.cms||Ardhra Nair
April 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||After accused, rape survivor also tests +ve||Ahmedabad: The minor rape survivor who was allegedly raped by her sister’s husband has tested positive for Covid-19. The accused, who was arrested earlier by Isanpur police and sent to jail, was also found to be positive and sent to the Covid-19 hospital on the Asarwa Civil Hospital campus on Monday. Both the minor rape survivor and the accused are now admitted to the Covid-19 hospital and their family has been quarantined in their house in Millatnagar. Inspector J M Solanki said that after the accused was found to have the virus, the minor was also tested and she too was found to be positive. According to police sources, when the victim’s older sister learned about the rape, she accompanied the victim to Isanpur police station and lodged a complaint of rape against the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/after-accused-rape-survivor-also-tests-ve/articleshow/75459262.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Vijayawada||Cinema halls sack around 150 workers in Andhra Pradesh||VIJAYAWADA: Around 150 workers were laid off by three prominent movie theatres in Machilipatnam on Wednesday. The announcement came as a shock to the workers where the respective theatre management informed that their services would not be needed from May 1 which coincidentally happens to be international labour day. The theatre workers took to the streets protesting the move as ‘harsh’ and ‘inhumane’ and demanded that their jobs be restored. These workers include projector operators, booking clerks, security guards and parking clerks. Extending support to the workers, former skill development minister Kollu Ravindra demanded the government to intervene and aid the workers during the tough times. Workers said they were yet to receive their salaries while theatre owners said they were unable to incur costs with theatres were shut. Cops intervened to calm the situation as they instructed workers to head back home and comply with the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/cinema-halls-sack-around-150-workers/articleshow/75457731.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Bengaluru||Mask up or pay fine, say Bengalureans||BENGALURU: With Tumakuru and Hubballi corporations slapping fines on people for not wearing masks in public spaces, a significant section of Bengalureans feels BBMP too must follow suit. They say the two cities have resorted to the punitive measure though they have reported only two and eight Covid-19 cases, respectively. The case for Benglauru to levy fines is much stronger as it has seen 131 cases till date. Ved Prakash, a resident of Indiranagar, said, “Given the highly contagious nature of the virus, BBMP, along with police, should be empowered to impose a penalty for not wearing masks. It would be good if the citizen is also given a mask on the spot as the cost would be adequately covered by the fine...” While citizens believe wearing a mask is the primary step towards keeping the virus at bay, they are also concerned about those who can’t afford it. Abdul Aleem, president, Kanakapura Road Apartments Movement of Change, said, “The Tumakuru municipality has been proactive in imposing fines. This should be implemented in Bengaluru on priority, but considering that we have a larger population, the poor should be allowed to use cloth and availability of masks should be ensured.” Not wearing a mask attracts a fine of Rs 100 in Tumakuru and Rs 200 in Hubballi. Repeat offenders have to cough up Rs 300 in Hubballi. Residents suggest BBMP can entrust marshals with the job of fining people. Many feel all citizens should be wearing a good-quality mask till at least June 30. Maria Mammen, a resident of Vittal Mallya Road, said, “I think Bengaluru should take a leaf out of Tumakuru’s book...The cost of buying a mask doesn’t come into question as one can use a homemade one.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/mask-up-or-pay-fine-say-blureans/articleshow/75459175.cms||Mrinalini Bhat
April 30, 2020||Jaipur||Coronavirus outbreak: 3 die in Jaipur, 74 test positive across state||JAIPUR: Three persons died in Jaipur while 74 others tested positive for Covid-19 in the state on Wednesday. A 55-year-old woman, resident of Ramganj, passed away after she was admitted to SMS Hospital on Wednesday. A 67-year-old woman, resident of Johari Bazaar who was admitted to SMS Hospital on April 22, also died on Wednesday while undergoing treatment. She was suffering from diabetes, hypertension, coronary artery disease and hypothyroidism. A 67-year-old woman from Subhash Chowk, who was admitted to the hospital on Wednesday, died on the same day. She was suffering from breast cancer. With three deaths, the total toll has increased to 30 in Jaipur and 55 in the state. Besides, 74 persons tested positive, taking the total count of infected persons to 2,438 in the state. Of the 74 patients, Jaipur reported 22 cases. According to the health department, the districts which reported Covid-19 cases are Jaipur (22), Jodhpur (13), Ajmer (11), Pali (9), Chittorgarh (8), Kota (3), Bhilwara (2), Dholpur (2), Banswara (1), Bharatpur (1), Nagaur (1) and Udaipur (1). In Jaipur, six persons were found infected in Ramganj, six in Johri Bazaar, while one each case was reported from Chandwaji, MI Road, Sodala, Police Line, Tonk Road, Purani Basti, Shastri Nagar, Sikar House and Jamwa Ramgarh, aamong others. Meanwhile, in Churu, all the 14 patients have been cured of Covid-19. Other than Churu, Pratapgarh and Bikaner too do not have active Covid cases. In Pratapgarh, the two Covid-19 patients have recovered, while in Bikaner, all patients have been cured of coronavirus. With Covid-19 cases being reported regularly from different parts of the state, the health department has issued directions to all officials across the state to ensure proper care for pregnant women. Additional chief secretary (health) Rohit Kumar Singh has issued guidelines for registering each and every pregnant woman on the online pregnancy and child tracking system. The department also issued directions to ensure that the outbreak does not in any way affect maternal and childcare. The guidelines emphasised on the need for proper check of hemoglobin count of pregnant women, distribution of iron folic acid tablets, calcium and albendazole tablets. High-risk pregnant women will be taken to hospitals by the 104 ambulance service for antenatal checkups, and blood banks will remain functional. The guidelines also said that high-risk pregnant women should get care from specialist doctors. It also clarified that suspected pregnant women, who belong to hotspot areas, cluster and containment zones or have come into contact with positive persons, should be treated as per the Centre’s guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/3-die-in-jaipur-74-testpositive-across-state/articleshow/75460637.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Delhi||Spitting in public place: Karol Bagh tops list with 235 challans in 10 days||NEW DELHI: Karol Bagh has topped the list of administrative zones in levying penalties on people found spitting in public places over the last 10 days. Recently, the fines were hiked to curb the menace which increased the risk of the novel coronavirus infection. One of the 12 administrative zones of Delhi’s civic bodies, Karol Bagh alone accounts for 40% of total 578 challans amounting to Rs 1,000 each which have been issued since April 21. During this period, the north corporation challaned 521 people who were found spitting or urinating in open places, the south corporation 43 and the east civic body took action against 14 such individuals. A senior north body official said that out of the 521 challans, the Karol Bagh zone issued 235 challans, Sadar City-Paharganj 64 challans, Keshavpuram 73, Civil Lines 45, Rohini 60 and the Narela zone issued challans to 44 people till April 28. The civic body collected an amount of Rs 1.5 lakh from the violators, while a few cases were referred to the special municipal magistrate for action under Section 470 of the Delhi Municipal Corporation Act. “Despite the lockdown in place, more than five hundred individuals have been caught spitting and urinating in open. It shows that some Delhiites are not taking the warnings about this highly infectious disease seriously,” said the official. “The violators are being challaned on the spot. In case the violator does not have money to pay the fine, then the municipal officer has been directed to obtain proper address details from their identity cards. In case the violator is not carrying any identity card, apart from his other details, his or her photo will be taken on a mobile phone.” “The violators will be asked to pay the fine on the spot. In case they refuse to pay it, the official concerned will immediately initiate the proceedings under Section 455 of the DMC Act,” a senior official explained. The fine for spitting and urinating was increased to Rs 1,000 after a directive from the Home Ministry stated that curbing these activities was important for controlling further outbreak of the coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/spitting-in-public-place-karol-bagh-tops-list-with-235-challans-in-10-days/articleshow/75460078.cms||Paras Singh
April 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Taxpayers worried about TDS payment||AHMEDABAD: Kalpesh Soni (name changed to protect identity), owns a chemical factory in Odhav area of Ahmedabad, which has been shut ever since the nationwide lockdown was imposed. Since professional services such as tax advocates and chartered accountants have not yet resumed operations due to lockdown, Soni is facing difficulties in getting the TDS amount computed. With no extension in deadline for depositing TDS collection for March 2020, he will have to pay a lump-sum amount by April 30 i.e. Thursday, or else have to incur interest penalty. “There is a major revenue loss due to the lockdown. Besides, computing interest has been a challenge. There is a serious confusion as to how we will clear payments,” said Soni. Many industrialists and businessmen have been facing similar troubles. Despite representations made by Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (GCCI) as well as Tax Advocates Association of Gujarat (TAAG), before Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) as well as the Union finance ministry – seeking to extend the April 30 deadline and waiver of penal interest charged for late payment, no decision regarding this has been taken as yet. Tax professionals have also raised issues of extending deadlines for other tax liabilities. “The government should also consider the deadline for clearing instalments for amnesty scheme, which was rolled out for tax dispute settlement under the VAT regime and also for advance tax payments,” said Varis Isani, a city-based tax practitioner. In the ordinance passed by the Union government regarding TDS deduction, the late-fee has been waived off for filing of TDS return up to June 30, but interest will be charged if the tax is paid late. In such circumstances, the traders will have to bear huge losses for late filing of TDS and GST return. “This mere relief in interest is not sufficient, especially when logistics do not permit movement of professionals in a lockdown scenario. When the ordinance was issued, at that time, the lockdown was contemplated till April 14. Now it has been further extended. With force majeure for several industries, many taxpayers would be unable to comply,” said eminent tax expert, Mukesh Patel. “Provisions in the ordinance granting relief will need to be reviewed and suitably modified to meet taxpayers’ interest,” Patel further added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/taxpayers-worried-about-tds-payment/articleshow/75459284.cms||Niyati Parikh
April 30, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Plan to control Covid-19 cases in Kurnool, Guntur & Krishna in place, says minister||AMARAVATI: Deputy chief minister (health) Alla Nani on Wednesday said the state government has readied a comprehensive plan to contain Covid-19 in Krishna, Guntur and Kurnool districts. He said that chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy has directed them to initiate more measures to handle the situation and control the virus spread. Speaking to reporters here on Wednesday after the meeting of Group of Ministers (GoM) on Covid-19, Nani said the district collectors have been directed to take over as many private hospitals as possible to provide treatment to Covid-19 patients in the three districts. He said that special teams have been deputed to trace and track the sources of the cases in the districts. “The government is fully geared up to tackle the situation in Krishna, Guntur and Kurnool districts where a high number of positive cases are being reported. We are confident of handling the crisis,” said Nani. He said that they would provide best possible treatment to all the positive cases and see that all of them returned home safely. Agriculture minister Kannababu criticized former CM Chandrababu Naidu for politicizing Covid-19 operations in the state. He said that Naidu is making baseless allegations on raithu bharosa beneficiaries. He said that the government would release raithu bharosa amounts to the farmers on May 15 and cover all eligible farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/plan-to-control-cases-in-kurnool-guntur-krishna-in-place-min/articleshow/75457745.cms||Samdani MN
April 30, 2020||Vijayawada||‘Cross talk’ disturbs CJ, direct hearing on May 4||VIJAYAWADA: The high court on Wednesday decided to hold direct hearing on the batch of petitions moved challenging the ordinance 5 of 2020 that resulted in the exit of Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar as state election commissioner. Chief Justice J K Maheswari took the decision as cross talk during the video conference disturbed the proceedings. The chief justice expressed displeasure over many advocates, who are not connected to the case, logging into the video conference link. The high court had started hearing of the petitions on Tuesday after both the parties filed counter affidavits and rejoinders. Senior counsel D V Sitharama Murthy argued on behalf of Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar. On Tuesday, the hearing ended inconclusively as the advocates representing other petitioners did not get a chance. On Wednesday, senior counsel Vedula Venkata Ramana representing one of the petitioner, began by explaining the maintainability of the petitions. He cited the Supreme Court judgements and said any ordinance can be challenged if the said ordinance was not in accordance with the Constitution. As some of the advocates representing the petitioners and also the advocate general requested the chief justice to hold direct hearing of the case, the high court took a decision to conduct direct hearing of the case on May 4. The chief justice said that necessary instructions will be given to the Director General of Police (DGP) to arrange passes for the advocates residing at Hyderabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/cross-talk-disturbs-cj-direct-hearing-on-may-4/articleshow/75457746.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Hubballi||8 new Covid-19 cases in Kalaburagi dist||TNN/Mouneshwar Sonnad Kalaburagi: The district continued to witness a spike in Covid-19 cases with eight people, including 4-year-old testing positive on Wednesday, taking the total number of cases in Kalaburagi so far to 52. Four-year-old girl (P-525), 28-year-old youth (P-526), 14-year -old girl (P-527), 22-year-old youth (P-528), 40-year-old woman (P-529), 20 -year-old youth (P-530), 17-year-old girl (P-531) and 12-year-old girl (P-532) have been infected in Kalaburagi, said officials. P-526, 527, 531, 532 and 629 have had contact with P-425, while the four-year-old girl, P-525 and P-528 had direct contact with P-205, 55-year-old saree merchant who died on 10 April. All the patients are reportedly members of an extended family in Mominpur of Kalaburagi city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/8-new-covid-19-cases-in-kalaburagi-dist/articleshow/75457766.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||EPGL gets nod to pass on fuel costs||Ahmedabad: Gujarat Electricity Regulatory Authority (GERC) has approved a supplemental power purchase agreement (PPA) signed between Essar Power Gujarat Limited (EPGL) and Gujarat Urja Vikas Nigam Limited (GUVNL). With this, the state power regulator has allowed EPGL to pass through imported coal costs to consumers. EPGL is a subsidiary of Essar Power Limited (EPL). Following the recommendations of the High Power Committee (HPC) formed to resolve the issues faced by troubled power plants owing to higher cost of imported coal, state-run GUVNL had amended PPA with EPGL in March 2019 and the supplemental PPA was sent to GERC for its approval. “With the commission allowing pass through of fuel costs, the energy charge is likely to increase around 56 paise per unit,” said K K Bajaj, a city-based energy and regulatory expert. “Energy charges shall now be based on FOB (freight on board) coal as per HBA index with a ceiling of US$ 90 and not US$ 110. The 10% tolerance over and above this index shall not be allowed,” GERC said in a statement. “PPA can be extended for a term of further 10 years with the mutual agreement on the same in 5 years’ terms with the approval of the commission,” the regulator added. EPGL, which operates 1,200 MW imported coal-fired power project at Salaya in Devbhumi Dwarka district, had entered into a PPA to supply 1,000 MW of power to GUVNL. Last April, Adani Power Limited (APL) had received Central Electricity Regulatory Commission (CERC) approval for supplemental PPAs signed between its subsidiary Adani Power (Mundra) Ltd (APML) and Gujarat Urja Vikas Nigam Ltd (GUVNL) for 2,000 MW power supply.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/epgl-gets-nod-to-pass-on-fuel-costs/articleshow/75459259.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Jaipur||Yarn shortage hits Kota doriya weavers||Jaipur: The extended lockdown has taken its toll on handloom industry in the state. The shortage of yarn and sale of finished products in the market has become a major challenge for Kota doriya weavers. Therefore, the weavers have sought relaxation in rules to get raw material transported from other parts of the country for their work. Most of the weavers are daily wagers and work at home. A Kota doriya weaver Asgar Ali from Kaithoon village in Kota said that the lockdown has affected our trade. “We have some stock of yarn but once that is over, we don’t know what we will do. There are around 6,000 weavers working under me and with the diminishing raw material, it will become difficult to pay the weavers as well. It is better for the government to provide us facility in getting raw material to let the handloom industry survive,” said Ali. Handloom industry is the second highest employment generator in the state and in the country. At present more than 5 lakh people are employed in the handloom sector in Rajasthan. For Kota Doria work, zari is supplied from Surat and cotton yarn is supplied from Tamil Nadu. Though suppliers are ready with the material, but lack of rail transport is a hurdle. Victoria Singh, member of Kota Heritage Society, who has been working with the weavers for two decades, said that there is a need for nationwide efforts to revive the handloom industry. “The economy is in shambles and after the lockdown, it will take years to revive the handloom industry. There is a need for nationwide campaign to motivate people to purchase handloom items. We need to understand the value of these artisans as no one is doing this kind of work in the world. The government must provide the raw material and online markets need to be developed for the handloom industry,” said Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/yarn-shortage-hits-kota-doriya-weavers/articleshow/75460648.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Jaipur||‘Bhaijaan has gone to meet our mother’||JAIPUR: As soon as the news of the death of actor Irrfan Khan reached Ramgarh Mod area here in the city on Wednesday, his family fell into deep grief. Already mourning the death of Irrfan’s mother Saeeda Begam, who passed away a few days ago, they were devastated a second time. Irrfan died after his health deteriorated at Kokilaben Hospital in Mumbai on Wednesday morning. The family was praying for his recovery and to see him back in Jaipur. But that will now remain an unfulfilled dream for them. “It appears that as Bhaijaan was unable to make it for the burial of our mother, he has gone up there to meet her,” said Irrfan’s younger brother Imran Khan. The family recalled how after he was diagnosed with cancer that he was never shattered or down. “Woh kehtey they, fikar na karo, main aaonga,” said Imran sobbing while speaking to this reporter. Imran had gone to Mumbai in January and had spent almost a month with his brother Irrfan and family. “He was very normal and we had a good time. He promised that he would certainly come to Jaipur after he got his medical reports. He was always concerned about everyone, including my mother and others,” he said. As we were speaking, a team of policemen reached Irrfan’s house and asked if they needed any help. “I remember when our father passed away, how Irrfan went to Delhi and got admisssion at National School of Drama (NSD) and I was alone here. And now our mother and Bhaijaan too have left us, I am alone," said an emotional Imran, who is observing Ramzan roza. In between, he attended calls from friends and relatives. “Whenever he came here, he ensured that he took a break for almost a fortnight or longer. If he came for some film shoot or had less time on his hands, he would invite us to his hotel,” he said. He was a very frequent visitor to Jaipur, especially for flying kites during Makar Sankranti. “In December, he would tell us to of kites and manjhas. And if he was not satisfied with the quality, he would go and buy them himself,” Imran said. Born on January 7, 1967, Irrfan studied at St. Paul's School in Jaipur and went to the Rajasthan College in the city, affiliated to the University of Rajasthan. His association with local threatre groups and participation in plays in the college prompted him to do something different. “I was not comfortable in doing all what the youngsters of my time used to do. So, I applied and got selected at NSD,” Irrfan had said in an interview with TOI. During practice sessions at NSD, he noticed Sutapa Sikdar who was also learning acting. “Bhaijaan took a risk and introduced himself to her. They became good friends and later got married,” Imran said. Irrfan is survived by wife Sutapa Sikdar, two sons Babil and Ayaan, two brothers Imran and Salman, and sister Rukhsana Begum.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bhaijaan-has-gone-to-meet-our-mother/articleshow/75460657.cms||Ashish Mehta
April 30, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Four ministers test negative, three in quarantine||BENGALURU: Four of the five Karnataka ministers who are primary contacts of a 34-year-old Covid-19 positive Kannada TV news channel cameraman, on Wednesday said they had tested negative. TOI had, earlier in the day, broke the story that the five ministers were primary contacts of the patient and were refusing to follow home quarantine protocol. Asked if the ministers were in home quarantine, S Suresh Kumar, Karnataka’s Covid-19 spokesperson, said, “I heard three of them have tested negative.” He did not answer queries on their mandatory home quarantine. Health commissioner Pankaj Kumar Pandey said it was the responsibility of the BBMP commissioner to ensure the ministers are home quarantined, but his BBMP counterpart BH Anil Kumar did not to respond to calls and messages from TOI. Deputy chief minister CN Ashwath Narayan, home minister Basavaraj Bommai, medical education minister K Sudhakar and tourism minister CT Ravi said in separate tweets that they tested negative. Narayan, Sudhakar and Bommai said they are in quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/4-ministers-test-ve-3-in-quarantine/articleshow/75459194.cms||Sunitha Rao R
April 30, 2020||Amaravati||LV Subramanyam joins as HRDI DG online, retires||AMARAVATI: Senior IAS officer and former chief secretary LV Subramanyam took charge as director general of AP Human Resources Development Institute (APHRDI), Bapatla, through online mode in a token gesture as he retired on Thursday. LV Subramanyam has been on leave since he was removed as chief secretary last November and staying in Hyderabad. The government granted him permission, following an appeal from him, to report for duties online as he was unable to move to Bapatla due to lockdown restrictions. This also allows him to retire from service on Thursday without much trouble. Known as LVS in the bureaucratic circle, Subramanyam headed the state administration during the assembly elections. The Election Commission appointed Subramanyam as chief secretary by axing the incumbent CS AC Punetha for failing to implement its orders. Subramanyam had run-ins with the then CM Chandrababu Naidu as he refused to attend review meetings citing the model of code of conduct. YS Jaganmohan Reddy continued Subramanyam as chief secretary. However, the CM and chief secretary clashed on key policy decisions prompting the CM to remove him six months ahead of his retirement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/lvs-joins-as-hrdi-dg-online-retires/articleshow/75457769.cms||Samdani MN
April 30, 2020||Vijayawada||Covid-19 battle: GMC chief leads from the front||GUNTUR: The district administration was virtually clueless as to how to move ahead and tackle the situation when the city reported its first positive case of coronavirus on March 24. In next few days, the cases spread like wildfire, prompting the senior officials to run from pillar to post. Undeterred by the city reporting a high number of positive cases, Guntur Municipal Corporation (GMC) commissioner Ch Anuradha quietly moved into the field and enforced cluster containment plans. Despite knowing that the local legislator of ruling YSRC lived in the same area, Anuradha did not compromise. She made all the residents remain indoors from the very next morning. Ignoring calls and threats from local leaders, the commissioner barricaded the entire cluster and declared it a red zone. In fact, handling such issues in minority population dominant Old City is not only sensitive but also risky. However, Anuradha’s experience in working as GMC chief in the past had helped her winning the locals. She met the local elders and explained the prevailing situation to them. She convinced them that it was in the interest of their own families, colonies and the city. “People have fully cooperated with us when we went there to explain the need to barricade the area. We have not faced even slightest opposition,” Anurdha told TOI. Control rooms were set up in the vicinity of each of the red zone and provided full support to the residents. Locals were directed to approach the control room over the phone and put out any of their requirement. With her thorough knowledge about the presence of very narrow lanes in the old city, commissioner constituted special teams to take up door-to-door sanitation. The commissioner had been personally inspecting all the control rooms every day and enquiring whether the staff posted in the control rooms attending to the services of the residents. The GMC made arrangements for supply of milk, vegetables, groceries, medicines and other requirements of the residents through door delivery. “Initially, it was a big task to stay indoors. Life become a little comfortable only with GMC providing everything at our doorsteps,” said Shaik Karimulla, a painter from Kummaribazar, which reported the highest number of Covid-19 cases in the city. Guntur, which reported almost 10-15 cases per day for the first 20 days, has reported just four cases in the last three days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/covid-battle-gmc-chief-leads-from-the-front/articleshow/75457787.cms||Samdani MN
April 30, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Containment zones make their debut in New Town||KOLKATA: Alerted by multiple fresh Covid-positive cases and suspects in New Town and its surrounding areas in the past week, cops have imposed total lockdown in at least four zones in the satellite township and restricted movement of vehicles from bordering areas to and from the smart city. “We are following the protocol of sealing a neighbourhood as and when a positive case is reported from there. There have been a few cases in the last few days and, without taking chances, we imposed total lockdown in these neighbourhoods. We have taken additional measures of checking each and every vehicle coming from the bordering areas and are not letting people enter or leave without valid emergency reasons,” said Bidhannagar City Police commissioner L N Meena, who is making rounds of the entire commissionerate area through the day to ensure lockdown rules are maintained. In the past three days, at least four areas in the township — New Town AL Block, Hatiara, the road beside Balaka Abasan and some lanes at 18tala — have been sealed with guard rails. Barricades have also been put up on the road outside Haj House in New Town where hundreds of Tablighi Jamaat attendees are in quarantine. A senior officer said high-scale naka checks were being conducted at the bordering areas of the township and major crossings, like the one near New Town bus stand, Akansha crossing and Chinar Park. Cops said they have made special arrangements for residents, including mobile ATM service and mobile vegetable carts, in all the containment zones. WhatsApp groups have also been created where residents can contact the local police authorities for any help. “My father stays in an apartment at New Town’s AL Block. H said that two days ago, ambulances had come with people dressed in PPE who had reportedly taken a sick person away for treatment. We are all quite worried over the situation,” said Suman Saha, a resident of New Town’s BC Block. New Town’s BA Block resident Kaustav Dey said, “Some persons from localities close to NBCC complex have also been hospitalized. The situation is getting scary. We have minimized going to the nearest market to once or twice a week.” The Atharotola market, the biggest road-side community market in the township, has been shifted to a nearby field where social distancing measures have been enforced. New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) chairman Debashis Sen said they were taking all necessary measures to prevent any spread, including use of drones to keep an eye out for lockdown violators. “We have intensified sanitization in all the blocks across the township and are keeping close watch at the market places,” said Sen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/containment-zones-make-their-debut-in-new-town/articleshow/75459191.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
April 30, 2020||Ranchi||Rims boss junks quit chatter, BJP slams Banna ‘ouster call’||Ranchi: Soon after rumours emerged on Wednesday morning that Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims) director Dr D K Singh had resigned from his position, Singh clarified that he has no intentions of quitting, particularly with the state in the grip of a pandemic. However, sources in the state health department confirmed that state health minister Banna Gupta’s office has forwarded a recommendation to remove Singh to CM Hemant Soren. Talking to TOI, Singh said: “I am still working at Rims as its director with much vigour. We have a long fight against the pandemic ahead. I have been shortlisted for an administrative position at a higher state-run healthcare facility and as per protocol I have informed the state government as well as my parent employer Benaras Hindu University.” When asked about the rumours, Singh said, “I am here to serve the institution and the people of the state. I am too busy to pay heed to rumours and speculations.” Late on Tuesday night, reports in local media portals said that Singh had quit and his resignation has been accepted by state health minister Banna Gupta. Gupta dismissed the reports and said he cannot accept a resignation that is not placed before him. Gupta said: “We haven’t received any resignation from Dr. Singh and I have only forwarded his letter of information to the chief minister. I am assured that he is not going anywhere amid this pandemic.” Soon after word got out about Banna’s recommendation, opposition parties criticized the government. BJP leader and Rajya Sabha MP Mahesh Poddar, former CM Babulal Marandi took to social media to criticize the move. Poddar said, “I have never seen generals being changed in the middle of war. If the government wants to remove a capable leader, they should first make alternative arrangements to hold the fort.” BJP’s Ranchi MP Sanjay Seth and Kanke MLA Samri Lal said the health minister’s actions are childish. Meanwhile, official documents with TOI indicate that Singh has no intention of leaving the biggest Covid-19 care centre in the state. He has, in fact, asked the Union ministry of health and family welfare to extend the employment offer till the pandemic situation normalizes. In a letter to Union health department secretary on April 3, Singh apprised him about the situation in Jharkhand and expressed his inability to provide his services at a senior administrative position offered to him by the Centre at a respected healthcare institute of national repute. “As Rims is the only tertiary Covid-19 hospital for the state of Jharkhand, it will not be appropriate to put my resignation as I am leading the team as the head of the institution. Kindly allow me the extension in view of my position till the situation returns to normal,” he said in the letter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/rims-boss-junks-quit-chatter-bjp-slams-banna-ouster-call/articleshow/75457872.cms||Gaurav Pandey
April 30, 2020||Ranchi||Govt watchful on Centre’s new guidelines to bring stranded workers & students home||Ranchi: Jharkhand government on Wednesday hinted it will bide time before implementing the Centre’s new guidelines on bringing back stranded students and workers during the lockdown. “I have not received a copy of the Centre’s guidelines yet. When it comes, it will be deliberated upon by the chief minister (Hemant Soren),” transport minister Champai Soren told TOI. The Union home ministry’s guidelines, issued to all states and Union territories, mandate the governments to designate nodal authorities, coordinate and mutually agree among themselves before sending and receiving batches of students, workers, tourists and pilgrims. Inter-state movement will be allowed only after screening. Once in their respective states, the persons will have to be screened again and sent on home quarantine. Buses will have to be used for the journey and social distancing must be observed during the transit. Former chief minister Raghubar Das thanked Union home minister Amit Shah. “Now, the state government must bring them home as soon as possible so that their troubles come to an end,” Das said. The former CM’s statement was echoed by BJP’s Jharkhand president Deepak Prakash and its Rajya Sabha member Mahesh Poddar on Twitter.Chief secretary Sukhdev Singh and transport secretary K Ravikumar did not respond when contacted. As per Jharkhand government’s estimates, over 8.1 lakh residents are stranded nationwide in the lockdown. While the Mahagathbandhan government remained indecisive on bringing back stranded students, BJP’s legislative party leader Babulal Marandi urged the party’s MPs to take the initiative themselves. The former chief minister, in a tweet, tagged BJP’s Jharkhand MPs Arjun Munda (Khunti), Jayant Sinha (Hazaribag), Sudarshan Bhagat (Lohardaga) and the party’s state organisational secretary Dharampal Singh, and wrote, “I appeal to the MPs that like Nishikant Dubey, they must make efforts to help stranded students return.” Politicking in Jharkhand over students stranded in Rajasthan’s Kota has reached a fever pitch in the past few days. The BJP is mounting pressure on the JMM-led government to bring back stranded students like others such as Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra, the government, however, is yet to make a move.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/govt-watchful-on-centres-new-guidelines-to-bring-stranded-workers-students-home/articleshow/75458146.cms||Dhritiman Ray
April 30, 2020||Ranchi||Tata hosp is first pvt Covid testing centre in state||Jamshedpur: Tata Main Hospital (TMH), Jamshedpur, has been certified by the Indian Council of Medical Research for Covid diagnostic testing and has become the first private laboratory in Jharkhand to receive the approval. TMH has the capacity to test 50 samples per day. Until now now, swab samples in Jamshedpur could only be tested in the state-run Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Medical College and Hospital (MGMMCH). Tata Steel general manager (medical services) Ranjan Chaudhury on Wednesday said, “We are pleased that TMH has received the approval and has been included in the list of private laboratories that can conduct Covid-19 tests.” He added that testing is critical in assessing the spread of Covid-19 and will help contain its spread in the region. TMH has also set up a 650-bed Covid unit, including 513 isolation beds and 77 critical care beds with invasive and non-invasive ventilation support. The hospital has also set-up a Covid-19 screening room with a provision for booking appointments online, a special Covid-19 maternity ward and a labour room complex for pregnant women with coronavirus symptoms. Responding to the request of chief minister Hemant Soren, Tata Sons has sent medical equipment and consumables to the state. This includes 50,000 three-ply masks, 25,000 pairs of nitrile gloves and 10,000 Covid-19 testing kits. “We are committed to support the government in tackling this pandemic,” Ranjan said. Meanwhile, with two testing machines functional at MGMMCH from April 15, the hospital can now test over 100 virus samples a day. “Previously, with only one diagnostic machine at our disposal, we could only test about 80 samples per day. But now with the installation of the second machine, the total number of tests per day has doubled,” said MGMMCH principal Prashant Kumar Barla. Barla added that the swab samples that arrive for a Covid-19 test varies from 10 to 60 per day. “We have requested for a third testing machine from the government, which will further strengthen our fight against coronavirus,” he said. Meanwhile, the Indian Medical Association (IMA) has asked the government to increase the medical and para-medical staff strength at MGMMCH. “At such a crucial time, MGMMMCH requires an increase in its staff strength, including doctors, medical staff and para-medical staff, which will give a boost to its fight against the pandemic,” IMA secretary (Jamshedpur) Mrityunjay Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/tata-hosp-is-first-pvt-covid-testing-centre-in-state/articleshow/75458025.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Ranchi||2 fresh cases in Jharkhand, Jamtara along Bengal border a concern||Dumka/Ranchi: The rise in the number of new Covid-19 cases continue to remain low for the second day with Jharkhand recording just two fresh cases — one each from Ranchi and Jamtara —on Wednesday. The state tally now stands at 107, of which 85 are active. Two patients have died and 19 have recovered. Talking to TOI, state health secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni said, “We detected only two positive cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday. One is a Hindpiri resident and the other is from Jamtara district. The number of tests we conducted haven’t gone down— 485 samples were tested across the four centres in the state.” For the Jamtara patient, the test was conducted at Jamshedpur’s state-run Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Medical College and Hospital (MGMMCH). This was the first sample testing positive at this hospital since it started the facility on March 12. Jamtara district, in the tribal dominated Santhal Pargana region along the state’s border with West Bengal, has emerged as a concern as migrants heading west from the neighbouring state enter the area before travelling onwards. Jamtara deputy commissioner Ganesh Kumar said, “The patient is a migrant labourer in Kolkata. He was in a group of persons, all residents of Banka district in Bihar, intercepted along the Margomunda border while they were trying to enter the state on their way home. Police sent them to a quarantine centre and their samples were taken for tests.” Last week, a 24-year-old man, who sneaked into his native place in Vikrampur village in Jamtara, had tested positive. Both the patients work in West Bengal and entered the on the sly after the lockdown was imposed. In Ranchi, the patient is a 54-year-old man from Hindpiriwho was already in quarantine. “We are shifting him to CCL’s Gandhinagar hospital,” Ranchi DDC Ananya Mittal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/2-fresh-cases-in-jharkhand-jamtara-along-bengal-border-a-concern/articleshow/75458349.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
April 30, 2020||Ranchi||DGP asks cops to help seniors during med emergencies||Daltonganj: Amid the nationwide lockdown, Jharkhand DGP M V Rao on Wednesday asked police in all the 24 districts to reach out to the elderly in case of medical emergencies by either taking help to their doorsteps or by taking them to the nearest healthcare facility in police jeeps or ambulances. A letter in this regard was sent to all SSPs and SPs on Tuesday. The facility was started in many districts on Wednesday through the control room number 100. The letter said that all police control rooms should keep at least one vehicle ready to attend to medical emergencies of senior citizens who live alone. For bigger districts, Rao asked the force to keep two vehicles for the purpose. However, he cautioned the police against Covid-19 and said if someone shows symptoms of the virus, the nearest covid control room should be alerted. “The facility will be provided for travel to hospitals, the police will also deliver medical supplies if the elderly citizens are unable to procure them on their own. If a senior citizen can afford a private ambulance, police will arrange one. However, the bill will be paid by the patient. Those who can’t afford may be ferried in government run 108 ambulances. This will be valid until the lockdown period,” the letter read.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/dgp-asks-cops-to-help-seniors-during-med-emergencies/articleshow/75458217.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Ranchi||26 booked for playing hockey in Simdega||Gumla: Twenty-six youngsters were booked for playing hockey in the fields in Simdega district during the nationwide lockdown on Tuesday. The district, considered to be the cradle of the sport in Jharkhand, so far has two Covid-19 cases and both of them are reportedly stable. Thetaitangar police station in-charge Satendra Kumar Singh said, “On the complaint of the BDO, an FIR has been filed against 11 named and 15 unnamed villagers under Sections 143 and 188 of the IPC.” Thetaitangar block development officer (BDO) Manoj Kumar on Wednesday said action was taken following reports of local youths playing hockey matches in Keriya Dangtoli village. “The lockdown mandates no mass gatherings take place and we booked the youths after investigation,” he said. He added that the administration is trying its best to enforce the lockdown to prevent any further spread of the infection and has deployed several teams across the district to implement social distancing norms and other guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/26-booked-for-playing-hockey-in-simdega/articleshow/75458538.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Ranchi||Parts of H’bag, Chatra spend days in darkness||Hazaribag: After the April 26 hailstorm and rain, parts of Hazaribag and Chatra are experiencing a complete breakdown in the power supply. JBVNL general manager (Hazaribag zone) Rakesh Kumar on Wednesday said the power cuts have affected around 50,000 people living in Sadar, Keredari, Barkagaon in Hazaribag district and Tandwa and Karmatand areas in Chatra district. “We have suffered a loss of Rs 45 crore after the storm as electricity poles have been uprooted and wires have snapped in many areas,” he said. The transmission lines which suffered snags were installed about six months ago by a private company named Nagarjuna Construction Limited and a probe has been ordered for the early collapse. Kumar said, “I have ordered an inquiry as to how could the poles and wires not withstand the weather.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/parts-of-hbag-chatra-spend-days-in-darkness/articleshow/75457173.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Ranchi||Immunity at risk as lockdown, isolation messes up sleep cycle||Ranchi: Now into the sixth week, the nationwide lockdown, imposed to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus has affected the sleep cycle of many individuals. As people deal with new work arrangements and make adjustments to the daily routine, sleeping habits have become a collateral damage in the battle against the viral infection. While some are, literally, losing sleep due the stress and anxiety over the rapidly-changing Covid-19 situation, a few are finding it difficult to get restful sleep owing to lack of physical activity as they remain confined indoors. Harsh Kumar, preparing for his medical exams, said, “I have always been an early riser. When things were normal, I used to go to class at 8am and still felt energetic throughout the day. Now, I feel sleepy all the time.” Rohit Kumar, an avid biker, said, “I don’t have the option to go on long rides any more. I keep busy with my phone to kill time these days.” Health experts sais exposure to natural light and regular meal times are two of the most powerful forces in aligning circadian rhythms. But for many, isolation has changed mealtimes and the amount of time spent outside. Dr Nirupam Sharan, a Ranchi-based pulmonologist and sleep specialist, raised concerns over the change in people’s circadian rhythm, popularly known as the sleep cycle, and said drastic changes will compromise people’s immunity in the long run. He said, “We all have an internal clock, a circadian rhythm that the body follows. The stimulus for maintaining that rhythm is light and darkness. Everyone has their own biological clock and it is getting disturbed during the lockdown. People are not getting enough physical exercise, which is resulting in a change in their sleep patterns. In due course, particularly if the lockdown is extended, people will feel the effects of sleeping disorders and become less focused. Drastic changes in sleep patterns also affects mental peace and makes a person irritable.” He added, “On vacation, when you have nothing to do, you tend to sleep late and wake up late. That’s what is happening to many people right now. People do not have to go to office, school or college and their daily routine has gone thorugh a vast change over the last month. People are sleeping going to bed later than usual, waking up late and some are having breakfast at 11am. This is disrupting their schedule.” Sharan suggested that people should work out for at least an hour every day. He also emphasized on the role of a good diet in getting proper sleep. “One should not eat or drink anything for two hours before going to bed. Youngsters should and also refrain from using electronic gadgets a few hours before bedtime,” Sharan said. He warned that once the lockdown ends, people might find it difficult to return to their normal schedule. “It is better to start changing your schedule gradually,” he said. Sleep deprivation or irregular sleep can lead to chronic diseases like diabetes, thyroid and cardiac problems, too, Sharan warned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/immunity-at-risk-as-lockdown-isolation-messes-up-sleep-cycle/articleshow/75457237.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Ranchi||Lightning deaths double’s state’s misery in times of corona battle||Ranchi: With six casualties in Jharkhand in the last nine days, lightning deaths are adding to woes at a time when the entire state machinery is engaged in combating the Covid-19 pandemic. Since April 20, six persons, including five children and a woman, have reportedly died while four other kids sustained injuries after being stuck by lightning in Gumla, Garhwa and Ranchi districts. Garhwa alone accounted for three deaths and injuries, while one death was reported from Ranchi’s Ratu block and the rest from Gumla. Based on their assessments, Col Sanjay Srivastava of Climate Resilient Observing Systems Promotion Council (CROSPC), an R&D company, said that since February 21 this year, 30 people have died in Jharkhand due to lightning. The state disaster management department, however, has kept its hopes on the effective implementation of lockdown to contain lightning deaths or injuries during this period. Talking to TOI, the special secretary of the state disaster management department, Manish Tiwari, said, “Lightning kills or injures more when people are outside their homes. We hope that, at least, during the lockdown period, there won’t be much damage due to lightning.” Quizzed about their preparedness, he said, “Under the early warning system, we try to issue area specific alerts to residents via SMSes. We also highlight the dos and dont’s in case of lightning through advertisements.” Srivastava, however, said that the state continued to be ill-prepared. He said, “Lightning deaths have become an annual affair. The state must build capacity and institutionalized infrastructure, and devise early warning systems to curb deaths from lightning.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/lightning-deaths-doubles-states-misery-in-times-of-corona-battle/articleshow/75457142.cms||ASRP Mukesh
April 30, 2020||Ranchi||Lockdown violations a worry at Sonari area in Steel City||Jamshedpur: Even after more than a month since the nationwide lockdown was enforced, the sector magistrate of Sonari area, Buddeshwar Tuddu, on Wednesday said he is yet to get a formal guideline from his seniors on the list of shops that can remain open. He added that he has been entrusted to only check if people are wearing masks. “I am yet to get a formal guideline from my seniors on the list of shops which can be opened during lockdown. I am supposed to check for masks on people who enter the market in Sonari,” said Tuddu. On Wednesday, the marketplace in Sonari could be seen crowded with people around 9am with only one policeman armed with a baton to manage the crowd of several thousands at the daily market at Pardesi Para. A TOI team could also see shops selling non-essentials like footwear, gift items and flowers among others open here. Speaking to TOI, Sonari police station in-charge Renu Gupta conceded that the people of the area do not adhere to the norms. “Sonari is considered to be a residential area of mostly educated people, but still some do not even maintain the basic norms of social distancing,” Gupta said. Notably, the district administration had shifted all vegetable and fish markets to the big grounds in the city so that it is easy to maintain social distancing. Many nakas around the city could also be seen being lenient with the violators of the lockdown. Asked about it, a traffic cop at a naka on condition of anonymity said, “Jamshedpur has not reported any case of coronavirus, then why be strict?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/lockdown-violations-a-worry-at-sonari-area-in-steel-city/articleshow/75457922.cms||---
April 30, 2020||India||Maharashtra plans clinical trials of TB vaccine BCG to treat Covid-19||MUMBAI: Scientists from the Haffkine Research Institute, along with the state’s medical education department (MED), are set to conduct a multi-centre clinical trial to test the use of tuberculosis vaccine BCG (Bacillus Calmette-Guerin) to treat Covid-19. While multiple trials the world over, including one by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), are looking at the vaccine’s efficacy to prevent the coronavirus disease, this trial will evaluate whether it can treat the infection. The 121-year-old institute’s trial is intended for patients who are moderately ill with Covid-19 and is likely to be carried out in small batches. It will be conducted at state-run medical colleges and has already been approved by the state and the institutional ethics committees. Confirming this, MED secretary Dr Sanjay Mukherjee said, “We are awaiting the Drug Control General of India’s (DCGI) nod to begin work. There is a lot of speculation around BCG and whether it has any impact on Covid-19. We will assess if one shot of BCG can mitigate the disease.” He said the state is aware that the idea of using BCG as a therapy could raise a few eyebrows, but there is reason to believe it could work. BCG is widely given to infants and neonates to prevent tuberculous meningitis. Sources have told TOI that “encouraging results” in a preliminary evaluation of the BCG concept has prompted the agencies to conduct a full trial. “It has been used in a handful of mild, moderate and severe cases with encouraging results,” said an official. Dr Mukherjee confirmed that the initial experience on a handful of patients has been encouraging, but only a full trial would say whether patients will benefit from it. Some city doctors, however, expressed scepticism and said that an immune-modulator like the BCG vaccine takes at least two to four weeks to stimulate immunity. “If it’s a therapeutic trial, how will they measure whether it worked or not as the disease’s natural course is two weeks? In most cases, either patients are going home by two weeks or succumbing to the infection. The bottomline is if the patient is too ill, how will they monitor?” said a senior infection consultant, adding that an Australian and a Dutch study are investigating the effect of BCG vaccination in healthcare workers to see if it offers any natural immunity against Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/maharashtra-plans-clinical-trials-of-tb-vaccine-bcg-to-treat-covid-19/articleshow/75461795.cms||Sumitra Debroy
April 30, 2020||World||Canadian NATO helicopter goes missing off Greek island||ATHENS: A Canadian military helicopter operating as part of a NATO surveillance force has gone missing in international waters between Greece and Italy, officials said on Wednesday. The helicopter was attached to the Canadian frigate Fredericton, from where it had taken off for a patrol. "There is a developing situation regarding one of our CH-148 Cyclone helicopters, deployed onboard HMCS FREDERICTON, which is currently contributing to Op REASSURANCE," the Canadian armed forces said in a statement. "Contact was lost with the aircraft as it was participating in Allied exercises off the coast of Greece. Search and rescue efforts are currently underway," it added. Initial reports said the helicopter had been 50 nautical miles off the Greek island of Kefalonia, the Greek air force said. Italian, Greek and Turkish frigates also took part in the patrol that had moved from Greek to Italian waters on Wednesday, with the Greek frigate remaining in Greek waters. Greek naval and air forces were ready to assist in a rescue operation "if Italy requests it," a military source told AFP. A spokesperson for Supreme Headquarters Allied Powers Europe (SHAPE), which plans and carries out all NATO operations, added: "I confirm there has been an incident involving a helicopter from a ship under NATO command. "There is currently a search and rescue operation being conducted and national notifications taking place."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/europe/canadian-nato-helicopter-goes-missing-off-greek-island/articleshow/75461808.cms||---
April 30, 2020||India||Bhopal gas tragedy victims’ Covid toll rises to 12||The number of Bhopal gas tragedy victims killed by Covid-19 has risen to a dozen, with two patients who died at the state-run Hamidia Hospital on April 25 and April 26 testing positive in postmortem, reports Ashutosh Shukla. Gas tragedy victims account for 12 of Bhopal’s 13 Covid-19 deaths. A 26-year-old woman from Piplani being the only exception. After 12 deaths, the administration is finally reaching out. “I have a list of 5 lakh gas victims. We are sending SMSs to those who have serious diseases, like TB or lung infection. We will give them masks and sanitisers and request them to stay at home,” said collector Tarun Pithode. The latest death is Shyamlal Prajapati, 70, who suffered from diabetes and hypertension.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bhopal-gas-tragedy-victims-covid-toll-rises-to-12/articleshow/75461809.cms||Ashutosh Shukla
April 30, 2020||Nagpur||Guardian minister Raut unfurls flag during muted Maharashtra Day celebrations||Nagpur: There were no celebrations of the 60th foundation day of Maharashtra state due to the Covid-19 lockdown, here on Friday. The Tricolour was unfurled by Nitin Raut, the guardian minister of Nagpur, at a simple event on the occasion at the collector’s office in Civil Lines. Divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar, district collector Ravindra Thakre, police commissioner BK Upadhyay and some senior bureaucrats were present on the occasion. A small guard of honour was given and the national anthem played by the police whose members wore masks and maintained social distancing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/guardian-minister-raut-unfurls-flag-during-muted-maharashtra-day-celebrations/articleshow/75496007.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Nagpur||Chanda goes from green to orange with 1st +ve case||Chandrapur: A 50-year-old male from Krishna Nagar locality became the first Covid-19 positive patient of Chandrapur which was wrongly shown in the Orange Zone on the government website with three cases on Friday. After receiving the man’s test reports late on Saturday evening, the civic administration began a containment drive in the area. Authorities are also collecting the names of people he may have come in contact with. Sources informed that the person had high fever and pneumonia-like symptoms. He was admitted at the isolation ward in Chandrapur GMCH on Friday. His throat and nasal swab samples were collected and sent to Nagpur for Covid-19 test. Civil surgeon Dr ND Rathod confirmed the case. Sources claimed that so far he has not revealed any history of coming in contact with people with foreign travel history or those from Red or Orange zones. Earlier, three patients hailing from Chandrapur had tested positive but none of them had been in Chandrapur for the last several weeks. District guardian minister Vijay Wadettiwar of the Congress had tweeted on Friday that Chandrapur should be in the green and not in the orange zone. The three cases attributed to Chandrapur were a couple, who are in Nagpur, and an army jawan, who is in Delhi. The jawan, who is in the paramilitary force and posted in Assam, was diagnosed with cancer and taken to Delhi for treatment, where he was found positive for Covid-19, according to district collector Dr Kunal Khemnar. About the couple, Dr Rathod said that the Tablighi Jamaat pair had come from Indonesia and flown into Nagpur via Delhi on March 24. “There were three other couples too but only one tested positive after being taken into quarantined straight from the airport,” he said. The couple have completed their time in the GMCH isolation ward and were discharged after testing negative. They will return to Chandrapur after completing home quarantine in Nagpur. Since they do not have a place to stay in Nagpur, the administration has put them up in Vanamati. Dr Rathod informed that the district officials had twice written to the health department to rectify the mistake. The first letter was sent during the second week of April. “Another letter was dispatched on Friday explaining that the two positive cases had neither caught the infection nor had they tested positive in Chandrapur. Authorities have demanded that the tally be shifted to the place where they would have got the infection from,” he said. Dr Rathod said that the criterion of listing a positive person based on where he hails from is flawed. “The government should list the positive person based on his location for the previous 14 days or when symptoms were first seen. In this case, both the positive patients are listed under Chandrapur only because they belong here,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/chanda-goes-from-green-to-orange-with-1st-ve-case/articleshow/75494998.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Nagpur||Labs at city & Amt Univ get nod for covid testing||Nagpur/Amravati: Finally, Nagpur and Amravati can breathe a sigh of relief. On Friday, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) gave approval to the city-based Dhruv Pathology and Molecular Diagnostic Lab in Ramdaspeth to collect samples and conduct tests for Covid-19 and a day later, Sant Gadge Baba Amravati University got the nod for the same. As per ICMR guidelines, the cost of swab sample testing in private labs will be Rs4,500. “We received the approval on Friday evening. We are ready with the set up and manpower, and looking forward to start testing samples from Monday,” said Dr Shailesh Mundhada, director of Dhruv lab. As per ICMR guidelines, labs can test samples of anyone who has prescription of test from a qualified doctor. But, in Nagpur, the NMC has directed private labs to collect samples of only those patients who are admitted in hospitals and recommended for tests by treating doctors. “In case the patient is showing symptoms of Covid-19, doctors will approach us and our team will collect samples,” said Mundhada. ICMR, on Friday, issued a list of 105 private labs in the country where Covid-19 tests can be conducted. The list includes 24 labs from Maharashtra. Apart from Nagpur, private labs in Thane, Nashik, and Karad also received approvals. Earlier, 19 labs based in Pune and Mumbai had got approvals. Meanwhile, the much-awaited ICMR approval for the covid swab testing lab at Sant Gadge Baba Amravati University came on Saturday. Dr Prashant Them, associate professor, department of biotechnology, is the lab’s nodal officer. Guardian minister Yashomati Thakur said the lab would start functioning from Monday. “All the technical hurdles have been cleared and ICMR has granted approval. Amravati University got the login id from ICMR on Saturday evening. Home minister Amit Deshmukh made the login id available to the varsity within two hours. The lab will start sample testing work from Monday,” Thakur told TOI. The lab is ready with two trained batches. Each batch will test 24 samples daily. Two more batches have been sent for training after which, the lab would be able to give 96 reports every day. Personal protection equipments (PPEs) and other items would be provided to the lab through DPC funds. “There will be no shortage of funds. We used to send samples to AIIMS (Nagpur), Akola and Wardha for testing. Now, they will be tested here, thus saving precious time and expediting the treatment process,” said Thakur, adding work at the lab at Dr Panjabrao Deshmukh Medical College and forensic lab is also under way. “When these three labs start functioning, they all will benefit the region,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/labs-at-city-amt-univ-get-nod-for-covid-testing/articleshow/75496445.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
April 30, 2020||Nagpur||5 new cases in Nagpur, 3 each in Amravati and Yavatmal||Nagpur: Nagpur, Yavatmal, and Amravati continued to record new positive cases of Covid-19 on Friday. In Vidarbha, a total of 11 new cases were reported by 7pm on Friday. This includes 5 from Nagpur and 3 each from Yavatmal and Amravati. With this, the total number of Covid-19 cases in Vidarbha touched 331 with 12 deaths. 84 patients have recovered and been discharged. While Nagpur and Yavatmal are in the Red Zone, Amravati is the Orange Cone as per the Covid-19 tracking website of the central government. On Friday, the AIIMS laboratory here tested 74 samples out of which seven tested positive — 3 from Yavatmal and 4 from Nagpur. The fifth is a woman from Warud tehsil in Amravati who is admitted at the GMCH in Nagpur. The woman is a 50-year-old homemaker. “She was admitted to a private hospital in Warud three days ago for cough, cold and fever. However, doctors referred her to Nagpur where she tested positive,” said an official in Amravati. The Nagpur administration relayed the information to Warud tehsil officials immediately following which doctors and staff of the hospital, and close contacts of the patient were institutionally quarantined. The official said that the roads leading to her house have been sealed and the locality is being disinfected. “The private hospital too has been sealed and is being sanitized,” he added. GMCH doctors said that her condition is currently stable but “she has a history of severe acute respiratory illness (SARI)”. With three new positive patients detected today, the number of total cases in Yavatmal is now 91. Ten out of these have already been discharged. Amravati recorded new cases from three different localities on Friday. This includes a 10-year-old boy from Nalsabpura locality too. An official release said that the other two positive cases are a 22-year-old youth from Kata Sufiya Nagar locality on Walgaon Road and a 26-year-old woman from Kholapuri Gate locality. With this, the corona count of Amravati has gone up to 43, including seven deaths and four recovered persons. There are now 32 active positive cases under treatment at the Covid hospital in Amravati. The health administration today received 25 swab reports of which 22 tested negative and three positive. With today's cases, the total number of positive cases from Kholapuri Gate area has gone up to nine, Nalsabpura to four and Yusuf Nagar to two, including one death. Meanwhile, a 54-year-old woman of Habib Nagar No.2 locality died on Friday at the non-Covid ward of the Amravati Super Speciality Hospital. “She was brought to the hospital on Thursday with cough and fever. Because she died, swab has not been taken as per government guidelines,” said an official. However, six persons including her husband, sons and those present at the burial have been institutionally quarantined and “their swabs taken for testing”, according to a release.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/5-new-cases-in-nagpur-3-each-in-amravati-and-yavatmal/articleshow/75495602.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Nagpur||Migrant, walking from Hyd to Gondia, commits suicide in Wardha district||Wardha: A migrant committed suicide by hanging himself from a tree in a farm under Girad police station in Wardha district on Thursday. Police said Amarsingh Madavi (45), a resident of Chillari village of Devari tehsil in Gondia district of Maharashtra, had been walking from Hyderabad. “He got tired after several kilometres in the hot sun. On Thursday around 5pm Ajay Zade (a farmer) called us with the information and we found that Madavi had hung himself using a towel,” said Girad police station API Mahendra Suryavanshi. Finding a mobile, which was switched off, in his pocket, Suryavanshi spoke to his family members and asked them to come to the spot. “After post mortem at Samudrapur rural hospital, the body was handed over to the kin on Friday,” he said. Madavi had called a friend in his village four days earlier. “Madavi told him that he had lost his job in Hyderabad after the lockdown and was also running short of cash. Hence he chose to walk back home,” said Suryavanshi. Sources informed that Madavi was part of a group of around 20 migrants who were walking. “A truck picked them up on the way. When the truck driver resumed the journey after a lunch break on the Wardha-Nagpur district border, all others barring Madavi got in. That’s when they realized that something was amiss,” said Suryavanshi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/migrant-walking-from-hyd-to-gondia-commits-suicide-in-wardha-district/articleshow/75493686.cms||---
April 30, 2020||Nagpur||Gadchiroli SP promises to help children of Jambhulkheda blast martyrs on 1st anniversary||Nagpur: SP Shailesh Balkawade, who visited the families of the martyrs of Jambhulkheda blast in Gadchiroli on Friday on the first anniversary of the episode, assured to help their children to complete education without having to bear the burden of expenditure. Around 15 jawans of the Quick Response Team (QRT) from Kurkheda police station, along with a driver, were blown up in a powerful blast at Lendhari talao culvert on Jambhulkheda-Purada road in north Gadchiroli’s Maoist-affected Kurkheda taluka on May 1 last year. The jawans were heading to Purada police station to escort police personnel up to Dadapur village where the Maoists had torched around 36 vehicles of a road construction company in protest earlier in the day. The investigation was later taken up by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) which has already filed a chargesheet in the case. Balkawade said the government has already promised providing education free up to graduation for the children of the martyrs but many times private institutions raises questions on it. “Many private institutions and tutorials express doubts whether the government decision to provide free education would be applicable on them too,” said the SP. “We are sorting out such issues through the district education officer and I will ensure the bottlenecks are cleared up at the earliest,” said Balkawade. Balkawade said some of the family members of Jambhulkheda blast martyrs had expressed deep concern over their children’s future when he had gone to meet them. “We had also in the past taken up with the government regarding the issues of employments of the family members of the martyrs who are not willing to take up jobs in the police department or in other districts too when they were tried to be rehabilitated,” said the SP. Balkawade, who had led the wreath-laying ceremony on the memorial of the martyrs on Friday, said the respective unit commanders of different districts were told through the wireless communication to meet the families of the Jambhulkheda blasts at their residences during the course of the day. Balkawade said all the monetary dues of the martyrs’ families have been settled along with their different claims from the government. “We had observed certain issues within the families of the martyrs which were addressed and solved. Police had also suggested the families about safe investments and not fall prey to traps,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/gadchiroli-sp-promises-to-help-children-of-jambhulkheda-blast-martyrs-on-1st-anniversary/articleshow/75495697.cms||Soumitra Bose
April 30, 2020||Nagpur||101 personnel ‘locked down’ in Central Jail||Nagpur: The first team of around 101 jail personnel went inside Nagpur Central Jail on Friday after it became the eighth prison in the state to slip into such a ‘lockdown’ mode to stop coronavirus spread. State home minister Anil Deshmukh had on Thursday announced the step to prevent the spread of Covid-19 inside jails. These personnel would stay inside the prison premises and will be replaced by another team after a few days. Meanwhile, all new arrests would first be placed in a community hall close to the jail. The hall has been turned into a temporary jail which will be administered by five personnel. These new inmates would be checked by doctors every day. After 15 days, they will be shifted inside the jail which too has two quarantine sections. The city police have deputed an officer and four havaldars to guard the temporary jail. Anup Kumar Kumre, superintendent of the Central Jail, said the staffers posted inside would not be permitted to come out till further orders. “New prisoners will also not be taken inside the jail during this lockdown period. They will only go in after the quarantine period,” he said. Kumre has sent a proposal to senior jail officials to approve a period of seven days for them “but it may extend too”. “After outside quarantine, the arrested will have to undergo similar isolation inside the jail too before being sent into the barrack,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/101-personnel-locked-down-in-central-jail/articleshow/75494350.cms||Ranjit Deshmukh
April 30, 2020||India||Kedarnath portals open for rituals, not pilgrims||DEHRADUN: The portals of the Kedarnath shrine were opened for this year’s Char Dham Yatra on Wednesday. In the wake of the Covid-19 threat, only 16 people were present at the opening ceremony, reports Kautilya Singh. With the lockdown in place, the temple has been opened only for religious rituals and pilgrim movement is not allowed as of now. With the chief priest of the shrine Bheema Shankar Ling still under quarantine, his representative Shiv Shankar Ling led the temple opening ceremony. Like Gangotri and Yamunotri which opened on Sunday, the first prayers at Kedarnath were also conducted in the name of PM Narendra Modi. Tourism minister Satpal Maharaj told TOI, “The first prayers at all the Char Dhams — Kedarnath, Badrinath, Gangotri and Yamunotri — will be conducted in PM Modi’s name to give him strength to bring the country out of the current crisis”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/kedarnath-portals-open-for-rituals-not-pilgrims/articleshow/75461824.cms||---
