03-11-2021||MANY a time||Being the butt of a joke||Ours was a small town having only a few schools. I was in nursery. In Punjabi, we called those ‘kutchi-pucci’ classes. My elder brother was in the same school but in the senior wing, and my sister, in the high school for girls. It was Republic Day. Celebrations used to be held at Government Senior Secondary School, the ‘vadda’ school. They had a big ground. A stage would be erected on one side with space for parents and seniors at the flanks and children from all other schools would sit on the other three sides, leaving sufficient empty space in the middle for performances. Only the senior students used to participate. The ‘kutchi-pucci-walas’ would sit with their parents.On that particular day, I remember sitting with my mother under a tightly packed shamiana by the side of the stage. Flag-hoisting and singing of the National Anthem was over and the rest of the programme was progressing at its own pace. Something suddenly struck me. I could hear ‘Saare jahan se achha, Hindustan hamara’ building up in my mind and that made me itch to go to the front to sing that. I proposed that to my mother softly but I was refused. I was told that my name is not on the list so I could not be allowed. Others tried to placate me by promising that next year, they would arrange for my performance in advance. The child was now into a loud tantrum and the voice reached the front row. The gentleman managing the stage, the compere, also heard the commotion. He waved his hand and sent a message that he would call my name.After the loud applause for a dance performance was settling down, my name was announced, crisp and clear, and I started walking towards the mike. I passed the group of parents, and as I was crossing the contingent from the girls’ school, my sister caught my hand and instructed, ‘Baba black sheep suna de...’Maybe she thought it would add to her prestige among her friends if I recited some poem in English. I walked the last few steps to the mike burdened with the turmoil of decision-making in my head.Finally, the tradition of the house, the duty to obey the senior, overweighed my young mind’s capacity to discern. I stood in front of the mike. No words followed. I went blank, totally.Instantaneously, as a spontaneous act, I moved absolutely close to the mike, and shouted into it, ‘Bhull gaya’ (forgot it). Everyone went berserk, laughing and clapping, and I walked back with the same confidence that I had walked centre stage.For years, anybody visiting our place would point towards me and ask, ‘Ye wahi hai na jo bhool gaya tha?’||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/musings/being-the-butt-of-a-joke-333479
