06-11-2021||YES||The unique wanderers||As winter sets in, their tribes living in the upper parts of Himachal start shifting their sheep and goats to the lower parts. Similarly, as summer sets in, those living in the lower parts start moving their sheep and goats to the upper parts. They always keep their herds safe from the unbearable winter or scorching heat.Though these two partings appear to be simple, what happens to their families makes one simply emotional. Men have to spend many months away from their families, it is only their wives who can feel the pinch of separation. These Gaddis prefer to arrange for the marriage of their young daughters before they part. At the time of marriage, the Gaddi women sing thus: ‘Maruye dee chhavein beti aa kharhi; do vanjare aaye; Luk jaa, chhup jaa dheeye ladliye; Tere sauriyan aaye’ (Most dear daughter, you are so sensitive that you stand behind a small plant lest the two visitors get enamoured of your matchless beauty. Being the daughter of a respectable family, dear one, keep yourself well covered as your in-laws have come to see you).Knowing well that before his parting, her father would arrange for her marriage, so the tender, beautiful yet full-blooded young daughter of the Gaddis humbly, yet respectfully, prays to her father thus: ‘Tu chakra jo na deni chachua; Haak pande uthhie jande ho; Bhedaan charde jo deni chachcua; Pithhi jo denga chola’ (I pray, dear father, kindly don’t give my hand to a service man. Such people leave their wives at home the moment they get a call for duty. Kindly give my hand to a shepherd. At least, he will provide me hand-made warm woollen clothes, even taking me along when he leaves for the other regions).Dancing to the tunes of a flute and damroo is a favourite hobby of the Gaddis. Even while they leave for other regions, they get dressed in their wonderful attire. At this time, the women sing and encourage them thus: ‘Lal teri topi ho bhoraan; Moraan teri kalgi ho; Chitta tera chola ho bhoraan; Kala tera dora ho’ (Your sharp red-coloured cap with a peacock feather adds beauty to your wonderful white robes and black-coloured hair knit belt).When such songs are recited with unique accompanying instruments, even the mountains start echoing. And seeing their lively dances, tourists, including foreigners, start dancing as if they themselves are the Gaddis.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/musings/the-unique-wanderers-334408
