01-06-2021||Jalandhar||Elderly woman robbed of her car in Jalandhar||An elderly woman was robbed of her Innova car, which was being driven by her driver, by an unidentified person here on Monday. The woman lives in the Income Tax Colony of the city.The miscreant initially drove away the car while the woman was sitting inside it. Her driver had reportedly gone to a mobile shop when the incident took place.At around 1 pm, when the victim, Balbir Kaur (74), was heading to her house, she asked her driver Gopi Kannojia to stop by near a mobile repair store. Following which, he took her mobile phone to a shop. However, he kept the car unlocked and went to the shop.Meanwhile, an unidentified masked miscreant opened the car and fled with vehicle. The victim told the police that the accused asked her about her mobile number and assured her of returning the vehicle tomorrow.ASI Chand Singh, the investigating officer in the case, said after being alerted about the theft of the car by some local residents, a team of cops reached the spot. “While we were recording the statements of the driver, we were informed by the woman that she had reached her house in Model Town. The accused dropped the woman near her house, nearly 5 km away from the Income Tax Colony, before driving away. Though there is not any clue about the suspect yet, we are verifying the footages of CCTVs to trace him,” added the ASI.A case of theft has been registered against the miscreant at Police Station Division No.6. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/elderly-woman-robbed-of-her-car-in-jalandhar-261666
01-06-2021||---||Jalandhar residents turn ignored park into verdant paradise||Jalandhar, May 31A park sprawled across one acre has been nicknamed ‘Dadi Ma Da Ashirwad Park’ as residents came forward to plant saplings to increase green cover in their locality.As clean environment and fresh air has become the need of the hour during the pandemic, residents of Chotti Baradari have taken an initiative to increase green cover.The park, which was an eyesore three years ago, has been tranformed into a verdant paradise.A 92-year-old woman, her daughter and son-in-law, were the ones who undertook the initiative to beautify an ignored neighbourhood park.AIG (Prisons) Surinderjeet Kaur (retd) with her daughter Dr Amiteshwar Singh and her son-in-law Harpal Singh Hira have planted numerous saplings at the park in Chotti Baradari.Numerous medicinal plants, including turmeric, corriander, ashwagandha, tulsi, mango, jamun, kali and thuja have been planted here.Hira, who is an entrepreneur, began working on beautifying the park three years ago, said, “It was an eyesore. There were mosquitoes and flies everywhere. I then planned to give it a facelift. It’s a labour of love where we have planted over 250 to 300 saplings over the years. My mother-in-law is very fond of planting saplings here. Thus, we named this park as ‘Dadi Ma Da Ashirwad Park’.”Hira said, “Surinderjeet pursued MSc botany and LLB after which she became a lecturer. She was the first woman in the PPS cadre. She had asked former Chief Minister Parkash Singh Badal to make separate jails for women after which a formal notification was issued. She was first posted as Superintendent at Ludhiana Jail. Eventually, she was posted to Chandigarh as AIG (Prisons).”Hira single-handedly mobilised money for the park and now plans to get swings installed for kids.During a plantation drive, around 100 saplings were planted by area residents. Hoshiarpur Senior Superintendent of Police Navjot Mahal and PNB manager Arun, among others, were present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-residents-turn-ignored-park-into-verdant-paradise-261665
01-06-2021||---||Philanthropists pitch in to upgrade school in Nawanshahr's Rakkeran Dhahan||Jalandhar, May 31Government High School Rakkeran Dhahan in Nawanshahr would soon get a facelift, which would turn the institute into a smart school.Three philanthropists have donated two trailers of interlocking tiles and 40 tractor-trailers for earth filling works. Dr Kulwinder Mann, Senior Medical Officer, Balachaur, and Kashmir Singh, a retired IFS officer, donated one trailer each of interlocking tiles while Dr Gian Kaur Rakker fondly called ‘Bhuaji’ has donated 40 trailers of earth filling.As per information, apart from philanthropists, school teachers and headmistress Minakshi Bhalla also came forward with construction material. “Together, we can do this,” said Bhalla and added that the school was undergoing massive renovation and it would become one of the best schools in the region in terms of infrastructural facilities.Bhalla said philanthropists have been playing an important role in socio-economic development of the state, besides ensuring well-being of residents, especially younger generation. She said this contribution would enable the school to ensure overall personality development of children.Bhalla said, “When I joined this school as a headmistress around a year ago, it felt as if the school belonged to 90’s. I then decided to change the look of the school and convert it into a smart school.”“With support of teachers and the Education Department, we convinced the NRIs and philanthropists among others, to support us. We want to ensure that children of this area have access to latest technology and quality education,” said Bala.Prem Rakker, former chief of the Government Teachers’ Union, and member of the Rakkeran Dhahan Welfare Society; Baldev Raj Shashtri, a member of the school management committee and Bhalla, lauded the philanthropists for their consistent support in converting the institute into a smart school.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/philanthropists-pitch-in-to-upgrade-school-in-nawanshahrs-rakkeran-dhahan-261664
01-06-2021||---||IKGPTU campus team clinches  TAP Business Plan competition||Kapurthala, May 31IK Gujral Punjab Technical University’s main campus students won the prestigious TAP Business Plan competition. This was a team activity and a joint venture of IKGPTU and TiE. It was a tough competition in which 27 teams from the United States, India, Canada, Pakistan, the UAE, Germany and Israel participated. The name of this winning team was Team Squencoff. The same team had also represented IKGPTU and TiE in the Global Pitch Competition and was awarded $500.Vice Chancellor (VC) Prof Ajay Kumar Sharma congratulated the team, the faculty and staff who were involved in the preparation of this team competition. Dr Sharma also congratulated the university family and inspired all to celebrate this achievement technologically so that students may achieve more at global level. Prof Sharma also interacted with students at his office and motivated them to become entrepreneurs in future. He declared a free plug and play facility at university campus for all the winning teams. He also congratulated the organising team for conducting the entire competition online from registration to result declaration.University Registrar Sandeep Kumar Kazal also congratulated the team through a message. In his message, the Registrar said the achievement itself proved that IKGPTU is preparing its students at par with global education syllabi. This is the outcome of great efforts of university faculty and staff who are having global exposures.Drishti, Vani, Monika (all from Dept of Food Science and Technology) and Manjinder Singh (Dept of CSE) were the members of this winning team. Dr Gazal Sharma, assistant professor, IKGPTU, and Sumeet Kaur (TiE member) were the mentors of this team.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ikgptu-campus-team-clinches-tap-business-plan-competition-261663
01-06-2021||---||Rajinder Kaur: This writer’s garden is her creative retreat||Jalandhar, May 31Rajinder Kaur, a septuagenarian, is an ardent nature lover. Her garden, which boasts of 400 plants, bears testimony to her love for growing plants. She loves to address them as her ‘children’. She has been living here along with her husband for the past 13 years while her daughters are settled abroad. So now, her day revolves around the greens. She has a well-manicured garden. The plants have been adding beauty to the home landscape.Kaur shared that she is also fond of writing stories and her writings used to get published in vernacular papers too. With time, the frequency of writing has got reduced, but still whenever she feels like jotting down, she sits amid the scent coming out of the colourful flowers and then starts.She wakes up at 5 in the morning and looks after her plants. Also, she said that although a gardener comes twice a week, 90 percent of the work is done by her only. “I keep on asking my husband to bring new and different kinds of flowers. “I had this love towards nature since my childhood, because my father also used to admire nature. I think I have inherited this from my father,” she said.Kaur also has oxygen plants kept inside her bedroom and other rooms. Kaur has a vertical garden too and various pretty and attractive plants are attached to them. She has also started growing organic vegetables and has indulged herself in kitchen gardening. “Seeing buds transform into beautiful flowers is perhaps the most beautiful feeling for her. It is heart breaking for gardener to see his plants withering away. Also, my greens help me stay active and disease free,” said Rajinder Kaur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rajinder-kaur-this-writers-garden-is-her-creative-retreat-261662
01-06-2021||Phagwara||Virtual HR Conclave in Phagwara||Webinar on Role of youthJalandhar: A national webinar on “Role of youth in present scenario” was organised by Dr BR Ambedkar National Institute of Technology, Jalandhar. Avinash Rai Khanna, vice-president, Indian Red Cross Society, was the main speaker at the webinar. Vijay Kumar Nadda, organising secretary, Vidya Bharati, presided over the webinar. Prof LK Awasthi, Director, NIT Jalandhar and NIT Hamirpur, inaugurated the webinar. He discussed the significance of social values in our daily life and personal development. He told the students if they channelise their energy in positive direction, they can make wide strides in all walks of life. Correlating the date of webinar with the occasion of ‘World No Tobacco Day’, Khanna advised the students to say no to all the smoking activities and should resolve for helping the addicted persons in the society to give up smoking or any such other addiction.CA Coaching ClassesHans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya is offering online CA coaching classes for November 2021 from June 10. Principal Prof Ajay Sareen told that HMV CA coaching classes have got brilliant results in previous batches of coaching. She told that the resource persons will be CA Sonia and Manisha Chawla. Course coordinator Dr Seema Khanna said that faculty for this course was bringing laurels to the institution from last many years in giving expertise in each subject. “Moreover, HMV is providing coaching for all the foundation subjects. It is open for both boys and girls. Outstation students may also get this facility through online mode. Last year, good results were there through online mode as well as mock tests. Coaching is given at very nominal charges”, Khanna said.Webinar on no Tobacco DayDIPS IMT organised online webinar on World No Tobacco Day. College Principal Dr Simranjeet Singh highlighted the harmful effects of tobacco. During the webinar, the teachers interacted with students and told them that how tobacco is used worldwide. They consume cigarettes, gutka etc which are harmful not only for their health but also contribute to family disputes and unhappiness. It is therefore of utmost importance that people should avoid the intake of tobacco in any form. HOD of IT faculty Head Assistant Prof along with educators and students pledged not to indulge in tobacco conception and not to let their partners to introduce in it too. They will also motivate people to leave tobacco for a better health and environmentAlumni MeetIt was an evening to rekindle memories, as more than 350 students from different batches of CT Group of Institutions gathered for a virtual Alumni Meet 2021-A Reunion. Friends, classmates and mentors shared the memories and experiences of their college days. The evening began with a formal welcome by the moderator Kanwarpreet, PRO of CT Group, followed by inspirational words by Chairman Charanjit S Channi, Campus Directors Dr Rahul Malhotra and Dr Yogesh Chhabra. This was followed by live bhangra performance by alumni Amandeep and Anil from Bhangra Crew Dubai. The alumni on prestigious positions shared their success stories.Covid Vaccination CentreKanya Maha Vidyalaya in collaboration with civil administration has started to provide vaccine to all above the age of 18. The vaccination centre was inaugurated by Ghanshyam Thori, Deputy Commissioner, Jalandhar. This centre will provide vaccines to all the citizens who will pre-book their slots using the online platform. Principal Prof Dr Atima Sharma Dwivedi averred that the vaccination centre will be having a team of doctors and medical staff from Civil Hospital who will be taking care of the smooth execution of vaccination to the registered people and moreover, the vaccination centre will be open for all the citizens above the age of 18.Launch of Ni-MSME coursesMGN College of Education has launched courses approved by Ni-MSME (National Institute of Micro Small and Medium Enterprises), an organisation of the Ministry of MSME, Government of India. The college has been recognised as its Authorised Training Centre (ATC) for Skill Development and Entrepreneurship programmes. As an ATC, the college will train the students in seven skill-based courses : Diploma in Nursery Teacher’s Training (2 years), Nursery Teacher’s Training (1 year), Early Childhood Care & Education (1 year), Certificate in Nanny (6 months), Diploma in Digital Marketing and e-Commerce (6 months), Certificate in Digital Marketing (3 months) and Yoga Teacher’s Training (1 year). The students who have completed 10+2 are eligible to get enrolled in these courses. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/virtual-hr-conclave-in-phagwara-261661
01-06-2021||Garhshankar||Chemical tanker rams into truck in Garhshankar||Free diesel for ambulancesGarhshankar: The Reliance Petroleum fuel station at Panam village has offered to help the government fight Covid-19 and help the people. Under its initiative, 50 ltrs of diesel will be filled in the ambulance from the company’s petrol pump near Panam village on the Garhshankar-Chandigarh road daily. The initiative was launched by petrol pump owner RS Pathania by filling free diesel into an ambulance today. He said the company had decided that 50 ltrs of diesel would be given free to the vehicles deputed on Covid duty by June 30 at all the petrol pumps. Garhshankar Civil Hospital SMO Charanjit Pal and Samundra police post in-charge Paramjit Kaur were also present on the occasion. OCMan booked on assault chargeHoshiarpur: Mehtiana police have booked a person for allegedly assaulting his mother-in-law. According to information, Amandeep Kaur, wife of Pardeep Kumar, a resident of Mana village, lodged a complaint with the police. She said her mother Sukhwinder Kaur had come to meet her at her in-laws’ house. During the visit, her husband Pardeep Kumar allegedly assaulted her (mother), abused her and threw her out of the house. She got her mother admitted to a hospital in Mahilpur. The police have registered a case. OCDon’t bathe in Sutlej, says SSPNawanshahr: SSP Alka Meena has made an appeal to all residents of the district and said the DC has imposed a complete ban on bathing in the Sutlej and Bist Doab Canal because of high water flow. She said this carelessness could lead to loss of life and she also appealed to the parents to take care of their children so that they did not go for bathing in the river or canal. The police have been directed to carry out special checking and keep a strict vigil at such places. Four youths belonging to Balachaur had drowned when they had jumped into Sutlej to get respite from scorching heat. TNSThree arrested with intoxicantsHoshiarpur: The district police seized large quantities of intoxicants and arrested three persons in this connection in the last 24 hours. According to information, the Mahilpur police arrested Dansiwal village resident Sodhi and seized 9,000 ml of liquor from him. The Tanda police arrested Sarrjit Singh, alias Suraj, a resident of Khakhan village and seized 160 gm of intoxicating powder from him. Similarly, acting on a tip-off, the Tanda police conducted a raid in the Mand area and seized 8,400 kg of lahan. However, the police could not arrest any of the accused. The Mukerian police nabbed Chak Kalan village resident Arjun Singh and seized 27 gm of intoxicating powder from him. OCOne killed in road accidentHoshiarpur: One person was killed while another injured when the motorcycle they were riding on hit by a tempo in Mukerian on Sunday afternoon. According to information, Zail Singh, a resident of Genda village told the police that he was returning to the village with his friend Kamal Chaudhary. When they reached near a hospital, a tempo hit them and both fell on the road. Passersby admitted them to a local hospital from where Kamal Chaudhary was referred to a multispeciality hospital in Pathankot and died during treatment, while Zail Singh is under treatment. The police have registered a case against tempo driver Santokh Singh, a resident of Sulehriyan Khurd village. OC2 kids go missing from orphanageHoshiarpur: Two children went missing from the government-run orphanage in Ram Colony Camp here on Monday. According to information, they had gone to pay obeisance at a nearby religious place in the morning but did not return. DSP Jagdish Raj Attri said Sachin (11) and Karan (16) urged the security guards to allow them to go to pay obeisance at a nearby religious place. When they did not return till late, the guards started searching for them at their own level but nothing could be known about them till late evening. A search for the missing kids is on. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/chemical-tanker-rams-into-truck-in-garhshankar-261660
01-06-2021||---||Differently-abled activist asked to join her duty at Jalandhar Pingla Ghar||Jalandhar, May 31Differently-abled and an animal activist Raju (41), who had lost her job at Pingla Ghar in Jalandhar, heaved a sigh of relief after being asked to join back her duties.Sticking with their stance of not risking the lives of inmates by the entry of ‘outside staff’, the Pingla Ghar authorities have asked her to continue her duties from her home for now. While the matter was taken up by Deputy Commssioner Ghanshyam Thori with the Pingla Ghar authorities, they assured that Raju shall be continuing her duties at the shelter home for which she shall be paid her entire salary.Raju, Differently-abled animal activistI have been asked to join my duties at the Pingla Ghar from tomorrow onwards. I am very thankful to the DC and the chairman of the Pingla Ghar. I have been working here for the past 25 years and look forward to continue my service. I will be provided the material to sew clothes and will be working from my home. When the pandemic eases, I will be called back to work from the premises.Raju will be provided the material to sew clothes at her home from where she will do the work.Notably, Raju who had been sewing clothes and teaching sewing to girls at the shelter home had been working at the Pingla Ghar for the past 25 years. The Tribune had highlighted her plight in these columns in a news item published on May 26 (Read news).Speaking to The Tribune, Raju said, “I have been asked to join back at the Pingla Ghar from Tuesday onwards. I am very thankful to the Deputy Commissioner and the chairman of the Pingla Ghar. I have been working here for the past 25 years and look forward to continue my service. I will be provided the material to sew clothes and will be working from my home. When the pandemic eases, I will be called back to work on the premises.”Established in 1951, by Bawa Sarup Singh, a disciple and descendant of Guru Amar Dass, Pingla Ghar provides food, shelter, clothing, protection and medical treatment to 300 inmates. During the pandemic, the Pingla Ghar authorities have also started the drive to vaccinate their staff members.Disability activist Amarjit Singh Anand said, “It is a humanitarian step and will provide a huge relief for the activist who has done a lot of humanitarian work in the city and has been toiling hard to make ends meet. It is laudable step by the Pingla Ghar which has been delivering yeoman’s service for the destitute and underprivileged for the past many years.”Senior officials at the Pingla Ghar said the current arrangement (of working from her home) will continue till the pandemic persists, to avoid risking any of the inmates at the Pingla Ghar. However, the officials said when the situation eases, she shall be called back to her work as usual.DC Ghanshyam Thori said, “The issue was conveyed to the Pingla Ghar authorities. Since the cases are on a decline, we have been assured that the employee has been hired back. Henceforth, she will be working at Pingla Ghar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/differently-abled-activist-asked-to-join-her-duty-at-jalandhar-pingla-ghar-261659
01-06-2021||---||Covid-19 claims life of Jalandhar's popular Paranthe Wale Bebeji||Jalandhar, May 31Having gained popularity through a viral video about six months ago, 70-year-old Paranthe Wale Bebeji who used to make paranthas and serve them to her customers till midnight at the Phagwara Gate market passed away here on Sunday. She died after a brief illness.Riding her cycle and carrying stuff, including wheat flour and boiled potatoes, along, she had become a popular face in the city. The district administration as well as the Punjab State Women Commission had come forward to offer Paranthe Wale Bebeji some financial support. Even CM Capt Amarinder Singh had offered her Rs 1 lakh aid on humanitarian grounds from the CSR funds.Kamlesh Kumari, popularly known as Bebeji, had been running her shop for the past over 30 years. Women Commission chief Manisha Gulati paid a visit to her stall. She sat there and savoured her parantha. She had also gifted her a blanket and heard her personal issues for working despite being aged. Bebeji, however, said her children did not earn enough to meet the expenses of her medicines and other needs and hence, she always found it more convenient to work and make her own income.She had said she had no grudges against her son and daughter. Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori had also presented her a cheque for Rs 50,000 at her residence in Parkash Nagar locality.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-19-claims-life-of-jalandhars-popular-paranthe-wale-bebeji-261658
01-06-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Farmer’s timely help saves foot of four-year-old||Tribune News ServiceKapurthala, May 31Had it not been farmer Amrik Singh’s timely support and swift action, four-year-old Diksha could have lost her foot forever. A daughter of a daily wager, she was on Saturday riding in an auto-rickshaw in Brindpur village near the RCF when she met with an accident in which her foot was severed.Amrik Singh, who happened to pass the road after working in his fields, saw a child’s shoe on the road and her severed foot just metres ahead. Vehicles were speeding down the busy Kapurthala-Sultanpur Lodhi road. He immediately picked up her foot and took it into his possession to save it from getting crushed by vehicles. He went home (which was just a few metres away), brought back his car, took along the girl and her two relatives and in 25 minutes reached a private hospital in Jalandhar for surgery.In the hospital, he made an advance payment of Rs 75,000 so that the medical procedure could be started at the earliest. While the accident took place at 11.25 am, the girl was rushed to hospital before noon. The surgery went on for six hours after which the doctors told the family that it went on well and the chances of a good recovery were bright.As her mother Sonia looks back at the two-day-old incident, she recalls, “Had it not been for the help of Amrik Singh, we would have been ruined.” She narrated the whole incident, “My uncle has expired. All my family members, including my mother-in-law and sisters-in-law and their children, were riding in an auto-rickshaw driven by my father-in-law when a truck coming from the opposite side passed by. Diksha was in my lap. Maybe her foot was hanging outside the auto that it got snapped and Diksha fell off it. We stopped and saw her sitting on the road by herself and thought she was safe. Our effort was more on stopping the trucker and taking on him, not realising what had actually happened. At this stage, Amrik Singh approached us with her foot in his hand. He drove my daughter and my mother-in-law to Jalandhar hospital in his car. By the time we followed him in the auto, the surgery had already started and he had already paid half the expenses.”Sonia says: “The only thing that worries me now is that the doctors have said that the cost of surgery is Rs 2 lakh and we need to pay another Rs 1.25 lakh. We have been told that the Ayushman card cannot be used for this treatment. So, we really do not know how things will work out.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmers-timely-help-saves-foot-of-four-year-old-261657
01-06-2021||---||Nawanshahr to get oxygen plant soon||Nawanshahr, May 31Cases in Nawanshahr are on a decline again. The Health Department is getting ready to cope-up with any unseen problem in the future. Soon, there will be a well-established oxygen plant in the district that will help in meeting the requirement for oxygen in patients.Civil Surgeon Dr Gurdeep Singh Kapur said Sun Pharmaceutical would establish the plant and it will be functional within a week. “Until now, Nawanshahr has not reported even a single case where the patient was in dire need of oxygen, but we are still vigilant,” he said.Today, centrient pharmaceuticals India Pvt Ltd today donated 20 oxygen concentrators to the Civil Hospital for patients. These oxygen concentrators have a capacity of 5, 10 and 15 litres that will be provided to the needy patients. The Civil Surgeon said there has been a decline in cases. “We have largely focused on identifying people with symptoms and then getting them tested, this is paying off,” the Civil Surgeon said.Meanwhile, 791 persons in the district underwent Covid test who were roaming without masks. Apart from it, a case has been registered against Harwinder Singh of Ward No. 8, Balachaur for opening a grocery shop during lockdown. The SSP Alka Meena appealed to the people not to show indifference towards the Covid rules and not to go out of their houses during lockdown and night curfew.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nawanshahr-to-get-oxygen-plant-soon-261656
01-06-2021||---||Covid-19: 7 deaths, 241 +ve cases in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, May 31With 241 new cases reported on Monday in the district, the total tally reached 60,085 cases. Of the new cases, 37 belong to other districts. Besides, as many as seven Covid deaths were reported. With this, the death tally in the district rose to 1,378. As many as 55,465 people have recovered from the disease in the district while the number of active cases stands at 3,242 in Jalandhar.Kapurthala logs 7 deathsIn Kapurthala, 53 people tested positive in the district, taking the tally of positive cases to 16,591. On the other hand, three persons lost their lives to the virus in the district. The deceased have been identified as a 55-year-old woman from Nangal Khera village, a 54-year-old man from Parvez Nagar and an 85-year-old man from Phagwara. The death toll has reached 476 in Kapurthala.3 lives lost in HoshiarpurThe district on Monday reported three more deaths due to the Covid-19 disease, taking the toll to 914. Besides, 110 new cases pushed the infection count to 26,578 in the district. Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Singh said the reports of 1,802 samples were received and of them, 204 new cases were from the district while 21 patients were reported from other districts. The number of active cases is 1,328 while 26,235 patients have recovered. Hoshiarpur district reported 100 new cases, while 10 others were reported from other districts. The deceased have been identified as a 28-year-old woman of Nalian Chowk locality in a city village, a 34-year-old woman of Ranhawa Colony in Mukerian, and a 75-year-old patient of Uchi Bassi village. Meanwhile, the district administration on Monday declared Bora, Jassowal and Bihran villages in Posi block of Garhshankar subdivision as micro-containment zones.DC Apneet Riyait issued orders under Section 144 of the CrPC. She said only medical emergency and essential services would be allowed in the micro-containment zones. Teams of the Health Department would conduct door-to-door survey and contact tracing in Ward No. 1. In addition, all positive cases will be shifted to health centres as per the protocol.3 die in NawanshahrThe district on Monday reported three deaths due to Covid-19. Besides, 23 fresh cases pushed the infection tally to 11,042. The deceased have been identified as 75-year-old woman from Mukandpur, 83-year-old woman from Sujjon block, 73-year-old man from Balachaur. There are 431 active cases in the district, out of which 362 are under home isolation. No cases were reported from Urban Banga and Saroya.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-19-7-deaths-241-ve-cases-in-jalandhar-district-261655
01-06-2021||---||Jabs for privileged in Jalandhar, wait for needy||Jalandhar, May 31While the 18-plus privileged class is able to book vaccine slots at special session sites for Rs543 to Rs1,200, no free vaccine is available at the government sites for others in the same age group, for the past four days.The eagerness with which the Covaxin for the 18 to 44 age group was awaited can be guaged from the fact that once online slots were announced by the DC a day ago, 1,000 doses of paid vaccines flew off the shelf within an hour. As per the district administration, until now, 1,100 more slots have been booked online for Covaxin in the age group of 18 to 44.The scenario clearly speaks volumes of the disparity which exists in vaccines between the poor and the rich.While the 18-plus vaccine trials got off to a fair start, in the initial phase 38,000 free vaccines were administered to people in the said age group. However, when the Health Department ran out of vaccines, the online booking for paid vaccines was started by the DC as a part of a pilot project.These paid vaccines are available for Rs 543 via online bookings for vaccination centres at HMV, KMV and Lyallpur Khalsa Colleges. Meanwhile, paid Covaxin drive has also been started for Rs1,200 at the Punjab Institute of Medical Sciences.However, if someone in the age group of 18 to 44 is unable to pay between Rs 543 to Rs 1,200 for the jab and they want to get vaccinated, they will just have to wait for the state supply to resume.District Immunisation Officer Dr Rakesh Chopra said, “We are currently awaiting vaccines. They haven’t been received for the past four days. Hence, 18 to 44 age group free vaccine drive currently remains stopped. But once the vaccine arrives, we expect to vaccinate a large number of people. As per instructions, 20 special sites have been created for the initial phase of the vaccine, which saw 38,000 people getting vaccine doses. But currently, we await the Covishield vaccine supply to resume free vaccine for the age group.” Chopra also confirmed that vaccines have also been bought by about 10 private hospitals, who will also start administering it on a paid basis soon.Deputy Commssioner Ghanshyam Thori said: “We have had an overwhelming response to the online bookings for 18 to 44 age group for Covaxin. Around 1,000 doses were booked in an hour and in the next 24 hours, 1,100 more doses have been booked. So, we extended doses to 5,000. Based on the response, the drive shall be expanded and more vaccines will be added. It is true that supply of vaccines for the free vaccines in the same age group remains halted but we hope for the vaccines to arrive soon.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jabs-for-privileged-in-jalandhar-wait-for-needy-261654
01-06-2021||Jalandhar||ED top shot Niranjan Singh retires, faces probe as ‘parting gift’||On a day Deputy Director, Enforcement Directorate, Niranjan Singh, who handled high-profile drug cases and summoned bigwigs, including Punjab ministers, retired from service, the Ministry of Finance today issued a chargesheet and ordered a probe against him for allegedly failing to maintain integrity and misusing office over a case related to singer Diljit Dosanjh. The ED functions under the ministry.Could have achieved moreI believe I could have achieved more. I had desired better results out of all my investigations. - Niranjan Singh, Deputy Director (retd), EDAs per the chargesheet, the officer was investigating a FEMA case against the singer when he reportedly got him to perform at the wedding of his daughter in November 2016. Then ED Joint Director Girish Bali has been made a witness in the case. Niranjan had allegedly paid the singer Rs 2 lakh, which was quite less given the prevailing amount charged by singers, it claims.Niranjan said the singer had performed just for an hour and he paid him by cheque. A tough taskmaster, Niranjan during his stint with the ED handled some key cases, including those involving alleged drug lord Raja Kandola, dismissed DSP Jagdish Bhola and some Akali leaders. He even summoned CM Capt Amarinder Singh’s son Raninder Singh twice to his office in the alleged FEMA case. Niranjan remained in the news for taking on his own department. As many as 20 junior team members were transferred on the orders of his seniors, reportedly hampering the pace of investigation. He had approached the Punjab and Haryana High Court for a stay on his own transfer while investigating a drugs case. Amid pressure, Niranjan quit his office three years ago, only to rejoin later. On his next plans, he said: “A complete no to politics. I will also not join any other job.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ed-top-shot-niranjan-singh-retires-faces-probe-as-parting-gift-261608
