02-06-2021||---||‘Use technology to make agri sector cost effective’||Jalandhar, June 1A one-day capacity building programme on Agriculture Demand Side Management was organised via webinar at Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Jalandhar, on Tuesday.The training programme was organised by the Punjab Energy Development Agency (PEDA) and Agriculture Department, Jalandhar, to create awareness and sensitise the stakeholders to the use of energy efficient technologies and policies for energy and water conservation in agriculture sector.Dr Surinder Singh, Chief Agricultural Officer, Jalandhar, was the chief guest. He emphasised the need of energy conservation and use of efficient technologies to make agriculture more cost effective and efficient as well as creating a significant positive impact on the environment. He shared about various available technologies including biomass, solar pumps, solar plants, etc.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/use-technology-to-make-agri-sector-cost-effective-262230
02-06-2021||---||‘Remain hydrated amid heat wave’||Nawanshahr, June 1Deputy Commissioner Dr Shena Aggarwal has appealed to the residents of the district to take necessary precautions to avoid falling ill because of the heat wave during the scorching heat.A list has been released which says if you are not thirsty during summer, you should drink as much water as possible. Likewise, airy, light and light-coloured khadi clothes should be preferred, one must go out with the head covered and keep a water bottle along.Dr Shena Aggarwal said that people must consume ORS solution, lassi, rice water, lemon water, etc, and in case of symptoms of heat stroke such as weakness, drowsiness, headache, runny nose, sweating and seizures, a doctor should be contacted immediately.She said it was important to protect not only the people but also the animals from the heat, for which the breeders were advised to keep their animals in shade and bring maximum amount of water.In addition, keeping homes cool, using curtains, and opening windows at night can protect against heat. Similarly, the use of a fan and bathing more than once a day with cold water can also prevent the effects of heatstroke.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/remain-hydrated-amid-heat-wave-262229
02-06-2021||---||‘Will fast-track work on welfare schemes for backward classes’||Jalandhar, June 1The Punjab Social Justice, Empowerment and Minorities wing of the state government allocated Rs 1,372 crore this year for the welfare schemes of the SCs/BCs and minorities. While this was termed as the move to cater to the needs of minority communities ahead of the 2022 by polls, Yash Pal Singh Dhiman, a city-based member of the Punjab State Commission for Backward Classes, is undertaking efforts to cover all beneficiaries under various social-development schemes.The posts of the members of the commission were vacant since 2016, and after a long gap, the members have been bestowed upon with the powers to provide assistance to the beneficiaries, and summon the officials dilly-dallying the documentation process of the beneficiaries.“As it has been five months since I took charge of the commission as a member, I have been creating awareness on schemes for the Economically Weaker Sections (EWS) of the society and the backward classes. This year, the main objective will remain to ensure implementation of the Shagun and scholarship schemes and providing assistance to the EWS in getting finances through Backfinco (Punjab Backward Classes Land Development and Finance Corporation, that provides loans to backward classes),” said Dhiman.He said, “Any person who’s facing problems or is harassed by any officer or any office can contact us on 0171-2298097. The commission will initiate an enquiry and take necessary action,” added Dhiman.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/will-fast-track-work-on-welfare-schemes-for-backward-classes-262228
02-06-2021||Our Correspondent||‘India home to 12% of world’s smokers’||Hoshiarpur, June 1“According to the World Health Organisation (WHO), India is home to 12 per cent of the world’s smokers. There are approximately 120 million smokers in India and more than 10 million people die each year due to tobacco in India,” said Dr Suresh Goyal, senior consultant of pulmonary medicine at Ivy Hospital, in an online awareness session.Dr Suresh Goyal, Senior Consultant of Pulmonary Medicine at Ivy hospitalMore than 10 million people die each year due to tobacco in India. It causes various types of cancer such as mouth, lungs, food pipe, kidney and pancreas etc. It leads to heart diseases, stroke, lung diseases (asthma and COPD) and various eye problems.He said smoking affects almost all organs of the body. “It causes various types of cancer, like mouth, lungs, food pipe, kidney and pancreas etc. It leads to heart diseases, stroke, lung diseases (asthma and COPD) and various eye problems. There is an increased risk of gum disease, stained teeth and tooth loss. It also lowers the immune system and leads to increased incidence of pneumonia. Smoking increases risk of type 2 diabetes, decreases sense of smell and taste, causes bad breath and premature aging of the skin,” he said.Dr Goyal further said tobacco by-products harm one’s appearance. Quitting smoking improves blood flow to your skin, increasing the amount of oxygen and nutrients that reaches the area.“This directly gives you a healthier complexion and improves your appearance. Smoking increases anxiety and tension. Quitting can lower your blood pressure, heart rate, there will be less shortness of breath and can be a low risk of cancer.”Moreover, smoking and Covid both target and damage your heart and lungs. Not only does smoking erode the lining of your lungs and leave it more vulnerable to infection, but it also hampers your body’s immune response during infection, said Dr Goyal.Every puff of cigarette smoke delivers more than 7,000 chemicals to your lungs. Now imagine what adding Covid to the mix does, he said.There is a strong association between smoking and increased severity of Covid symptoms in infected individuals. Smoking or using e-cigarettes around children compromises their health and safety. Most e-cigarettes contain nicotine, he asserted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/india-home-to-12-of-worlds-smokers-262227
02-06-2021||---||Rail Coach Factory, Kapurthala rolls out 15 coaches of 3-tier AC economy class||Kapurthala, June 1Rail Coach Factory, Kapurthala, on Monday rolled out 15 coaches of 3-tier AC economy class in the presence of Ravinder Gupta, General Manager of RCF.On this occasion, Principal Chief Mechanical Engineer, RCF, R K Mangla, other officers and employees were present. He said these coaches would be attached to various mail and express trains.The prototype of the AC 3-tier economy class was rolled out on February 10 from RCF for oscillation trials in just three months after its inception. The AC 3-tier economy class is expected to offer AC convenience and pleasant travel to the masses while keeping it affordable.The design of the coach includes redesigning the AC ducting to provide individual vents for each berth. The coach also has an improved and modular design of seats and berths, foldable snack tables in both longitudinal and transverse bays, injury free spaces and holders for water bottles, mobile phones and magazines. Individual reading lights and mobile charging points are provided for each berth in addition to the standard sockets.Additional berths have been provided in the coach as the number of berths in the new coach has been increased from 72 to 83. The coach also has wider doors making convenience for specially-abled passengers. RCF has production plan of 248 coaches in current and next fiscal years.Speaking on the occasion, Ravinder Gupta said AC economy class coach would provide the cheapest and finest AC travel in the world and is a landmark in the journey of RCF. This product will bring many changes in rail travel which will be now more convenient besides safer and faster. He said due to second wave of Corona and complying to the guidelines from the government, 50 per cent of RCF staff was put on production work.Besides, due to the lockdown in most parts of the country, the supply of railway material to RCF was greatly affected. Despite this, RCF administration and staff was working with full commitment and had produced more than 100 coaches in the last month, which is a very encouraging figure regardless of the odds.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rail-coach-factory-kapurthala-rolls-out-15-coaches-of-3-tier-ac-economy-class-262226
02-06-2021||---||Certificate without shot: Man sends legal notice to govt||Jalandhar, June 1Two-and-a-half months after a complaint was lodged by a city resident with the administration that his mother (62) was not vaccinated at a centre but was erroneously issued a certificate of being inoculated. So far, no correction has been done.Owing to the wrongly issued certificate in her name, the elderly woman has not been able to get the jab and her son now had to file a legal notice to the state government for getting the matter resolved.Complainant Nikhil Sharma of Nijatam Nagar had lodged a complaint soon after the incident took place on March 15. Running from pillar to post, he has now got a notice issued through his lawyer Anup Gautam to Jalandhar Deputy Commissioner, Department of Health and Family Welfare Secretary and Jalandhar Civil Surgeon.The notice reads, “That mother of my client namely Kaushalaya Devi was born in the year 1959 and is a senior citizen of India. That my client got his mother registered by virtue of Arogya Setu App for Covid vaccination and took her to Basti Guzan Centre on March 15 for getting her vaccinated for the first dose about 10 am. There was a long queue at centre on the said day. There was no arrangement for sanitisation. My client had to wait along with his mother for about two hours. Thereafter around noon, people standing in the queue were informed that the stock of the dose at the centre had finished and that they will have to wait for some more time. Thereafter, for the next 1 hour 45 minutes, the old aged mother of my client waited in queue. The doctor who was there at the centre told my client and his mother that as mother of my client was suffering from diabetes so without certificate she cannot be vaccinated. My client was astonished to hear such words from the doctor as no such information available online and those above 60 did not need co-morbidity certificate.”The notice further reads, “That now no government hospital or any private hospital is ready to administer the first dose of vaccine to the mother of my client and because of which the life of mother of my client is at risk and she is being denied of her legal right.”Through the notice, he has warned, “The false certificate issued in the name of Kaushalaya Devi whereby it has been mentioned that she has been vaccinated for the first dose of Covid vaccine be immediately cancelled more particularly within seven days of receipt of this notice otherwise I have full instructions from my client to initiate legal proceedings on the matter”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/certificate-without-shot-man-sends-legal-notice-to-govt-262225
02-06-2021||---||Accused of molesting daughter-in-law, elderly man commits suicide||Jalandhar, June 1An elderly man, who was allegedly accused of physically molesting his daughter-in-law, on Tuesday killed himself by jumping in front of a running train near DAV College railway tracks.The deceased was identified as Anil Kumar, a resident of Tejmohan Nagar in Basti Sheikh. A case was registered against him at the police division number 5, after a video of him molesting his daughter-in-law went viral. He took the extreme step, a day before his bail hearing. ASI Hira Singh of the GRP said, the incident was reported around 11.10 am when some commuters informed about the suicide.Weeping over the demise of Anil, family members told the police that the daughter-in-law had demanded Rs 60 lakh to withdraw the FIR against him. While Anil was in an inebriated state before his death, the cops were yet to ascertain whether it was a suicide or an accident. The body has been sent for postmortem and inquest proceedings under Section 174 of CrPC have been initiated.Spa centre found open, 8 taken to police stationThe cops at police division number 7 on Tuesday took action against a massage and spa centre located on Garha Road. As many as eight persons, including staff members of the spa centre, were taken to the police station.Flouting the Covid-19 protocols, as per the reports, Bliss Body Spa Centre was found open in the area. Not even the centre was open but also the customers were called to take the services. Following which the police took action against it and raided the centre. Notably, as part of the curbs, the spa centres, gyms, sports centres and swimming pools were prohibited from opening due to safety reasons. However, the centre was found open.SHO, Gagandeep Singh Sekhon, said, two men and six women were taken to the police station for investigation.Woman’s murder: Husband, mother-in-law bookedTanda Urmar: The Tanda police have registered a case of murder against victim’s husband Sukhwinder Singh and mother-in-law Gurmeet Kaur on the basis of the statement of Basoya village resident Jagtar Singh, the brother of victim Jasvir Kaur.Jagtar Singh told in his statement to the police that his sister, Jasveer Kaur, was married in 2007 and her brother-in-law often assaulted her. Many times panchayat had intervened in the matter. On May 31, his sister called twice and told him that her husband was beating her. “When I reached her house, she was nervous. I took her to Tanda Government Hospital for first aid and there after informed the police about the incident,” Jagtar Singh said. Meanwhile, his relative Malkit Kaur took the victim to her house in Prempur village. On her way to Prempur village, Jasveer complained of stomach pain and after reaching house she fell unconscious and died. Jagtar Singh alleged that his sister died due to the assault by her husband. The police have registered a case against the mother-son duo under Sections 302 and 120-B of the IPC. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/accused-of-molesting-daughter-in-law-elderly-man-commits-suicide-262224
02-06-2021||Jalandhar||No tobacco day observed||Toycathon- 2021The Innovation Council of Kanya Maha Vidyalaya encourages young students to participate in innovative initiatives by providing them a perfect platform for showcasing their talents. The innovative ideas of students of Kanya Maha Vidyalaya have been selected in the grand finale of Toycathon-2021, a national competition organised by Ministry of Education under the ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan’. The event has been conceived to challenge India’s innovative minds to conceptualise novel toy and games based on Bhartiya civilisation, history, culture, mythology and ethos. Principal Prof Atima Sharma Dwivedi congratulated the students on their achievement. She averred that KMV’s IIC is providing innovative and entrepreneurial environment to the students to discover, develop and deploy their ideas, skill and talent. She further maintained that KMV is an active member of Self-Reliant India (Atmanirbhar Bharat) campaign.Online Summer CampIVY World School, under the aegis of the Vasal Education Society, organised an online summer camp. The school has curated a virtual camp with some engaging activities for students to indulge in. Various activities are being organised for the children under the supervision of educators in which they participated actively. The activities were: Master chef kitchen- cooking without fire, dining etiquettes, speech weavers, bossy numbers, curious minds, fitness studio and craft factory. The students showcased their creativity in these activities. These activities are planned to keep the children gainfully engaged during the summer vacation to make their artistic skills bloom and at the same time improving their physical fitness. With all these magical activities, children’s imagination can fly, the sky is the limit. They truly discovered their hidden talent in various fields, as they directly get the hands on activity opportunity to try their hands at it. The summer camp was concluded with a “Show stopper” in which all the skills acquired by children were demonstrated virtually through a pick and choose live activity.Webinar on teaching skillsInnocent Hearts College of Education organised a webinar on “Demonstration of teaching skills” by alumni members with the objective of equipping the student-teachers with modern skills and techniques of teaching. Alumnus Vasundhara demonstrated the various steps of teaching poetry with the help of real objects and videos. Through her poem ‘Tree-huggers”, she gave the message of planting more and more trees for increasing oxygen percentage in the air in order to get rid of Covid. Alumni members Harsimran Kochhar and Samridhi demonstrated Herbertian lesson plans on the topics – ‘Branding, labelling, packaging’ and ‘Collection of data’ respectively. Harsimran explained the importance of framing instructional objectives and the technique of relating the new topic with previously learnt material. Samridhi highlighted the integration of various skills like blackboard writing, introducing the lesson and explanation for efficient teaching.World No Tobacco DayEklavya School observed the ‘World No Tobacco Day’ to spread awareness about the harmful effects of tobacco use. The students were told that tobacco use kills more than 8 million people each year. Activities like poster making and speeches were conducted to make students aware of ill-effects of tobacco. Chairman J.K Gupta encouraged the students in taking part in competitions for making everyone aware of ill effects of tobacco on health. Director Seema Handa also advised the students to stay away from drugs or tobacco. Principal Komal Arora motivated the activities of students. Administrator Dimple Malhotra also motivated the students to take part in these activities for awareness of “No Tobacco”.Students get jobsStudents from the Department of Management of Lyallpur Khalsa College Technical Campus bagged campus placements. Rohit Jassal of MBA final got selected with Capital Small Finance Bank at a pay package of Rs 2.4 lakh per annum as a teller. Star Health also selected two students of MBA final namely Kajal and Heera Partap at a pay package of 2.4 lakh per annum. Nirmal Kumar was selected as Assistant Manager with Kotak Securities at a pay package of Rs.2.4 lakh per annum. Sukhbir Singh Chatha (Director, Academic Affairs) congratulated the students and their parents for their incredible achievement. Teaching in LKCTC is based on latest pedagogical tools including case-based teaching, group discussions, mock interviews, and simulation games etc. hence providing them the environment in which they are able to develop their skills to the fullest. Dr SK Sood (Director) and Dr Inderpal Singh (HoD, Management) congratulated the students and their parents for their outstanding achievement. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/no-tobacco-day-observed-262223
02-06-2021||Hoshiarpur||70-gm intoxicating powder seized||Automated driving test track opensHoshiarpur: District Magistrate-cum-Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait has issued orders to reopen all liquor vends falling within the district limits from 9 am to 6 pm daily under the restrictions and exemptions imposed in the district due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Also, she has directed to open the automated driving track run by the Transport Department in the district. She said that this order would be implemented in the district with immediate effect. OCLabour party’s memo of demandsHoshiarpur: A delegation of the Labour Party, led by party leaders Jai Gopal Dhiman and Balvir Chand, handed over a memorandum of demands addressed to Labour Commissioner, Punjab, to Assistant Commissioner Kirpalveer Singh on Tuesday. The delegation demanded to improve the schemes of the Construction Workers Welfare Board and implement them in a timely manner, prevent the neglect of the interests of the workers and appoint the required staff in the offices. They demanded to set up offices at the tehsil level to solve the labour related problems in each tehsil and to set up labour courts in all districts of Punjab. The delegation also sought scholarships for the children of construction workers. OCInterviews for Mr Clean beginHoshiarpur: Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait said interviews to fill vacant posts of car washing under the project ‘Mr Clean’ will be conducted from June 2 to 4 at the District Bureau for Business and Employment, MSDC Building, 1st Floor, Government ITI Complex at Jalandhar Road from 10 am to 1 pm. She said the candidates, from various wards of Hoshiarpur city, could take part in the interview by reaching the DBBE. For more information, candidates can get information through the helpline number 62801-97708 of the concerned office. ocRahon-Phillaur road repair beginsNawanshahr: The long-pending repair work of Rahon-Phillaur road was inaugurated on Tuesday by Angad Singh, MLA. The repair work of this 25.6 km long road will cost around Rs 21 crore. He said the issue of repair of Rahon-Phillaur road had also been raised by him in the Vidhan Sabha and he had met the top officials of the department several times. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/70-gm-intoxicating-powder-seized-262222
02-06-2021||---||Jalandhar Administration comes to 4-year-old girl’s aid||Jalandhar, June 1In a relief to the family of a four-year-old girl whose foot was severed in a road accident in Kapurthala on Monday, DC Ghanshyam Thori on Tuesday assured complete financial assistance for her treatment by paying Rs 1 lakh to the hospital along with sponsoring medicinal expenditure from the Red Cross Society. However, treatment worth Rs 50,000 has been insured through the Ayushman Bharat Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojana.Jalandhar Tribune on Monday carried a story on the 4-year-old accident victim, Diksha, and highlighted the problems that her family was facing. Her foot was reattached by doctors after six hours of surgery. Thori said the family members had also approached the administration for assistance as the victim’s father was a daily wager and could not afford treatment expenses.The DC said some relatives of the victim approached him seeking help as the cost of plastic surgery to reattach her severed foot was Rs 2 lakh, which her family could not afford. He said the District Red Cross Society was asked to pay Rs 1 lakh to Joshi Hospital, where treatment of the girl was under way. He assured the family of bearing any additional expenditure so that the family did not face any problem.Hailing the efforts of the Jalandhar administration, Raj Kumar Chaudhary, a social activist, stated that he had brought the incident to the knowledge of the Deputy Commissioner, Jalandhar, through a WhatsApp group, which the administration had formed to connect with the NGOs.He added that acting swiftly on their request, the DC immediately approved financial assistance for the affected family, besides ensuring treatment worth Rs 50,000 under the Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojana.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-administration-comes-to-4-year-old-girls-aid-262221
02-06-2021||Our Correspondent||Farm leader Lakhwinder Singh Lakhi dies after brief illness||Hoshiarpur, June 1Farm leader Lakhwinder Singh Lakhi, who had been constantly protesting against the three agri laws at Sutehri, died at a hospital in Jalandhar. Lakkhi had fallen ill while sitting on a dharna a few days ago.Harbans Singh Sangha, chief, Azad Kisan Committee Doaba, said those present at the dharna in front of Reliance’s showroom took Lakhi to a local hospital where doctor advised him to get him admitted to a super speciality hospital.Sangha said his family admitted him to a hospital in Jalandhar on May 23 where he breathed his last on May 31. He said Lakhi’s death was irreparable loss both to his family and the Azad Kisan Committee Doaba.“Due to the stubbornness of the Central Government, many farmers are getting martyred. We will return from the borders of Delhi only after getting our demands fulfilled,” said Sangha.He said, “Lakhi had contributed a lot to this dharna and also gave financial assistance. His contribution will be written in the history of this dharna.” Tributes will be paid to Lakhi on June 2 at 12.30 pm at the protest site.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farm-leader-lakhwinder-singh-lakhi-dies-after-brief-illness-262220
02-06-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Nothing more tragic than losing parents to Covid at young age||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 1Speak to anyone and you only get to hear stories of loss and despair. People have lost their loved ones to this global catastrophe and are going through a lot. In all this melee, children are the worst affected, as they are losing their parents at such young age.One such family from Chhokra village in Jalandhar is coping with the loss of their beloved family member due to Covid. Baljeet Kaur, a housewife, succumbed to the virus and left behind a 12-year-old son and 18-year-old daughter. Kaur was their strength and the family’s backbone. Jaspal Singh, Kaur’s husband, who works in an agriculture workshop and repairs machines, said life is not the same anymore, especially for his 12-year-old son Navjot Singh, who comes under the ‘intellectual disability’ category, after his mother’s death. Singh said his son doesn’t have major problems, but still is ‘slow’ compared to others.“Ever since his mother died, he keeps remembering her. He was also dependent on her for studies and other works. His mother used to sit with him during online classes because he would face difficulty while understanding online,” he said, adding that both shared a special bond. Now, his elder daughter does the job. She sits with him and teaches and guides him in his studies.Jaspal said after his wife’s death, he realised that a mother’s void can never be filled. He said Baljeet died 17 days after she was admitted to a hospital in Ludhiana. “Her health deteriorated and doctors couldn’t save her life,” he said, adding that people must take care of themselves because those who lose their family members understand the pain deeply.In another heart-wrenching incident from Ladra village, two children — aged 7 and 3 — lost their father to Covid. As per the information, the father had some trouble finding a job amid the pandemic and this was troubling him. He died in the month of March.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nothing-more-tragic-than-losing-parents-to-covid-at-young-age-262219
02-06-2021||---||Covid-19: Jalandhar district reports 179 fresh cases, lowest in 3 months||Jalandhar, June 1The district on Tuesday recorded the lowest Covid fresh cases in the past three months, with 179 persons testing positive for the virus in the past 24-hours. Among these, 40 cases belong to other districts. The daily caseload also didn’t cross 250-mark.With this, as per the Health Department, the number of active cases has also dropped to 2,922 from 3,242, the previous day. The number of deaths reported has also been in single digit off late, with seven casualties. The district toll has increased to 1,385 today. At present, total number of confirmed cases in the district is 60,264.Meanwhile, Guran Dass, executive engineer, building and roads department of the MC, died due to Covid on Tuesday. Dass was admitted to the hospital on Saturday but his health deteriorated on Tuesday and he lost his battle against Covid.Three die in HoshiarpurWith 146 fresh Covid cases reported in Hoshiarpur district on Tuesday, the tally has increased to 26,717. Also, three new deaths pushed the toll to 918. Out of which, two of them died in Hoshiarpur while the third victim died at GMC-Amritsar. Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Singh said samples of 3,824 persons with suspected flu-like symptoms were collected on Tuesday, taking the total number of samples taken in the district to 5,74,872.Nawanshahr reports 2 deathsThe district on Tuesday reported two deaths due to Covid, pushing the toll to 330 and the death rate stood at 2.98 per cent. Besides, the district recorded 24 new cases, taking the tally to 11,066. The positivity rate in the district is 4.95%. The deceased have been identified as a 65-year-old woman from Muzaffarpur block and a 38-year-old woman from Saroya. The number of active cases stands at 366, out of which 358 are from Nawanshahr and the remaining 8 are from outside the district. A total of 309 patients are under home isolation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-19-jalandhar-district-reports-179-fresh-cases-lowest-in-3-months-262218
02-06-2021||Ajay Joshi||Cases dip, so does demand for oxygen in Jalandhar district||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 1With a dip in the number of Covid-19 cases in the district, demand for Level-2, Level-3 (with or without ventilator) beds is also falling gradually. There is also a dip in inflow of patients visiting government and private hospitals. In addition, the requirement of oxygen has also dropped to 100-200 cylinders against the demand for over 300 cylinders in a day, nearly a week ago.Dr Sandeep Ahuja, Nodal Officer for isolation facilities at the Civil Hospital, said a number of L-2 and L-3 beds were now vacant in the hospital that otherwise remained occupied during the peak period of the second wave of Covid.“For the last two days, out of 284 L-2 oxygen beds, around 200-220 remained unoccupied. Earlier, the availability of beds used to fluctuate between 120 and 150. Similarly, only 10 L-3 beds out of 38 are at present occupied. This is the first time in the last two months that the occupancy rate has come down to this extent. However, the beds with ventilator support continue to be occupied by patients,” said Ahuja.The Nodal Officer further said, “Bringing some relief to doctors, a slump in demand for oxygen cylinders has also been recorded since Sunday. The demand at the Civil Hospital has also dropped to nearly 200 cylinders. Likewise, out of 108 L-2 beds with oxygen, about 83 are available at Military Hospital. And out of 16 L-3 beds, 12 are occupied.”There has been a significant drop in the daily count of Covid cases. Around 500-650 positive cases were being reported daily a fortnight ago, but the number has not crossed the 250 mark in the last three days.Meanwhile, private hospitals treating Covid patients also reported that no new Covid patients were being admitted in hospitals. Dr Baljit Singh Johal of Johal Hospital said for the first time since the surge in Covid cases, only two L-3 beds with ventilator support were booked and the rest remained vacant. Besides, out of 36 L-2 beds with oxygen support, 18 were unoccupied. “It’s been over a week since a dip in the number of Covid patients started and beds are unoccupied. The demand for oxygen too has reduced,” added Johal.Jees Maria, nodal officer at Sacred Heart Hospital, said, “We had to arrange extra oxygen cylinders from outside a few days ago, though we have a plant inside the hospital. Now, the consumption has suddenly gone down. Moreover, the bed occupancy has reduced in most hospitals. The beds with ventilator support have been unoccupied since last week.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cases-dip-so-does-demand-for-oxygen-in-jalandhar-district-262217
02-06-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Beautification of PAP Chowk, Jalandhar: Rs 7 crore goes down the drain?||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 1Months after the district administration along with the NHAI set up an improvised PAP Chowk at a cost of Rs 7 crore for the smooth traffic flow and beautification, the plan seems to have largely failed. While traffic movement has not got eased much, almost all bushes that were planted here have completely wilted with little chances of their survival even after the onset of monsoon.A city-based activist Gurcharan Singh Channi said, “I have been repeatedly telling the administration that the PAP Chowk plan was a failed one as every evening I get caught up in traffic snarls. Though this problem is not emerging much these days because of less traffic due to lockdown restrictions, the movement will again get hindered once the traffic volume increases.”He said, “It breaks my heart when I see such expensive fully grown bushes planted in hundreds dying. The authorities should have set up a tubewell at the site for watering these plants. The expensive ficus, ferns, palms, etc, planted here after spending lakhs of rupees did not get the required maintenance from the local authorities.”The beautification of the chowk included works like setting up concrete structures of dancing peacocks and a modular rainwater harvesting system. “But even before the onset of the first monsoon, the entire beautification plan has gone haywire,” remarked Ramanpreet Kaur, a resident of adjoining Ladhewali area.Deputy Mayor Harsimranjit Banti too has demanded the fixing of the responsibility of the huge loss because of the project failure. “The Jalandhar Municipal Corporation must make an XEN or SDO of the Horticulture Department accountable. Anyone who enters the city from the PAP Chowk side gets such a bad impression about the MC for not being able to maintain the entry point.Instead of getting green, the entire chowk now wears a completely worn-out look. Why have the officials not paid a heed to ensure proper watering of the plants? Why have the tubewells not been set up right at the site? Even if the water tankers were to be sent twice a day, why was this not done for proper maintenance? If there was a lapse on the part of the contractor on setting up a water source, even he needs to be taken into account. I have already brought the matter to the knowledge of the Commissioner. I hope he acts in the days to come.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/beautification-of-pap-chowk-jalandhar-rs-7-crore-goes-down-the-drain-262216
02-06-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||2 Jalandhar officers in senior naval positions||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 1Coming as a moment of pride for Jalandhar, two senior positions in the Indian Navy are now held by officers hailing from the district.While Admiral Karambir Singh was born near Adampur in Jalandhar, Vice Admiral Ravneet Singh, who took the charge as the Deputy Chief of the Naval Staff, hails from Lajpat Nagar in Jalandhar city. The Deputy Chief’s father Avtar Manmohan Jit Singh (91) resides here and is a practising lawyer in the Punjab and Haryana High Court and Sessions Court. He has also been the member of the Jalandhar Improvement Trust.On his son’s success, the nonagenarian said, “It is such an exciting moment to know that my son has risen to such a great height. He called me to take my blessings before joining the office today. I wish that he continues to serve the nation with utmost responsibility and diligence.”Admiral Ravneet Singh lost his mother Sarabjit Kaur three years back. She had served as the Principal of Ramgarhia College, Phagwara, and was also a board member of Punjab Agricultural University. Avtar Manmohan Jit Singh said, “Ravneet studied for some years at St Joseph’s School here, where his mother was also a teacher initially. Later, he moved to Kendriya Vidyalaya and then graduated from DAV College in Jalandhar before joining the forces.” Vice Admiral Ravneet has two brothers. His elder brother served in the Army and retired as a colonel. His younger brother is settled in the US.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/2-jalandhar-officers-in-senior-naval-positions-262127
