03-06-2021||Garhshankar||Garhshankar: Man held for killing father||Two missing boys foundHoshiarpur: The two boys, who went missing from the Children's Home at Ram Colony Camp, Hoshiarpur, on May 31, were traced by the district police and handed over to the Children's Home management. SSP Navjot Singh Mahal said superintendent, Children’s Home for Boys at Ram Colony Camp, Reena Uppal had lodged a complaint with the Sadar Police Station on May 31 that two boys Karan and Sachin had gone missing from the Children’s Home. A police team, led by SP (Investigation) Ravinder Pal Singh Sandhu, was formed under DSP Jagdish Raj Attri and Sadar police station SHO Bhushan Sekhri. The team found both of them in 24 hours and handed them over to the Children's Home authorities. The police team found Sachin from Hoshiarpur bus stand and Karan from bus stand in Amritsar. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/garhshankar-man-held-for-killing-father-262672
03-06-2021||With the assistance of Malkiat Singh Raghbotra||Phagwara Diary: NGO donates clothes  to underprivileged||Financial support by Inner Wheel ClubThe Covid-induced lockdown has left many people jobless. Unable to earn money, a large number of people are forced to face financial crisis. However, in these challenging times, members of the Inner Wheel Club, Phagwara, have come forward to help such locals. The president of the club, Navita Chabra, said, the club was helping the needy families by providing financial assistance for the marriage of their daughters. Few days ago the members provided household items to a newlywed couple and supported the family of the bride.‘Don’t sell drugs without prescription’Following a meeting with the Kapurthala District Chemist Association, Som Prakash Singh, president of the Phagwara Chemist Association, said, the chemists in the Phagwara block have been directed not to sell acetomycin, paracetamol and related salts without doctors’ prescription. “It’s been five days since the chemists have been told not to sell the essential tablets without any medical slip and doctors’ prescription,” said the the Phagwara Chemist Association president. The chemist association is dedicated towards state government’s initiative of containing Covid-19 spread. Recently, it was came to the notice, that there was a shortage of paracetamol and other important medicines, hence to prevent the shortage, it was decided that no important medicines to be sold without the prescription of any medical practitioner. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/phagwara-diary-ngo-donates-clothes-to-underprivileged-262670
03-06-2021||Jalandhar||Campus notes: Online Dance Workshop by KMV, Jalandhar||E-Workshop on Covid-Helper SkillsThe NSS Unit of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya organised an online workshop on “Beat Covid-Helper Skills” in association with Mahatma Gandhi National Council of Rural Education, Department of Higher Education. The resource person was Sandhya Tuti from the council. Principal Prof Ajay Sareen said in this time of Covid-19, this workshop will prove to be every effective. She appreciated the efforts of NSS Programme Officer Veena Arora, Harmanu Paul and Dean Innovation Council Dr Anjana Bhatia. Sandhya Tuti gave detailed information on the subject. She discussed various steps taken by local managing committees in this pandemic. She said helping people mentally and socially is the need of the hour. She gave information on various teams. She also had an interactive session with NSS volunteers. She educated the students through various case studies.Pyramid college students excelPyramid College of Business and Technology has got a good result in MBA Ist semester. Mohit Kapoor scored the highest SGPA around 8.71 followed by Santosh Kumari with 8.57 SGPA and Urvashi Kanda with 8.29 SGPA, Harmanpreet Singh with 8.00 SGPA. Vatsal Mehta, Vishvadeep singh, Shivankar Chaudhary have opted Pathway programme for MBA has scored more than 7 SGPA. At this, Prof Jatinder Singh Bedi, Chairman, Pyramid College of Business and Technology, congratulated all the students who have passed and wished them the very best for their future endeavours. Sachleen Kaur Bedi, vice president, PCBT, also congratulated the students and teachers. Dr Sanjay Bahl, Director, PCBT said that the students not only made their parents proud but also the college and its faculty.World No Tobacco Day observedShiv Jyoti Public School observed World No Tobacco Day. Co-associate teacher of Jagriti House Rajni Sharma made the students of Classes IX -X aware about this day through online poster-making activity. All the students participated in the activity with full zeal. The activity was performed under the supervision of Rajni Sharma House Master of Jagriti House. Krishna Jyoti (chairperson), Dr Vidur Jyoti (Chairman Trust) and Dr Suvikram Jyoti (manager, managing committee and general secretary Trust) Principal Neeru Nayyar, Vice Principal Parveen Saili appreciated the efforts put in by the students and teachers.Global Parents Day celebratedTagore’s International Smart School commemorated Global Parents Day online on digital platform in which students participated enthusiastically with great zeal and zest. Management of Tagore’s Educational Society Dean Vinod Shashi Jain and Ruchika Jain congratulated the students and parents on the eve of “Parents Day”. To commemorate Global Parents Day, students paid reverence to their parents by making photoframes, greetings, posters, reciting poems, singing songs and preparing cakes etc. Students also delivered speeches, captured beautiful pictures with their parents, wrote letters to express their love and gratitude towards their parents, made paper rose. Teachers made earnest efforts to instil the importance of parents’ day in a child’s life through effective thematic presentation, moral stories and video clippings.Students apprised of tobacco abuseLyallpur Khalsa College Technical Campus has taken initiative to celebrate World No Tobacco Day. An online session was planned informing the students and the faculty members of the dangers of using tobacco. The orator for the session was Praneet Kaur from the faculty. She encouraged the audience to fight against the use of tobacco and what people around the globe can do to claim their right to health. The session was concluded with a pledge taking ceremony which motivated the participants against the use of tobacco products. Sukhbir Singh Chatha (Director Academic Affairs, KCL Group) and Dr RS Deol (Deputy Director, KCL Group) congratulated the coordinators and faculty members for organising such an event and channelising the energy of students towards right direction in the situation of pandemic. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/campus-notes-online-dance-workshop-by-kmv-jalandhar-262669
03-06-2021||Hoshiarpur||3 smugglers held with intoxicants in Hoshiarpur||In a crackdown on drug smugglers, the district police arrested three drug smugglers and recovered intoxicants and drug money from them here on Tuesday.SSP Navjot Singh Mahal said a special campaign was launched by the district police in which a special team had been formed under the leadership of SP (Investigation) Ravinder Pal Singh Sandhu. He informed that a team of the city police on Tuesday evening recovered 300 gm of intoxicating powder, 30 gm of heroin, Rs 4,56,000 drug money from a youth, identified as Aman Kumar, alias Amna, a resident of Allahabad who was riding a motorcycle without number. A case has been registered against him under the NDPS Act. Earlier too, five cases were registered against Aman under the same Act.The SSP said in the second case, the police arrested a truck driver, Gurpreet Singh of Fatehgarh Chungi, presently residing in Arora Colony, and cleaner Baljit Singh of Ajit Nagar in Islamabad, and recovered 7 kg of poppy husk from the truck. They have been booked. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/3-smugglers-held-with-intoxicants-in-hoshiarpur-262667
03-06-2021||---||Hoshiarpur district tops in citizen-centric services||Our CorrespondentHoshiarpur, June 2Becoming top-performer in providing timely citizen services efficiently, the district has recorded lowest pendency rate i.e. 0.07 per cent in the state to deliver citizen-centric services through Sewa Kendras.Lauding the efforts of entire team of district administration, Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait stated that the administration had achieved the target of ensuring timely delivery of citizen services despite several challenges due to Covid.The teams are providing 330 services through 25 centres in the district. She said the kendras had received 2,54,878 applications since June 1, 2010 till June 1 this year, of which only 170 applications were pending i.e. 0.07 per cent in the state. Due to Covid, all requisite measures had been adopted in all Sewa Kendras for the safety and security of all, including the staff and applicants, said she adding that the administration had also launched courier services to facilitate people, under which, more than 6,000 documents had been dispatched so far. She said concerted efforts of all stakeholders bore fruits by bringing the pendency to this lowest level.The DC also said the services were related to some key departments such as social security, agriculture, health, home affairs, local governments, rural development, revenue, labour, transport and services related to Aadhaar card. She said the teams deputed at each Sewa Kendra had been directed to get the applications processed within the stipulated time frame, under the Transparency Act-2018 and the same were being followed to achieve the target of zero pendency.Expressing immense satisfaction, District Governance Coordinator Ranjit Singh stated that the tireless efforts of the administration and staff brought the pendency rate to 0.07 per cent. He said all Covid safety measures were being ensured there.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hoshiarpur-district-tops-in-citizen-centric-services-262665
03-06-2021||---||Work order for bio-mining, smart road projects for Jalandhar issued||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 2The executive committee of the Smart City Mission has issued work orders to the lowest bidders of two projects — bio-mining and smart roads — worth nearly Rs84 crore today.After participating in a virtual meeting of the committee chaired by PMIDC CEO Ajoy Sharma, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said the Smart City Mission had allotted the project of closing of 8-lakh metric tonnes garbage dump at Wariana village in the next two years at a cost of Rs32.11 crore by initiating bio-remediation method at the site. He said the project would provide a major relief to the city as the massive dump would be cleared in a scientific manner.The DC stated that work order for another project costing Rs51.38 crore to develop smart roads in the Area Based Development (ABD) areas had also been issued by the committee. He stated that civil works, horticulture works, storm water drainage system and electric works, including overhead high-tension electrical works, will be carried out under the project.Thori added that as per revised DPR, some new portions of roads had been added in the project which include Kapurthala Chowk to HMV Chowk Road, Service Road and green belt from HMV Chowk to DAV flyover, road from Sabzi Mandi Chowk to HMV Chowk, including slip roads, and providing street light poles from Junction point at 120-feet road and Kapurthala Road up to MCJ boundary.Pointing out further, the DC said the development of smart roads in ABD areas include installation of CCTV cameras, sensors and solar panels, resurfacing and widening of pedestrian pathways, plantation at median green strips, resurfacing of carriageway pavement, underground utility ducts for telecommunication cables, underground storm water drainage RCC pipes, provision of signage, road marking and directional arrows, seating arrangement and landscaping, on street parking, and development of green belts. He mentioned that as per approved DPR, the project has to be completed within the duration of 12 months.The DC reiterated the state government’s commitment to ensuring time-bound and quality development works in the district being carried out under various projects and schemes. He said no stone would be left unturned to complete these projects within the timeline, while directing the executing agencies to take care of the quality of these works.Meanwhile, Jalandhar Municipal Corporation Commissioner Karnesh Sharma said the civic body would ensure proper monitoring of both of these projects so that the target of their timely completion along with quality concerns could be achieved in letter and spirit.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/work-order-for-bio-mining-smart-road-projects-for-jalandhar-issued-262663
03-06-2021||Jalandhar||Gym owners in Jalandhar threaten to intensify their protest||Eight days after organising a silent protest at the Bhagat Singh Chowk, people working in the gym and fitness industry again hit the road to highlight collapse of the industry in the city. Holding placards, members of the ‘Jalandhar Gym and Sports Association’ held two different protests at the PAP Chowk and the Guru Nanak Mission Chowk on Wednesday.Aarti Rajput, general secretary of the association, said, “The fitness industry has been facing a huge slump since the Covid-19 outbreak. What makes it worse is keeping it shut for the longest time, even when shop selling non-essential items have been allowed to reopen. It has been over two months since the fitness centres are lying closed. With negligible income, we are being forced to sell our valuable items such as jewellery as well as vehicles to keep the hearths running at our home. Tensions have escalated after a gym owner tried to commit suicide. A gym trainer has already lost his life in Ludhiana. Therefore, if the government is keeping the gyms closed, then it should also make efforts to waive hefty electricity bills and rent.”Nearly 40-50 association members protesting against the curbs at the PAP Chowk said, from liquor vends to salons and barbershops, everything has been allowed to reopen, but why were they being kept out of the rules. March-September is considered to be the seasonal period for the fitness industry, however, due to the lockdown curbs, the gym owners couldn’t earn much. The staff also remained out of salary for months. The protestors said, last year too, they suffered huge losses due to the restrictions.“Even restaurants and shopping malls are open, but the government is delaying reopening of gyms. The lockdown has pushed owners of over 1,500 fitness centres and gyms towards financial crisis,” said, AP Singh, vice-president of the association.On being singled out in the relaxations, trainers and gym owners threatened to intensify their protest after June 10, if the gyms were not allowed to open. They also stated that they would also force the government to also shut liquor shops across the state. Aarti further added that the protests were observed today in almost all districts of the state. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/gym-owners-in-jalandhar-threaten-to-intensify-their-protest-262662
03-06-2021||Jalandhar||Now, seven hospitals have own oxygen plants in Jalandhar||Continuing his efforts to make Jalandhar a self-reliant district in oxygen generation, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori on Wednesday exhorted hospitals with high oxygen consumption to install their PSA-based oxygen production plants soon.The DC said seven of the hospitals -- NHS, New Ruby, Shrimann Super Specialty, Tagore, Patel, PIMS, and Capitol hospitals -- have already installed oxygen generation plants on their premises. The remaining hospitals should emulate this move, which would enable these healthcare establishments to meet the requirement during the possible third wave, he added. It would also reduce dependency for oxygen from the other states, he said.The DC lauded the efforts of seven hospitals that have installed these plants. He said transportation cost of oxygen from eastern states can often be as much as 200 per cent of the cost of the oxygen itself. Thus, installing such plants would not only make hospitals oxygen-independent, but also allow them to extend unhindered quality care to their patients. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/now-seven-hospitals-have-own-oxygen-plants-in-jalandhar-262661
03-06-2021||---||‘Ecosystem restoration key to save Punjab from desertification’||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 2The Pushpa Gujral Science City, jointly with the Punjab Pollution Control Board and the Centre for Environment Communication, is observing the World Environment Week by organising online quiz competitions and film festival from June 2 to 5.On the first day of the festival, an online quiz competition on “Nature, environment and sustainable development” was organised for students aged between 11 and 15 years. Saurav Gupta, IFS, Director, Directorate of Environment and Climate Change, was the chief guest on the occasion.Speaking on the occasion, he said the state government had launched “Mission Tandarust Punjab” to push the state among the healthiest ones by taking care of its air and water quality, ensuring safe food and good living environment. He said 85.44 lakh trees had been planted under the mission and 66 lakh saplings of native species had been distributed under the Ghar Ghar Haryali Programme. He called upon the students to take initiative for the restoration of ecosystem of Punjab.Dr Neelima Jerath, Director General, Science City, during her introductory remarks said the celebration of the World Environment Day (June 5) reminds us to restore our ecosystems in every possible way. She pointed out the need of promoting education for sustainable development and said science museums such as Pushpa Gujral Science City could play a major role in this direction by reaching out to the children and their parents by simplifying complex scientific concepts and involving them in conservation in a fun way. She said: “If we all put our best foot forward to stop the rampant global warming, then we can expect certain rewards in the future. There are solutions to global warming available today and its time we put them to use. These solutions will reduce the amount of heat-trapping gases that we emit into the atmosphere.”Dr Rajesh Grover, Director, Science City, said Punjab, primarily an agrarian economy and the food bowl of the country, was facing a threat of desertification. Bad agricultural practices such as over use of pesticides and fertilizers, besides following the same crop cycle of wheat-paddy, were the factors contributing towards diminishing soil fertility. He stressed on adoption of best agricultural practices to restore ecosystems.The quiz was conducted by quizmasters Puja Ahluwalia and Shabnam Sharma, The Deens Academy, Bangalore. The First prize in online quiz competition was won by Gayatri Mahajan from Shri Guru Harkishan Public School, Pathankot, second prize was won by Chahat Chadha from Daynanda Model Senior Secondary School, Jalandhar, and Kashish Dhillon from DIPS Rayya got the third prize.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ecosystem-restoration-key-to-save-punjab-from-desertification-262660
03-06-2021||Kapurthala||Days after MLA Rana Gurjeet Singh’s plaint, Kapurthala SSP transferred||Just 10 days after Kapurthala MLA Rana Gurjeet Singh went public with his grouse against SSP Kanwardeep Kaur for not being able to control drug mafia in the district, the IPS officer was today transferred to the new district of Malerkotla. She has been replaced with Harkamalpreet Singh Khakh.Rana had told the mediapersons that the SSP had not taken any action against two ASIs who were reportedly involved in drug peddling. He had also alleged that the IPS officer had got reinstated an SI whom he had got removed from the Subhanpur police post. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/days-after-mla-rana-gurjeet-singhs-plaint-kapurthala-ssp-transferred-262659
03-06-2021||---||World Bicycle Day today: This Jalandhar-based septuagenarian cycles for 5 hours daily||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 2One of the Jalandharites all-time inspiration 75-year-old sports businessman Baljit Mahajan had started riding bicycle in 2010 and began using Strava App in 2016. Since then, he has recorded 1.55 lakh-km cycling, which has made him the top position holder across the world under the veteran category and overall fourth rank holder in the general pool to have done such long rides.Even on Wednesday, when he was in Gurugram to be with his daughter, he said he had got along his bicycle so that his routine of pedaling 100-km a day does not break. On the eve of the World Bicycle Day, declared by the United Nations General Assembly on June 3 in April 2018, he said: “On my cycle, I have explored almost every nook and corner of the city in the past nearly a month. For almost five hours, including three in the morning and two in the evening, I have been cycling daily for the past many years. My fitness level remains better than most youth despite being a vegetarian.” The day recognises the uniqueness, longevity and versatility of the bicycle, which has been in use for two centuries, and that it is a simple, affordable, reliable, clean and environmentally fit sustainable means of transport.At 49, this gynaecologist completes 100-km solo rideAt 49, Reena Malhotra, a gynaecologist from the city has completed a 100-km solo ride. She said she became a member of a city women’s cycling club — Ride to Road — last year and has been enjoying her cycle rides every morning since then.Recently, I went for a solo 100-km ride and it was like my dream come true, she says. Dr Malhotra says that she has lost 10 kg since the day she started riding bicycle.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/world-bicycle-day-today-this-jalandhar-based-septuagenarian-cycles-for-5-hours-daily-262658
03-06-2021||---||Cancelling Class XII exams fails to go down well with academicians||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 2Even as the majority of Plus Two students across the city were on Tuesday a happy lot as their board exams for this year were cancelled. But the decision has not gone down well with the academicians who feel that it would have a negative impact on the education system.Teachers and principals of almost all schools here said that the decision had not just impacted the outgoing Plus Two batch but also those who had just entered this class now. The students would become least serious about their studies and would start expecting that this might happen to them as well in the coming year and hence no need to be regular with the subjects.Jatinder Singh, Principal, MGN Public School, Urban Estate, says, “The entire system has gone hotchpotch with the government’s decision. The government has not trusted the school authorities who had assured that they would be able to make all arrangements for the students’ safety. We had already geared up ourselves for conducting 90 marks paper on OMR sheets. Judging the students on the past performance will not bring fair results at least for those whom we inspired to work very hard this year to get enrolled in a better college.” The schools are also worried that many of the children who were aspiring to go in for higher education abroad may get stuck.Principal, Sanskriti KMV SchoolRachna Monga, Principal, Sanskriti KMV School, too gave her opinion, “I respect the government’s decision. But as the principal of a school I can say with full conviction that I was capable of safely conducting the examination of 200 Plus Two students of my school. I have 60 rooms and 120 teachers and I could have adjusted them all well with the strictest of the SOPs. Even an online exam system could have been evolved. It will definitely have a long-term impact on their basic knowledge. The students of medical and non-medical streams are still okay with examination not being conducted for they will be going to colleges on the basis of entrance systems. The worst sufferers will be the students of commerce and humanities stream who aspired to take admission in DU colleges and now might not be able to make it if the evaluation system is not in their favour.”She said, “Now everyone is waiting for the modalities to come out for finalising the assessment system of these students. We are expecting these to come to us in another 15 days or so.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cancelling-class-xii-exams-fails-to-go-down-well-with-academicians-262657
03-06-2021||---||Another lab found ‘fleecing’ patients in Jalandhar||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 2Adopting a tough stance against another laboratory allegedly fleecing patients for Covid testing, the district administration on Wednesday asked the police authorities to probe a complaint received by it in the form of a video made during a sting operation. Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori also directed to lodge an FIR, if allegations were found to be true after their investigation.The DC said a complaint against Rattan Labs at Maqsoodan Chowk was received. A decoy patient had visited the laboratory and paid Rs900 for RT-PCR test, which is around double the fee fixed by the government for the same. She also recorded a video of the whole incident while taking feedback from other patients who were present there for the test.In a letter to the Jalandhar Commissioner of Police, the administration has asked that the matter should be probed by a senior police officer, besides registering an FIR against the laboratory if the allegations are found to be true.Notably, the district administration in earlier such stances had ordered an FIR against the erring labs and hospitals for fleecing patients amid this unprecedented health crisis.The DC stated that the state government had fixed Rs450 for RT-PCR test and no one was allowed to charge beyond this price adding that if anyone is found indulged in malpractices and overcharging would have to face legal action. He also appealed to citizens to file their complaints concerning overcharging and malpractices in Covid treatment at helpline number 0181-2224417 so that severe action could be taken against the erring persons.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/another-lab-found-fleecing-patients-in-jalandhar-262656
03-06-2021||---||3 die, 229 catch infection in Jalandhar district||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 2With 229 new cases reported today, the district tally has increased to 60,493 and three persons have succumbed to Covid. With the casualties reported on Wednesday, the death toll in the district now stands at 1,389. As many as 56,295 persons have recovered from Covid in the district, while the number of active cases in Jalandhar is 2,809.Hoshiarpur reports 4 deathsThe district reported four more Covid fatalities on Wednesday, taking the death toll to 922, while 148 new cases pushed the infection count in the district to 28,772.Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Singh said reports of 3,420 samples were received and of them, 143 were of persons belonging to the district, while five patients were from other districts. The number of active cases is 1,346, while 26,504 patients have recovered from the disease in the district. Of the four deaths, two patients had died at Hoshiarpur hospitals and one died at a Jalandhar hospital and another in Mukerian.Meanwhile, the district administration on Wednesday declared Kattowal village in Chakkowal block and Lakkhar Patti village of Hajipur block in Mukerian block as micro-containment zones. DC Apneet Riyait issued orders under Section 144 of the CrPC. She said only medical emergency and essential services would be allowed in the micro-containment zones. Teams of the Health Department would conduct door-to-door survey and contact tracing there. In addition, all positive cases will be shifted to health centres as per the protocol.The official said the areas had been declared micro-containment zones for 10 days. She said legal action under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, would be taken against the violators.4 deaths in KapurthalaAs many as 64 persons tested positive for Covid in Kapurthala today, taking the total number of positive cases to 16,728 and four patients succumbed to the deadly virus. The deceased include a 59-year-old woman from RCF, Kapurthala, a 68-year-old woman from Nangal Lubana village, a 44-year-old man from Phagwara and a 65-year-old woman from Chachocki village. The number of total deaths in Kapurthala has increased to 482.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/3-die-229-catch-infection-in-jalandhar-district-262655
03-06-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Health hazard: Fruits & veggies are grown in dirty water of Kala Sanghian drain in Kapurthala||Tribune News ServiceKapurthala, June 2If you happen to visit any of the 125 villages along the 45-km-long Kala Sanghian drain in the district, you will be surprised to see how irrigation is being done in agricultural farms falling along the 1-km stretch on either side of the drain. Maybe you will never want to consume any vegetable or fruit grown here.There are no tubewells along the entire belt of agricultural fields. The source of water for irrigation here is the dark, smelly, chemical-laced industrial waste water flowing through the drain. The stench pervasive all around in the environment makes it difficult for anyone to stand near the drain and the fields that are irrigated with this water.Channels have been dug up all along the drain to use its water for irrigating the fields. In all those villages which are on a low gradient from the channel, the flow of water into the fields is not a problem. Water gushes through the short, underground pipes laid along the drain towards the handmade channels going to the fields. The channels of the fields which are to be irrigated are opened while those where irrigation has been done are plugged using sacks or any other plastic sheets available.In fields which are at a little higher gradient from the drain, pumps have been installed along the channels so that the water could be collected in low chambers and then directed towards the fields. These pumps are portable and can be taken to the next fields as and when required. To save power and avoid the use of pumps, many villagers give their fields on contract so that the earth can be dug as deep as one foot or more and the ground level of the fields falls for them to make it easy to use the drain water through simple channels.As of now, most of these villages have been sowing maize. Pumpkins and water melons too are in abundance here. Many villagers who are keeping dairy animals are also growing fodder in these villages. Interestingly, the villagers who are using this water for irrigation know very well the ill-effects of using this contaminated water and hence avoid the vegetables that they grow themselves.Sonu, a farmer of Kala Sanghian village, said, “We are selling our entire produce in the mandi. For our own kitchen, we buy vegetables from the market. We do not even feed the fodder grown here to our buffaloes for milk consumption and buy their feed from the market.”Akali leader HS Walia said, “Just standing near Kala Sanghian drain makes anyone feel giddy, you can imagine the harm that it would be doing to the body when we consume the vegetables grown here. It is high time that the government do something concrete in this regard and ensure that this untreated industrial water is not used for irrigation. Even if the government is to allow this water to be used for agricultural purposes, the quality of the water must be tested on a daily basis by the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB).”Environmentalist Balbir Singh Seechewal has taken up the matter with the authorities concerned not release industrial waste into the Kala Sanghian. On his request, even officials, including the Chairman, of the National Green Tribunal have visited the site and passed instructions to the PPCB authorities from time to time but to no avail. The untreated industrial waste continues to flow into the drain. The STP at Basti Peer Daad still works at half the required capacity, thus allowing even the MC sullage to flow into it. Harbir Singh, Senior Environment Engineer, Jalandhar, refused to comment on the issue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/health-hazard-fruits-veggies-are-grown-in-dirty-water-of-kala-sanghian-drain-in-kapurthala-262654
