04-06-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Homes with more green spaces, shoe-changing rooms in Covid times||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 3Covid has changed the lifestyle of almost everyone. Even the living spaces are up for some major change. Some of the common additions that people have begun making are having more greener spaces, setting up gyms, having shoe-changing rooms, a bathroom or area for hand and feet washing just at the entry of the house, home theatre for recreation, meditation room and a cubicle within a room for working from home.City-based architects said ever since Covid started, the number of people taking their services had increased manifolds as a lot of new construction and renovation work was being planned. People want to make some structural changes so as to suit their new lifestyle.Architect Thakur Udayveer Singh says people are seeking structural changes in their houses keeping in mind various aspects related to ensuring more hygiene and recreation and at the same time adding all those elements that can spread some positivity around. “Recently, we set up a fountain like structure at the entrance of the house where anyone entering can wash his hands and feet before moving in. Post-Covid, a lot of people are going in for setting up small rooms for shoe changing. Also, since many people are working from home, they are also getting an office like set-up created at the entrance of their houses,” he elaborated.He said he had noted that people were getting back to the old models of housing, “We are also getting queries from people asking us to set up mud houses or use limestone as construction material as it is considered to be healthier. We are working on such plans too.”Realtor Sukhdev Singh said Covid has had a definite impact on the minds of the residents going in for housing schemes. “All those people who have been living in densely populated and congested city areas too want to move out to more open areas for safety purposes. We have made changes in the plans of all three-bedroom flat schemes that we are offering. All these flats have a space for changing rooms at the entrance with place for hanging clothes as well. We are also giving cubicles for office work to all those demanding it,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/homes-with-more-green-spaces-shoe-changing-rooms-in-covid-times-263078
04-06-2021||---||Jalandhar district sees 5 deaths, 245 cases||Jalandhar, June 3With 245 new cases reported today, the district tally increased to 60,738. Also, with five more patients succumbing to the disease, the death toll in the district has increased to 1,394. As many as 56,822 people have recovered from the deadly virus in the district while the number of active cases in Jalandhar is 2,522.Two deaths in KapurthalaAs many as 70 persons tested positive for the virus in Kapurthala district on Thursday taking the total number of cases to 16,797. Also, two persons died of the disease in the district today. The deceased include a 60-year-old woman from Nanakpur village and a 55-year-old man from RCF here. The total number of deaths in Kapurthala has increased to 484.21 test +ve in NawanshahrAs many as 21 persons tested positive for Covid in the district on Thursday, taking the infection tally to 11,116, while one person succumbed to the virus. The deceased is a 45-year-old man from Balachaur block. The recovery rate in the district is 94.05 per cent (10,455) and the death rate is 2.98 per cent (332) deaths. At present, there are 339 active cases in the district, of which 329 are from Nawanshahr and 10 are from other districts. As many as 290 patients are in home isolation. At present, 32 patients are admitted to Level-II Covid care facility and 11 are in Level-III Covid care facility.Hoshiarpur reports 3 deathsThe district reported three more Covid fatalities on Thursday, taking the death toll to 925, while 154 new cases pushed the infection tally in the district to 26,926.Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Singh said the reports of 4,029 samples were received and of them, 148 patients were from the district, while six patients were reported from other districts. The number of active cases is 1,395, while 26,606 patients have recovered. The deceased have been identified as a 50-year-old man of Nadalon village, a 63-year-old man of Bhungarni village and a 44-year-old patient of Arjun Colony Dasuya.Meanwhile, under the Corona-Free Village Drive launched by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to ensure 100 per cent immunisation in villages, 100 per cent immunisation has been ensured in 23 villages of the district so far.The DC said a total of 3,77,790 beneficiaries had been vaccinated in the district by last evening. She said 100 per cent vaccination had been done in Hajipur block’s Chakriyal, Nathuwal, Gawalchak, Pralian, Rauli and Sheikh Matta villages. The villages of Ramgarh and Sadani in Bholkalota, CHC, Beata of Kamahi Devi, Nawan Jattpur village of Harta Badla Block along with Tharoli, Ram Colony Camp, Poonga and Poonj. Deolwal village of Bhunga, Nazarpur and Rawalpindi village of Posi Block, Badowal village of Paldi Block, Safdarpur village of Mand Pandher Block, Makhowal and Mughalpura and Chandpur Sarhala villages of Chakkowal Block.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-district-sees-5-deaths-245-cases-263079
04-06-2021||---||Jalandhar Administration passes the buck over drain water-irrigated veggies||Jalandhar, June 3A day after Jalandhar Tribune carried a report pertaining to the indiscriminate use of untreated, industrial waste flowing into Kala Sanghian Drain for irrigation purposes, various officials reacted to the issue by passing the buck.People from all sections of society have demanded that it was high time that the administrators act tough and take required measures immediately to halt the use of contaminated water for the purpose.A government doctor, who has worked at a Public Health Centre in Kala Sanghian, said the water could possibly have carcinogenic elements and the crops could find its route to mandis of Jalandhar and Kapurthala. She said the officials of the Punjab Pollution control Board (PPCB), agriculture departments, soils department and civil administration need to take a notice and get the needful done to safeguard the health of the residents.Jalandhar Chief Agriculture Officer Dr Surinder Singh said, “During various inter-departmental meetings held, the PPCB officials had directed us to ensure that only treated water is used for irrigation purposes. We tell them that even if it is treated, it is important to get the discharge tested at the site on daily basis. But, so far, no regular water testing mechanism has been launched. When the farmers are told not to use drain water for the purpose without testing, they ignore the advice and put many lives at risk.”On being contacted, Lupinder Singh from the Soils Department, said: “The best way to deal with the problem is to provide the farmers with an alternate plan to use treated water for watering the crops. Our department has given Rs9.7 crore plan to the administration as per which farmers from four villages, including Chamiara, Gill and Gakhal, could get the supply of MC’s treated water. There will be no industrial mix in this water and we will get it checked on daily basis. Water will be checked for three parameters — pH, electrical conductivity and sodium absorption ratio. An estimated 500 acres of fields could be covered under the plan. The water will be treated at STP of Basti Peer Daad. This STP has a capacity to treat 50 MLD water but we will use only 25 MLD from it on daily basis.”On this, Jalandhar Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said, “We have upgraded the STP at Basti Peer Daad. We had received tenders on Wednesday for CETP at Leather Complex for Rs25 crore. The bids are under evaluation. Eventually, the problem can be solved.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-administration-passes-the-buck-over-drain-water-irrigated-veggies-263080
04-06-2021||Auditoriums and public art spaces in Jalandhar have long been the cultural focal points of the city. They bear collective testimony to the fact that our culturally-rich city never fails to recognise art and its connoisseurs. These halls have proudly hosted several cultural luminaries who have lost their lives to the virus. Some of them being Pt Rajan Mishra||The show must go on||Desh Bhagat Yadgaar HallThe most unique thing about Desh Bhagat Yadgaar Hall is the Baba Jwala Singh Thatthiyan Auditorium (named after Ghadarite and a farmer Baba Jwala Singh Thatthiyan, who left his farms in the US to mobilise the peasant movement, during the Independence, in Punjab) From playwright Gursharan Singh to Pakistani theatre artist Madiha Gauhar, it has hosted different personalities of various lineages. Constructed in the 1970s, when Ghadarite Baba Bhagat Singh Bilga was still alive, it acted as a hub for the Marxist, Socialist and the Left discourse. Not just a space for creative outlet, it also became a platform to express political dissent during old times. The KL Saigal Memorial HallThe KL Saigal Memorial Hall is dedicated to legendary actor KL Saigal and draws artistes from all corners of the country. It has hosted countless classical musicians performing at the Harivallabh’s seasonal music festivals. The theatre group Yuvaa began the concept of paid theatre performances here, giving platform to many artistes, with several of its shows running to packed capacity here. While the Saigal Memorial Hall was just a bare structure earlier, it got a fillip in 2014-15, when artisans and masons brought in from Delhi fashioned into a state-of-the-art auditorium with sound proof interiors and acoustics. This was done under the patronage of its chairman Gursharan Singh and president Sukhdev Raj. Red Cross BhawanLending space to several humanitarian activities in the city, the foundation stone of the Red Cross Bhawan’s Mutipurpose Hall was laid by the then Deputy Commissioner Jalandhar on February 4, 1981. Its opening ceremony was performed by the then Commssioner Jalandhar Division Dinesh Chandra on January 2, 1985. From artistic, political to philanthropic activities, it has hosted a number of gatherings over the years. During the pandemic, it played host to vaccination drives carried out here. The Red Cross Bhawan also takes up other intiatives related to theatre, art and music concerts. Shri Ram HallThe Shri Ram Hall at Devi Talab Mandir has been a witness to decades of contests, providing a platform to younger artistes. Many times, even Harivallabh Sangeet Sammelan is hosted here. The Ram Hall used to host devotional musical congregations and gatherings throughout the year. Built in the 1980s, the hall is a congregational place for religious gatherings, where the temple trust provdes space for free. It was also an art hub which even hosted painting exhbition of Amit Zurff, an artist who succumbed to Covid this year. Virsa ViharVirsa Vihar, right next to the Yadgaar Hall, has nurtured art and offered patronage to both budding and veteran artistes of Jalandhar. Its Satya Paul Art Gallery has been a launch pad to many artistes, painters, sculptors, photographers and authors. Conceived by former Rajya Sabha member Kartar Singh Duggal, a known patron of arts and culture, the Jalandhar Virsa Vihar was one of the three projects planned for the cities of Jalandhar, Amritsar and Kapurthala. Registered as the District Cultural Society, it was completed with an amount of over Rs1 crore. Over the years, with the introduction of the Satya Paul Art Gallery, it thrived as a space which gave an impetus to several painters, sculptors and photographers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/the-show-must-go-on-263081
04-06-2021||Our Correspondent||Dengue surveillance teams flagged off in Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur, June 3Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait on Thursday flagged off dengue surveillance teams comprising 60 volunteers to keep dengue at bay in the district.Accompanied by Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjeet Singh and District Employment Officer Gurmail Singh, The Deputy Commissioner said these teams would screen every house in Hoshiarpur and Dasuya urban areas. She said apart from checking larvae, the teams would also carry out registration of ‘Mr Clean’ project under which professional training in car washing was being imparted.Riyait asked the volunteers to ensure their services with utmost dedication and proactive approach so that maximum people could be sensitised about dengue.She said special jackets, ID cards and kit bags have been provided to the volunteers and they would carry out the survey while following the Covid-19 protocols. She said these surveillance teams had also worked efficiently in the last year.The Deputy Commissioner appealed to residents to cooperate and support these teams when they would arrive to inspect larvae at their houses. She said as many as 38,362 houses and 1,98,646 people were covered by these teams last year. The teams detected 12,153 larvae cases. The teams also checked 12,62,071 containers and found 13,092 larvae which were immediately destroyed, she said.Riyait informed that volunteers had been selected by the District Employment Bureau with preference to the needy and divyang candidates.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dengue-surveillance-teams-flagged-off-in-hoshiarpur-263085
04-06-2021||---||ASI issues ‘Covid challan’ for not wearing seat belt!||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 3A viral video has put the credibility of the Police Department under scanner. An Assistant Sub-Inspector can be seen challaning a car driver (Rs500) as the rear occupant was lying on the seat and not wearing a seat belt.Gurpreet Singh, a resident of Kapurthala, said, “I was driving the car while my brother and cousin were accompanying me. My cousin had pain in his back and he was lying on the rear seat. We were going to the hospital for his regular check-up.”He claimed that both occupants sitting in the front were wearing seatbelts when the police personnel stopped them at a naka.“We told the cops that he was not well, but they issued a challan mentioning ‘Covid-19 receipt’. When we asked the ASI why he was issuing a challan, he said he was only helping us. The ASI said in case he penalises me for not wearing a seat belt, I will have to get the RC from the court and it will become difficult as I have to come from Kapurthala,” he said.In the viral video, the ASI can be heard saying that he was doing a favour to the car driver by saving trouble of going from one place to another to get his documents.Gurpreet said they were wearing masks and were having every document of the vehicle, still they were challaned. “I didn’t understand the logic of the ASI, thus I recorded the entire episode,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/asi-issues-covid-challan-for-not-wearing-seat-belt-263254
04-06-2021||---||Adhyapak morcha holds protest in Jalandhar, burn effigy of Education Secretary||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 3Teachers of the Sanjha Adhyapak Morcha on Thursday held a protest with an effigy of the Education Secretary. Under the banner of Sanjha Adhyapak Morcha, teachers Kulwinder Singh Josan, Navpreet Balli, Ganesh Bhagat, Gurmej Lal Heer, and Beant Singh organised a motorcycle march from the Desh Bahagat Yadgaar Hall to the DC office Jalandhar with black flags on their vehicles. They submitted a demand letter through the DC to Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh. State teacher leaders Karnail Phillaur, Kulwinder Josan, Kanwaljit Sanghowal and Harbans Baloki accused the School Education Secretary of not raising the issue in the Cabinet meet of March 5, 2019, headed by Cabinet Minister Brahm Mohindra.The protesters objected victimisation of teachers by the department, reduction of posts in the Education Department, closure of government schools in large numbers, depletion of education under the Education Policy 2020 instead of provision of employment to unemployed teachers or regularisation of contractual employees, non-release of 30-day isolation leave and instead deducting earned or medical leave of teachers, stalling promotions, non-shifting of computer teachers who were regular under the PCTS to the department among others.They said under the state government and the Education Minster, the Education Secretary received full freedom to impose these policies despite protests by teachers. They said if the Education Secretary did not change his attitude towards education policy in the state they would hold a big protest in the coming days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/adhyapak-morcha-holds-protest-in-jalandhar-burn-effigy-of-education-secretary-263255
