05-06-2021||Since past around 20 days||Nawanshahr Diary: Safai karamcharis' strike raises stink||Bidding adieuThe Health Department on Thursday extended special thanks to Additional Deputy Commissioner (General) Aditya Uppal during a function after his transfer for playing a pivotal role in controlling Covid pandemic in Nawanshahr district. Following his transfer from the district, he is now posted as Additional Deputy Commissioner (General) in Kapurthala district. Dr Gurdeep Singh Kapoor, Civil Surgeon said the ADC had performed his duty in the district with utmost diligence and sincerity and had done a commendable job in controlling the pandemic. The ADC coordinated with the Health Department staff at the ground-level and helped in smooth functioning of the system. Uppal, recalling the early days of Covid outbreak, said the first case of Covid in the state had come to light in Pathlawa village of Nawanshahr and the manner in which the Health Department in collaboration with the district administration-controlled Covid at that time was commendable.Don’t be a ‘Covidiot’Samples of 982 persons, roaming without mask at public places, were collected for Covid testing in the district on Thursday. SSP Alka Meena appealed to the residents of the district to not to be negligent about Covid rules and avoid leaving their homes unnecessarily during lockdown and night curfew. She also said the deadly disease should not be taken lightly and people should also smash to smithereens all their hesitancy against getting inoculated. Media vans of Saanjh Kendra are continuously sensitising people to take precautions against Covid. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nawanshahr-diary-safai-karamcharis-strike-raises-stink-263793
05-06-2021||Our Correspondent||Timings of Sewa Kendras in Hoshiarpur district changed||Hoshiarpur, June 4From June 7, all Sewa Kendras in the district will be operational from 9 am to 4 pm. The applicants can take appointments to get citizen services, which are easily available at mobile apps and websites.All Covid preventive measures have already put in place at all 25 Sewa Kendras in the district and people should come to have necessary services with appointments through mobile app msewa, COVA app and websites dgrpg.punjab.gov.in/sewa-kendras/< http://dgrpg.punjab.gov.in/sewa-kendras/ >.The Deputy Commissioner said all people must follow Covid safety protocols to contain the further spread of virus. She urged the people to reach at their respective Sewa Kendras few minutes before the time of appointment and services would be provided to them in short time without standing in queue.She pointed out that to avoid revisit at Sewa Kendras the applicants can also avail the courier service to receive their documents.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/timings-of-sewa-kendras-in-hoshiarpur-district-changed-263788
05-06-2021||---||Aim for direct sowing of paddy on 35K acres, says Kapurthala Deputy Commissioner||Kapurthala, June 4In order to encourage farmers to resort to direct sowing of paddy, Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal visited various villages on Thursday.Accompanied by SDM Varinder Pal Singh Bajwa, Chief Agriculture Officer Dr Sushil Kumar, Uppal first visited Karal Nawan Abad village and went to the fields of Davinder Singh and Resham Singh. The duo informed her that they had sown 10 acres through the same method last year as well.The Deputy Commissioner informed farmers regarding benefits of direct sowing, difficulties in sowing and need for technical guidance.She said direct sowing of paddy was done on 27,000 acres in the district last year, which was around 50 per cent of the area in Sultanpur block. Uppal said now they have set a target at 35,000 acres for which the Agriculture Department was reaching out to farmers.The SDMs also visited demonstration plants of direct sowing in Phagwara, Sultanpur and Bholath. The Chief Agriculture Officer said the state government has fixed June 1 to 15 as the time for direct sowing of paddy.He said direct sowing was also financially beneficial for farmers as they save Rs 3,500 to 4,000 per acre, besides saving 10 to 15 per cent of water.Davinder Singh, a farmer, said direct sowing of paddy not only reduced his input cost, but also got better yield last year.A booklet was also launched by Uppal to acquaint farmers about the techniques and benefits of direct sowing of paddy and use of fertilisers by the Agriculture and Farmers Welfare Department.Agriculture Officer Dr Ashwani, Dr HPS Bhanot, Dr Balkar Singh and ADO Vishal Kausal, among others, were also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/aim-for-direct-sowing-of-paddy-on-35k-acres-says-kapurthala-deputy-commissioner-263784
05-06-2021||---||7 stone studs worth Rs 1.36 cr to prevent floods in Kapurthala villages along Beas||Kapurthala, June 4As a part of flood control measures, the district administration has taken steps to save the Mand area of Bholath and Sultanpur Lodhi sub-divisions from floods in the Beas as seven stone studs have been laid with Rs 1.36 crore under MGNREGA.This would not only save 13,000 acres of fertile land in the Mand area of these two tehsils from direct floods but would also help in protecting the lives and property of the people living in the Mand area by setting up camps.Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal, who took the initiative to set up the studs under MGNREGA, said it provided employment to workers during the Covid times. She said the work was carried out expeditiously with low cost.She also inspected the work of studs at Mand Kulla in Bholath tehsil and Dera Hari Singh in Sultanpur on the banks of Beas with the officials of the Drainage Department today. She said the district administration had earlier identified the weak points on banks of Beas in Bholath and Sultanpur Lodhi constituencies which had witnessed large-scale floods one and half years ago.These seven studs have been installed at important places so that the flow of the river could be channelised. XEN of Irrigation Department Gurtej Singh said four studs have been installed at Karamuwala Pattan of Sultanpur Lodhi at a cost of Rs 78.99 lakh. This would save 6,000 acres of cultivated land of villages such as Boole, Karamuwala, Kabirpur and Hazara from floods and erosion.Weak points identified: DCDC Deepti Uppal inspected the work of studs at Mand Kulla in Bholath tehsil and Dera Hari Singh in Sultanpur on the banks of Beas with the officials of the Drainage Department. She said the district administration had earlier identified the weak points on banks of Beas in Bholath and Sultanpur Lodhi constituencies which had witnessed large-scale floods one and half years ago.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/7-stone-studs-worth-rs-1-36-cr-to-prevent-floods-in-kapurthala-villages-along-beas-263782
05-06-2021||---||‘Ecosystem conservation must to attain sustainability’||Jalandhar, June 4Pushpa Gujral Science City and the Punjab Pollution Control Board in collaboration with the Centre for Environment Communication are observing World Environment Day by inaugurating an online Film Festival from June 3 to 5.Dr Rajesh Grover, Director, Pushpa Gujral Science CityRestoring ecosystems can play a major role in further controlling global warming and climate change which in return will help in mitigating climate change. I urge participants to adopt simple things viz saving water, shifting to renewable forms of energy, saying no to single-use plastics and adopting 3Rs — reduce, reuse and recycle — as much as they can on individual level to help restore ecosystem.Punjab Pollution Control Board chairman Dr SS Marwaha had launched the Environmental Film Festival here on Thursday. Dr RBS Rawat, former Principal Chief Conservator of Forests and HOFF Uttarakhand, was the chief guest on the second day of the film festival. Speaking on the occasion, he said deforestation, soil erosion, loss of biodiversity, industrialisation and socio-economic constraints are the major causes of climate change leading to desertification in certain areas, as well as glacier melting and flooding, in others. In his advice to the government he has emphasised upon the importance of habitat protection and ecosystem restoration to minimise damage from events such as flooding and cloudbursts in mountain regions and prevention of droughts in the plains to achieve sustainability.Two films based on ecosystem conservation viz. ‘Endemic species conservation focused on traditional conservation practices of Mystica swamps in the Western Ghats of India’ and ‘Flight to Freedom- The Amur Falcon story’ based on attitudinal change in local population of Nagaland to ensure protection of this migratory species as they migrate from Mongolia to the African continent were showcased at the occasion, followed by discussions with their film makers Ram Alluri and Bano Haralu.Dr Neelima Jerath, Director General, Science City, during her introductory remarks said human actions, including deforestation, encroachment on wildlife habitats, intensified agriculture and acceleration of climate change have pushed nature beyond its limit. She highlighted that ecosystem restoration is impossible without biodiversity conservation because ecosystems can’t function properly without it. “Many species in the world are endangered or even critically endangered and many more still are vulnerable. Biodiversity loss is a great threat to the goal of ecosystem restoration,” she said highlighting severe implications for humanity, including the collapse of food and health systems. She highlighted that even though the use of electronics in our lives has increased considerably but e-waste management is an area which has still not received full attention and users of electronics are not aware of the hazards of this waste.Dr Rajesh Grover, Director, Science City, present at the occasion said restoring ecosystems could play a major role in further controlling global warming and climate change which in return will help in mitigating climate change. He urged the participants to adopt simple things viz saving water, shifting to renewable forms of energy, saying no to single-use plastics and adopting 3Rs — ‘reduce, reuse and recycle’ as much as they can on individual level to help restore ecosystem.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ecosystem-conservation-must-to-attain-sustainability-263780
05-06-2021||Jalandhar||Webinar on well-being||Webinar on Eye Care AwarenessA webinar on Eye Care Awareness in association with the Education Cell of PIMS was organised at Sanskriti KMV School to raise awareness amongst students and parents about ‘Mucormycosis’ (Black Fungus). The infection emerged during the second wave of coronavirus and its symptoms and ways to prevent were discussed. The resource person for the webinar was Dr. Tania Moudgil (Prof of the Department of Ophthalmology, PIMS). Dr Moudgil started the session with popular manifestations of Covid-19 which included Kerato-Conjunctivitis, Dry Eye Disease and Mucormycosis. During the session, she acquainted the students with the theories of developing mucor, its symptoms and also preventive measures of the disease. She recommended everyone to use fresh masks, big screens, eat right, adopt correct sitting posture and eye exercises to abstain from eyelid edema, redness in eyes, watery eyes and vision loss. She also clarified the student doubts regarding ‘Ocular Health’.Dr Surinder Pal Mand is DSWTo consider and resolve the issues related to the students in the Lyallpur Khalsa College, Principal Dr Gurpinder Singh Samra appointed Dr Surinder Pal Mand Assistant Prof in PG Department of Punjabi as Dean, Student Welfare. Handing over the appointment letter, Principal Dr Samra congratulated Dr Mand and gave him best wishes for fulfilling the new responsibilities diligently. He said that Dr Mand is a talented teacher and he is happy to hand over the responsibility of Dean Student Welfare to a young teacher. He said that Dr Mand apart from being the Convener of Scholarship at college, is also serving as the Coordinator of the Punjab Centre for Migration Studies. Dr Gopal Singh Butter, Head, PG Department of Punjabi, congratulated Dr Mand on becoming the Dean. On this occasion, Dr Surinderpal Mand thanked the Principal for expressing his confidence in him for this post.Virtual cultural exchange programmeApeejay School, Mahavir Marg, kickstarted a virtual cultural exchange initiative with South Korea’s Daejeon High School this week. The young cultural ambassadors from both schools interacted online with excitement and enthusiasm, undampened by the pandemic through multiple sessions for understanding of their cultural diversities. Deajeon High School, South Korea, as the host school, commenced the inaugural session with a round of introduction of their school and hobbies that was followed by a virtual tour of their school. A piano recital by a South Korean student set the tone for a delightful cultural exchange session on the online platform that was reciprocated by a mesmerising rendition of Kathak, a Classical Indian dance by Radhika and Misha from Class XI. The star highlight of this vibrant session was Anandita who introduced herself in Korean language and put up a dance presentation on Kpop Album Dynamite, a popular Korean number.Online summer camp organisedWith the summer already knocking our doors, it’s time to beat the heat and let the kids explore with extra-curricular activities in the spare time. State Public School feels proud in organising online summer camp. The camp is witnessing an over whelming participation of students, eager to avail the rich experience. This camp is offering yoga/meditation, table manners, life skill activities, cooking without fire, English communication, art and craft, best out of waste and mental ability classes. The participants are enthusiastically giving their best and appreciating the efforts done by the school staff for making the summer camp still live in this adverse scenario also. President Dr Narotam Singh and vice-president Dr Gagandeep Kaur along with Principal Savina Bahl said that they are glad at the success of summer camp.Virtual conclave on hospitalityPhagwara: GNA University organised a virtual conclave on “Hospitality Viz a Viz Technology: changing role of hospitality practitioners” with a key objective to keep students abreast of the latest technology and trends in tourism, hospitality entrepreneurship and accommodation sector. The session was inaugurated by Prof VK Rattan (Vice Chancellor, GNA University) and Prof (Dr) RK Mahajan (Registrar, GNA University) welcomed faculty and students from 50 different institutions across the world. Prof (Dr) Monika Hanspal presented the objectives for organising the conclave and Dr Sandilyan Ramunujam Pagaldiviti, Dean, Faculty of Hospitality introduced the conclave theme to all speakers and participants. The first session was on ‘Global Opportunities and Challenges in Tourism’. The second session was ‘Focus on Entrepreneurship in Hospitality’. The third session was focused on ‘Preparing Accommodation for Modern Travellers’. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/webinar-on-well-being-263778
05-06-2021||Hoshiarpur||3 snatch cash bag from youth in Hoshiarpur||Six cell phones found in jailHoshiarpur: The Central Jail administration found six mobile phones after a surprise check on Thursday. Assistant superintendent Des Raj in his complaint to the police said the jail authorities raided a bathroom of barrack number 19 and found five mobile phones, while one was found from the bathroom of barrack number 17. He said the investigation was being done how the mobile phones reached the jail premises. OCTwo arrested with intoxicantsHoshiarpur: The district police have arrested two persons, including a woman, and seized intoxicants from their possession. The Model Town police arrested Babli, alias Babbu, a resident of Bhagat Nagar and seized 10 gm of heroin from her. Similarly, the Hariana police seized 18,000 ml of liquor from Tinku, a resident of Pratap Nagar, and arrested him. Cases under the NDPS and the Excise Act have been registered. OC1,400 policemen deployed in cityJalandhar: Ahead of Operation Bluestar anniversary on Sunday, the Commissionerate police beefed up security arrangements in the city on Friday. Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar reviewed the security arrangements during a meeting with all station house officers (SHOs) and GOs of the city. The CP said that 1,400 police personnel had been deployed across the city to maintain law and order situation. "We have taken several preventive measures to ensure peace and law and order, and beefed up security," he said. tns10-bedded Covid care centreJalandhar: The Jalandhar Cantonment Board has set up a 10-bedded Covid care centre with Level I and II beds at Cantt General Hospital equipped with Centrally Oxygen Supply System and other modern facilities. The centre was created within 15 days by shifting the maternity ward. As per information, Global Hospital will provide all medical services to the Level I and II patients at the centre and Level III Covid patients will be referred to Global Hospital where their treatment will be carried on government approved rates. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/3-snatch-cash-bag-from-youth-in-hoshiarpur-263776
05-06-2021||---||Rana Gurjit Singh’s aide opposes Sukhpal Khaira’s re-induction into Congress||Jalandhar, June 4A protégé of Kapurthala MLA Rana Gurjit Singh, Amandeep Singh Gora Gill, on Friday outrightly opposed the re-induction of Bholath MLA Sukhpal Khaira into the Congress.Addressing a press conference, Gill said Khaira had back-stabbed everyone for his personal political gains. “He left Congress to join Aam Aadmi Party which had a strong wave. He left AAP to float his own party, Punjab Ekta Party, wherein he also supported Paramjit Kaur Khalra, wife of slain human rights activist Jaswant Singh Khalra. By rejoining Congress, he had ditched Khalra again”, he said.Gill touched Khaira’s family’s political background. “Khaira has been Akali in the past. His father Sukhjinder Singh was SAD minister but the party edged Khairas out after Jagir Kaur had occupied more importance from the constituency. He had no option but to join Congress even then. But the party workers are not happy with the move and many had decided to hold a protest demanding his ouster from the party”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rana-gurjit-singhs-aide-opposes-sukhpal-khairas-re-induction-into-congress-263774
05-06-2021||---||Three arrested with 1-kg heroin, pistol in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, June 4The Jalandhar Rural Police on Friday busted a gang of drug smugglers and seized 1-kg heroin from the possession of three accused at the Sutlej bridge in Shahkot. The accused have been identified as Hansraj Singh, alias Hans, Kulbir Singh, alias Lakha and Balwinder Singh, alias Gopi, all residents of Latianwala village in Kapurthala.Senior Superintendent of Police Naveen Singla said that a team, led by SP (D) Manpreet Singh Dhillon, DSP Shahkot Davinder Singh, on Friday nabbed the three accused while conducting checking at Sutlej bridge. He stated that the police team stopped a car bearing number PB09AG9419 and seized 1-kg heroin from the possession of the three accused adding during further checking the police party also found one pistol and a magazine from the dashboard of the car. The SP said accused Han Raj and Kulbir Singh were already booked under the NDPS Act, while Hans Raj was on bail in an attempt to murder case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/three-arrested-with-1-kg-heroin-pistol-in-jalandhar-263772
05-06-2021||On the occasion of World Environment Day||A dose of eco-optimism: Stories of hope & inspiration||Promoting ‘green swap’ among residentsIn an attempt to encourage residents to indulge in planting saplings, environmental activist, Meenal Verma, has started a new initiative called ‘green swap’. Under this plan, anyone can exchange his extra plant with a new variety option available in ‘swap crate’, which has been set up at an outlet of Mink Organics in Green Model Town. Verma has set rules for the same: “Leave one plant and pick one plant. There are no bookings and plants will be swapped on first-come-first-served basis. Do not try to be oversmart and try to swap with wild plants or weeds.”Showing crates of asparagus, spider plants, snake plants, ferns, lilies, jades, caladiums, pothos and some ornamental plants available with her, she says that she believes that swapping would form a never ending loop and keep people involved. She has a plan for the beginners as well. “We even intend to involve those who are new to gardening and do not own any plants for swapping. They will have to wait till the monsoon arrives,” she said.The green swap also includes exchange of surplus seeds and bulbs. “Labels are a must for such swaps. We are in no way trying to hit the business of nurseries. Our intention is that people resort to gardening. The trigger that we will give will push them towards nurseries for more varieties of their choice,” said Verma. Her group ‘Going Zero Waste’ and FB page ‘Sense by Meenal Verma’ has been promoting the use of bioenzymes at home.‘Rukh’ app for increasing green cover in regionAlmost everyone across the region knows that the contribution of noted environmentalist Padma Shri Balbir Singh Seechewal’s contribution for conserving the enviornment remains unmatched. But very few people know that he has also turned the technology way for expediting his activities. These days, he’s promoting tree plantation through his app ‘Rukh’. The 59-year-old through his IT team has indexed all varieties of saplings available with him into aromatic plants, ornamental plants, medicinal plants, fruit trees and shady trees among others and listed their availability at various nurseries across Jalandhar, Kapurthala and Sultanpur Lodhi for a free pick up. Even more interesting is the fact that Seechewal maintains a liaison with sapling buyers after their get the sapling and tells them to upload pictures of their trees after two years and at the time when they begin to bear flowers or fruits.His volunteers said around eight lakh saplings had been given to villages across Punjab during the 550th Parkash Purb of Guru Nanak Dev. “Though our target was 5.5 lakh saplings, we went far beyond it. Another change that we have brought is that we are not giving small saplings for plantation as tree guards have to be used to prevent them from being trampled. So, we are giving slightly bigger plants and sometimes even fully grown trees with proper mechanism for transplanting,” said Gurvinder Singh Boparai, a volunteer.‘Join hands to say no to real butterfly photoframes’Through his NGO Dastak Welfare Council, Prof Sandeep Chahal of Doaba College had launched ‘Save butterflies campaign’ in 2009 to save the depleting population of butterflies. He has been organising awareness campaigns since then in different educational institutions. He has engaged students to send across a message to stop butterfly poaching and to motivate people not to buy real butterfly photo frames, real butterfly earrings, pendants and bracelets.The NGO has been distributing free of cost bonsai variety of citrus plants to the populace which promotes Lemon monarch butterflies species. The members have also motivated farmers to cultivate cabbage in their fields, which promotes the population of cabbage butterflies. Professor Chahal said: “Lemon monarch butterfly helps in the bumper production of kinnow, but it’s also poached, killed and sold for Rs 2,000 per piece and children of age group 10 to 14 years are used by butterfly poachers and smugglers to kill butterflies for Rs150 per day.”“There are 24,000 known butterfly species in the world, 1,500 species in India and around 142 species of butterflies in Punjab. Nearly, 300 species of butterflies in India are under the endangered species category. The delicate, multi-colour hued wing creatures traverse upto 5000 km, promote life by pollinating plants, but sometimes get brutally poached and put inside a photoframe, which is a cause for concern,” he said.Leading a drive to set up rainwater harvesting plantsBeing a scientist himself and seen the use and impact of excessive use of chemical fertilisers, Lupinder Kumar, Sub-Divisional Soil Conservation Officer, said that he has set up his own kitchen garden on a 5 marla vacant plot of his friend. “I show this plot to all my acquaintances and tell them how they can grow their own veggies without the use of chemicals. I never go to the mandi for buying fruits and vegetables and most needs of my family is met through the produce from this area. I only use vermicompost for my plants and buy 50 kg of this compost at the start of every season. If at all I need to buy vegetables, I only procure organically produced stuff from some known farmers.” He said he has hired a gardener who works under his supervision.Lupinder has been spearheading a campaign to set up rainwater harvesting plants in the government buildings for recharging of depleting groundwater table. He has got the plants set up in nearly 20 buildings with a terrace area of nearly 17,000 sqm. He elaborates, “Six new structures for rainwater harvesting are coming up at PAP. We have 16 more plants coming up at Nakodar, Shahkot and Phillaur, besides a tender of Rs45 lakh has been floated in which 36 rainwater plants would soon be coming up in 18 government buildings and schools.”— Contributed by Deepkamal Kaur||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/a-dose-of-eco-optimism-stories-of-hope-inspiration-263771
05-06-2021||---||Covid-19: 5 lose life, 163 fresh cases in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, June 4The district has seen a considerable dip in number of deaths and positive cases reported on Friday. With 163 new cases reported today, the tally has increased to 60,901. Also, like Thursday, five Covid deaths were recorded in the district today. With this the toll in the district has risen to 1,399. A total of 57,197 persons have recovered from Covid so far, while the number of active cases in Jalandhar is 2,305.2 succumb to virus in KapurthalaKapurthala district today saw considreable rise in number of Covid cases with 162 persons testing positive for the disease. The tally in the district is 16,953 and with two persons succumbing to the deadly virus, the toll has increased to 486. The deceased in Kapurthala today include a 62-year-old woman of Talwandi Chaudhrian village and a 66-year-old man of Saido Bhalana village.20 test +ve in NawanshahrA total of 20 patients tested positive for Covid in the district today. With this, the tally has increased to 11,136. The district now has 316 active cases, of which 265 are under home isolation.The number of recovered cases is 10,494 (94.23 per cent). The maximum number of cases had been reported from Balachaur block until last month, but today, the block reported only one case and Urban Banga did not report even a single case.Samples of various people are being collected everyday on basis. Out of the total samples collected today, report of 1,030 samples is awaited. As many as 27 patients are admitted in L-II and 12 in L-III Covid care facilities in local hospitals.93 new cases in HoshiarpurThe district reported 93 new Covid-19 cases on Friday, lowest in the last two months, taking the infection tally to 27,095. With one more death, the fatality figure reached 926 on Friday. Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Singh Ghotra said with the acquisition of 3,701 new samples, the total number of samples taken in the district till date had reached 5,85,902. As per the reports received from the lab, 5,55,538 were negative, while 4,551 reports were still awaited and 538 were invalid.Of the 3,033 samples received on Friday, 87 new cases of Covid-19 were traced, while six were reported from other districts. The number of active cases is 1,086, while the number of patients who have recovered is 27,007. The patient who died today was a 68-year-old woman of Bhaliala village in Bhunga block. She died at a private hospital in Hoshiarpur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-19-5-lose-life-163-fresh-cases-in-jalandhar-district-263769
05-06-2021||---||‘No vacation’ for govt schoolteachers in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, June 4Even as it has been 12 days since summer vacation started in schools, teachers have not got a break for even a single day.Remaining busy with admission work, especially for Class XI, they say students from their own school as well as various private ones are making a beeline for admissions. Some city schools, including those at Nehru Garden, Model Town and Ladowali Road, have been getting a lot of queries for admissions and the schools have had to set up help desks deploying senior teachers right at the entrance of the gates.The teachers said this was the time when they were getting books from the department for distributing them free of cost to children. “We are sending messages daily to parents to collect the books of their children. Even the book supply has been erratic and the work is taking many days to get completed. We are not getting the whole lot of books in one go and the parents have to be called in again and again,” said staff.A bigger problem for staff is the task assigned to distribute ration under the midday meal scheme to all the students studying in Classes I to VIII. Even the allocation made to all schools as the cost of cooking meals has to be reimbursed in all the bank accounts of the students. “This is such a tedious job and even the bank staff does not like to cooperate with us. Going to every child’s home after making packs of ration after proper division is a Herculean task,” said teachers.They said they got fresh circulars for new assignments almost every day. “We also have directions to keep in touch with the students for studies on a daily basis. We also have directions to use all grants by this month for the purpose of renovation of school buildings and designing its walls with colourful, educational material,” they said, adding that vacation is in name only.A lot of queries for admissionsSome city schools, including those at Nehru Garden, Model Town and Ladowali Road, have been getting a lot of queries for admissions and the schools have had to set up help desks deploying senior teachers right at the entrance of the gates.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/no-vacation-for-govt-schoolteachers-in-jalandhar-263756
05-06-2021||Jalandhar||Kapurthala SSP shifted due to vendetta, claims AAP; officer disagrees||Terming the decision to transfer Kapurthala SSP Kanwardeep Kaur to newly formed Malerkotla district political vendetta, the district unit of AAP today passed a resolution condemning the move.A meeting was held jointly with the legal wing of the party, wherein the members passed a joint resolution condemning the transfer. AAP legal wing district in charge Nitin Mittoo said: “Days after criticism by local Congress MLA Rana Gurjit Singh, an SSP is transferred during the election year. In Kanwardeep Kaur’s tenure, 220 cases under the NDPS Act were registered and 261 drug peddlers arrested. A huge quantity of intoxicants was recovered in the past four months. The transfer reflects the government’s attempt at pleasing leaders rather than tackling the drug issue.”The AAP members lauded the SSP for “not getting influenced by political pressure” and alleged the Congress government was out to please a party leader, at whose behest the officer was transferred. AAP district in charge Gurpal Singh Indian said: “The transfer was done under political pressure.” Kanwardeep was transferred on June 2, 10 days after Rana Gurjit Singh spoke to the media, saying the SSP had been unable to control the drug problem in the district.Also read: Reaching out to our women hit by lockdown (by Kanwardeep Kaur, IPS officer)Kanwardeep, who joined as Malerkotla SSP yesterday, said: “We have had a brilliant drug recovery during my tenure in Kapurthala, but I view it as a positive development and a recognition of my efforts that I have been given charge of a newly formed district. It’s a big responsibility. I do not see any political undertones in it.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kapurthala-ssp-shifted-due-to-vendetta-claims-aap-officer-disagrees-263482
