06-06-2021||---||Rs47-cr election year dole for city: Eco projects come at fag end of govt’s tenure||Jalandhar, June 5Focusing on eco development at the fag end of the present tenure, the government allocated two projects worth Rs47.74 cr for the city on the occasion of World Environment Day.The much-touted projects have been in discussion for the past many years but have not been implemented on ground. Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Saturday made a formal announcement for the same through a virtual event which saw the participation of local MP Santokh Singh Chaudhary, Mayor Jagdish Raj Raja, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori and Additional Deputy Commissioner Vishesh Sarangal.Meanwhile, Member of Parliament Santokh Singh Chaudhary inaugurated a 35-crore Wariana dump site remediation project under the Jalandhar Smart City Mission here on Saturday. He was accompanied by Jalandhar West MLA Sushil Rinku, MLA Surinder Chaudhary and Mayor Jagdish Raja.Dedicating the project to the people of Jalandhar, MP Chaudhary thanked Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh for taking the initiative to clear waste from the site. He said under the remediation project, approximately 8 lakh metric tonnes of legacy waste would be cleared. “The waste has been dumped on the Wariana site for the last 30 years causing damage to the environment. In the next two years, it would entirely be cleared and recycled for use in factories and other places,” he said.Santokh Singh Chaudhary said due to the implementation of this project, approximately 14 acres of land worth crores of rupees would be reclaimed for further use. MC Joint Commissioner Amit Sareen, Superintending Engineer Rajnish Dogra and councillor Babby Chadha were among those present on the occasion.The Mayor and DC mentioned that another project to promote green cover in the city was also launched by the Chief Minister. They said under the green area parks development project, about seven parks had been developed at a cost of Rs 8.84 crore. In these parks, open gyms, sound system, gazebo and sports facilities have been ensured while three vertical gardens under flyovers had been developed at a cost of Rs 3.90 crore. They said focus lights and drip irrigation system had been set up in these vertical gardens.Meanwhile, the Mission Tandarust Punjab was launched by the CM. It was aimed at further improving the overall health of the people of Punjab. Under this flagship programme, a multi-pronged strategy would be adopted to improve health indicators.Kabaddi player Gurpreet Kaur from Haripur village during the event also shared her views on efforts made by the state government to promote sports culture in villages under the Mission Tandarust Punjab. Prominent among others present on the occasion included Joint Commissioner Municipal Corporation Amit Sareen, Assistant Commissioner Hardeep Singh, and District Development and Panchayat Officer Iqbaljit Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rs47-cr-election-year-dole-for-city-eco-projects-come-at-fag-end-of-govts-tenure-264254
06-06-2021||---||Jalandhar district sees 5 deaths, 184 cases||Jalandhar, June 5With 184 fresh Covid cases reported today, the tally in the district has increased to 61,085. With five deaths on Saturday, the toll in the district now stands at 1,404.As many as 57,568 people have recovered from Covid in the district so far, while the number of active cases is 2,113.Tally crosses 17K-mark in KapurthalaWith 57 fresh cases reported in Kapurthala today, the tally crossed 17,000-mark in the district at 17,004. Three persons died in the district on Saturday, pushing the toll to 490. Those who succumbed to the deadly virus today include a 30-year-old man from Kapurthala city, a 47-year-old man from Kapurthala and an 80-year-old woman from Kapurthala.Nawanshahr reports three deaths, 25 fresh casesThe health authorities today reported 25 fresh cases and two deaths due to Covid infection. The positivity rate in the district has fallen to 1.61 per cent and the active cases stand at 277. The district has so far reported 11,158 cases and 338 deaths. The only containment zone in the district is Surapur village.3 lose life, 150 new cases in HoshiarpurThe district reported three more Covid fatalities on Saturday, taking the toll to 929, while 150 new cases pushed the tally in the district to 29,169. Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Singh said reports of 4,052 samples were received and of them, 147 new cases were from the district, while three patients were reported from other districts. The number of active cases is 1,057, while 27,183 patients have recovered.The persons who lsuccumbed to the virus today have been identified as a 55-year-old man of Davida Ahirana village, a 46-year-old woman of Nanda Chaur and a 74-year-old woman of Manak Dheri.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-district-sees-5-deaths-184-cases-264255
06-06-2021||Jalandhar||Taking back vaccines won’t settle issue: Kalia||Former BJP minister Manoranjan Kalia on Saturday said the government’s decision to withdraw the sold vaccine doses from private hospitals would not settle the issue.He said, “There are many questions which demand answers. If the procurement of vaccines, done by officials, does not belong to the Health Department as per the version of Punjab Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu, then who had ordered Vikas Garg, IAS officer and nodal officer, to procure the same for Rs400 per dose and to sell at least 20,000 vaccine doses to private hospitals for Rs1,060 per dose, pocketing Rs660 per dose as profit in vaccination under corporate social responsibility?”Kalia said, “When the Centre has fixed the quota of vaccine to be purchased from manufacturers among the Centre, state and private hospitals in the ratio of 50% : 25% : 25% the government in Punjab had no authority to sell the doses to private hospitals on profit.” He said: “Health Minister has not been taken into confidence for the purchase and sale of vaccine, then who is running the department? The decision shows that the government thinks after taking the decision and reverts to its earlier position.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/taking-back-vaccines-wont-settle-issue-kalia-264256
06-06-2021||Our Correspondent||Larvae found in 136 homes at Dasuya & Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur, June 5On the second day of its drive, dengue surveillance teams on Saturday conducted a door-to-door campaign to detect and destroy larvae, which were found in houses and containers at different places.The teams checked 1,593 houses and detected larvae in 71 houses (in Dasuya and Hoshiarpur areas) today. A total of 12,068 containers were checked out of which 76 were found to have larvae.Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait said the teams had checked as many as 1,455 houses on Friday and found larvae in 65 houses. Similarly, 10,679 containers were inspected out of which 67 had larvae. The DC said the surveillance teams would carry out checking of mosquito level as well as destroy larvae in stagnant water in coolers, plastic and other vessels.Riyait said the teams visited different places in Dasuya and Hoshiarpur urban areas, where they also sensitised residents to preventive measures, besides destroying larvae at source.Urging people to be fully vigilant, especially amid the pandemic, the DC said people should extend all possible cooperation to teams so that the mosquito menace could be tackled efficaciously in view of the ongoing health crisis. She said the drive would further be intensified in days to come to keep mosquito breeding at bay.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/larvae-found-in-136-homes-at-dasuya-hoshiarpur-264257
06-06-2021||Hoshiarpur||2 arrested for online driving course fraud||The police arrested two persons for cheating people on the pretext of two-day online driving training refresher course required for renewal of heavy, medium and light vehicle licenses. The accused lured people to get their course done from Hoshiarpur Institute of Automotive Driving Skills, run by the Red Cross in Hoshiarpur.The accused have been identified as Naveen of Santokhpura in Jalandhar and Ram Kumar of Samastipur in Bihar. The Hoshiarpur Institute of Automotive Driving Skills is closed these days due to the Covid restrictions, taking advantage of which the accused spread their net on social media. Getting information about this, the principal of the institute, Naresh Gupta, lodged a complaint. The unidentified accused, Ram Kumar, called aspirants and claimed that he was working with the Red Cross Hoshiarpur. He assured them about online training for two days and asked to pay Rs220 for it through Paytm. The police registered a case.During investigation, it came to light that the said fraud was being carried out by two people. The police arrested both of them — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/2-arrested-for-online-driving-course-fraud-264258
06-06-2021||---||Farm union burns effigy of PM Modi, home minister||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farm-union-burns-effigy-of-pm-modi-home-minister-264260
06-06-2021||---||Nawanshahr teachers contribute to English manual for Class IX||Nawanshahr, June 5 Nawanshahr-based teachers have made their contribution in developing content of ‘My English Book’ for Class IX students of government schools in Punjab.  Whereas English mistresses Kavita Sabharwal (state awardee teacher from GSSS for Boys, Rahon), Dimpy Khurana (GHS, Balachaur), Charanjit Kaur (GSSS, Palli Jhikki) and Geetika Rani ( GSSS, Bazidpur) have developed the content of the book, Nawanshahr-based English mistress, who is currently working in Ropar Government School, Chhavi, has vetted the content and Chinupreet from computer faculty has designed the workbook.  “The book has been prepared under the aegis of “Parho Punjab, Parhao Punjab” programme, launched by the Education Department to bring in qualitative improvement in the education. It includes wide range of innovative methods, activities, practice sheets based on the prescribed syllabus, to make the teaching-learning of English language interesting, easy and effective to foster the basic skills of language learning among the students”, said Chander Shekhar, state resource person( English/ social studies).  These teachers have also been contributing towards preparation of English text books and workbooks for different classes for the past couple of years. During Covid-19 pandemic, Kavita Sabharwal, Dimpy Khurana and Chhavi have also delivered lessons on TV, radio and Edusat for students of different classes.  District Education Officer (SE), Jagjit Singh and Deputy District Education Officer (SE), Amrik Singh, lauded the contribution of teachers in qualitative improvement in English teaching.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nawanshahr-teachers-contribute-to-english-manual-for-class-ix-264261
06-06-2021||Our Correspondent||CM lays stone of STP worth Rs3.14 crore||Hoshiarpur, June 5Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh laid foundation stone of sewerage treatment plant for the Gardhiwala town on the World Environment Day. It would have a capacity of 2 MLD and it was completed at a cost of Rs3.14 crore.Industries & Commerce Minister Sunder Sham Arora said the Punjab Government was committed towards ensuring clean, green and a pollution free environment.Joining the virtual launch of revamped ‘Mission Tandrust Punjab’ from the local district administrative complex, Industries & Commerce Minister Sunder Sham Arora listed endeavours of the Punjab Government being taken to provide quality food products, wiping out adulteration especially in milk products. He said during the last four years, commendable initiatives had been taken against adulteration to keep people healthy.In order to keep people healthy, fit & fine, the minister pointed out, open gyms had been setup in almost all parks in the City and its adjoining areas. Arora said the green cover was also being enhanced in the district after planting 550 saplings in each village, the state government got planted 400 saplings in all villages to mark the 400th Prakash Purb. The state government’s initiative to increase green cover additional 13,184 hectares area had already been brought under this.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cm-lays-stone-of-stp-worth-rs3-14-crore-264262
06-06-2021||Our Correspondent||Passing-out parade: 36 women constables inducted in BSF||Hoshiarpur, June 5A passing-out parade of 36 women recruits of batch No. 252 of the Border Security Force was held at STC (Sub-Training Centre) Border Security Force in Kharkan today.The recruits underwent gruelling training for 44 weeks which covered the entire gamut of subjects of field craft, weapons, tactics, map reading, intelligence, internal security duty, human rights and physical endurance training.In the parade, the recruits took an oath of allegiance to the Constitution and the nation. During the parade, Covid protocols were followed by the recruits and personnel. STC IG Sanjeev Bhanot was the chief guest and was received by SS Mand, Commandant, STC BSF, Punjab, and Ravi Bhushan, 2IC training.The recruits who performed exceptionally well in various indoor and outdoor subjects were awarded medals by the chief guest.Commandant Mand congratulated the recruits on the successful completion of training and exhorted them to serve the country and perform their duties with dedication and commitment.Addressing the parade, Bhanot lauded the remarkable contribution and achievements of the BSF as the first line of defence of the country. He appreciated the standard of the parade and the diligent efforts put in by trainees and the team of instructors at the STC in shaping and moulding the recruits into physically tough and mentally strong constables.BSF recruits plant 200 saplings at Kharkan CampA mass tree plantation drive was carried out in the premises of Sub Training Centre BSF Kharkan Camp, under the joint campaign of Border Security Force (BSF) and Forest Department Hoshiarpur, Sanjeev Bhanot, IG BSF STC Kharkan Camp and Amneet Singh, DFO, Hoshiarpur on the occasion of the World Environment Day. In this campaign, a total 200 saplings were planted in the camp premises.The Inspector General said, the jawans dedicate themselves to the conservation of the environment by planting more and more saplings and adopt them to keep more and more plants alive. The Inspector General motivated the caretakers of the plants to also take special care of the plant till optimum its growth. DFO Hoshiarpur, Amneet Singh appreciated STC BSF for organising the event. He ensured full assistance and co-operation of forest department in future as well.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/passing-out-parade-36-women-constables-inducted-in-bsf-264263
06-06-2021||---||Students take a vow to save Mother Earth||Jalandhar, June 5Several webinars, online painting, poster-making competitions, bird house making activities, bird feeding activities, tree plantation, paper reading, slogan writing and poetry sessions were held on the World Environment Day at various schools and colleges across the city. Though home-bound, students did not refrain from showcasing their enthusiasm during online sessions. Some of them also planted trees in their vicinity and shared the pictures with their teachers. The teachers also apprised them of the importance of this day. All of them pledged to learn their lessons from the pandemic and make efforts for a sustainable living.Department of Laws, GNDUThe Department of Laws, GNDU regional campus, under the aegis of Vice Chancellor Prof Jaspal Singh Sandhu, and Dean Academic Affairs Prof Hardeep Singh organised a webinar on the occasion of the World Environment Day. The webinar was moderated by Vanita Khanna. Head of the Department Rupam Jagota, on the behalf of the faculty of law, welcomed the keynote speaker Prof Jaspal Singh, Principal, Khalsa College of Law, Amritsar, and former head, Department of Law, GNDU, Amritsar.Swami Sant Dass Public SchoolThe Phagwara Environment Association organised an online painting competition to celebrate World Environment Day. Students of Swami Sant Dass Public School, Phagwara, gave a glorious performance and won many prizes in the competition. A total number of about 150 students from nearby schools participated in the competition. The students were lauded for their outstanding performance and were awarded with a certificate and a trophy. To observe the day, the participants were also asked to plant a tree anywhere and send a photograph of the same.Apeejay Institute of Mgmt & EngineeringStudents from all courses were asked to read the environment oath written by Dr APJ Abdul Kalam. Students were also told about the history of this day. This day is being celebrated since 1974 when the United States recognised June 5 as World Environment Day, for the first time with the theme “Only One Earth”. Discussions were held regarding degrading ecosystem. Dr Rajesh Bagga, Director, AIMETC stressed the need to plant more trees and shift to renewable energy sources to save the Earth and the coming generations.Shiv Jyoti Public SchoolTeachers of Shiv Jyoti Public School stepped forward to spread awareness among students to conserve environment. “This year, the theme as given by the United Nations was ‘Reimagine, Recreate, Restore,’ Man is the only creature who can be a destroyer or a creator. Playing the role as a creator, humans should play a sincere role to conserve this precious planet. The beautiful Mother Nature will also reciprocate in the form of blissful Environment to all of us”, the teachers told the students. To create awareness among students and make them realise their responsibility towards their environment, students took an initiation to make environment green by planting a saplings and help them grow big by taking care of them.Hindu Kanya CollegeIn a webinar organised by different clubs of local to mark International Environmental Protection Day, former head of the Zoology Department of the Punjab Agricultural University, .Ludhiana, Dr Swarandeep Singh Hundal appealed to all students of Hindu Kanya College, Kapurthala, to contribute their best to save environment. “We cannot stay passive to environment related issues thinking that my efforts are too little and are not enough as these could not bring a change,” he said adding that, “we should start improving our surroundings only and appeal others to do so also.”Kanya Maha VidyalayaKanya Maha Vidyalaya celebrated World Environment Day on the theme of Ecosystem Restoration in order to spread awareness about the Environment and Biodiversity conservation. The event was organised jointly by the Department of Student Welfare, Department of Environment Science, NCC Department and PG Department of Commerce and Business Administration. The activity was held online in which more than 150 students of various streams of collegiate school and college participated with full zeal and enthusiasm. Students accentuated many issues like protection of species, save plants, save nature and restoring degraded, damaged or destroyed ecosystem and habitats in the environment by active human intervention and actions etc. through plantation drive and also spread awareness through thought provoking videos. Principal Prof Atima Sharma Dwivedi averred that the time demands that we should all be aware about our responsibility towards environment conservationInnocent HeartsWorld Environment Day was celebrated online under Disha - an initiative being run under the Bowry Memorial Educational and Medical Trust. On this occasion, different activities were organized in the five branches of Innocent Hearts School. Activities were organised according to the age group of the children. The students of K G I participated in plantation activity and shared their photographs with the school while planting saplings. KG 2 students gave the message of save environment by making paper bags. Poetry reading competition was organised for the students of class II in which children used different props related to their poetry. Class III and IV students made houses for birds by reusing waste plastic and also made food feeders to feed them, explaining to the students the importance of taking care of birds in summer, kept food feeders and water feeders on the roofs of the house. Tree Plantation Drive was also organised.Kamla Nehru CollegeThe Department of Sciences, Kamla Nehru College for Women, Phagwara celebrated ‘World Environment Day’ during which different online competitions were organised. The primary objective of this celebration was to make students aware of the degradation of environment due to different man-made activities and to conserve it by adopting significant remedial measures. More than 70 students participated in different activities like potted plant competition, slogan writing and poster making competition.IVY World SchoolIVY World School, under the ageis of the Vasal Education Society, observed the day with great fanfare. Ever since the Covid lockdown began, medical and sanitation staffs have been working round-the-clock for us. The young Ivyians took part in many online activities to show their gratitude to all doctors, sanitation staff and medical teams. Children enjoyed doing activities wherein they planted small saplings and wrote beautiful gratitude quotes and then presented to their surrounding doctors, medical staff. Children also prepared eco-friendly bags with goodies for the warriors who are selflessly doing their duties in corona wards. Our Young ivyians also wrote motivational slogans on the theme ‘Save environment’. S Chauhan, Principal, Ivy World School, appreciated the drive and advised the children to protect the environment.Lyallpur Khalsa College for WomenWorld Environment Day was celebrated by the Department of Environment Studies, Lyallpur Khalsa College for Women. Under the guidance of Dr Mukta Chum, HoD, Department of Environment Studies, the students of Kalpavariksh Society participated with great enthusiasm to celebrate the day. Keeping in mind the theme for ecosystem restoration, the students performed various activities such as tree plantation and watered them. Various trees and plants such as basil, money plant, mongra, papaya, guava, snake plant, amla and sunflower were planted to mark the day.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/students-take-a-vow-to-save-mother-earth-264264
06-06-2021||---||Urban planners should work to reduce impact of pandemic crisis: Experts||Jalandhar, June 5  The Department of Urban Planning at Lovely Professional University (LPU) came forward with an exclusively instructive session on World Environment Day-2021. This session was titled as “Planning of Housing Environments and Infrastructure in Xenodochial Cities”. Under this, the topic covered was ‘Post-Pandemic Cities and Sustainable Development’. For this virtual programme, eminent resource persons included Regional Director, Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship, Jai Shiv Sharma; Assistant Director, Military Engineering Services, Rajat Kothari; Chairman, Indian Green Building Council (Chandigarh Chapter), Jit Kumar Gupta; urban planner, Urban Development and Housing Department (Arunachal Pradesh) Abin Tok; urban planner, Ladakh Ecological Development Group, Stanzin Odrai; among others.  The speakers said the world should have sure access to real-time information that helps cities survive a crisis; urban planners should work to reduce the impact of a crisis on disadvantaged communities; and, public services should be re-designed to cope with sudden and unwanted surges like present pandemic. They talked prominently in favour of good spaces, parks, pollution less transportation, renewable energy, green, clean, hygienic environment with all basic facilities and more. They emphasised to rethink mainly about energy, mobility, environment and innovative policy making about this all. World Environment Day theme held this year is ‘Reimagine: Recreate: Restore’, and its focal point is ecosystem restoration. It means preventing, halting and reversing the damage— to go from exploiting nature to healing it.  Notably, the world witnessed a severe outbreak of the Covid-pandemic in the last month of 2019. Since then the governments are working on reducing the crushing impacts. Urban planners have calculated that the cities across the world have suddenly moved from a friendly environment to a strange environment. All of them are now planning to shape cities in such ways that they fight diseases better than before. The variety and imagination of responses to this crisis has given urban planners a huge source of insight. LPU student of architecture and design, Sreevalli Maheshwaram, also won ‘Urban Eclectic: Design-based Urban Planning Competition’ for her participation with creative poster.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/urban-planners-should-work-to-reduce-impact-of-pandemic-crisis-experts-264265
06-06-2021||Hoshiarpur||Liquor & Rs 3,500 stolen from vend||1 held for trying to steal ActivaHoshiarpur: The police on Saturday arrested a person who was trying to steal an Activa scooter from outside a house. The other accused fled from the spot. According to information, Shubham Soni, a resident of local Mohalla Arya Nagar, told the police that two accused were running away with the Activa from outside his house. When he raised an alarm, people nabbed one of the accused while the other one escaped. According to the police, the arrested accused has been identified as Rajesh Kumar while another accused has been identified as Monu, a resident of Chatta Bazaar. Both have been booked by the city police. OCTwo held with heroin, liquorHoshiarpur: The police arrested two persons in two cases and seized intoxicants and liquor from them. According to information, the Tanda police stopped a man near Rada Mod and during search 10 gm of heroin was found from his possession. The accused, identified as Harmesh Singh, alias Meshi, a resident of Buta Pind in Kapurthala district was arrested and booked under the NDPS Act. Meanwhile, the Dasuya police arrested Harjipal, alias Happy, a resident of Changla village and seized 18,750 ml of liquor from him. the accused has been booked under the Excise Act. OCMan cheated of Rs1L; one bookedHoshiarpur: The Tanda police have booked a man for allegedly cheating Budh Singh, a resident of Joda village of Rs 1 lakh, on the pretext of providing a job for his son in the court. According to information, Budh Singh, in his complaint to the police, alleged that Jasvir Singh, a resident of Behram Sarishta village in Jalandhar district, took Rs 2 lakh from him and promised of getting his son Ravinder Singh recruited as a Class IV employee in the court. But after taking money the accused neither got his son appointed nor returned the money. The complainant told the police that after a lot of efforts, the accused returned him only Rs 1 lakh. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/liquor-rs-3-500-stolen-from-vend-264269
06-06-2021||Jalandhar||Workshop on Multiple intelligences||Webinar on critical thinkingHans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya hosted an online session on “Critical Thinking” under the initiative of Institutional Innovation Council with the inspiration of Principal Prof Ajay Sareen. The session began with the recital of Gayatri Mantra. President IIC Dr Anjana Bhatia gave a formal welcome to the resource person Partap Rajput. Rajput started the session by re-touching the design thinking process, which was followed by the concept of critical thinking. He described critical thinking as a process to develop the brain in such a way that people do not simply accept what comes their way but rather question and come to a conclusion with evidence and facts. He also insisted on theory by Albert Einstein that “We can never solve a problem with same thinking pattern”. What, why and how of critical thinking was also discussed along with importance and uses of critical thinking. Students also learnt different stages of Journey in Critical Thinking. The concept was very well-explained by an example of iPod by apple Company when a group of engineers showed newly introduced very small-sized iPod to Steve Bob. Steve Bob threw the same in water and bubbles started coming out and he explained that if we remove the air inside, we can reduce the size further. Principal Dr Ajay Sareen congratulated the institution Innovation Cell for the success of session. Navneeta presented the vote of thanks and also moderated the session. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/workshop-on-multiple-intelligences-264276
