07-06-2021||Do you think holding online counselling is appropriate in the present scenario?||Amid pandemic blues, virtual counselling is need of hour||EWS students are not equipped with gadgetsIntroduction of online common counselling mode will not prove fruitful during the present scenario as the prospective students are not fully aware about the technical ‘know-how’ to be followed for the process. Further, a great majority of the candidates especially from the rural area and economically weaker sections of the society are not optimally equipped with the gadgets and training is required for online procedure involving scanning, uploading and downloading of their documents. Paid services provided by private cyber café are not equally accessible to these students. In rural belts, there is no access to help desks too. At this juncture, online common counselling system should not be introduced as it will not be successful in providing an equal opportunity to all candidates facing constrained circumstances in the prevailing pandemic. Let there be more deliberations involving all stakeholders before implementation of the system. And better to wait till we gain a transition towards normalcy.Dr RS JhanjiWill definitely yield positive resultsMasses throughout the globe have witnessed a situation of panic due to the Covid pandemic. As lockdown was imposed in most of the countries, schools and colleges were shut. After the first wave started receding, the government allowed schools and colleges to reopen with implementation of certain guidelines and rules to be followed restricting with the capacity of the students in the classes and strictly following the rules and guidelines as issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. Various universities/education boards promoted the students to next class. Apart from vaccination, second wave of the pandemic disturbed the academic schedule of students, as once again most of the schools promoted the students to the next class, Examinations were either postponed or the students were promoted to next class without exams, as the students studied in their respective classes from home through live virtual attendance of their prescribed courses on their computers/mobile phones. With the second wave receding, the decision of holding counseling for admission to colleges online is a good option. This is a positive visionary idea as due to the expected third wave of Covid this can prove better to set aside the rush of students for counselling in various colleges. Earlier, the government had adopted the system of counselling for various streams on the line of engineering and medical etc for admission to various colleges as per their grades. Online counselling will certainly yield positive results.Rajat Kumar MohindruOnline admissionsare essentialThough there is some respite from Covid spread, experts have warned that the expected third wave may be in the offing. The country and Punjab in particular, has suffered a lot due to high mortality rate because of the pandemic. The WHO had named the Indian variant as Delta. So the state government is rightly preparing to set up a portal for online common counselling for college admissions. If there is offline admission in the colleges, the students will gather in hordes throwing Covid norms to wind. Online admissions are also essential as the virus is affecting youth more. But the problem with this method is that many students can’t afford to buy smart phones because of economic constraints and may face problems in going online. The government and NGOs should come forward to donate smart phones to such needy students. The college administration should also forego extra expenses to such students. The education is a must for all students for the progress of the society and the country.Dr JS WadhwaPoor, marginalised students may sufferLike others, Covid pandemic has also given a severe blow to the nation’s education sector for two years. Keeping in mind health and safety of students, schools, colleges and universities have been closed and physical classes have been replaced by online teaching. Due to lack of proper digital infrastructure, poor and marginalised students and those from rural and remote areas have already faced umpteen difficulties in coping with the new learning process. Annual or semester examinations have been disrupted and entrance tests have been put on hold. The worst-hit are those students who wish to join institutions of higher learning for their career advancement for a better future. On priority basis, the authorities are constantly engaged in devising ways to resurrect the badly battered and bruised education system, and provide these aspirants a just, fair, smooth and inclusive opportunity to realise their cherished dreams. While the Centre and many state governments have expressed serious reservations about conducting offline exams for Class XII and mull promoting students solely on the basis of their internal assessment this year also, many deemed to be and private universities have opted for online tests and interviews for admissions to professional courses and look forward to starting online classes immediately. In the given situation, the Punjab Government’s decision to set up a portal for online common counselling for college admissions in the current academic year is preferable to putting the lives of students in jeopardy. As the state is suffering from resource crunch, the PSEB schools cannot afford a CBSE/ICSE-like rigorous internal assessment based on internal exams to evaluate the performance of students. The authorities should ensure that only deserving students make it to the institutions of higher education.DS KangGood software should be ensuredEvery year thousands of students need had to go to campus multiple times to get forms, submit them and then to check their selection list, which was a very tedious and tiring process. In present time of pandemic, online counselling has made all complexities of admission an easy one. It is very difficult to call all eligible candidates for counselling because of huge number of applications and there were chances of misplacement also. So much expenditure is wasted in printing admission forms, candidates have to queue up to collect and deposit which is certainly not a good idea in this time of pandemic. Good software to make admission process hassle-free and lessen manual work should be ensured by the government. All processes from admission form to submission of fee going online will ease the burden and stress on students and authorities. It will also increase transparency and is a good move.Shashi KiranBest alternative method availableThe state government’s move to start the process of online common counselling for college admissions is the best alternative available in view of the ongoing pandemic. The University Grants Commission has already issued directives to all universities to conduct online admission from the following year as the system is mutually beneficial to both the universities and the applicants. The measure taken by the state government is both in consonance with future trends of admissions to professional colleges/universities.Jagdish ChanderTechnical glitches can’t be ignoredAdapting to the changing scenario is an important aspect to keep the development and growth on. Now that the second wave of Covid has started receding, the government should not take any risk in allowing any such activity which can prove to be a super spreader event. Though vaccination drive is on at a satisfactory rate in the nation, gathering of masses should be avoided. Owing to these conditions, online counseling for college admissions is a better choice at this time. If we list the pros of conducting online counseling, they include that it fits with the present scenario of pandemic and is a safe method. Even the staff can work from home and nobody is required to come out of their homes. On the other hand, the cons of the move are that parents and families with no access to Internet or smart phones will be facing problems in accessing the facility. Also, employment of more tech savvy staff will be required to facilitate this mode of counselling. As the mode is dependent on technology and appliances, there are increased chances of facing glitches, which will affect the process negatively.Vinay KumarDivergent reactions of academiciansThe ongoing pandemic has disrupted the normal process of seeking admission to preferred temples of higher learning. Because of a delayed decision about the cancellation of Class XII exams, many private universities and autonomous colleges have taken to online entrance tests and counselling. Likewise, the state government’s initiative for online common counselling for college admissions despite stiff opposition from an overwhelming majority of the student community has attracted divergent reactions from educationalists, academicians and other stakeholders. The votaries of online counselling hail the decision as more appropriate and pragmatic in view of the health and future of students, but others deem it ill-conceived and ridiculous. In the absence of physical classes and final exams, judging the quality of students’ performance and their prospects for higher education on the basis of past performance, internal assessment or online tests will be a cruel joke. It will have a serious negative impact not only on our already ailing educational system but also on their physical, mental and social well-being. As the number of Covid cases is on the decline, it is time to set aside perpetual suspicion, paranoia and fear psychosis about opening educational institutions and keeping students for long hours in the examination centres. The concerned authorities should streamline entrance tests and counselling/admission procedure amid complete adherence to precautionary measures. This will protect the interests of the hardworking, deserving and meritorious students and help them to gain admission to higher educational institutions of their choice and keep a check on the undeserving ones.Tajpreet S KangDecision needs tobe redesignedAs the state government is planning to set up a common counselling portal for admission to various colleges, I don’t think the method is appropriate as college is the place where future of a student is shaped. It is one of the most important decisions in the life a student so as to choose which college to pursue their dreams. And this decision can’t be taken online. The students need to visit the college, see the campus personally and interact with teachers etc. as their life’s next three to four years will be spent at that place. In my opinion, this decision regarding online portal is not sound, and needs to be resigned with offline admissions.Bakshdeep Singh WaliaLow computer literacy a concernIn Punjab, though Internet penetration is rather high, Internet connectivity and speed issues are major impediments to bring any real advantage to university applicants. Most rural areas experience high blackouts and electricity issues. Another major concern is the low rate of computer literacy in India. Current estimates say that only about 7 percent Indians are computer savvy. A sudden shift to the online admission process is likely to cause confusion and despondency among a great many applicants. In most manual admission processes, the eligibility of candidates is proved by verification of originals at the time of accepting applications, ensuring that only genuine candidates apply. Online applications make it easier for fraudsters to manipulate the application process and eligibility requirements. So I am not in favour of to set up a portal for online common counselling for college admissions.Dr Manpreet KaurStep may prove harmful to systemThe state government’s centralised online counselling process seems to be discriminatory as it is applicable to government and government-aided colleges only and all private university are kept out of the preview of this policy. Admission schedule and processes are discretionary powers of the universities and the rules and regulations framed by the affiliating universities are applicable to all colleges. Moreover, the academic calendars and admission policy of the three main government universities of Punjab are not common and differ in many respects. Then, how can one think of a common counselling portal for all colleges which are affiliated to different universities? The model of centralised counselling has already been proved unsuccessful in the case of centralised admission for BEd course. The same for Panjab University, Chandigarh, in the case of admission to BCom course had failed miserably, despite the fact that the complications were too less, it is the single course only as compared to the model under consideration. At this time, when the state is struggling with the pandemic, doing experiments by adopting such methods may prove harmful to the system.Dr Ajit KumarWill ensure safetyof studentsOnce, Nelson Mandela was asked that how one can change the world? With a sparkle in his eyes waiting to become the fire of revolution, he replied: through education. Education is a never-ending holistic process of overall development encapsulating observation, of oneself and society, of critical analysis of subject and making of a responsible personality driven by legal and moral conduct. With such a responsibility of this sector, it becomes important for the governments to take the decisions conducive to overall benefit of students and fraternity. The recent proposal by the Government of Punjab of modelling an online portal to provide collective counselling of all colleges in the state at one platform has been taken in regard to the ongoing Covid crisis, which has wreaked havoc across the world. The decision will ensure that the health of students, teachers, administration faculty and fraternity is not jeopardised. Moreover, it will provide a range of options available to students at one platform, and to make a more informed decision in regard to their careers. But, despite all benefits available at this synchronised digital platform, there are some concerns which require to be addressed. First, it is not an unknown fact that educational institutions have become marketing centres, therefore the boasted facts about faculties, laboratories, libraries, sports facilities such as ground, etc. require on ground validation, which in case of digital option will not be available for students. Second, the digital divide among students of having the option to access such ventures is quite a large. Thereby the bottom half of the students might not be able to get the access of the same. Third, being a student, I can understand the relationship which is built with the teacher, the college as an institution and fellow students, can be formed on the basis of interaction and engagement, and the visit during that counselling session is the most connecting part when one observe the infrastructure and the ambience which is certainly going to be missed in the said proposal. No wonders, the government’s proposal is to deal with these challenging times, but the repercussions of choosing a wrong college, where a student will not be able to feel the connection can be humungous.Lokinder SharmaNot good substitute to physical counsellingHolding common online counselling is an unsuitable method in the present pandemic scenario. It discriminates against students who do not have access to consistent Internet. The process is unviable and will be plagued with frequent problems e.g. deposition of fees online, seeking fee concessions for sports or economically weaker section students, change of subjects etc. which can easily be taken care of by institutes themselves. Already the Covid pandemic has disturbed lives of many persons, the new pronouncement will further subject students and their parents to unnecessary hassle for seeking admission in colleges. Earlier, common admissions for BEd and law colleges had been introduced which was an unsuccessful move. Now the government is introducing the same flop system for all colleges in the state. In my opinion, current college admission process adopted by respective colleges is suitable for meeting the varied needs of students as well as the educational institutes themselves.Dr Bhanvi WadhawanStudents may face connectivity issuesThe decision of common online counselling for college admissions will prove disastrous for students residing in areas with poor connectivity. Besides, meritorious students shall lag behind in the competition due to lack of monetary assistance for requisite Internet facilities. The lack of proper training of teachers as well as students will be a hindrance in the otherwise smooth counselling sessions. The chances of errors, ambiguity, and duplicity will increase manifold. It will enhance rat race in the choice of programmes as the students won’t be adequately informed about the available courses.Dr Harleen KaurOnline platform an effective way outProbably, restoration of normalcy will take some more time as the fight to tame the virus and its new variants is yet not at full throttle. Although intensity of Covid wave is declining, but we can’t be complacent till everyone is protected through jab. Much emphasised inoculation drive may, however, not be completed as per the prescribed schedule due to inadequate health infra and vaccine availability problems. Counselling for admission to higher academia and entry to professional courses, much in demand, has to be conducted fairly and timely. Scared of the contagion, the government is planning to set up a common e-portal for the purpose, though it is in contradiction to the government’s own policy to accord educational autonomy to institutions. That’s is why, some experts do not subscribe to the idea and call admissions through common e- portal an irrational, inappropriate and a non-feasible recourse undermining the interests of distant and smaller institutions. Whereas, under the prevailing scenario of restricted mobility and social distancing protocols, we have limited options amongst which online platform is envisaged as an effective way out.Nirmaljit Singh ChatrathBolt from the blue for collegesThis letter is from the Panjab University Principals’ Association. We would say, an ill-conceived decision, of the state government through the Higher Education Secretary, to start online portal for the joint admissions of the three state universities, i.e. Panjab University, Chandigarh; Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar; and Punjabi University, Patiala. This has been received by the colleges and the teaching fraternity as a bolt from the blue. Already youth of Punjab and their craze of going abroad are having an impact on the working, strength and financial health of colleges. It is not a hidden fact today from anyone. The Covid pandemic has further worsened the situation in both — urban and rural areas. Because of this, numerous college students are unable to pay their admission fees. This order will create anarchy in the whole admission process that too at times when colleges are facing financial hardships. The order is also discriminatory as private universities are not covered under the move. It is pertinent to add here that Panjab University had a few years ago, started with a joint admission portal with regard to BCom admissions. Because of its intrinsic disorganisation, this was later limited to the colleges of Chandigarh only. The government without learning a lesson from that fiasco is establishing yet another joint online admission portal. This is highly questionable. We feel that this decision has been taken without taking the stakeholders into confidence and they were not even consulted.Dr NR SharmaA failed system, Edu sector will collapseThe Higher Education Secretary letter memo no. HED-EDU IORSRV/2/2021- 3EDUI/1291-1293 dated 10.05.2021 infomed to start joint online admission portal for Punjabi University Patiala; Panjab University, Chandigarh; and Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar; from the current session won’t be much beneficial to students. The Punjab Government Act, 1956, provides autonomy to the universities to frame regulations regarding admissions, conduct of examinations etc. as they are different in many ways. The model of online admission doesn’t suit the situation as the decreasing number of admissions in the colleges over the past three to four years. Online admission process was launched in the past for BEd and BCom courses, which failed. If the same failed system is imposed on degree colleges now, it will surely lead to the collapse of all institutions of higher education of Punjab. The online admission portal will also deprive many students of higher education as they will not be able to pay fee in one go.Dr Sarita BahlPoor connectivity in rural areas a concernMost of the students studying in Mukerian Dasmesh Girls College hail from rural/remote areas and there is always a problem of network connectivity there. These students also need teachers’ guidance to choose courses, which they will be unable to avail effectively through online mode. Many students also opt to change subjects after getting admission and this will be difficult with the new decision made. In view of these problems, I being the Principal of the girls’ college request the government to defer common online admission portal and continue with the counselling process for admission to colleges through physical mode for the students’ convenience.Dr Karamjeet KaurStudents from rural belt won’t be benefitted muchQUESTIONCancellation of CBSE/ICSE Class XII exams has evoked a mixed response. Those wishing to pursue higher studies abroad are baffled. Do you think it will impact the future of students who wanted to enrol themselves in foreign universities?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to jalandhardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (June 10).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/amid-pandemic-blues-virtual-counselling-is-need-of-hour-264794
07-06-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Craze for foreign shores lands youths in trouble||Tribune News ServiceNawanshahr, June 6Cases under the Punjab Travel Professional Regularisation Act — 2014 are witnessing a rise in various police stations as people of Punjab have been falling prey to false promises made by travel agents. A case has been registered against two travel agents on the complaint of Amandeep Singh of Aur block in Nawanshahr recently.As per the information, Amandeep’s father reposed trust in travel agents after they convinced him that they had already sent several people to Canada and would help his son reach abroad too. For this, the family had already paid Rs18 lakh and a visa was also issued in this case.“It was only after I reached Delhi airport that I got to know that the visa was fake. Baffled, I came back and asked the travel agents to give my money back, but got nothing,” said Amandeep, in his complaint to the police.The police have now registered a case under Section 406 (Punishment for criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating) and the Punjab Travel Protection Regulation Act 2014.Another similar case was registered recently from Nawanshahr.Jaswinder Ram (27) from Behram, in his complaint to the police, said he gave Rs2.5 lakh to a travel agent with a promise that he would send him to Italy. Jaswinder, who belongs to an economically weaker family, said he had extreme difficulty in arranging the money. He took loans from various parties, but the travel agent failed to send him abroad.One of the most talked about cases was of Gurbaksh Kaur (43) and Reena Rani (23) of Garhi Fateh Khan village, in which the police have filed cases against the accused for allegedly sending them to Saudi Arabia instead of Malaysia.The case had grabbed headlines as Reena had also sent a video to her family, wherein she was seen crying and asking her brother to get them back home, else they would die.Angad Singh, an MLA, had written to the Minister of External Affairs (MEA), to intervene into the matter and rescue the woman-daughter duo.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/craze-for-foreign-shores-lands-youths-in-trouble-264496
07-06-2021||---||Doing Covid survey earlier, now she is cleaning ponds||Jalandhar, June 6ASHA workers have seen it all! From performing their duties, protesting for their rights to now working under MGNREGA to feed their families.One such worker is Amritpal from Nussi village. To make both ends meet, she has started working as a MGNREGA worker too. She started on May 2 and has been doing the work of cleaning the ponds since then. “When we don’t have much work, we switch to other jobs, because we want to run our families and thus earning is important,” she said.ASHA workers had recently completed the survey of Covid patients and have been preparing the data, Some of them have now started doing other jobs too.Amritpal claimed that as ASHA workers, they usually earn Rs 3,500 per month, and get paid according to the work they do. She also said since the beginning of the pandemic, they have been working as the frontline workers, but they were never given their dues. “Our demands are also not met. We are not given masks, sanitisers, even when we fall in one of the most vulnerable categories because we deal with people suffering from the virus,” she said.Amritpal married off her daughters with much difficulty and said she was the sole bread winner with her husband also not earning much. She shared how they people used to say all kind of things against them in the beginning of the pandemic. “Log saanu kehnde si ki etho jaao, tusi hi coronavirus laike aande ho’. It feels bad hearing all this while performing our duties that too for a meager income,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/doing-covid-survey-earlier-now-she-is-cleaning-ponds-264497
07-06-2021||---||Jalandhar district logs 5 deaths, 115 new +ve cases||Jalandhar, June 6With 115 new Covid positive cases reported on Sunday, the total district tally reached 61,200. As many as five Covid deaths have been reported from the district. With this, the death toll in the district reached 1,409. As many as 58,017 persons have recovered from Covid in the district, while the number of active cases in Jalandhar is 1,774.3 deaths in KapurthalaIn Kapurthala, 41 persons were reported positive on Sunday, taking the total number of positive cases to 17,043. The total number of deaths reported was three. Those who succumbed to Covid include a 78-year-old man from Panchat city, a 60-year-old man from Sahni village and an 80-year-old man from Sukhia Nangal. With this, the death toll in Kapurthala has reached 493.148 test +ve in HoshiarpurThe district reported one more Coid-19 fatality on Sunday, taking the death toll to 930, while 148 new cases pushed the infection count in the district to 29,317.As many as 2,629 new samples of people with suspected flu-like symptoms taken on Sunday, total number of samples taken in the district so far had reached to 5,91,751. According to the reports received from the lab, 5,62,306 are negative, while the reports of 3, 305 samples are awaited and 570 samples are invalid. Dr Ranjit Singh Ghotra, Civil Surgeon, has informed that the number of active cases is 1,056, while the number of patients who have recovered is 27,331. The reports of 3,041 samples were received on Sunday, out of which148 positive cases were reported today. A 62-year-old woman of Bhim Nagar, in Hoshiarpur city, died at Civil Hospital, Hoshiarpur.Nawanshahr reports 20 casesThe district reported 20 more Covid-19 cases on Sunday, taking the inflectional count to 11,178. The district now has 252 active cases, of which 218 are under home isolation.The number of recovered cases is 10,579 (94.23 per cent). Urban Banga, Rahon and Mukandpur did not report even a single case on Sunday. As many as 26 patients are admitted to L-II and 11 in L-III Covid care facilities in local hospitals.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-district-logs-5-deaths-115-new-ve-cases-264498
07-06-2021||---||Now, jabs for 18+ in Jalandhar after June 10||Jalandhar, June 6After the state government scrapped the sale of Covaxin vaccination at higher prices to private hospitals in the district, the vaccination of the 18-44 age group has been suspended at all private hospitals in Jalandhar.Meanwhile, 10 private hospitals, which were to carry out vaccination, sent their vaccine doses back on Saturday. Those aged between 18 and 44 years would now have to wait for some more days before vaccine doses arrive in the district.The Health Department said the vaccination of above 45 beneficiaries continued at 80 session sites. Besides, the vaccination of health workers, frontline workers and government employees under 45 is also being carried out.However, the vaccination of above 18 remains suspended until at least June 10 after which the doses are expected to arrive in the district.Those who had applied for vaccination, they would have to re-register again. The vaccination of the 18-44 age group is now available only at three session sites - HMV, KMV and Lyallpur Khalsa College for Rs 543 as announced by the Jalandhar Deputy Commissioner.While nearly 3,000 people were vaccinated in Jalandhar on Saturday, as many as 6,000 were vaccinated on Friday. The session sites in the district are also flooded with queries about the 18 plus category. Sources said: “The majority of queries we receive at the Civil Hospital site is regarding 18 plus vaccines. But we have to turn people away because at present only 45 plus are being vaccinated there. There were only 90 beneficiaries reporting for the above 45 category jab on Saturday.”District Immunisation officer Dr Rakesh Chopra said, “At present, we have 6,390 doses of Covishield and 5,620 doses of Covaxin with us. The drive for above 18 plus has been suspended everywhere except the three session sites announced by the DC and one private hospital, which independently procured it. The 18 plus vaccination will begin after June 10 when the vaccination is expected to arrive. At present, jabs are being administered to above 45-plus at 80 session sites.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/now-jabs-for-18-in-jalandhar-after-june-10-264499
07-06-2021||---||Sikh bodies observe Operation Bluestar anniversary in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, June 6Various Sikh organisations observed the anniversary of the Operation Blue today.Several speakers shared their views on the need for equality among minorities and also spoke about the historical importance of the day and the lives lost to operation. Key speakers on the occasion were Ambedakar Sena president Harbhajan Suman, Imam of the Jama Masjid Phagwara Owais-Ur-Rahman, Muslim leader Ghulam Sabba and historian and speaker on the incidents of June 1984 Alliance for Sikhs Coordinator Parmapal Singh Sabhran.The event was dedicated to the unity of minorities in the nation. A needy Sikh entrepreneur who lost his business during the lockdown and the Covid pandemic was given financial help on the occasion. Sikhs for Equality Foundation director Sukhdev Singh Phagwara also spoke on the occasion. Amarjit Singh Sandhu, Harpret Singh, Iqbal Singh, Sarabjt Singh were among others present on the occasion.Meanwhile, various Sikh groups also held a protest at the Guru Nanak Mission Chowk today on the anniversary of the Operation Bluestar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sikh-bodies-observe-operation-bluestar-anniversary-in-jalandhar-264500
07-06-2021||Ajay Joshi||Giving it back to his roots!||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 6He was still a teenager when he moved out of his village to earn a living for himself and his family in Dubai. Even in the 1970s, Punjabis craved for greener pastures for a well-settled career, says Amolakh Singh Gakhal (62), a native of Gakhal village here.Transformed into a ‘Smart village’Gakhal is no more a village where residents would face problems of overflowing sewerage emanating foul smell all day long. A large pond filled with foul water was treated and drained out of the village. With his donations, a beautiful park and a parking space were constructed, replacing the pond. A slew of upgrades and choicest facilities are credited to him in his village. In the past two decades, he has developed a stadium in the village, constructed a computer lab for senior secondary students at Government high school Gakhal, sponsored education of children from underprivileged families and funded marriage of girls from poor families.Though he had migrated overseas, he never forgot his roots and consistently worked for the development of his village and the ones left behind here. Gakhal is no more a village, where the residents would face problems of overflowing sewerage emanating foul smell all day long. A large pond filled with foul water was treated and drained out of the village. With his donations, a beautiful park and a parking space were also constructed, replacing the pond. A slew of upgrades and choicest facilities are credited to him in his village. In the past two decades, he has developed a stadium in the village, constructed a computer lab for senior secondary students at Government high school Gakhal, sponsored education of children from underprivileged families and funded marriage of girls from poor families.Besides this, walking on the footprints of his father, Nasser Singh, who was also a wrestler, he also sponsors sports tournaments in his village and at the Surjit Hockey stadium. To motivate youngsters to opt sports, he keeps award prizes in lakhs.“In 1975, I was just 17 when I moved to Dubai to eke out a living. Few years later, I managed to get an American visa and shifted to America. Initially after doing some odd jobs, I opened my own transport company in 1994. Since then, there is no looking back. With sheer hard work, we also gave employment to Punjabis there. While I was working there, my hear always longed for the betterment of my motherland. It feels satisfying when I manage to do something good for my own people. After moving abroad, the one thing that I realised the most is the importance of education. While I could not complete my education, I made sure that the youth in my village doesn’t remain uneducated. I also urge NRI’s to come forward to adopt 2-4 kids for providing them education,” added Gakhal.Donning multiple hats, he has also opened his entertainment company and produced two Pollywood movies. He also visits his village twice a year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/giving-it-back-to-his-roots-264508
07-06-2021||Aparna Banerji||Jalandhar Municipal Corporation, Health Department figures on Covid fatalities just don’t match||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 6The records of the Health Department and the Municipal Corporation, Jalandhar, show a mismatch of around 200 Covid deaths in May. The data for April also had a gap of 54 Covid deaths.The mismatch in the figures raises a question if the Covid deaths in the district are being under-reported.A Health Department official said, “The death of those in home isolation might go unreported, leading to a mismatch in Covid death figures given by the two authorities.”While the MC records say 485 persons died due to Covid-19 in the district in May, the Health Department puts the figure at 296. The Covid death figures, as per the MC and Health Department records, for April were 321 and 167, respectively. As per Health Department records, there were 195 Covid deaths in the district in March.Official spokesperson for Covid Dr TP Singh said, “We will impart special training to our teams for maintaining proper records.” MC Commissioner Karunesh Sharma said, “The cause of death in the MC certificates is recorded as per the documents provided by institutions (hospitals) where the patients died, or as per the statement of their wards and supporting documents.”As per the MC records, the total number of deaths (1,947) in the district in May this year went up by 64 per cent as compared with the figure (1,237) for May, 2020.The total number of deaths in March, April and May this year stood at 7,060, while the corresponding figure last year was 3,845, clearly an increase of about 93 per cent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-municipal-corporation-health-department-figures-on-covid-fatalities-just-dont-match-264672
07-06-2021||---||Pregnancy never deterred this Jalandhar doctor from serving in Covid ward||Jalandhar, June 5During the peak days of Covid when everyone used to think twice before stepping out of home, Dr Richa Ahuja (27) set an unusual example. While she was full-term pregnant, she served as the nodal officer at a Covid care centre in Basti Guzan.While it is common to see pregnant women being asked to take all precautions and avoid contact with people, Dr Richa Ahuja, a physiotherapist by profession, remained on the frontline by visiting the Covid centre unfailingly and taking care of all its functioning. Even now, when she has a three-day baby Aahan by her side, she says that she continues to keep working from home at Adarsh Nagar here.“The CCTVs installed at the centre have been linked to my phone. Even now when the staff needs to consult me for any patient or availability of any required provision, they call me and seek my advice. I cannot say no to them. The centre had started under my supervision and I kept handling things till the end,” she elaborated.Asked if her family objected to her working during pregnancy and even now, she says, “Not at all. Not just I, even my husband Karan Ahuja, who is a physiotherapist too, were working together at the centre. I was working at a charitable hospital run by Basti Guzan Gurdwara for the past 1.5 years when the management led by ex-Senior Deputy Mayor Kamaljit Bhatia decided to start a Covid centre and I volunteered to serve here. I had seen my mother suffer various health issues due to Covid-19. It was then that I decided to serve people affected by Covid. I took all precautions till I served at the centre and thankfully remained safe and sound till the end.” She added that she would continue to work remotely as much as possible even during her leaves.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/pregnancy-never-deterred-this-jalandhar-doctor-from-serving-in-covid-ward-264259
