08-06-2021||Jalandhar||After Covid, MIS-C is threatening children||After witnessing a surge in Covid positive cases followed by mucormycosis or black fungus cases, Jalandhar district is now seeing an increase in multisystem inflammatory syndrome in children (MIS-C) cases.This autoimmune disease has been reported among children (aged from 6 years to 10) who had contracted Covid. The youngest patient in the district is stated to be a 10-month-old baby.Symptoms of MIS-CEmergency warning signsAs many as 40 cases of MIS-C have been reported in the last two months. Patients from Malerkotla, Mukerian and Himachal Pradesh, have got their children admitted to hospitals in Jalandhar.Followed by high-grade fever, the patient suffers pain, inflammation in various organs and could lead to serious cardiac problems if not treated in time.A few days ago, Una-based Manmohan Singh Dhiman’s 8-year-old son developed a mysterious fever, which refused to come down. After two to three days, there was pain in stomach followed by headache, nausea and vomiting. Initially, Dhiman took his child to a hospital in Hoshiarpur, which referred him to Jalandhar, where the 8-year-old was diagnosed with MIS-C.Dr Gurdev Chowdhary, Pediatrician, Ankur Hospital (Jalandhar), said, “We are getting regular cases of MIS-C for the last two months. A total of 40 cases have been reported at our hospital alone. MIS-C is an auto immune disease, which is seen in children who have been infected with Covid-19 at some point earlier. It does not matter whether the child had symptoms of infection or not. Children who test positive for Covid antibodies get MIS-C. These children suffer from high-grade fever, rashes, redness in eyes and inflammated joints. Different body parts can get inflamed, including heart, lungs, kidneys, brain, skin, eyes, or gastrointestinal organs.”Dr Gurdev said, “In many cases, families are not even aware their children might have been Covid positive. It’s not an infectious disease, but it is very severe. At least eight of our patients have been on ventilators. If not treated in time, the disease can also cause cardiac issues in children in future.”Dhiman said, “Our child had severe stomach pain. Intially, he had fever, nausea, intense stomach pain. Later, redness in eyes, rashes, dipping oxygen level, rising pulse rate and his platelet count reduced to 18,000. Doctors revived him and now he is fine.”While all the patients admitted to Ankur Hospital have survived, Dr Chowdhary has a word for caution, “We have a special children ICU and have had severe MIS-C cases. The disease is not infectious and children with the MIS-C can stay with family. However, since it’s very serious, people should observe Covid-appropriate behaviour for protection of their kids.”Dr Sahil Vikas, Paediatrician, Jalandhar Civil Hospital, said, “We haven’t received any case of MIS-C in Jalandhar so far, but formal monitoring of cases reported at private hospitals has begun. Reports are being compiled and will be sent to the higher authorities.”As per the Health Department, 11 cases of MIS-C have been reported from various private hospitals. Of these two were from Punjab Institute of Medical Sciences (PIMS) and the rest from the Ankur Hopistal. No case of MIS-C has been reported from the Civil Hospital yet.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/after-covid-mis-c-is-threatening-children-265249
08-06-2021||Jalandhar||Jalandhar sees 4 deaths, 113 new cases||With 113 fresh Covid positive cases reported in the district, the tally has increased to 61,313 today and with four deaths, the toll has risen to 1,413. A total of 58,267 persons have recovered from Covid in the district, while the number of active cases in Jalandhar is 1,613.4 die in KapurthalaKapurthala district today reported 49 fresh cases with which, the tally in the district has increased to 17,093. Also, four persons died of the deadly virus in the district on Monday. The deceased include a 35-year-old man from Kapurthala city, a 75-year-old woman from Pamma village, a 60-year-old man from Phagwara and a 70-year-old man from Lakhan Kalla village. The total number of deaths in Kapurthala district has reached 497.2 die in HoshiarpurWith 86 persons testing positive for Covid, the district tally reached 27,456 on Monday. Also, two deaths were reported in the district today, which pushed the toll to 932.Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Singh Ghotra said the number of active cases in the district was 973, while the number of patients who had recovered from the disease was 27,498. Of the total persons testing Covid-positive on Monday, 79 were from Hoshiarpur district and seven were from other districts. The two patients who succumbed to the deadly virus today have been identified as a 49-year-old Langeri village resident of Garhshankar and a 40-year-old Piplanwala locality in Hoshiarpur.The total number of samples collected in the district so far is 5,95,471, of which, 5,65,843 were negative, report of 3,401 was awaited and 588 samples were invalid.20 test +ve in NawanshahrNawanshahr district reported 20 Covid cases for the third consecutive day, taking the tally to 11,198. No death was reported from the district on Monday. The district now has 230 active cases, of which 201 are under home isolation. The number of recovered cases is 10,628 (94.90 per cent). Urban Banga and Urban Rahon blocks did not report a single case on Monday. As many as 28 patients are admitted to L-II and 10 in L-III Covid care facilities in local hospitals.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-sees-4-deaths-113-new-cases-265252
08-06-2021||Jalandhar||Seeking regularisation, teachers hold protest||A union of temporary government teachers, working under the Education Guarantee Scheme (EGS), Alternative and Innovation Education (AIE) and other schemes, today held a protest in the city.The teachers gathered at the Desh Bhagat Yadgar Hall from where they marched towards the district administrative complex to hand over their memorandum to the Deputy Commissioner. The teachers led by district president Harpreet Kaur said they had been teaching under the government schemes for the past 18 years but had not been regularised yet.The teachers, most of whom are Bed-qualified, said they were drawing only Rs6,000 a month which was too low an amount for them to meet their family needs. The teachers said state Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla had called their state leaders for talks on June 15. “We are apprehensive that these talks are just delaying tactics. If our demands are not accepted in the meeting, we will intensify the stir. Through our memorandum, we have come to convey our message to the minister through the Deputy Commissioner,” said Harpreet.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/seeking-regularisation-teachers-hold-protest-265253
08-06-2021||Our CorrespondentTalwara||Fire breaks out at Axis Bank, currency safe||A fire broke out at Axis Bank situated in main market on Monday at 6 pm. Short circuit was stated to be a reason behind the incident. Employees of the bank tried to control the flames with the help of a fire extinguisher.Navroop Singh, a security guard, immediately informed the BBMB Fire Department, which rushed to the spot. It took firefighters more than one hour to douse the flames. Vivek Kumar, manager of the bank, said electrical equipment got damaged and currency notes were safe.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/fire-breaks-out-at-axis-bank-currency-safe-265256
08-06-2021||Jalandhar||Teens making fruitful use of lockdown time||In these Covid days when children are having a lighter study schedule and are mostly confined within the safe precincts of their houses, they are often seen killing their time playing video games and watching movies online. But there are some children who are making the most of this free time to hone their skills, come out with something really creative and show these to the world.Meet Harsimran Kaur (16), who is a student of Class XII (humanities stream) at Cambridge International School in Kapurthala. During the lockdown period, she has written a lot of poetry and fiction on various topics, including lockdown. Besides, she has now penned her third book “Clementines on my poetry table”.She had authored her first book “The best I can do is to write my heart out” when she was just 14. The book consists of 60 poems and 20 quotes. Her second book, “I am perfectly imperfect”, is a 25,000-worded fiction, which is about being a fatalist and trusting one’s destiny. She had got it published when she had turned 15.Asked for her flare for writing, she tells, “I have always been fascinated by the art of storytelling at a very tender age. Observing other people’s impressions led me to discover a wide range of notions and thoughts in myself, which I think made me mature a bit early and develop an affinity with expressing myself through writing. Having been an ardent fan of literature since my childhood days, I combined literature and my philosophy by finally putting the thoughts/ideas on paper and expressing images from my inner world to the outer world by publishing my books.”Her father Jagtar Singh Mand is a government schoolteacher. As for her interests, she says, “I value raising my voice in those communities where education is considered a bane rather than a boon. I have been visiting many government schools around my area and improving their ideologies for society’s development.”Harsimran shares that she has been writing for climate change and has even planted around 50 plants alongside the road near her house and cleaned the surroundings of her house during the Covid-19 pandemic. Her poem “The Earth’, which is part of her new book, beautifully talks about motherly love that earth gives to its inhabitants who in return maltreat it throughout their lives.Like Harsimran, Ananda Verma (15), a student of Cambridge Girls’ School, Urban Estate, too used her time wisely. When her Class X board exams were cancelled, she did not sit back and rest. Instead, she focused on her passion of writing vintage letters, designing phone covers and making greetings.“I got a number of orders from my friends and their families. Of late, I have started doing designing on handmade paper. I reuse waste paper and old newspapers in the use for paper mache. Before the lockdown, I had taken a one-year training from an art teacher which really helped in improving my skills. My calligraphy works and book marks are also in demand in my circle of friends,” said Ananda.She adds, “I also acquired baking skills during this time. I have been making choco lava cakes, beetroot halwa, pineapple and raisin cakes and walnut cakes. I want to indulge in more baking in days to come. It is yoga that keeps her fresh and energetic throughout the day. I have been practising it for many years, but got to know about its real benefits now during the lockdown days,” she beams.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/teens-making-fruitful-use-of-lockdown-time-265258
08-06-2021||Hoshiarpur||2 arrested with pistol, bullets||159 students clear NMMS examHoshiarpur: Hoshiarpur district has been ranked third in the National Means-cum-Merit Scholarship (NMMS) exam. Providing details, Gursharan Singh, District Education Officer, Secondary, said 159 students from the district had qualified for the scholarship, results of which were declared on Sunday. He said 2,210 students from the state had passed the scholarship examination. These students are entitled for a scholarship of Rs1,000 per month. He said to train the students for this exam, special teams were formed at district, block and school level. ocThree held with intoxicantsHoshiarpur: The district police arrested three smugglers with intoxicants on Sunday night. The Tanda police arrested Rajwinder Singh, alias Raju, a resident of Moha village, and seized 40 grams of intoxicating powder from him last evening, from a crossing near Hambran village. In another case, the Tanda police arrested Vinod Kumar, a resident of Chakk Sheron village from Dashmesh Nagar, while he was coming from Jhavan village, and seized 55-gm intoxicating powder from him. The Bullowal police arrested Jaspal Singh, a resident of Nasrala village, and seized five grams of heroin from him. Separate cases under the NDPS Act have been registered. OCOne booked for abducting minorHoshiarpur: The Chabbewal police have registered a case against a youth for abducting a minor girl on the pretext of marriage. According to information, a worker of a brick kiln located in Jattpur village, told the police that his minor girl, who is a student of Class VII, was abducted by the accused, Bunty of Dhtana village in Muzaffarpur district, who was working in the kiln with him, by luring her of marriage. The police have registered an FIR. OCOne held with smuggled liquorHoshiarpur: The Hariana police have arrested a smuggler and seized 11 bottles of smuggled liquor from him. A patrolling party of the police had stopped a man while he was going from Dussehra ground side carrying a plastic bag at 11 pm last night. On search, 11 bottles of liquor which had a ‘For sale in Chandigarh UT only’ tag on it were recovered from him. The accused Bodh Raj of Mohalla Ranka, Hariana, has been booked under the Excise Act. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/2-arrested-with-pistol-bullets-265260
08-06-2021||Jalandhar||This doctor heals minds with ecotherapy||Dr Nirdosh Goel (64), a former head of the Department of Psychiatry, Civil Hospital, who has bagged laurels for his famous works in the district, is now popular in his area because of his ‘Green House’. Living in the Green Park Colony in the city, his clinic is also a cynosure of all eyes. One can gauge Dr Goel’s love for greens as one passes by his house.Plants stimulate happy hormonesThere is also a small area outside the house where he has grown several plants. He is a true admirer of nature and environment. Goel was always inclined towards the greens. Not just his house, his clinic also dons the look of a green corner which he believes helps in healing the minds of people. The visitors can’t help but appreciate his efforts of coming up with the unique idea of ecotherapy. “It makes the heart and mind of people suffering from psychological issues happy and healthy. This corner has become so famous among people that they even come and click their selfies here,” Dr Goel said. Almost every area of his home is decorated with radiant pots, flowers, and trees. During monsoons, his house becomes a special attraction, with numerous yellow, pink, red, mauve, orange, flowers giving a pleasing and dazzling look.“Whenever I go out with my wife, she looks for fresh vegetables, and I look for a new variety of flower,” he laughs. He ensures that he gets the best of the varieties of the plants from various parts of the region. Dr Goel has a full-time gardener tending his greens. “I don’t compromise with my plants whenever it comes to looking after them,” he adds.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/this-doctor-heals-minds-with-ecotherapy-265265
08-06-2021||---||32K hectares to come under direct sowing of paddy: DC||Jalandhar, June 7Around 32,000 hectares of land in the district would be placed under the direct paddy sowing, which is double the last year’s figure, said Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori on Saturday while visiting the direct paddy sowing demonstration plot in Nussi village.The DC said, “This technique saves water up to 25 per cent while farmers need not to do puddling which also saves labour costs. This year’s target is to place 1.71 lakh hectare of land under paddy cultivation out of which a total of 32,000 hectares of land will be sown with direct seeded rice (DSR) technique.”The DC interacted with the progressive farmers who have been doing direct paddy sowing for last few years. Farmer Baljeet Singh, Onkar Singh and Lakhwinder Singh told that the direct paddy sowing had yielded promising results as they were able to save Rs 5,000 per acre.Pointing out further, Chief Agriculture Officer Dr Surinder Singh apprised the DC that as many as 200 farmers had already procured direct seeded rice drill in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/32k-hectares-to-come-under-direct-sowing-of-paddy-dc-265266
08-06-2021||Jalandhar||‘Ecosystem Restoration’ on their mind||An online inter-school contest was organised by HMV Collegiate Senior Secondary School in collaboration with the Punjab State Council for Science and Technology on the theme ‘Ecosystem Restoration’.The contests were conducted in order to sensitise the students about environment conservation and sustainability in which 450 students from various schools of Jalandhar, Kapurthala, Ludhiana, Amritsar, Tarn Taran and Jamshedpur participated and showcased their artistic outlook by following the tagline of the events – ‘Reimagine, Recreate and Restore’.In the competition ‘Trash to Treasure’, Manayata of Swami Sant Dass Public School here secured the first position, Sudipa of HMV Collegiate and Jayanti Bansal of DAV Public School, Pakhowal, Ludhiana, secured the second and the third positions, respectively.In slogan-writing competition, the first position was bagged by Samridhi Garg of DAV Public School, Harsimar Singh Chaggar of DAV Public School secured the second position and the third position was won by Kritika of Swami Sant Dass Public School here.In ‘One-Minute Video Message’ competition, Arsheen Kaur of Swami Sant Dass Public School attained the first position, Tanvi of DAV Public School secured the second position and the third position was attained by Pragati of Swami Sant Dass Public School here and Adeeti of HMV Collegiate.In poster making competition, Shrishti Nautiyal of BSF Senior Secondary School bagged the first position, Ayush Kumar Jha of DAV Public School, Bistupur, Jamshedpur, won the second position, Manjot of Swami Sant Dass Public School here attained the third position. The consolation was awarded to Mehak Chopra of HMV Collegiate and Musahida of Government Girls Senior Secondary School, Nehru Garden here.Meanwhile, Principal Dr Ajay Sareen and the school coordinator, Meenakshi Sayal, planted various medicinal and ornamental plants on the campus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ecosystem-restoration-on-their-mind-265267
08-06-2021||Kapurthala||Health Dept screens 2.5L for Covid-19 in rural belt||Under the Punjab Government’s Mission Fateh-2, teams of the Health Department screened more than 2.5 lakh people from May 22 to June 4 for Covid-19 in rural areas.The aim of the screening was to check the symptoms of the virus in people to prevent the rapid spread of the infection. A total of 1,408 people with Covid symptoms were identified during the screening and were told by health professionals about the necessary medication, counselling and virus prevention.Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal said Mission Fateh-2 was launched in Kapurthala district, under which 14,380 houses were surveyed on the first day (May 22) and 67,762 people were screened. Similarly, till June 4, a total of 54,808 households were visited and 2,54,277 people were screened, out of which 1,408 people were detected with Covid symptoms.A total of 7,783 people were tested for Covid-19 during the campaign, out of which 37 positive cases were found while 7,509 were negative. The results of the rest are pending. Victory kits have also been given to all positive people.The DC said the campaign also covered remote villages where it was very difficult to go and it was also difficult for people to come for the test.Testing at Mand Baupur across the Beas was also held where a team of the Health Department visited the village beyond the river.Under Mohanpreet Singh, SMO, Tibba, the team reached Mand Baupur by crossing the Beas to approach the village bordering the river. Sampling was done by a team of four health workers at Mand Baupur by boat so that healthcare could be delivered to every person. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/health-dept-screens-2-5l-for-covid-19-in-rural-belt-265269
08-06-2021||Jalandhar||Online workshop on Gond paintings||Delhi Public School in association with the Society for Promotion of Indian Classical Music and Culture amongst Youth (SPICMACAY) on Monday hosted a live workshop followed by online interaction with art prodigy Japani Shyam, an acclaimed artist of ‘Tribal Gond Art’ on Zoom.The event provided a perfect gateway for self-expression and communication and a golden opportunity to learn the intricacies of Gond art that is imaginative, vibrant and mystical and truly encapsulates the essence of tribal art. Parents and students from various schools enthusiastically attended the workshop and explored and witnessed this wonderful art. They also followed the master artist’s guidelines and created stunning masterpieces of their own.Students also interacted with the artist and gained insight about her work and the art she pursues. Principal Ritu Kaul thanked Japani and SPICMACAY for the exquisite workshop which helped students appreciate and experience the richness of India’s heritage and this mesmerising tribal art in close proximity.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/online-workshop-on-gond-paintings-265271
08-06-2021||Environmentalist Balbir Singh Seechewal along with his sewadars planted saplings on the banks of the Kali Bein to send a message of ecological conservation. Speaking on the occasion||For ecological conservation||Covid hygeine kits for de-addiction centresAn international organisation, “Alliance India”, provided about 100 Covid hygiene kits to be distributed to the persons who quit drugs and work for the awareness against the ill effects of drugs recently. The intiative was carried out at the Kapurthala de-addiction centre under Dr Sandeep Bhola, supported by Kapurthala Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal, Civil Surgeon Dr Parminder Kaur and SMO Dr Sandeep Dhawan. Each packet provided to the beneficiaries included a hand bag, gloves and masks, band-aid, cotton swabs, soap, hand sanitiser, sanitary pads and Mala-D Tablets (for women). The Deputy Commissioner assured them that proper education, training, employment, businesses and loans for them would be ensured etc. on priority. Civil Surgeon Dr Parminder Kaur and Doctors Sandeep Bhola said they would also be given priority by the Health Department for various services such as vaccination and guidance etc.Roping in children, youth for a causePushpa Gujral Science City collaborated with the UNEP (United Nations Environmental Programme) to jointly observe World Environment Day with the Punjab Pollution Control Board and the Centre for Environment Communication, New Delhi. A panel discussion on “Ecosystem Restoration to Achieve SDG Targets” was organised on the occasion which was chaired by UNDP Regional Head Dr Vikas Verma; representative of United Nations University-CRIS, Belgium, Dr Nidhi Nagabhatla, and PPCB Member Secretary Er Krunesh Garg. The panel discussion was moderated by Director, General, Pushpa Gujral Science City, Dr Neelima Jerath. An SD-ASK programme (Sustainable Development – Attitudes, Skills and Knowledge Programme) focused on children and youth was launched on the occasion at the Science City. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/for-ecological-conservation-265278
08-06-2021||Jalandhar||Roshne tops in university exams||Online Research Forum organisedKanya Maha Vidyalaya, in collaboration with Institute’s Innovation Council, organised a research forum. In this forum, Dr Kuldeep Singh Nagla, former Head and Associate Prof, Department of Instrumentation and Control Engineering, Dr BR Ambedkar National Institute of Technology, was the resource person. Dr Nagla delivered a talk on Introduction to Intellectual Property Rights. Principal Prof Dr Atima Sharma Dwivedi stressed that participation in research activities and listening to the expert talks act as a big motivation for all the academicians. Referring to the 12 IPRs acquired recently by KMV, she affirms that the KMV faculty has potential to do wonders in research. Dr Kuldip Singh Nagla explained the Indian patent system and its requirements and also discussed the concepts of patent, design, copyrights and trademark. He stressed that it is important to identify what actually qualify for a new invention for registration.41 students selected by mncsCT Group of Institutions organised various online placement drives for diploma, management, commerce, animation and multimedia, computer applications and engineering students of 2021 passing out batch. The leading industries namely Ikarus 3D, JBM, Pukhraj, IDFC Bank, Extramarks Education, Oceana Tech conducted their rounds as per their protocols via group discussion, online test and followed by video conferencing for personal interview rounds. As per their eligibility criteria, approximately 358 students from CT Group of Institutions appeared for the interview by sitting at their homes itself. Out of these, 103 students were shortlisted of the final round and 41 students got selected by MNCs. Selected candidates were offered the pay packages starting from Rs 1.8 lakh to 15 lakh per annum.Webinar on groundwater mgmtBotany and Environment Science Department of DAV University organised a webinar on “Challenges to Groundwater Management”. Dr Raj Bala, Assistant Prof in the Department of Botany and Environment Sciences, started the event. Dean Academics (officiating) Dr RK Seth introduced the speaker Dr Sunil Mittal, Dean School of Environment and Earth Sciences, Prof and Head of the Department of Environment Sciences and Technology, Central University of Punjab, Bathinda. DAV University Vice Chancellor (officiating) Dr Jasbir Rishi emphasised on the importance of ground water advised students to inculcate awareness about conservation and rational use of water among public. The webinar was attended by 100 participants including students and faculties from various disciplines.Refresher programmeThe Department of Mechanical Engineering, DAV Institute of Engineering and Technology, is organising a week long AICTE-ISTE (All India Council for Technical Education and Indian Society for Technical Education) sponsored Induction/Refresher programme for faculty members of technical education institutes.The event was inaugurated today with participation from across the country. Titled as “Advance Materials and Processes for Sustainable Intelligent Manufacturing”, the programme has been conceived to provide the knowhow on current state of research and development in the field of materials and manufacturing processes especially with focus on sustainability and was conducted in completely online mode. Almost 100 faculty members from different states of the country, including Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Maharashtra, Delhi-NCR, Punjab etc. are participating in the event to enhance their knowledge about the related topics.Eight Students get placementsA placement drive was organised for the students of Polytechnic College of St Soldier Group of Institutions in which Emmbros Autocomp Ltd selected eight students of Mechanical Engineering final year were selected. While congratulating the students and their parents, Chairman Anil Chopra, Vice Chairperson Sangeeta Chopra said that students Sandeep Kumar, Kanal Kumar, Jatinder Singh, Karandeep, Swarjot Singh, Gurpreet Malhar, Manish Mahey and Raman were selected as Trainee Engineers. The students were selected virtually through Skype by the company HR Nirbhay Singh. College Principal Jatin Verma told the students that the company is an engineering equipment manufacturer and the company is known worldwide for its quality.Dr Stya Paul rememberedApeejay College of Fine Arts remembered its Founder Chairman Dr Stya Paul on his 11th death anniversary. On this occasion, Dr Sucharita Sharma, Director, Apeejay Education Society, and Principal Dr Neerja Dhingra paid a floral homage to Dr Stya Paul. In this online prayer meet, Principal Dr Neerja Dhingra remembered the vision and mission of life of Dr Stya Paul. She said that he believed in women empowerment and dedicated his entire life for promotion of women education in the region. In this prayer meet, Dr Amita Mishra, Head, Department of Music Vocal and Dr Vivek Verma presented melodious bhajans in remembrance of Dr Stya Paul. Dr Anjana Kumari, Head, Department of Hindi, compered the entire event. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/roshne-tops-in-university-exams-265279
