09-06-2021||Jalandhar||Apeejay Students shine in Tech Fest||Summer Camp organisedIvy World School organised a special summer camp for the students of Kindergarten wing and Classes 1 – VIII. The motive of this camp was to focus primarily on the creative talents of the participating children and to take them out of the routine of learning stress and enjoy the summer in a fruitful manner. The camp saw an overwhelming participation by the students, eager to avail the rich experience this camp offered in sports, craft, music and dance. Numerous activities were meticulously designed and organised for the children to refine their skills as well as to entertain them.Delhi Prant Paryavaran PartiyogitaStudents of Kanya Maha Vidyalaya Collegiate Sr Sec School including Simran Sharma and Ritika of Plus One Arts, Sakshi of Plus One Medical and Prabhjit Kaur of Plus Two Commerce procured certificates of appreciation by participating in online environment conservation activities by the Delhi Prant Paryavaran Partiyogita on World Environment Day. Principal Prof Atima Sharma Dwivedi averred that the students of KMV are fully honed and always participate in plethora of meaningful activities organised by the college for the holistic development.Bandhna Nautiyal 2nd in quiz contestBandhna Nautiyal, a student of Lyallpur Khalsa College, has got second place in the inter-college online quiz competition conducted by DAV College of Education Abohar on the occasion of World Environment Day. Nearly 70 students from different colleges participated in this competition. Principal of the college, Dr Gurpinder Singh Samra, congratulated the winning student and encouraged her to continue such efforts. He said we are proud of our students who not only develop their personality by achieving laurels in academics but also shine in extracurricular activities. He said the environment should be kept clean and we should plant as many trees as possible to take care of the environment so that a pollution free environment could be created.Alumni Talk on state of industryAn online alumni talk was organised by the School of Engineering, Lyallpur Khalsa College Technical Campus. Alumni of various departments shared their experiences in the industry sector and guided their juniors to be industry ready. They encouraged the students and gave pin point solutions that will help the students to increase their employability skills and will become good technocrats. Kajal Satija, alumnus of CSE Department and System Engineer, TCS, highlighted the importance of Java and its position from the industry point of view whereas Muskan Gulati, alumnus of CSE Department and Software Engineer, Bebo Technologies made the validation to the use of Python and its wants in the changing world of technology. Rohit Duggal, alumnus ECE Department Automation Engineer, at Guru Kirpa Automation, Mandi Gobindgarh, made the students aware about the use of automation in industry to increase productivity, accuracy and to reduce manufacturing time and interacted with the students to share his experience related to career and professional life.FDP on Advance TechnologiesPhagwara: GNA University organised a two-day faculty development programme (FDP) on Advance Technologies in 3D and VFX Industry. The FDP was conducted by the VFX Supervisor Magesh Palkrit, Legend 3D. The objective of the FDP was to give the faculty and students of animations knowledge about VFX production and techniques, virtual production process, and game development and case study of Hollywood films. Harsh Chaturvedi, Contiloe Pictures, one of the resource persons of the FDP, shared his experiences in the field of 3D covering up the topics like intro to 3D, various roles in 3D and planning, pros and cons of using 3D and intro to modeling and UV and how to make the most use of it. All these angles were touched in detailed for the better comprehension of the students. Gurdeep Singh Sihra, Pro- Chancellor, GNA University lauded the efforts of the Faculty of Animations and thanked the resource persons for taking interest in the FDP.Online Slogan-writing competitionThe Department of Fine Arts, Kamla Nehru College for Women, Phagwara, conducted an online inter-class slogan writing competition on the theme “Punjabi Culture and Heritage”. A total of 25 students from various classes participated in this competition and exhibited their artistic skills by portraying different aspects of Punjabi culture. First prize was shared by Harleen Kaur (BA-I) and Harleen Kaur (+2), second by Sonali (BA-III) and Tanya Kaur(BA-II) and third by Harmeet Kaur and Kamalpreet Kaur (+2). Roman Kaul (BA II) and Navdeep Mehmi (BA-I) received consolation prize. Dr Priyanka Aeri and Monika acted as the jury members of this competition. Principal Dr Savinder Pal congratulated Dr Sudhamani Sood for organising the competition. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/apeejay-students-shine-in-tech-fest-265832
09-06-2021||Our Correspondent||Inter-college e-poster making competition in Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur, June 8Science and Eco-Club of DAV College of Education, Hoshiarpur, organised an inter-college online e-poster making competition on the theme “Eco System Restoration” to mark World Environment Day.Thirty two participants from different colleges of Panjab University, Chandigarh, participated in the competition. The purpose of this competition was to spread awareness among students to conserve the environment in the highest interest of mankind. Monika Sood, Principal, DAV Senior Secondary School, was the judge of the event.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/inter-college-e-poster-making-competition-in-hoshiarpur-265831
09-06-2021||---||Virtual training stresses on importance of English||Jalandhar, June 8For years, the Education Department has struggled to prove a point that even the government school students can also speak fluent English, for which various initiatives have been taken. Making the government school students excel in English language has been one of the agendas of the Education Department for years, and now, with a view to sensitise as well as equip the newly-promoted English lecturers with the latest teaching techniques, methods and activities, the Education Department organised a four-day virtual induction training, which concluded on Saturday. State resource persons (English) Varinder Kaur Sekhon and Chander Shekhar coordinated the training.Education Secretary Krishan Kumar, in his inaugural address, said, “The proficiency in languages, especially English is a must for students to tap various educational and employment avenues in the present era of globalisation,” he added.SCERT Director Jagtar Singh Kulharia and assistant director (trainings) Salinder Singh also mobilised the participants to focus on enhancing their skills.State Resource Person Chander Shekhar made them aware of various innovative activities and projects, including English Booster Clubs, to encourage language skills, especially fluency in communication skills among students.The Education Secretary congratulated the newly-promoted lecturers for attaining higher responsibility and also exhorted them to avail the benefit of training.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/virtual-training-stresses-on-importance-of-english-265830
09-06-2021||---||LPU granted patent for fruit-flavoured chocolate||Tribune News ServicePhagwara, June 8The office of the patents, Government of India, has granted a patent to the researchers and scientists at Lovely Professional University for “a novel double fermentation process for fruit-flavoured chocolate with antioxidant properties”.The patent relates to innovative method of processing cocoa beans using double fermentation to modify the cocoa bean’s flavour profile and antioxidant property. LPU scientists’ innovative methodology may enthrall chocolate lovers including children, adults and the elderly. Seeking to file the patent in other countries as well, the LPU has already filed Patent Cooperation Treaty for the same.In the existing method, the chocolate manufacturers use synthetic flavours to bring fruit flavour to a chocolate. This is not considered good for health, as it causes serious health hazards. To prevent such artificial flavours, LPU’s patented method is to add natural flavours. The antioxidants in cocoa have been linked to impressive health benefits, including less inflammation and reduced risk factors for heart disease. The new product will also have a potential to lower the risk of developing overweight and obesity.Congratulating LPU researchers to keep on imbibing positivism, creativity and energy that they are possessing even in the present hard times, LPU Chancellor Ashok Mittal invoked all researchers to work on novel and socially useful scientific ideas.LPU researcher from the school of bioengineering and biosciences, Dr Jastin Samuel shares: “During the process, cocoa beans are first fermented and the natural aroma and flavour of cocoa are obtained. It is further fermented using fruit pulp or the rind (peel) to add fruit flavour to the chocolate. It helps to add around 40 per cent natural antioxidants to the cocoa beans. This method is cost-effective because industry does not need additional infrastructure to implement this process. Moreover, it helps in providing improved flavour and quality of the chocolates, which would certainly be easily acceptable and likeable to all customers.” Dr Evangeline Christina and microbiology student Radhika Lakhanpal are also important part of the research team.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/lpu-granted-patent-for-fruit-flavoured-chocolate-265829
09-06-2021||---||‘Oxygen for future generations’ campaign||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 8The Edu Youth Foundation, Jalandhar, began distributing plants and trees in Jalandhar under the theme “Oxygen for future generations” campaign to make our society oxygen rich.The first event took place on May 16 at Guru Nanak Mission Chowk and Model Town, Jalandhar. As many as 500 plants and trees were distributed with the aim to spread awareness about importance of greenery in our environment. Two hundred plants and trees were planted in the Urban Estate on the occasion of World Environment Day.The foundation distributed 700 plants and trees in Jalandhar Cantt, Dhanowali village and Talhan Sahib.Members said the district administration and the Forest Department were providing full support in this noble cause. People faced a lot of problems regarding shortage of oxygen during Covid-19 phase and it was our responsibility to grow more and more plants and trees for better health of our future generations.Charanjit Singh Chadha (pradhan, Gurudwara Singh Sabha), Puneet Kaur (counsellor, Ward No. 3, Jalandhar Cantonment Board), Gian Chand Sharma (Kasturba Nagar resident), Davinder Singh (Kasturba Nagar resident), Prof Kanwar Sartaj Singh, Parampreet Gill, Vishal Virdi, Gurkirat Toor, Gurkirat Sandhu, Ujwaldeep Singh, Amarjit Multani, Amandeep Nagi, Naveen, Ravneet Singh, Sunny Walia, Gurkaran, Jaskirat Sandhu, Shubham among others were present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/oxygen-for-future-generations-campaign-265828
09-06-2021||Our Correspondent||World Tumour Day: Selected brain surgeries can be done via nose, says expert||Hoshiarpur, June 8“Brain tumour surgeries are considered one of the most technically demanding procedures known in medical science. Traditionally, brain tumour surgeries are done by opening the skull but now selected brain tumour surgeries are being done via nose.”Talking on World Brain Tumour Day, Dr Vineet Saggar, senior neurosurgeon at Ivy Hospital, said over the last few years, selected surgeries of brain tumours were being done via nose without opening the skull.Dr Saggar, who is trained in skull-based surgeries and has done more than 100 such procedures, has recently treated a 77-year-old woman patient with a pituitary tumour. She was treated successfully without opening her skull, using a transsphenoidal approach (through the nose) recently.The woman was presented with a loss of consciousness and altered sensorium of one-day duration in emergency.She was carefully evaluated and was found to be suffering from pituitary tumour with apoplexy (bleeding inside the tumor) which is an emergency and if left untreated can lead to visual loss and sometimes be lethal too, said Dr Saggar. The patient made a full recovery after surgery and was discharged without any problems.77-year-old patient treated successfully||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/world-tumour-day-selected-brain-surgeries-can-be-done-via-nose-says-expert-265827
09-06-2021||Hoshiarpur||Two arrested with intoxicants in Hoshiarpur||Three held under Gambling ActHoshiarpur: The Mukerian police arrested three persons for allegedly cheating people under the garb of lottery on Monday night. The police also seized Rs24,800 gambling money and betting slips from them. The accused have been identified as Sunil Kumar, a resident of bus stand Mukerian, Jatinder Singh, a resident of Atalgarh, and Sonu, a resident of Kishanpura locality in Mukerian. Separate cases under Sections 420 of the IPC and 13-A of the Gambling Act have been registered. OC2 arrested for illegal miningHoshiarpur: Cops at Mehtiana police station arrested two persons for illegal mining and impounded their tractor-trolleys laden with sand. ASI Jujhar Singh of Ajnoha police post stopped a trolley laden with sand near Ajnoha village, but tractor driver Harjit Singh of Sahni village could not show any document regarding the sand. Meanwhile, ASI Onkar Singh stopped a sand-laden tractor-trolley near Phuglana village. The ASI arrested him and impounded his trolley. OCOne booked for abducting minorHoshiarpur: The city police booked a youth on the charge of abducting a minor girl luring her on the pretext of marriage. According to information, Birbal Nagar resident lodged a complaint with the police that on June 1, he and his wife were not at home and his 17-year-old daughter was alone at home. Rohit, a resident of Bulawadi, abducted his minor daughter by luring her for marriage. A case has been registered. OCBiker killed in road accidentHoshiarpur: A man was killed in a road accident after the bike he was riding on with his wife hit by an unidentified truck on Monday. The Mukerian police have registered a case against the unidentified truck driver. After the accident, the driver fled the spot leaving the truck behind. Sikander Singh, a resident of Tioda village in Kangra district of Himachal, lodged a complaint with the police that his brother Daljit Singh was going on a bike with his wife Praveen when a truck passing by hit their bike. OCWoman arrested with illicit liquorHoshiarpur: The Tanda police arrested Sansian Mohalla resident, Suman, and seized 6,750 ml of illicit liquor from her. She was arrested by a police on Monday while checking near cinema chowk. A case under the Excise Act has been registered against her. OCSewa Kendras open from 9 to 5Hoshiarpur: In view of the receding second wave of Covid, the timings of Sewa Kendras have been changed by the district administration. Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait said from Wednesday, all Sewa Kendras in the district would be open from Monday to Saturday from 9 am to 5 pm. She said it would not be necessary to take advance appointments for availing services at the kendras but if people come with a prior appointment then it would save a lot of time. OC‘Will oppose govt over reservation’Hoshiarpur: Punjab General Category Welfare Federation district president Kapil Dev Parashar said if the state government implemented the 85th Constitutional Amendment, they would oppose the move in the coming elections. A meeting in this regard was held here on Tuesday. Office bearers and members of the federation said in 2006, Supreme Court’s justice MP Nagraj had issued an order regarding this decision of the Government of India, in which it was clarified that no benefit of reservation would be given to creamy layer. But even after 16 years, the creamy layer has not been defined. OCWork on school block beginsNawanshahr: Construction work of a new block at Government Senior Secondary Smart School here began on Monday. The block will be built at a cost of Rs5 crore. The four-storey multi-purpose science block will be equipped with state-of-the-art facilities. It is the only school in the state which had been granted a fund in the state Budget. MLA Angad Singh said the institute was one of the top 10 government schools in the state. He said the construction work of the new block would be completed in six months. Apart from nine smart classrooms, state-of-the-art science labs, ramps and a state-of-the-art auditorium with a capacity of 1,500 would also be set up. The MLA said tennis and badminton courts would also be set up in the school. TNSWater supply timings extendedJalandhar: Due to rising daily temperature, Jalandhar Mayor Jagdish Raj on Monday extended daily water supply by two hours from 12 noon to 2 pm. The Mayor said the decision had been taken keeping in view the present weather. The residents can avail the extended afternoon water supply from Tuesday. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/two-arrested-with-intoxicants-in-hoshiarpur-265826
09-06-2021||---||Labourers, daily wagers worst hit amid pandemic||Jalandhar, June 8People who earn their living by doing labour are at the receiving end these days. When they contract the virus and are under home isolation, it becomes difficult for them to manage their homes and arrange ration for their family members.Several ASHA and Anganwadi workers who have been at the forefront during these Covid-19 times and visit people in villages to take regular updates of their health status, reveal that daily wagers and labourers are the worst affected.Recently, a 35-year-old labourer was infected with the virus along with his 30-year-old wife and a 2-year-old child in Gadaipur. An ASHA worker said the family was so poor that they did not have food and had run out of ration as they were in home isolation and could not go out to buy anything.While neighbours, friends or relatives generally help other people with items of daily use, labourers and daily wagers suffer as there is nobody to help them. The ASHA worker said she had been getting calls from a Gadaipur-based Covid patient that he was running out of ration and was asking us to help him.Amritpal, another ASHA worker, said, “In such cases, ASHA workers come forward to help and by shelling money from their own pocket, they try to help such patients as much as they can.” She said labourers were suffering amid the pandemic and hardly anyone was looking after them.As per reports, the third wave is dangerous especially for toddlers and anganwadi and ASHA workers share that pregnant women and mothers who have just delivered their babies are now worried over their future. An anganwadi worker says whenever she visits homes to check on pregnant women, she is often asked the same question, “Is it true that the third wave will affect the babies?” “It is a normal psychology. Already, pregnant women are under stress at this time and now, new theories and reports are only making some of them more worried,” the anganwadi worker added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/labourers-daily-wagers-worst-hit-amid-pandemic-265825
09-06-2021||---||112-year-old in Jalandhar beats Covid||Jalandhar, June 8A 112-year-old woman, Jeeto, on Monday succeeded in winning the battle against Covid-19. She remained in the Jalandhar Civil Hospital for 10 days before being discharged.Jeeto was escorted back home by her grandson Lovepreet Singh. Hailing from Dhak Pandori village in Phagwara, she was admitted to the Civil Hospital on May 28. Her grandson said her grandmother had always remained active."Even at this age, she remains busy in all household works and even takes care of a kitchen garden at our place. She daily waters and tends to fruit and vegetable plants in the house. On May 28 evening, she was doing this work when we saw her falling unconscious in the garden. We got worried and immediately brought her to the Civil Hospital," he said.Lovepreet shared, "Till that time, we had no idea that she had contracted the virus. At the hospital, she was tested for it and her test came back positive. Her oxygen saturation level had dropped to 80 and we were all really worried for her. Since we could not go inside, we had told the staff at the hospital that they could face trouble as she suffered from a hearing impairment."Dr Bhupinder Singh, who treated her at the hospital, said, "Thankfully, the elderly woman was brought here on time. When she came, she was critical. But owing to her positive attitude and proper cooperation with the staff, she responded well to the treatment and was cured." Asked how she defeated the deadly virus at this age, Jeeto laughed and said, "We take a more nutritious diet than the present generation. Maintaining good health and physical fitness helped me sail through this bad phase."||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/112-year-old-in-jalandhar-beats-covid-265824
09-06-2021||---||Jalandhar district sees below 100 Covid cases after three months||Jalandhar, June 8It was after a gap of more than eight months today that Jalandhar district reported less than 100 Covid cases in a day. As per the state data received on Tuesday, the district, which used to occupy first or second position in Punjab in terms of number of daily cases, today came down to seventh spot with Hoshiarpur, Ludhiana, Mohali, Amritsar, Bathinda and Patiala reporting slightly higher number of cases than its own tally of 85.Jalandhar however, saw seven mortalities due to Covid today. While the positivity rate has fallen to 1.82 per cent, the number of active cases stands at 1,509. After today’s addition, the total number of Covid cases in the district so far is 61,398 and the death toll is 1,420. The containment zones in the district are in Patti Kamalpur village, Kabir Nagar and Madhuban Colony. The district also reported two fresh cases of black fungus, with total cases now going up to 37.Kapurthala reports 36 casesThe health authorities in the district today reported 36 new Covid cases and one fatality from the infection. The total positive cases in the district have now touched 17,125 and 495 people have succumbed to the infection since the past 14 months. The district now has no containment or micro-containment zone. Kapurthala has so far got 16 cases of black fungus. There has been one fatality from the infection so far and 13 patients are still under treatment.16 test +ve in NawanshahrNawanshahr district reported 16 Covid cases taking the tally to 11,214. Two deaths were reported in the district on Tuesday. The district now has 214 active cases, of which 182 are under home isolation. The number of recovered cases is 10,662 (94.9%). Urban Nawanshahr, Rahon and Urban Rahon blocks did not report a single case on Tuesday.2 die in HoshiarpurThe district on Tuesday reported two more deaths due to Covid-19, taking the toll to 934. Besides, 118 new cases, including two, were reported from other districts, pushing the tally to 27,572. On Tuesday, 3,337 samples of people with suspected flu-like symptoms were taken. With this, the total number of samples taken in the district reached 5,98,808 so far. Of them, 5,69,386 were negative, while the reports of 3,068 samples were awaited and 599 were invalid.The number of active cases stands at 1,016, while the number of patients who have recovered is 27,571. The district reported two deaths on Tuesday. The first victim (67) was a resident of Chhawni Kalan who died while being shifted to Government Medical College, Amritsar, from the Civil Hospital, Hoshiarpur. The second victim (36) was a 36-year-old woman of Depur village in Hajipur block who died DMC hospital in Ludhiana. As many as 215 out of 290 level-II beds and 24 out of the total 35 level-III beds are vacant in the district hospitals.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-district-sees-below-100-covid-cases-after-three-months-265823
09-06-2021||---||Coaching centres in Jalandhar demand reopening||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 8Owners of various private coaching centres in the city today held a demonstration in front of the district administrative complex demanding that when various restrictions imposed in the wake of the Covid-19 were being removed, they too should be allowed to operate.Led by Prof MP Singh of Chemistry Guru, who is vice- president of the Coaching Federation of India, said education of students has suffered due to the curbs imposed in the last 14 months. “Parents have already given us consent letters for sending their children. They want their kids to attend regular classes instead of online mode. Students who study in Class VIII to XII are mature enough to follow SOPs while attending physical classes,” he said.Prof Adarsh Bhatti from Gurukul said, “Coaching centres are being regularly sanitised and we have all arrangements to ensure social distancing among students. Many coaching centres are paying huge rents, have lot of staff on rolls and if they have to shut down, many people will lose jobs.”Prof Tarun Aggarwal of Knowledge Campus and Prof Parminder Singh of Study Hut, said, “Students coming to us are future doctors. We are helping these students to prepare and fight the challenges ahead.”Owners of 13 private academies demanded that coaching centres should be allowed to operate at 50 per cent capacity now and when cases fall further, they may even be allowed to become fully functional.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/coaching-centres-in-jalandhar-demand-reopening-265822
09-06-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||SC students protest move in Jalandhar to withhold roll numbers||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 8“Aren’t they ashamed of themselves and can’t they see that at this age, students are holding dharnas instead of studying,” said enraged SC students today as they protested against the Joint Association of Colleges (JAC). Notably, the reports of the decision taken by the Joint Association of Colleges (JAC) of private educational institutions to withhold roll numbers of 2 lakh Scheduled Caste (SC) students have irked the students, after which around 100 students gathered and held a protest.Notably, the JAC has taken the decision in protest against non-disbursal of crores of rupees under the SC post-matric scholarship scheme by the state government.Navdeep Dakoha, president, Students’ Sangharsh Morcha, who was leading the protest, said the association had taken the decision of withholding the roll numbers as they wanted to build a pressure on the state government, but that did not mean that the students would be used as ladder. Asked about the withholding of the roll numbers of students in Jalandhar, he replied, “It is not that the roll numbers are withheld yet, but the announcement by the association has not gone down well with the students, which is why we have taken this step,” he said.Dakoha said of 365 days, they were forced to go on streets for 100 days, how were they supposed to compete. “Not studying even for a single day can lead to a backlog, you can imagine our state, we are always busy in holding protests,” he said.The students met Additional Deputy Commissioner (General) Jasbir Singh. The ADC said, “I have assured the students that we will not let any institute refuse their roll numbers. If anyone does it, we will take strict action against them,” he said, adding that the students were apprehensive that the colleges might refuse to give their roll numbers in future after the announcement.Gurpinder Singh Samra, president of the Principals’ Association, GNDU, said this time (from 2020-2021), students would receive scholarships in their accounts. “I don’t believe in this way of withholding student’s roll numbers. It is not right, but at the same time the government must understand that they release the amount of the previous three years too,” he said.National panel for SC chief issues noticeTaking a serious view of the decision taken by the Joint Association of Colleges (JAC) of private educational institutions to withhold roll numbers of 2 lakh Scheduled Caste (SC) students, the National Commission for Scheduled Castes on the orders of its Chairman Vijay Sampla had issued notice to the Punjab Government asking them to ensure the immediate release of the roll numbers.Post-matric scholarship schemeUnder the scheme, the SC students are given scholarships in their accounts. Sixty per cent is given by the Centre and the remaining 40 per cent by the state government, after which students pay the fee to the college.The tusselAs per the information, the government has not given the scholarship before 2020 to the students in their accounts, because of which the colleges are not getting their fees.Not the first time||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sc-students-protest-move-in-jalandhar-to-withhold-roll-numbers-265632
