10-06-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Turncoats change political equation in Doaba||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 9This week two similar phenomena occurred in Kapurthala’s political scenario. Both Sukhpal Khaira and Sajjan Singh Cheema joined the Congress and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), respectively.Five days ago, Khaira, who used to contest from Bholath on the Congress ticket, but had moved to the AAP ahead of the 2017 Assembly poll and later, floated his own party to contest the 2019 General Elections from Bathinda, has once again started batting for the Congress from his home turf.On Monday, Sajjan Singh Cheema, who had contested from the AAP from Sultanpur Lodhi during the 2017 Assembly poll and later, joined Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), joined the AAP once again. Cheema, it’s learnt, quit the SAD as they could not afford to ignore its senior leader and ex-minister Dr Upinderjit Kaur at this juncture and set another rebellion. Dr Upinderjit has twice lost to the Congress’ Navtej Cheema. The change has made it look like as if Sultanpur Lodhi will witness a triangular contest yet again during the 2022 Assembly poll.‘Capt for 2022’ hoardings surface in Sultanpur LodhiEven Navtej Cheema has stepped up his political activities in the area. A pro-Capt Amarinder Singh camp MLA, he had hosted dinner for four other MLAs at his place, including Sukhpal Khaira, Khanna MLA Gurkirat Kotli, Gurpreet Singh GP from Bassi Pathana and Sukhpal Bhullar from Khem Karan.Today, Navtej also got installed hoardings across the Sultanpur Lodhi constituency wherein he projected Capt Amarinder Singh as ‘Captain for 2022’. The hoardings read, ‘Sada sanjha naara, Captain dubara’.Uncertainty in Jal CanttDoaba region, which remained politically quite dormant for the last four years, has all of a sudden become very active. The recent tough stance adopted by Jalandhar Cantonment MLA Pargat Singh challenging the position of Capt Amarinder Singh as the CM and reports of Kapurthala MLA Rana Gurjit Singh teaming up with Pargat had earlier made the region come in focus yet again.The situation has led to many uncertainties, largely depending on whether Pargat would contest the 2022 Assembly elections from the Congress or not. If the situation arises wherein he decides to ultimately quit the party, there would remain a big question mark on who would contest on the Congress ticket from this segment. Other than ex-MLA Jagbir Brar, many more would contest from this seat, including AICC spokesperson Jaiveer Shergill, PUNSUP chairman Tejinder Bittu and the Kartarpur Improvement Trust chairman Rana Randhawa.If Brar, who had contested from Nakodar in 2017, gets the ticket from Jalandhar Cantonment, the party will have to pitch in a candidate from Nakodar. With Pargat being quite close to Markfed chairman and ex-Nakodar MLA Amarjit Singh Samra and now their bonding changing into a relationship with Pargat’s daughter getting engaged to Samra’s grandson, there’s also a general perception that Pargat has become a bigger leader and was gaining strength in the region.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/turncoats-change-political-equation-in-doaba-266127
10-06-2021||Our Correspondent
||Hoshiarpur DC in driver’s seat to promote direct sowing of paddy||Hoshiarpur, June 9  In order to encourage farmers towards direct sowing of paddy under the state government’s ‘Kaamyab Kisan, Khushaal Punjab’ programme, Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait on Wednesday visited Kaane village in Shamchurasi. On the occasion, she herself drove a tractor to promote the practice of direct sowing of paddy in a field of a farmer here. The DC said it was high time to preserve the depleting groundwater by adopting direct sowing techniques, which are immensely useful in doing so.  A progressive farmer, Gurvinder Singh, of Pandori Khangura, who had been directly sowing paddy for the three consecutive years, said besides reducing the input costs, the method helps in saving water at a large scale. “I am getting high yield of crop with low cost from sowing till reaping besides receiving remunerative price for three years. Teams of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Department had motivated me towards this technique and extended all possible support, which paved a way to turn direct seeding in my field into a reality and a success,” said Gurvinder.  The DC, along with Chief Agriculture Officer Dr Vinay Kumar, herself drove a tractor in the field of Gurvinder in Kaane village to start direct sowing. She apprised the farmers that the state government was extending all possible support and cooperation to farmer for adopting this practice and they should take full advantage of the programme.  The Chief Agriculture Officer and his team apprised the DC that with the concerted efforts of the departmental teams and cooperation of farmers, nearly 3,200 acres had been brought under the direct sowing of paddy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hoshiarpur-dc-in-drivers-seat-to-promote-direct-sowing-of-paddy-266128
10-06-2021||Our Correspondent||Hoshiarpur: Newborn found in plastic bucket||Hoshiarpur, June 9A newborn wrapped in a towel was found lying in a plastic bucket at Shivalik Enclave on the outskirts of the city on Wednesday afternoon. The Sadar police reached the spot and took him to the Civil Hospital where doctors have kept him under observation for 24 hours.According to information received, some people heard the cry of the child at around 2 pm in Shivalik Enclave and a newborn baby was found lying in a plastic bucket, which was wrapped in a dirty towel. It was found that even the umbilical cord of the newborn child was not cut. Seeing this, a lady doctor living nearby gave first aid to the child and cleaned it by cutting its umbilical cord. The police reached getting the information and immediately rushed the newborn to the Civil Hospital where doctors have kept him under observation for 24 hours.SHO Sadar Bhushan Sekhri and investigating officer of the case ASI Daljit said the child was completely healthy. A case has been registered against an unidentified person under Section 317 of IPC in this regard. The child will be sent to Nari Niketan, Jalandhar, on Thursday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hoshiarpur-newborn-found-in-plastic-bucket-266129
10-06-2021||Hoshiarpur||Man cheated of Rs 2.91L, 1 booked||One held in bid to nab 8-yr-oldHoshiarpur: A man trying to flee after kidnapping an eight-year-old girl from Street no. 4 of New Deep Nagar herewas nabbed by people of the nearby areas. Mohammad Talib, a native of UP’s Moradabad district, presently residing in street no. 4 of New Deep Nagar locality, told the police that his 8-year-old daughter was playing in a street on Tuesday. Around 6:30 pm, he went to bring her back but she was not there. After sometime found that a man was forcibly grabbing her arm near Rahimpur Mandi. He was nabbed and handed over to the police. The accused, Mohammad Yusuf, a native of Bihar, has been booked under Section 363 of of the IPC. oc||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/man-cheated-of-rs-2-91l-1-booked-266130
10-06-2021||---||Punjabi singer Imran Khan arrested by Kapurthala police for hosting birthday party||Jalandhar, June 9Punjabi Singer Imran Khan, popularly known as Khan Saab, a resident of Preet Nagar in Phagwara, was arrested by the Kapurthala police for hosting a party, in violation of the Covid guidelines.Khan, who was arrested along with three of his accomplices, present at the same party, has been currently let off on bail. An FIR was lodged by the Kapurthala police here against four persons by name, while the rest of them remain unidentified.Khan (27) was arrested along with Harpreet Singh (28), Dilbar Mohammed (31), and Ijaz (23), who were also seen at the party along with him.The arrests took place after a video was released from the party venue last night, which went viral on the social media. The surprise party seems to have gone awry as the number of people present at the gathering exceeded those allowed according to the Covid protocol.In the video, blonde-haired Khan is being taken to a house with his eyes closed by a friend which then leads to a huge applause and cheers followed by dancing to a live band performance. A group of 30 to 40 persons dance together as Khan hugs many of them.An FIR was lodged at the Satnampura police station at Phagwara today under the IPC and the Disaster Management Act.SSP Kapurthala Harkamalpreet Singh said there were about 30 to 40 persons in the party in violation of Covd protocol. The singer and his friends have been identified and arrested. The singer was let off on bail later. The police are on the lookout for the rest of them who attended the party, including the band members.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/punjabi-singer-imran-khan-arrested-by-kapurthala-police-for-hosting-birthday-party-266132
10-06-2021||---||Cong leaders protest against rising inflation||Jalandhar, June 9Holding demonstration against the BJP-led Centre upon the completion of its seven-year term, the Congress leaders today blamed it squarely for the miseries of the people by not checking the rising prices of daily need commodities.Led by Jalandhar Central MLA Rajinder Beri, the Congress leaders and workers said the prices of petrol, diesel, mustard oil, refined oil and pulses had been increasing steadily while the government was taking no steps to control the inflation. The party leaders said the Centre had only worked to ensure that the industrial bigwigs such as Adanis and Ambanis did not suffer any losses while caring two hoots for the poor man who was not even able to afford a two square meal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cong-leaders-protest-against-rising-inflation-266133
10-06-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Covaxin trouble for foreign-bound students?||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 9Several students from the state who have plans to pursue studies abroad are in a fix over Covid vaccination. As many of them have already taken Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin dose, they now say that since the World Health Organisation (WHO) has not given approval to the indigenous vaccine, the foreign universities will not accept them as vaccinated.They are now queuing up at the vaccination centres for getting Covishield doses, for which they are facing technical glitches. Covishield is the only vaccine available in India which has been recognised by the WHO. Since the students are expecting flights for Canada to open up any time soon for the September session, they are in a race to get their double dose taken before they leave from here.Being fully vaccinated in the state is not an issue now after the state government nod to reducing time gap between the two doses of Covishield. But the main concern now remains among students who have taken one or two jabs of Covaxin recently and realise that they should have gone for Covishield instead.District Immunisation Officer Dr Rakesh Chopra said, “We have a lot of queries from foreign-bound students on this issue. As of now, we are not allowing mixing of vaccines. Anyone who had been administered Covaxin earlier, can’t be administered Covishield in the next go. We have already flagged the issue to the government and are awaiting government guidelines on this complex issue. Students are suggested to wait for sometime before we get any directions for the same.”We have a lot of queries from foreign-bound students on this issue. As of now, we are not allowing mixing of vaccines. Anyone who had been administered Covaxin earlier, can’t be administered Covishield in the next go. We have already flagged the issue to the government and are awaiting guidelines on this complex issue. Students are suggested to wait till we get any directions for the same. —Dr Rakesh Chopra, District Immunisation OfficerRadhika, a volunteer at a vaccination centre for beneficiaries of 18 to 44 age group, said: “On all those days when we get stock of Covishield vaccine, majority of the beneficiaries include the youth who are planning to move abroad. While, on the days when Covaxin is administered, the youth lot is found missing or comparatively in lower numbers. This clearly is due to the fact that Covishield being WHO-accepted is preferred by them.” She said, “There also are queries from students who had taken Covaxin and now want to switch over to Covishield and get its certification but we tell them that it is not permissible as of now.”Even some immigration company officials said they were flooded with such queries related to vaccination. “We are advising them all to go for Covishield well in time. And those who have got Covaxin should also not panic as once the flight ban ends, immigration offices of all countries would issue specific guidelines on vaccination,” said Association of Consultants for Overseas Studies president Jaspal Singh.Kuljeet Singh, a student of Sanskriti KMV School, who is planning to move to Canada said: “I will turn 18 in some weeks and thankfully I know well ahead that I have to take Covishield vaccine only. Also because the government has reduced the time gap between two shots to 28 days, there should not be much of a problem even if I get a chance to move by September.”Another student Gurreet Aujla from MGN Public School, who too intends to go to Canada, says that he has not taken any shot yet. “Obviously, the foreign universities want the students to be vaccinated by the time they board flights. But I am waiting for the availability of Sputnik V vaccine. In case it does not get available in time, I will go for Covishield.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covaxin-trouble-for-foreign-bound-students-266135
10-06-2021||---||6 deaths, 142 test +ve in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, June 9With 142 new Covid positive cases reported today, the district tally reached 61,540. As many as six Covid deaths have been reported today. With this the toll in the district has risen to 1,426. A total of 58,768 people have recovered from Covid in the district while the number of active cases in Jalandhar is 1,436.Toll reaches 500-mark in KapurthalaAs many as 52 persons tested positive for the deadly virus in Kapurthala district today. With this, the tally has increased to 17,175. Two persons died of Covid in the district today, pushing the toll to 500. The deceased in the district today include a 60-year-old man of Nadala village and a 65-year-old man from Kapurthala city.1 dies, 96 test +ve in HoshiarpurThe district reported one more Covid fatality today, taking the toll to 935, while 96 fresh cases, including one from other district, pushed the infection count in the district to 29,617. The number of active cases is 870, while the number of patients who have recovered is 27,812. Among the deceased, 40-year-old person from Nathupur village of Tanda block died at a private hospital in Jalandhar.Nawanshahr reports 17 casesThe spate of coronavirus infections has fallen in this district considerably with just 17 cases getting reported today. The positive cases included 10 from Muzaffarpur, three from Sujjon, two from Mukandpur and one each from Banga and Balachaur. The district also reported two deaths, including those of a 70-year-old woman from Balachaur and a 60-year-old man from Sujjon. The district has 197 active cases, of whom 169 are under home isolation. A total of 1.47 lakh persons in the district have got themselves vaccinated against the disease.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/6-deaths-142-test-ve-in-jalandhar-district-266136
10-06-2021||---||Adampur MC clears Rs 30-cr projects||Jalandhar, June 9The Adampur Municipal Council, at a general house meeting held today, cleared all proposals for development works to the tune of Rs 30 crore put up on the agenda.The newly elected president of the council, Darshan Singh Karwal, said this was for the first time that the proposals for such a huge amount had been passed and that too with unanimity. Regarding arrangement of funds, he said the MC already has Rs 12 crore in its kitty and Rs 20 crore had been got approved as grant by the state government with the support of ex-minister Mahinder S Kaypee.Various development works that have been approved include raising a cricket stadium in the vacant land near football stadium, construction of a commercial city centre in a space available near bus stand, installing new tubewells in ward numbers 6 and 8, setting up eight high mast lights in the town, construction of a new MC building at space available near stadium, installing 65 CCTV cameras for keeping a digital eye on offenders, widening the road leading to Gazipur upto 25 feet and laying inter-locking tiles on roads among others.Karwal said a proposal had also been passed to increase the income of the council by way of getting a GIS survey done, doing UID numbering of all residential and commercial properties and recovering property tax and licence fee from the owners. All councillors, executive Officer Harninder Singh and other officers were present during the meeting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/adampur-mc-clears-rs-30-cr-projects-266141
10-06-2021||Jalandhar||Jalandhar DIPS starts online education for toddlers||Swachh Bharat Mission ‘role model’Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya has become the first role model institution of the city by fulfilling all criteria under the Swachh Bharat Mission Urban. Principal Ajay Sareen said it was the result of hard work done by the HMV family to keep the environment clean. HMV is actively working under the mission from the past five years. Under this, wet and dry waste of the institution is source segregated and treated accordingly. Dr Anjana Bhatia, Dean, Innovation and Research, said earlier, all waste of the college was sent to a dump. “Even garden waste used to be sent along with other waste. However, now the college prepares fertiliser from it. The garden waste is also mulched within the college. In addition, the college is having various projects to work with plastic, wood, iron, cardboard, paper, clothes and rubber. She said all boards regarding the mission placed inside the college were made up of waste material.Meritorious students rewardedAbheyjeet Singh of Lyallpur Khalsa College, Jalandhar, has bagged the first position in Guru Nanak Dev University exams of MVoc (Web Technology and Multimedia) Semester III by securing 486 marks out of 500 whereas, Simran Preet Kaur bagged the third position by getting 472 marks in the same class. The information was given in a press release by the Principal of the College, Dr Gurpinder Singh Samra. He said meritorious students had been awarded with fee concession and scholarship to encourage and reward them for better performance. President of the College Governing Council Balbir Kaur congratulated the students and wished them success. Prof Manohar Singh, Head, Department of Computer Science and IT, and Dr Baldev Singh were also present on the occasion.KMV students bring laurelsStudents of MA Psychology of Semester I and III from Kanya Maha Vidyalaya have shown good results. Manisha Soni from Semester I bagged the first position by securing 484 marks out of 600, Parul Vij stood second with 448 marks and Diksha Trehan bagged the third position with 429 marks. It is pertinent to mention that four students from this class have passed the examination with distinction. Along with this, Pranavcheet Kaur from Semester III bagged the first position with 523marks out of 600, Anjali Yadav bagged the second position with 498 marks and Amandeep Kaur bagged the third position with 480 marks. Four students from this class have also passed the examination with distinction. Principal Atima Sharma Dwivedi congratulated the students and the faculty of PG Department of Psychology.‘Prarambh’ — a business plan eventTo inculcate entrepreneurship skills among students, Apeejay College of Fine Arts organised ‘Prarambh’, an inter-class business plan competition. The competition was held under the guidance of Aarti Verma, Dean, MAC Forum, and Dr Monika Mogla, Head of PG Department. MJ Kalra was the judge of the event. On the occasion, Dr Neerja Dhingra, encouraged the students to improve their entrepreneurial skills and mentioned that entrepreneurship shall be introduced as a subject in school education. There were total nine teams from BBA and BCom Semester II which participated in the competition. There were variety of ideas related to environment, e-commerce and stress. Dr Dhingra and MJ Kalra congratulated the winners. The Green Home team of Anish Jain, Udit Kapoor, Parag bagged the first rank. The second position was bagged by Mellow team of Lavanya Jain and Himanshi and the third position was secured by Clean Dream team led by Khushi Bansal and Yachna Dhand.Infosys recruitmentKapurthala: Infosys has selected a total 13 students during a state-level online recruitment programme held in collaboration with IK Gujral Punjab Technical University. The recruitment programme was designed for the students of government/state universities and institutes of Punjab and Chandigarh. The university coordinated the programme for the students of seven government campuses, including IKGPTU main campus, IKGPTU Amritsar campus, IKGPTU Hoshiarpur campus, MIMIT Malout, BCET Gurdaspur, MRSPTU Bathinda and Panjab University, Chandigarh, students of BTech/ MTech (all branches), MCA and MSc (computer sciences, maths and physics) passing out in 2021 were eligible for the recruitment programme. Vice-Chancellor Prof Ajay Kumar Sharma congratulated the selected students and the coordinating team of IKGPTU and Infosys for the successful conduct of the programme. Registrar Sandeep Kumar Kazal also congratulated the students. Deputy Director (corporate relations and alumni)Navdeepak Sandhu said of the 13 selected students in this placement drive, three were from IKG PTU main campus, three from MIMIT Malout, four from MRSPTU Bathinda and three from Panjab University. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-dips-starts-online-education-for-toddlers-266142
