11-06-2021||Hoshiarpur||Three booked for cheating||Five cell phones seized from jailHoshiarpur: On the complaint of Central Jail administration, the city police booked four inmates and an unidentified person and seized five mobile phones during a late night checking at the jail premises. Assistant Jail Superintendent Des Singh in his complaint to the police said three mobile phones were seized from inmates Shakti, alias Bhatura, a resident of Bhagwan Nagar, Ludhiana; Gurpreet Singh, a resident of Jandiala Guru in Amritsar; and Manpreet Singh, alias Mandeep, a resident of Chaggran village in Hoshiarpur. Also, a mobile was seized from another inmate Manjot Singh, a resident of Talwandi Purdal in Bholath, while another mobile phone was found from the exhaust fan of barrack number 13. Four FIRs have been registered under Section 52-A of the Prisons Act. OCJewellery stolen from houseTanda Urmur: On Tuesday night, thieves stole jewellery and cash worth lakhs from the house of a sub-inspector by locking the family in a room in Khakhan village. Avtar Singh said on Tuesday night when he was sleeping in his room with his wife, some thieves broke the wall of the house and entered in by uprooting a grill. The thieves locked the door of their room from outside. They broke the cupboards and took away around 70 gm of gold ornaments and Rs35,000. When his wife got up to go to gurdwara in the morning, the door of the room was locked from outside. He broke open the door and came out. The police have registered a case. OCFree counselling for edu abroadHoshiarpur: The District Employment Generation, Skill Development and Training Bureau, has started registration for free counselling of candidates desirous to pursue higher education abroad. District Employment Generation Officer Gurmail Singh said, “There was good response to the first batch in March. Now, the bureau has come up with its second batch. Those seeking information regarding higher education and employment abroad can register online till June 18.” Those from Hoshiarpur district can register on https://tinyurl.com/foreignstudyhsp and those seeking information regarding employment abroad should register on https://tinyurl. com/foreignplacementhsp. One can also call on helpline number 62801-97708. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/three-booked-for-cheating-266779
11-06-2021||---||Jalandhar's St Soldier Law College holds webinar||Jalandhar: St Soldier Law College in collaboration with a High Court lawyers’ organisation “Beyond Law CLC” organised a webinar on the theme: “Substantive Law and Procedural Law- Interse Relatability”. The webinar was joined by a large number of advocates, law teachers and students of the college. Justice SD Anand, former Judge Punjab and Haryana High Court, and Dr Subhash Sharma, Director, St Soldier Law College, were the key note speakers. Advocate Vikas Chatrath of High Court, Chandigarh, conducted the proceedings. Dr Sharma emphasised that the substantive and procedural laws were like a warp and woof in justice delivery and the two cannot be seen in isolation. Discussing the concept of justice and referring to eminent jurists, he said procedural laws had the elements of substantive law as well. In terms of relevance in legal practice and justice delivery, Dr Sharma said procedural laws are a bit more important than the substantive laws. He concluded by observing: “Substantive law is the body and procedural law is the breath and blood in it. The living body of justice loses its identify in the absence of either of the two.”IKGPTU signs MoUKapurthala: To jointly explore teaching, research, health awareness and other issues of academic, social relevance, IK Gujral Punjab Technical University (IKGPTU) and Guru Ravidas Ayurved University, Hoshiarpur, have signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU). The agreement will also help in provide with a framework for joint ventures in which both the universities will develop a long-term collaborative relationship. IKGPTU Vice-Chancellor Ajay Kumar Sharma and Guru Ravidas Ayurved University Registrar Dr Sanjiv Goyal signed the MoU. On the occasion Vice-Chancellor Dr Sharma said various academic institutions have their own areas of expertise and with this collaborative approach, all can benefit from one another. IKGPTU Dean YS Brar said through the MoU, both universities would work closely for exchange of information in any area of mutual interest. Also, exchange of faculty, officers, research scholars, students, health awareness, clinics, clinical trials, camps, seminars etc under the ambit of Ayurveda. The Dean said both the universities would design and deliver new courses in the field of Ayush to be jointly disseminated locally and globally. He said memorandum would continue for a period of five years which shall be extended automatically for another term of five years if not explicitly terminated. Registrar Sandeep Kumar Kazal congratulated the department for the initiative towards academic growth of the university. On the occasion, Director Dr Ekonkar Singh Johal and Vice-Chancellor Secretariat In charge Dr Hitesh Sharma, were also present.One-day workshop on GSTJalandhar: The PG Department of Commerce and Business Administration of Kanya Maha Vidyalaya in collaboration with the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India organised a one-day workshop on “Practical aspects of Goods and Services Tax” for the students of BCom, BBA and MCom. The workshop was attended by more than 300 participants. The resource person of the workshop was Navya Malhotra, Associate Member, Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI), New Delhi. Sonia Arora, Chairperson, Jalandhar Branch of NIRC of ICAI, and Chandan Narang, former Vice-Chairman and Secretary of Jalandhar Branch of ICAI, were the special guests. CA Chandan Narang highlighted the importance of GST. CA Navya Malhotra acquainted students with concepts of GST, inter-state and intra-state transactions, place and time of supply, fixed establishment, input tax credit, system of reverse charge mechanism, and compensation cess with the help of suitable illustrations. He also discussed various forms of invoicing – tax invoice, bill of supply and delivery challan in detail. He gave practical demonstrations to explain different types of GST returns. Principal Dr Atima Sharma Dwivedi averred that such activities are indeed a learning and knowledge enriching experience for the students as well as faculty members. The Principal lauded the efforts of the PG Department of Commerce and Business administration for taking initiatives to make the students abreast of the latest developments in the field of Commerce and Industry. PG Department of Commerce and Business Administration Head Dr Neeraj Maini proposed a formal vote of thanks.Student brings laurels to HMVAnju of MA Punjabi Semester III of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya (HMV) secured the first rank in the district and the ninth rank in Guru Nanak Dev University examination held recently. She scored 299 marks out of 400. Principal Prof Ajay Sareen congratulated the topper and her parents. She also congratulated Head of the Department Navroop and other faculty members.World Oceans DayOn the occasion of World Oceans Day, students of Eklavya School showcased their talent by participating in various activities such as cleanliness, art and craft, ocean hunt, storytelling competition etc. Chairman JK Gupta said: “Having faith is like knowing that there is an ocean because you have seen a brook.” Director of the school Seema Handa told the students about the significance of slogan “No water, no life.” Principal Dimple Malhotra also highlighted the importance of the oceans.Meritorious students laudedStudents of BVoc (Beauty and Wellness) Semester III of Apeejay College of Fine Arts have bagged top positions in the examination conducted by Guru Nanak Dev University. College Principal Dr Neerja Dhingra congratulated the meritorious students and told them to keep working hard in future too. She appreciated Meenal Sandhu, Department of Fashion Makeover, for guiding these students to success. Parminder Kaur got the third position in the university scoring 372 out of 400 marks. Sakshi Sondhi came sixth with 366 marks. Tanya and Gurleen Kaur Ghuman stood seventh and eighth by securing 363 and 362 marks, respectively. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhars-st-soldier-law-college-holds-webinar-266778
11-06-2021||Our Correspondent||Seven arrested with intoxicants, liquor||Hoshiarpur, June 10The district police have arrested seven persons and seized large quantity of intoxicants and liquor from them in the last 24 hours.According to information, the Model Town police arrested two persons at a naka in the area and seized 100 intoxicating capsules from them. The accused have been identified as Sukhdev Singh, alias Sukha, a resident of Badowal village and Harjit Singh, alias Gopa, a resident of Ajram village in Hoshiarpur. According to the police, the vehicle recovered from the accused was also the stolen one.The Model Town police arrested a man and seized 10 gm of heroin from him. The accused have been identified as Ahirana Khurd village resident Mani Singh, alias Mani. The police of Mehtiana arrested Pawan Kumar, a resident of Khanaura village and seized 35 gm of intoxicating powder from him.Separate FIRs under the NDPS Act have been lodged against the accused by respective police stations.Meanwhile, the Hajipur police arrested Rakesh Kumar, a resident of Passi Karora, and seized 63,000 ml of liquor from him. Similarly, the Talwara police arrested two persons and seized 25,500-ml liquor from them. The arrested suspects have been identified as Chakk Pandyan village resident Naresh Kumar and Beh Jogan Karadi village resident Ram Prasad. Separate FIRs under the NDPS and the Excise Act have been registered against the suspects.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/seven-arrested-with-intoxicants-liquor-266777
11-06-2021||---||Neighbour booked for kidnapping 13-year-old girl||Jalandhar, June 10The police have booked an 18-year-old boy on the charge of kidnapping a minor girl.Parents of the minor have alleged that their daughter was kidnapped and raped by the boy who lived in their neighbourhood. However, the police said the case was being investigated.The victim, 13-year-old girl of Baldev Nagar in Ram Mandi, had gone to a shop near her home on Tuesday and did not return. Her parents alleged that she was forcibly taken away to some place by the accused and raped. They said when the victim did not return home, they filed a case with the police on Wednesday.The victim’s father said: “My daughter came home battered on Wednesday night. She was probably under the influence of some drug.”Rama Mandi police station SHO Sulakhan Singh said: “The rape charges will be determined after medical examination of the victim.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/neighbour-booked-for-kidnapping-13-year-old-girl-266776
11-06-2021||---||Weather takes a U-turn as lightening, hailstorm hit Jalandhar||Jalandhar, June 10A sudden thunder, lightening and hailstorm that lashed the city on Thursday evening brought a major respite for the city residents who had been feeling very uneasy owing to the soaring mercury for the past almost four days.The maximum temperature recorded since Monday was between 42°C to 44°C with humidity levels also rising. Even the evenings and nights had remained very uncomfortable. Many residents, who had been avoiding the use of air-conditioners and refrigerated water since the onset of summers owing to coronavirus scare, could no longer resist their use.But with the weather taking a complete U-turn this evening past 6:30 pm with a dust storm, followed by loud sounds of thunder and then rain accompanied by hail, the temperature dropped by more than 12 degrees. The stormy weather prevailed for more than an hour, which most residents enjoyed by sitting out in verandahs.According to the weather forecast, the rainy weather will prevail in the region for the next five-six days with maximum temperature dropping to 34°C.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/weather-takes-a-u-turn-as-lightening-hailstorm-hit-jalandhar-266775
11-06-2021||---||Jalandhar sees 4 deaths, 152 cases||Jalandhar, June 10With 152 new Covid positive cases reported today, the district tally reached to 61,692. Of these, 25 cases are from other districts. Also, four persons succumbed to the deadly virus in the district on Thursday. With this, the toll in the district has increased to 1,430. As many as 58,857 people have recovered from Covid in the district so far, while the number of active cases in Jalandhar is 1,405.3 die in KapurthalaKapurthala district today reported 48 Covid-positive cases. With this, the district tally has increased to 17,224. Three persons died of the deadly virus in the district today. The deceased include a 59-year-old woman from Sultanpur Lodhi, a 50-year-old man from Rattra village and an 85-year-old woman from Chogawan village. The toll in the district now stands at 503.59 test +ve in HoshiarpurWith 59 persons testing positive for Covid, the tally in the district increased to 29,676 on Thursday. Also, two deaths were reported today, with which the toll now stands at 937 in the district. Health authorities said the number of active cases was 808, while the number of patients who have recovered is 27,931.Out of the total cases reported today, one was from Hoshiarpur district, while five patients were reported from other districts. Report of 3,583 samples is awaited as of now. The persons who succumbed to the disease on Thursday include a 65-year-old woman of Dashmesh Nagar, Hoshiarpur, who died at the Hoshiarpur Civil Hospital; and a 56-year-old woman of Kirti Nagar who died on the way to the Civil Hospital from her home.Nawanshahr reports 19 casesThe health authorities of the district today reported 19 fresh cases in the district with the fatality of a 70-year-old woman from Saroya block. There are 194 active cases in the district, of which only 21 are hospitalised.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-sees-4-deaths-152-cases-266774
11-06-2021||---||Migrants return ahead of paddy transplantation||Jalandhar, June 10Hundreds of migrant labourers who had headed to Uttar Pradesh and Bihar due to the surge in Covid cases, were coming back to Punjab.Jalandhar city and Jalandhar cantonment railway stations were daily witnessing huge rush of migrants as they alight and walk down hopeful of getting work, especially paddy transplantation, which officially starts tomorrow. Though officials of the Agriculture Department claimed that direct seeding method was used in half of the area under paddy cultivation, it was a common site to see farmers in Phagwara and Goraya resorting to traditional method of transplanting paddy.As some labourers reached by Akal Takht Express or Howrah Mail or Dirbanga Express, farmers had kept their vehicles ready to take them to their fields. “These men have been coming here every season. They contacted us and sought a vehicle, so I sent my son in a jeep to bring them straight to fields,” said Bhagwant Singh, a farmer from Partappura village on Nakodar Road.The labourers said they were hopeful of earning Rs 700-Rs 800 daily by helping farmers in the fields. “It’s not an easy job working in high temperature with feet dug up in mud for long hours, but it certainly is a good time to earn quick money,” said Sharvan Kumar, a labourer said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/migrants-return-ahead-of-paddy-transplantation-266735
11-06-2021||---||Jalandhar MC mulls new garbage site on Kapurthala road||Jalandhar, June 10With proposed biomining project unikely to start in near future and road to Wariana garbage dump getting clogged, dumping of waste has become a major issue for the Jalandhar Municipal Corporation.Even as there had been a proposal to move the waste partly to an MC’s site at Pholariwal where 80 compost pits with covered sheds had been readied, this idea faced a lot of opposition from residents. While the MC has spent several lakhs on this compost project in the last two years, there has been no headway.The ad hoc health and sanitation committee of the MC with Balraj Thakur as the chairman, and Jagdish Samrai as the councillor member, had proposed that even waste from the entire Model Town area would be moved to Pholariwal. As per the proposal, a dump near the cremation ground in Model Town, which had become an eyesore, was set to be vacated. Earlier, garbage collectors who had been using hand-pulled carts had expressed their inability to daily make round upto Pholariwal.Jalandhar Cantt MLA Pargat Singh had reportedly urged MC Commissioner Karnesh Kumar not to make any decision to dump the city’s waste at Pholariwal, which is a part of his constituency.With garbage unlikely to be moved to Pholariwal and Wariana dump left as the only option, the MC was now planning to get road to the landfill site cleared.The civic body has planned to start the road work any time now and as a temporary measure, it has been decided that the city’s waste would be dumped at the MC’s new site on the backside of Kohinoor Rubber Factory on Kapurthala road.Samrai said, “The only plausible option before us is to make provisions so that garbage carrying vehicles from the city can enter the Wariana dump. The dump site needs immediate road repair work as passages have got congested and vehicles may not be able to enter the dump during monsoon. Till the work is being done, waste will be dumped at the MC site on Kapurthala road. Proposal to use Pholariwal compost pits is not possible as of now.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-mc-mulls-new-garbage-site-on-kapurthala-road-266737
11-06-2021||---||24x7 PSPCL control rooms to facilitate power consumers||Jalandhar, June 10The Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL), has set up 24x7 control rooms at the divisional level. The control room will address power-related issues of farmers as well as all consumers 24x7.Adding more details, Deputy Chief Engineer Jalandhar Circle Harjinder Singh Bansal said the PSPCL has established nodal complaint centres at various levels to ensure timely redress of consumer’s complaints. He further added that people can lodge their complaints at 9646695106 for East division Pathankot Chowk, 9646116776 for West division Maqsudan, 9646116777 for Model Town division, Boota Mandi, 9646114254 for Cantt division, and 9646114410 for Phagwara division.Apart from these divisional level nodal complaint centers, the consumers can register their complaints through a phone call or SMS at 1912. They can also contact their respective SDOs if their complaint remains unattended. Bansal further mentioned that the consumers can also send their complaints through email at 1912@pspcl.in and by using toll free number 18001801512. Due to frequent power cuts, a large number of complaints were being reported at the electricity board offices lately.The Chief Engineer also reiterated his staff to ensure uninterrupted power supply during the ensuing summer and paddy sowing season as elaborate arrangements were already in place for the speedy redressal of their complaints.Helpline numbers||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/24x7-pspcl-control-rooms-to-facilitate-power-consumers-266738
11-06-2021||---||Chandigarh-based NGO Suryansh Foundation extends help to Kapurthala rape survivor’s family||Jalandhar, June 10Chandigarh-based NGO Suryansh Foundation has come forward to the aid of Kapurthala-based rape victim. The foundation, after receiving the information about the plight of the girl’s family, has decided to extend a help of Rs4,000 per month to her, for six months.The seven-year-old rape victim, daughter of a migrant labourer, got raped on March 15, at a shanty near RCF Kapurthala by her father’s acquaintance on the pretext of getting her biscuits. Critically injured, the girl has been undergoing treatment at the PGI Chandigarh for the past many months. The Kapurthala police, Sultanpur Lodhi MLA Navtej Singh Cheema and the state government had extended help to the family. The Punjab Legal Services Authority (PLSA) had also released an interim relief of Rs 2 lakh to the father of the girl.The Suryansh Noble Foundation, which works under the aegis of the Suryansh Charitable Society, has been extending a monetary help of Rs 4,000 per month to the family. The members of the foundation today visited the girl’s family at Kapurthala to donate six cheques for the upcoming six months so that the family does not face any financial trouble.Dinesh Kumar Sharma, Director, Suryansh Noble Foundation along with President Anshu Jain today visited the family. Sharma, while talking to The Tribune, said, “We had read about the family’s plight and visited them at Chandigarh. We will be extending a help of Rs 4,000 per month to the family as long as the girl’s father does not find any steady job. He is currently at home and doesn’t have much work as he is looking after his daughter. Our purpose is to just ensure that the family has enough to make ends meet and carry forth the treatment of the little girl.”A daily wager, the girl’s father along with her mother, had been tending to her at PGI Chandigarh for the past many months. Discharged from PGI Chandigarh in May, the girl was shifted to Civil Hospital, Kapurthala, from where the family came back to their rented accommodation at RCF Kapurthala.The girl’s father said, “I am thankful to the state government and PLSA for the help which has been extended to me so far. Members of the foundation also came to our room at RCF today and donated six cheques to me. They had earlier also deposited some money into my account. I’m thankful to them. We have been asked to come back to PGI Chandigarh after three months for another surgery. Currently, she passes urine only with the help of a bag. After surgery, we are hopeful of her recovery.”While the girl’s father is a daily wager labour, he says he takes up some job every month but is not able to work as much as earlier because he also has to take care of his daughter. After the rape, the 7-year-old’s uterus had to be removed and a colostomy was also conducted. Post several surgeries, her condition got improved. Another surgery will be conducted after three months.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/chandigarh-based-ngo-suryansh-foundation-extends-help-to-kapurthala-rape-survivors-family-266739
11-06-2021||---||‘Capt for 2022’ posters surface in legislator Pargat Singh’s segment||Jalandhar, June 10 Even as Jalandhar Cantonment MLA Pargat Singh has been consistently attacking Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh over functioning of the government, hoardings of ‘Capt for 2022’ have surfaced in his constituency. The hoardings have been installed by ticket aspirant and chairman of the Kartarpur Improvement Trust, Rana Randhawa. These bear the tagline ‘Sada Sanjha Naara – Captain dobara’ with pictures of Capt Amarinder Randhawa.  A few days ago, he had also put up posters with a message ‘Capt ik hi hunda hai’ (there’s just one Captain) and thus showing his support for the CM. Meanwhile, three of the four Congress leaders from Kapurthala – MLAs Navtej Cheema from Sultanpur Lodhi, Sukhpal Khaira from Bholath and Balwinder Dhaliwal from Phagwara – came together for a meeting and got the photograph circulated on social media. Pictures shared on their Facebook profiles had a caption that they discussed the political situation in Kapurthala and vowed to work together.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/capt-for-2022-posters-surface-in-legislator-pargat-singhs-segment-266740
11-06-2021||---||Progressive farmer from Dyalpur village near Kartarpur imports hi-tech machine from Japan||Jalandhar, June 10A progressive farmer from Dyalpur village near Kartarpur, Sukhwinder Singh Khakh, has been earning rich dividends after he imported a paddy transplanting machine from Japan for Rs14 lakh, a few years ago.As transplantation work started today, Khakh said he had already got an order to transplant paddy on 700 acres in the area. “Along with two to three helpers, I daily transplant paddy on 10 to 12 acres. I charge Rs5,400 per acre from my farmers,” said Khakh adding that he has grown paddy seedlings in mat type settings.He said he would transplant paddy on his 40 acres by using the same machine. Discussing the benefits of machine over manual method, Khakh said, “The machine-transplanted paddy fields have a higher yield. Machine is able to transplant 10-kg seeds in one acre whereas manually transplanted fields usually have seedlings of six-eight kg seeds planted in the same area. Machine does work in a very calculated manner and transplants 33 seedlings in just one sqm.”Meanwhile, Agriculture Field Officer Naresh Gulati and his team visited fields of farmers today. Under training IAS Officer Ojaswi Alankar was also a part of the visiting team.Chief Agriculture Officer Surinder Singh said the department was expecting paddy on 1.71 lakh hectares in the district this year. “The transplantation process has started today,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/progressive-farmer-from-dyalpur-village-near-kartarpur-imports-hi-tech-machine-from-japan-266741
11-06-2021||---||Whimsical paddy transplantation rates condemned||Jalandhar, June 10The Kirti Kisan Union on Thursday condemned the whimsical rates being decided for paddy transplantation by some rich farmers. The union condemned their threats to boycott labourers. Members of the Kirti Kisan Union at a meeting held here on Thursday said at a time when farmers and labourers were jointly fighting against the Centre’s three farm laws, attempts at breaking up the labourer-farmer unity could only be made by divisive elements.Kirti Kisan Union state committee member Bhupinder Singh Waraich, Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar president Surinder Singh Bains said farmers and labourers need to be cautious of such elements. They said the fresh statement of Union Agricultural Minister Narendra Tomar was baseless and creating illusions and doubts among farmers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/whimsical-paddy-transplantation-rates-condemned-266742
11-06-2021||Jalandhar||Kisan union seeks removal of Udhowal sarpanch||A delegation of the Kirti Kisan Union along with panches of the Udhowal village met BDPO Mehatpur and demanded removal of the village sarpanch.They demanded a high-level inquiry into the alleged irregularities being conducted by the village sarpanch. They said the residents of the village had been opposing the sarpanch for the past two days. While the residents have been protesting against the conversion of a village spot used by Dalits into a sewage pond, they have also been resenting the raising of the height of a street where a villager, who is close to the sarpanch, resides. On the insistence of the kisan union, BDPO Surjit Singh also visited the village on Wednesday.Village panches Sandeep, Harman, Jagtar Singh, Bibi Sarbjit, Bibi Sukhwinder and Balveer SIngh said the sarpanch had lost his majority. They said the panchayat did not hold a single meeting after March 2019. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kisan-union-seeks-removal-of-udhowal-sarpanch-266753
