12-06-2021||---||5 deaths, 101 cases in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, June 11With 101 fresh Covid positive cases reported today, the district tally has increased to 61,793. Of these, 25 cases are from other districts. As many as five persons succumbed to the deadly virus today, taking the toll to 1,435.A total of 59,052 persons have recovered from the disease in the district so far, while the number of active cases in Jalandhar is 1,306.3 deaths in KapurthalaKapurthala today recorded 37 fresh cases. With these, the district tally has increased to 17,259. Three persons died of Covid in the district today. The deceased include a 46-year-old woman from Randhawa village, a 71-year-old man from Dograwal village and a 77-year-old man from Narur village. The toll in the district now stands at 506.3 die, 74 +ve in HoshiarpurThe district reported three more Covid fatalities on Friday, taking the death toll to 940, while 74 new cases pushed the infection tally in the district to 29,750.Health department officials said report of 2,925 samples was received and of them, 70 fresh cases were from the district, while four patients were reported from other districts. The number of active cases in the district now is 765, while 28,045 patients have recovered so far. The persons who succumbed today have been identified as a 56-year-old woman of Alampur village, a 83-year-old woman of Mahal Kurd village, and a 51-year-old woman of Hukran.12 test +ve in NawanshahrNawanshahr district reported 12 Covid cases on Friday, with which the district tally has gone up to 11,262. No death was reported from the district today. The district now has 188 active cases, of which 154 are under home isolation.The number of recovered cases is 10,736 (95.32 per cent). Urban Rahon, Sujjon and Saroya blocks did not report any case. As many as 24 patients are admitted to L-II and seven in L-III Covid care facilities in local hospitals.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/5-deaths-101-cases-in-jalandhar-district-267086
12-06-2021||---||Gang of robbers busted, 4 arrested||Jalandhar, June 11The Kapurthala police have busted a gang of robbers and nabbed for of its members who were involved in stealing transformers in the district.The accused have been identified as Mukhtiar Singh, alias Mota, Kulwant Singh, alias Kallu, Kala Singh and Gurmeet Singh, alias Laddoo, all residents of Kapurthala.Senior Superintendent of Police Harkamalpreet Singh Khakh said the gang was active in the district for the last few months and with their arrest, the police have solved various cases.The SSP said the police party received a tip-off that the accused armed with sharp-edged weapons had gathered at Government Elementary School, Bhila. He said the policemen raided the spot and recovered two weapons and a motorcycle from their possession.During preliminary investigation, accused Gurmeet revealed that he along with his associates Kulwant, Mukhtiar, Sukhjinder and Puran, alias Mattar, stole copper and oil from transformers installed at Mansoorwal Dona village, Pir Chaudary, Saroopwal Tanda, Model Town, Araianwal, Industrial Area Sheikhupur, Jaggi Market, Narangpur, Mundi Mor, Awan Bhike Shah, Bariar, Bhila, Jail Road and Khassan village.The SSP said they accused revealed that they were drug addicts and used to sell copper and oil to buy drugs. Cops also recovered 445 intoxicant tablets from Gurmeet and Mukhtiar. The accused used to sell copper and oil to a scrap dealer Bagga, resident of Jaggan Subhanpur village.The SSP said Kala had already been booked in five separate cases of the IPC and the NDPS Act while Kulwant was involved in three cases of theft. The police said they would soon nab remaining members, including Sukhjinder and Puran.The SSP said the accused will be produced before the court and they will seek their police remand.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/gang-of-robbers-busted-4-arrested-267087
12-06-2021||---||Roll back fuel price hike: Cong||Jalandhar, June 11Hitting out at the Central Government over the steep hike in fuel prices, Member of Parliament Santokh Singh Chaudhary on Friday said the government was insensitive to the plight of common people and was putting more financial burden on them, though they had already been hit hard by the Covid-19 pandemic.Accompanied by MLA Rajinder Beri, he was leading a protest by Indian National Congress workers near BSF Chowk. The party held protests against the rise in fuel prices across the country and demanded immediate rollback of the hikes.MP Chaudhary said the prices of petrol had crossed Rs 100 in several parts of the country, which further had domino effect on the cost of other essential commodities. “This year, the fuel prices have risen many times. When the NDA government came to power in 2014, the cost of crude oil was $109 per barrel and the prices of petrol and diesel were Rs 72 per litre and Rs 57 per litre, respectively. But now when the crude oil price is at $70, the people are forced to pay almost Rs 100 for both petrol and diesel,” he said.Chaudhary Santokh Singh further stated that the Modi government first tanked the economy and then turned fuel into a revenue generating machine, adding that the government’s tax collections on petrol and diesel alone had increased over 300 per cent in the last six years.“The share of taxes collected on petrol, diesel and natural gas as a percentage of the government’s total revenue has risen from 5.4 per cent in 2014-15 to 12.2 per cent in 2020-21,” he said.Terming the Modi government anti-people and anti-poor, MP Chaudhary said the government was only interested in increasing the wealth of billionaires and not thinking about the common people’s welfare.Jalandhar Urban Congress president Baldev Singh Dev, Municipal Corporation Councillors Manmohan Raju and Jagjeet Jeeta, Jalandhar Youth Congress president Angad Datta, Bhupinder Singh Jolly, Surinder Chaudhary, Harpreet and Sudhir Ghuggi were among those present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/roll-back-fuel-price-hike-cong-267088
12-06-2021||---||Trace 9th Sikh Guru’s journey with this coffee table book||Jalandhar, June 11A coffee table book, “Spiritual Journey of Guru Tegh Bahadur Sahib”, authored by lawyer Harpreet Sandhu was released here. The book has been compiled in collaboration with Punjab Pollution Control Board chairman Prof SS Marwaha and is dedicated to the 400th birth anniversary of the Guru.At the release, MP Santokh Singh Chaudhary, MLA Rajinder Beri, MLA Surinder Chaudhary, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori and Senior Superintendent of Police Naveen Singla said the book depicted the journey of Guru Teg Bahadur from his birth till martyrdom through pictorial visuals of historical gurdwaras: Gurudwara Guru ka Mahal, Amritsar; Gurudwara Vayah Asthan, Kartarpur; Gurudwara Bhora Sahib, Baba Bakala; and Gurudwara Takth Sri Kesgarh Sahib, Sri Anandpur Sahib.The MP said: “Through his passion for photography and documentaries, Harpreet Sandhu has allowed the society to follow the steps of our Guru.” He added that the teachings and philosophy of the Guru were still relevant in contemporary times. Chaudhary congratulated all for the 400th anniversary of Guru Tegh Bahadur.The DC after previewing the book said the pious work would be of immense interest. Advocate Harpreet Sandhu said he authored the coffee table book, under the guidance of Padma Shri Dr Surjit Patar, with an aim to project the gurdwaras related to life journey of the Guru and their historical importance, where Ninth Sikh Guru left his footprints. Prominent among others present were Assistant Commissioner Hardeep Singh, Congress spokesman Jaiveer Shergil, Youth Congress leader Angad Dutta and officials of the PPCB.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/trace-9th-sikh-gurus-journey-with-this-coffee-table-book-267089
12-06-2021||Jalandhar||Excise officials destroy over 2.5-lakh kg lahan in 2 months||The Excise Department, Jalandhar, has been conducting several raids under the Operation Red Rose for several months now. From April 1 to May 31, 30 FIRs have been registered under the operation and 32 persons have been arrested. Also, 2,59,525 kg of lahan has been destroyed from April to May.In the last two days, major recovery was done by the department officials. It is to ensure the safety of consumers. “There are a lot of chemicals in the water with which lahan is being made, so, it is not safe for the one who consumes it,” said Dr Harsimrat Grewal, Assistant Commissioner (Excise), Jalandhar 2.On Thursday, the excise sleuths and the police conducted a raid at the Mand area of Shahkot villages such as Thamowal, Rampur and Baupur. During the raid, eight unclaimed big tirpals (Tarapaulin sheets), each containing 1,000 kg lahan, (total 8000 kg of Lahan), five small tirpals, each with 500kg (total 2,500-kg lahan) were confiscated. A total 1,05,00-kg lahan was destroyed on the spot and two iron drums were also recovered.Similarly, on June 10, a raid was conducted at the Mand area of Mehatpur Villages Veran, Bute Dian Chhanna and Dharme Dian Chhanna where confiscated unclaimed 13big tirpals containing 13,000-kg lahan, 11 small tirpals containing 5,500 kg lahan, hence a total of 18,500 kg lahan was destroyed on the spot and five iron drums and 1 vessel was recovered.Last year too, the Excise and Taxation Department had intensified its drive to curb illicit distillation of liquor, as more than 100 persons had then lost their lives after consuming spurious liquor in Punjab’s Majha region.The department had then raided several areas adjoining the Mand area along the Sutlej. “To ensure that people here don’t suffer any tragedy like this in future, we have been checking the areas where such illegal activities take place,” Dr Harsimrat Grewal said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/excise-officials-destroy-over-2-5-lakh-kg-lahan-in-2-months-267090
12-06-2021||Hoshiarpur||Wife gives mobile phone to prisoner, both booked||A case has been registered against a prisoner and his wife who had given a mobile phone to him while he had come to a hospital for treatment.According to information, Central Jail Assistant Superintendent Des Singh told the police that Jatinder, who was arrested in a murder case, was lodged in Hoshiarpur jail. He said Jatinder was taken to the local Civil Hospital for his health check-up.During his visit, Jatinder’s wife came there to see him. Meanwhile, the jail staff saw her putting a mobile in Jatinder’s pocket. Taking immediate action, the jail staff recovered the mobile from the pocket of the accused.However, the accused woman escaped dodging the police party. On the basis of their complaint, the police have registered a case against the both the accused. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/wife-gives-mobile-phone-to-prisoner-both-booked-267091
12-06-2021||Our Correspondent||MP lays stone of bridge on Dhada Kalan choe||Garhshankar, June 11Manish Tewari, MP from Sri Anandpur Sahib, on Friday laid the foundation stone of a bridge on the Dhada Kalan choe connecting Dhada Kalan village and Dhada Khurd. The construction of the 1-km-long bridge, which will cost Rs 2.67 crore, will be completed in six months.Addressing people on the occasion, the Congress MP said the development of the constituency was his priority. A 1.7-km-long high-level bridge would be constructed on the choe, which was a long-pending demand of the people of the area.He stressed that he was aware of some other issues related to the constituency, which would be resolved soon with the help of former MLA Love Kumar Goldy. He said for the last one and a half years, the priority of the state government had been to save the lives of people due to the rapid spread of the pandemic.In this context, Capt Amarinder Singh had announced to grant Rs 10 lakh to the village which was 100 per cent vaccinated. He said the target of 100 per cent vaccination had been achieved by Nazarpur and Rawal Pindi villages belonging to the Garhshankar Assembly constituency. He had also written a letter to the Chief Minister seeking release of the grant of the money for these two villages.He was accompanied by former MLA Love Kumar Goldy, Punjab Large Industrial Development Board Chairman Pawan Dewan and others.Will be completed in six monthsThe construction of the 1.7-km-long high-level bridge, which will cost Rs2.67 crore, will be completed in six months. The project was a long-pending demand of the people of the area.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mp-lays-stone-of-bridge-on-dhada-kalan-choe-267092
12-06-2021||---||AAP protest leads to traffic snarls, commuters suffer||Jalandhar, June 11Workers and leaders of the Aam Aadmi Party on Friday held a protest at one of the busiest places, Dr BR Ambedkar Chowk, around noon leading to a chaos on roads here.The leaders blocked all exits of the roundabout with commuters continuing to honk their vehicles and urging politicians to leave the road for their movement. Many ambulances got stuck in traffic snarl-ups, but the politicians did not pay heed and continued making their speeches against the state government and the Centre over the SC Post-Matric Scholarship Scheme issue.It became unbearable for the motorists to bear the scorching heat and wait helplessly for the agitating politicians to leave the dharna site. The AAP leaders included Saravjit Kaur Manuke, Baljinder Kaur, Amarjit Singh Sandoa and Jagtar Singh Jagga Hissowal kept on taking turns on the mike to deliver their 5- to 10-minute speeches while the rest squatted on the mats put up at the site.Even local leaders, including Rajwinder Kaur, Dr Sanjeev Sharma, Dr Shiv Dyal Maali and others, did not urge the party leaders to wind up quickly and leave. Many residents vented their ire against the party workers on social media. More importantly, even the cops on duty allowed the protesters to continue with their agitation. No attempt was made to disperse them. Clearly, the protesters violated a number of rules.Firstly, holding a protest and that too with a huge gathering and not following the norms of social distancing is not permissible under the Epidemics Act and Disaster Management Act. Secondly, a majority of the leaders were not wearing any mask. Thirdly, there are fixed sites for holding demonstrations in the city, including some grounds, and most popular being open spaces in the PUDA market in front of the District Administrative Complex. The authorities had not given any permission to hold the protest in the centre of the busy roundabout.Tarandeep Sunny, one of the organisers of the event, said, “We had organised the protest leaving a larger part of the road. Many AAP workers and the cops remained on toes to ensure that minimum traffic hindrance occurred during the dharna.”Police Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said he was aware of the problems and inconvenience suffered by the residents. “I am yet to check if an FIR has been lodged against the AAP leaders. I will talk to my teams and do the needful,” he said.Police Station Division No.4 SHO Rakesh Kumar said, “We may file an FIR. We are still in the process of finalising it.”As more than 300 AAP workers joined the dharna against the violations, Gurmeet Singh, DCP, Jalandhar Police Commissionerate, said, “We are in the process of registering an FIR against the agitators under Section 188 of the IPC, the Disaster Management Act and Epidemic Diseases Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/aap-protest-leads-to-traffic-snarls-commuters-suffer-267093
12-06-2021||---||No vaccines for 18+ yet, dedicated jab sites shut||Jalandhar, June 11Though vaccination for 18-44 age group was expected to commence on June 10 in the district, there is still no word on when the drive would begin. As many as 21,500 vaccine doses arrived in the district for the 45-plus category on Thursday and over 5,000 persons were inoculated in the district on the same day. Until Thursday, 5.64 lakh persons had been vaccinated in the district.Meanwhile, of the three dedicated sites at Lyallpur Khalsa College, Garha and Maqsoodan, Covaxin is being administered to those above 18 only at Lyallpur Khalsa College.District Immunisation Officer Dr Rakesh Chopra said: “The jabs for the 18 plus category haven’t arrived as yet. They are expected to arrive soon. Presently, people under the 45-plus category are being vaccinated across 60 sites. Beneficiaries above the age of 18 can only be vaccinated after the doses arrive. Also, some of the dedicated jab sites have been closed in the past two days.”Sources said the Health Department had a bank of 1,000 to 2,000 doses of Covaxin (recalled from private session sites) and those too should be used to inoculate youth under a programme to vaccinate all above the age of 18 in the district.Notably, 38,000 persons had been administered Covaxin in the district. The Health Department has 6,000 to 7,000 Covaxin doses with it which are being administered at some of the vaccination session sites. Sources said the vaccination scenario will be clearer after June 21 when the Centre undertakes the process of distribution of vaccines.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/no-vaccines-for-18-yet-dedicated-jab-sites-shut-267095
12-06-2021||---||2 drug peddlers held with 50-gm opium, intoxicants||Jalandhar, June 11The Kapurthala police have recovered 50-gm opium and intoxicant tablets from the possession of two peddlers.The accused have been identified as Rajwant Singh, alias Raju, a resident of Khassan, Bholath, and Sameer Mohamad, a resident of Palahi village, Phagwara.Senior Superintendent of Polilce Harkamalpreet Singh Khakh said Rajwant was arrested for smuggling drugs into the jail while on his way back after being discharged from the hospital. Security guards got suspicious as Raju was using a walker. He said guards called the police from Kotwali police station and during his search, cops recovered 515 intoxicants, 150-gm tobacco and Rs 800.An FIR was resgistered under Section 22 of the NDPS Act against Raju at Kotwali police station.In another case, the police intercepted drug smuggler Sameer Mohamad on T-Point Bhogpur.Cops said the accused threw a packet and tried to run from the spot after watching the police, but he was apprehended. The police said they recovered 50 grams of opium from the packet. An FIR has been registered under Section 18 of the NDPS Act at Rawalpindi police station in Phagwara. The accused will be produced before the court today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/2-drug-peddlers-held-with-50-gm-opium-intoxicants-267100
12-06-2021||Having served humanity by organising over 500 free eye camps in Punjab and encouraging organ donations||‘Rivers of joy’ — 30 inspirational stories||Three die of Covid-19 at AshramIn a week’s span, three inmates from Shaheed Baba Deep Singh Ashram, Sahni village, here have lost their lives to Covid. The health teams have been daily making rounds here, collecting samples and keeping the inmates under supervision. Of the 146 inmates, 29 have tested positive for the infection. The positive patients have been moved to the Civil Hospitals of Phagwara and Kapurthala, said Covid nodal officer Dr Sumandeep S Parmar. Police teams too have been deployed to ensure that the inmates do not move out of the Ashram and stay largely confined in their rooms.Vaccine shortage a cause for concernThe issue of vaccination continues to be a major political issue with leaders of all parties issuing statements on daily basis. Former Punjab minister and Punjab Agro Industries Corporation Chairman Joginder Singh Mann, who hails from Phagwara, has said that it was unfortunate that the country had slipped to 145th rank in imparting quality medical services to the people in this hour of crisis. He said it was double whammy for the countrymen as on one hand the PM has supplied around 6 crore vaccines to the other countries and on the other hand there is acute shortage of the vaccines in India itself due to which life of the people is in peril. Mann said instead of arranging the medicines for the people, the Prime Minister and his coterie had befooled the general public by enhancing the time line of vaccination. “It is total failure of the Modi government to deal with this crisis and country will never forgive the Prime Minister and coterie for this sin”, he added.LPU lad shines at ideathon competitionA BTech Biomedical Engineering student of Lovely Professional University Kunwar Sahi has won second prize at the prestigious national level ASB Ideathon competition-2021 held in Noida (UP). Near 200 competitors from all across the country had presented their innovative ideas and skills. The title of the winning start-up idea of LPU student was “NeuroX Technologies”. Sahi, set to be an entrepreneur, says that his idea was to help the community with mental health related issues. “It is a novel framework which will address such issues while being highly patient, specific and affordable. It will provide assistance to clinicians as well as patients. The victory in the contest has encouraged me to strive and develop it further to see my idea converted into a solid creativity.” tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rivers-of-joy-%E2%80%94-30-inspirational-stories-267107
12-06-2021||Hoshiarpur||2 honoured for timely O2 supply||SDM told to probe ‘atta-dal’ supplyKapurthala: DC Deepti Uppal has directed the Sultanpur Lodhi SDM to inspect the ‘atta-dal’ distribution under the National Food Security Act in villages falling under Sultanpur Lodhi subdivision. She has directed the SDM to inquire into the complaints received from Kamalpur village and some other places regarding irregularities in the distribution of ‘atta dal’ in the area. The SDM has been directed to conduct inquiry in person in the villages of Sultanpur Lodhi constituency and submit the investigation report within 7 days. TNS‘Bhiwanipur to be model village’Garhshankar: Pankaj Kripal, member of Guru Ravidas Memorial Foundation, formed by the Government of Punjab and co-chairman of PPCC legal cell, while addressing the villagers in Bhiwanipur on Friday said no shortfall would be allowed in the development of Bhiwanipur village. He said the village would be developed as a model village. He said a grant of Rs5 lakh would be sent from MP Shamsher Singh Dulo’s MPLAD fund for development works like solar lights, gym kits and pipelines in agricultural fields for irrigation, besides the temple of Mata Hari Devi located in the village would also be renovated soon. OCStolen revolver recovered, 2 heldTanda Urmar: The police arrested two persons with country-made pistol and bullets and recovered from them a stolen revolver, 13 cartridges, vehicles and gold jewellery. DSP Tanda Gurpreet Singh Gill said a police party recovered a country-made pistol and eight live cartridges from an Innova car near Rada Mod and arrested Sarpragatjit Singh, alias Japan, and Charanjit Singh, alias Happy, both residents of Kadial Colony, Civil Lines Batala, Gurdaspur. During interrogation the accused confessed that on April 26, they had stolen a .32 bore revolver and 13 live cartridges from the house of Amrik Singh, a resident of Shahbazpur. The DSP said the revolver and gold ornaments stolen by them had been recovered. He said with their arrest the Tanda police had solved three theft cases. OCOnline dance competition Jalandhar: KMV Collegiate Sr. Sec. School organised an online inter-school dance competition in which participants from all over India participated in different categories of the competition. Principal Dr Atima Sharma Dwivedi welcomed all participants and motivated the students by saying that these competitions work as a positive energy in the present times of Covid and they were also important for mental strength. — TNSSurprise check at Central JailHoshiarpur: CJM-cum-Secretary District Legal Services Authority Aparajita Joshi conducted a surprise inspection of the Hoshiarpur Central Jail on Friday. She heard the difficulties being faced by prisoners and visited the jail hospital. He inquired about the condition of those admitted to the hospital from a doctor. The Jail Superintendent said a Covid-positive under trial had been admitted to the Civil Hospital and the report of all others was negative. Joshi went to the women’s barracks and inquired about the health of the prisoners there. She acquainted them with various schemes of free legal aid being run by the department. She also gave directions to the Para Legal Volunteers to provide free legal services to inmates through the Legal Aid Clinic opened in the jail. OC24x7 electricity supply soughtJalandhar: Farmers asked the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) to supply uninterrupted electricity and other issues being faced by them during the paddy season. Farmers handed over their letters to members of the Kirti Kisan Union at Mehatpur and Parjian. The union said the PSPCL should provide 24x7 electricity supply for tubewells, replace damaged or stolen transformers within 24 hours, rural complaint centres should stay open, extortion from farmers in the name of outsourcing be stopped and new employees should be hired by the power utility. TNSGoswami Ganesh Dutt rememberedHoshiarpur: GGDSD College Hariana, in collaboration with Sanatan Dharam Education Board observed 62nd death anniversary of Tyagmurti Goswami Ganesh Dutt, under the supervision of Dr Gurdip Kumar Sharma, secretary, college managing committee and Sanatan Dharam Education Board, Chandigarh. Dr Shiv Kumar, president, Sanatan Dharam Pratinidhi Sabha, Punjab, Dr Desh Bandhu, working president, Sanatan Dharam Pratinidhi Sabha and college Principal Rajiv Kumar were also present. The programme started with online puran ahuti of yagya performed at Saptrishi Ashram, Haridwar. Hem Bhardwaj of SD College, Ambala, presented bhajans. After that floral tributes were paid to Goswami Ganesh Dutt at GGDSD College Hariana and at Goswami's smadhi in Haridwar. OCService centres open 9 am to 5 pmNawanshahr: In view of the receding second Covid wave, all service centers in the district would provide services to the citizens from Monday to Saturday starting from 9 am to 5 pm. The services could be availed without prior approval also. DC Dr Shena Aggarwal said it was imperative for the staff and citizens to wear masks inside the service centres. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/2-honoured-for-timely-o2-supply-267111
12-06-2021||Jalandhar||Students bring laurels to College||Global Quiz ContestCommemorating the centennial year of world’s renowned physicist Albert Einstein’s Nobel Prize winning in 1921; the Department of Physics at the School of Chemical Engineering and Physical Sciences (SCEPS) of Lovely Professional University (LPU) organised a ‘global online quiz contest’. Topic covered was “Photoelectric Effect”, for which nearly 1,000 faculty members, scientists, research scholars, students participated from across India and many other countries. This international contest was organised under the aegis of Indian Association of Physics Teachers (IAPT), and guidance of distinguished Indian physicist Padma Shri Prof H C Verma. The contest declared Nishtha Shreya (a scientist in Bhabha Atomic Research Centre (BARC), Mumbai), and Sunita Singh (a government science teacher from Uttar Pradesh (UP) as joint toppers. LPU’s Executive Dean Dr Lovi Raj Gupta congratulated the organising team comprising HoD Dr Kailash C Juglan; Dr Rajesh Kumar, Dr Neha Munjal for this success oriented global endeavour.DPS conducts virtual ptmsVirtual PTMs were conducted for students of all classes at Delhi Public School. The teachers shared their feedback about the attendance and performance of children in the online classes and also guided them to make the most of summer projects. The parents discussed about their ward’s learning aptitude and general well-being. The Principal, Ritu Kaul, also participated in the virtual PTMs across pre-primary to XII and emphasised on the importance of a positive mindset during these times. She prayed for normalcy to return soon so that the children can be back to school and the corridors of the school can once again reverberate with life, laughter and activity. For Classes X-XII, extra classes were conducted to promote optimal and smooth learning and provide personal attention to the learners.Session on Covid-19 awarenessThe NSS Unit and Mission Tandrust Punjab Committee of MGN College of Education organised an Interactive session on the topic “Covid-19 Awareness”. The speaker of the interaction was Dr Anand Malhotra, Ex-Chairperson IMA Punjab (RMO Forum). During the interaction, he made the students aware about the ways to keep themselves protected from new strain of Covid-19. During the lecture he suggested the masses to boost their immunity and get vaccinated as early as possible. During the interaction, he also addressed the misconceptions of students regarding Covid vaccination. He also suggested the ways to take care people affected with Covid-19 and having chronic diseases like diabetes, hypertension, blood pressure etc. Principal Neelu Jhanji welcomed the guest. Around 100 students and faculty members joined the interaction.Col Bhupinder Singh 1st in MAJMCPrincipal Dr Pardeep Bhandari on Friday announced that students of PG Department of Journalism and Mass Communication of Doaba College, Jalandhar, have excelled in GNDU semester examinations and brought laurels to their institution. MAJMC (Sem IV) students- Col Bhupinder Singh Rai secured 1238 marks out of 1600 and bagged 1st position, Heena secured 1203 marks and clinched the 2nd position , Paras secured sixth, Kumar secured 7th , Monika secured 8th and Tanisha secured the 10th position in GNDU. In MAJMC Sem 2 students viz Shiksha secured 280 marks out of 400 bagged 4th and Shivani secured 275 marks and bagged 7th position. BAJMC Semester 2 students -Gurmeet Kaur secured 364 marks out of 450 bagged 1st , Divya secured 335 bagged 7th and Shabnam secured 326 marks and bagged 12th position .BAJMC Sem 6 students -Meetali secured 349 marks out of 450 bagged 5th, Rashi secured 331 marks bagged 7th and Anchal secured 308 marks and bagged 12th position. In BAJMC Sem 6 students-Shivani secured 1892 marks out of 2900 and bagged 9th position and Abha secured 1848 marks and bagged the 11th position in GNDU. Principal Dr Pardeep Bhandari congratulated these outstanding students, their parents and faculty for this achievement.M Com resultsStudents of MCom semester III of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya brought laurels to the institution by securing various positions in the university. Sona Babbar bagged 5th position by scoring 450 out of 550 marks, Damini Mehta got 6th position by scoring 446 marks and Sanchi Bansal got 10th position with 440 marks. Principal Prof Ajay Sareen congratulated the students, Head of the Department Dr Kanwaldeep Kaur and other faculty members for this proud achievement.Nature walk organisedNobel School is keen on conducting activities for the kids and this time the exposure was given to little kids to express their creativity with an activity named “Let’s go out for Nature Walk”. The tiny tots of grades Nursery to Kg II came up with innovative ideas under the guidance of their incharges Charu, Sweety and Suman. The Chairman Prof CL Kochher of The Nobel School appreciated the work of tiny tots and added by saying that these types of activities not only boost up the confidence level but is a good example of fine motor skill and creativity skills. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/students-bring-laurels-to-college-267114
