13-06-2021||Jalandhar||Online Summer Camp organised||Session on Covid-19 awarenessThe NSS Unit and Mission Tandrust Punjab Committee of MGN College of Education organised an Interactive session on the topic “Covid-19 Awareness”. The speaker of the interaction was Dr Anand Malhotra, Ex-Chairperson IMA Punjab (RMO Forum). During the interaction, he made the students aware about the ways to keep themselves protected from new strain of Covid-19. During the lecture he suggested the masses to boost their immunity and get vaccinated as early as possible. During the interaction, he also addressed the misconceptions of students regarding Covid vaccination. He also suggested the ways to take care people affected with Covid-19 and having chronic diseases like diabetes, hypertension, blood pressure etc. Principal Neelu Jhanji welcomed the guest. Around 100 students and faculty members joined the interaction.Nature walk organisedNobel school is keen on conducting activities for the kids and this time the exposure was given to little kids to express their creativity with an activity named “Let’s go out for Nature Walk”. The tiny tots of grades Nursery to Kg II came up with innovative ideas under the guidance of their incharges Charu, Sweety and Suman. The Chairman Prof CL Kochher of The Nobel school appreciated the work of tiny tots and added by saying that these types of activities not only boost up the confidence level but is a good example of fine motor skill and creativity skills and also said due to this pandemic where everyone is contained to stay at home there such type of activities not only freshen up their minds but also fills them with excitement.Workshop on Managerial skillsPhagwara: GNA University organised a workshop on ‘Advantage Managerial Skills’ for the students of MBA via the online virtual platform. Suneel Keswani, international corporate trainer, was the resource person of the workshop. The workshop was organised to acquaint the students with the latest managerial skills required by personnel to work and function into various branches and managerial levels of company and how these companies need to be professionally managed. Keswani commenced the session by firstly explaining the relevance of system and how bigger it is than a person. To propound the relevance of the same to the students, different activities by him were conducted for the students which threw light upon significant real-life situations.Hubs of Learning conductedEklavya School conducted a meeting under CBSE-approved programme “Hubs of Learning”. Eklavya School initially named as ‘Lead Collaborator School’ by the CBSE Board. Under this co-ordinator Bhawna Bhatt conducted a planned meeting with all the member schools. The topic of workshop was “Happy Classroom Strategies”. The motive behind this meeting was to create a positive environment and facilitating growth and development of students in the class.Hometown photography contestInnocent Hearts Group organised a photography contest under the theme “Hometown Pride”. Students from various schools and colleges participated in the event with full zeal and enthusiasm. Participants clicked the snaps of most popular places including Gurudwara Shri Guru Singh Sabha, Tombs of Ustad-Shagird, Dera Baba Murad Shah Nakodar, Golden Temple and Gurdwara Shri Ber Sahib. Some of the participants captured the beauty of nature comprised of Indira Gandhi Memorial Tulip Garden, Jammu and Kashmir, Wonderland Lake, eventide view and dancing view of birds. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/online-summer-camp-organised-267791
13-06-2021||Jalandhar||No alternative to  Capt Amarinder Singh: Mahila chief||Coming strongly in support of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh’s leadership ahead of the Punjab Assembly polls, District Congress Mahila Chief Jasleen Sethi on Saturday said the party workers were feeling motivated to fight the forthcoming polls.Sethi, who is a Congress councillor too, said there was no alternate to Capt Amarinder’s leadership, charisma and personality. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/no-alternative-to-capt-amarinder-singh-mahila-chief-267790
13-06-2021||Our Correspondent||One booked for dowry demand in Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur, June 12The police have registered a case against a person for harassing his wife for allegedly demanding a car in dowry. According to information, Manpreet Kaur of Barian Kalan village, had lodged a complaint with the police. She said she was married to Harmeet Singh of Sampli village, Fatehgarh Sahib, on February 16 last year.“After marriage, he started harassing me for demanding a car in dowry. Later, seeing the demand not being fulfilled, he threw me out of the house,” she said. The police have registered a case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/one-booked-for-dowry-demand-in-hoshiarpur-267789
13-06-2021||Hoshiarpur||Day Against Child Labour: ‘Today’s children, tomorrow’s future’||The Legal Literacy Club of DAV College of Education, Hoshiarpur, organised an online video-making competition to mark World Day Against Child Labour here on Saturday.The competition was based on the theme “Today’s Children, Tomorrow’s Future” to aware the students against the child labour. Priya Sharma got the first prize, Mukul Sharma stood second and Himanshu got the third prize.DAVCMC president Dr Anoop Kumar, secretary principal (Retd) DL Anand and director Dr SS Sharma congratulated the winners. Principal Dr Vidhi Bhalla appreciated the organisers Roma Ralhan and Navneta Sood for the success of the event and added that the day aims to spread awareness against the illegal practice of the child labour that still prevails and it needs to eradicate it completely across the globe. Dr Monika and Vishakha Broota were the judges of the event. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/day-against-child-labour-todays-children-tomorrows-future-267788
13-06-2021||---||Complete work on Rs 463L model playgrounds in week, BDPOs told||Jalandhar, June 12Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori directed all Block Development and Panchyat Officers (BDPOs) to ensure timely completion of development projects being carried out in rural areas under various schemes so that the people of the district could benefit from these pro-people initiatives.While reviewing the playground project, the DC accompanied by Additional Deputy Commissioner (Development) Vishesh Sarangal, and ADC (General) Jasbir Singh, asked the officials to complete these projects within a week as any kind of delay would be dealt with strictly. The DC said 61 model playgrounds were to come up in all 11 blocks at an outlay of Rs 463.91 lakhs, adding that about 44 playgrounds had been completed so far with an expenditure of Rs 349 lakhs. These model playgrounds include five each in Adampur, Jalandhar west, Lohian, Mehatpur, Nurmahal, Phillaur, Rurkan Kalan, and Shahkot; nine in Bhogpur; six each in Jalandhar east and Nakodar development blocks.Similarly, the DC also reviewed the progress made in school projects started under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MG-NREGA) and convergence. He stated that a total of 664 school projects had to be initiated in the district by incurring Rs 10 crore out of which 553 works had been started by the authorities and a sum of Rs Rs 4.02 crore had been spent. Thori has directed all field officers to start the remaining projects besides ensuring above 50 per cent completion within next week.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/complete-work-on-rs-463l-model-playgrounds-in-week-bdpos-told-267787
13-06-2021||---||Seat sharing: Resentment brews among BSP workers||Jalandhar, June 12The alliance formed between the Bahujan Samaj Party and the Shiromani Akali Dal for the 2022 Assembly election may have cheered some party workers, there are others, especially within the BSP, who are not happy with the seat-sharing method.Even though the BSP and SAD workers held symbolic celebrations at their respective offices across the city, there are many within the BSP who feel that at least half of the 20 seats allotted to the party in the alliance, including Sujjanpur, Bhoa, Pathankot, Jalandhar North, Dasuya, Tanda, Amritsar Central and North, Payal and Ludhiana North, are those where it does not have a good hold. They say this leaves the party with only half of the winnable seats.The BSP workers said these were primarily those seats which were contested by the BJP when SAD was in alliance with it and the Akali Dal leaders in a very smart move had passed on the onus to win these seats to the BSP. In many of these seats such as Amritsar Central, the BSP had got only 500 votes in the 2017 Assembly polls. BSP’s Chain Singh had polled only 695 votes from the Bhoa seat in the last election.The party leaders feel that the seats where BSP had a stronger base, such as in Phillaur, Banga, Adampur, Sham Churasi, Garhshankar and Chabbewal, had been very smartly retained by the SAD, which would try to use the party’s support to gain more strength. The BSP, however, hopes to make good use of its own strength in seats like Kartarpur, Phagwara, Mehal Kalan, Chamkaur Sahib, Bassi Pathana and Nawanshahr where it has had a good vote-share in the past. In seats like Jalandhar West and Hoshiarpur, the alliance has winnability chances only if it gives good candidates, the political experts of Doaba opine.Thekedar Bhagwan Dass, who had contested the last Phagwara bypoll on the BSP ticket, says, “From the seat allotment, it seems that the SAD leadership has prevailed upon the BSP leaders during the discussions and they have taken all seats of their choice. It seems that the SAD will benefit more from the alliance than the BSP.”It also remains to be seen if the sitting SAD MLAs like Pawan Tinu, Baldev Khaira and Dr Sukhwinder Sukhi, who had all moved to Akali Dal after parting ways with the BSP, will get any support from the BSP’s committed voters in the alliance.MP Chaudhary terms it opportunisticTerming the new alliance between the Shiromani Akali Dal and Bahujan Samaj Party as the most opportunistic, Member of Parliament Santokh Singh Chaudhary on Saturday said that BSP chief Mayawati had again betrayed the Dalit community for its own survival by entering into a coalition with an anti-Dalit party like Akali Dal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/seat-sharing-resentment-brews-among-bsp-workers-267780
13-06-2021||Jalandhar||Work on 481 projects in full swing, says Jalandhar Deputy Commissioner||Reviewing progress of works being done under the Urban Environment Improvement Programme (UEIP), Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said 481 development works were being carried out in the district under the second phase of the project at an outlay or Rs111.78 crore.Of these, 239 projects at an expenditure of Rs2,339.53 lakh have been initiated by the local bodies department, followed by 178 works worth Rs6,425.97 lakh by Jalandhar Municipal Corporation, 60 works worth Rs2,130 lakh by Public Works Department, and four works worth Rs282.55 lakh by Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Board have been started.The DC said the state government had issued massive funds under the Phase I and II of the programme. “Responsibility of timely completion of all projects is now on the executing agencies,” he said. He asked officers to personally monitor the projects so as to prevent any delay in the completion work. He also warned erring officials of strict action in case of any delay. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/work-on-481-projects-in-full-swing-says-jalandhar-deputy-commissioner-267766
13-06-2021||---||Sports Minister inaugurates Rs 4.5-crore AstroTurf project||Jalandhar, June 12Sports and Youth Affairs Minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi today initiated a major project to lay AstroTurf at Olympian Surjit Hockey Stadium to be completed at a cost of Rs 4.50 crore.Accompanied by MLA Jalandhar West Sushil Rinku and Mayor Jagdish Raj Raja, the minister also announced that this stadium would witness the first pro-hockey league after the completion of AstroTurf project. Sodhi also announced that another hockey stadium equipped with AstroTurf, floodlight and other infrastructure would also be developed in the city.Rana Gurmit Sodhi said hockey players would get ultra modern sports facility once the AstroTurf was laid within seven months. The turf to be laid has been manufactured by the USA-based company FieldTurf, which would be laid by Great Sports Tech of Hyderabad, said the minister, adding that the stadium would also have a sprinkler system along a tubewell.The minister also appointed Olympian and Dronacharya awardee Rajinder Singh Junior as Chief Hockey Coach. He also handed over an appointment letter to him on the occasion, assuring him of all support and cooperation to achieve the given task.Unveiling the posters and T-shirts of pro-hockey league, Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi said the league would be organised by the Surjit Hockey Society with participation of 20 teams of different categories. The sports minister said every possible effort to promote sports and produce national and international level players was being made by the state Sports Department. Hence, the state government has increased the award money, besides providing government jobs to sports persons of national and international repute.Prominent among those present on the occasion included SDM Jai Inder Singh, Secretary Surjit Hockey Society Iqbal Singh Sandhu, Surinder Bhapa, Swimming Coach Umesh Sharma, ADCP Jagjit Saroya etc.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sports-minister-inaugurates-rs-4-5-crore-astroturf-project-267764
13-06-2021||Hoshiarpur||Smugglers held in Hoshiarpur, intoxicants seized||Two snatchers arrestedHoshiarpur: Two miscreants, who had snatched a bag containing cash from a woman a week ago were nabbed near police lines on Saturday afternoon. Both the accused were nabbed from near the gate of the police lines when she recognised them while they were passing from there. The police have recovered the snatched items. Both the accused have been identified as Lakeshwar of Dholanwal village and Karandeep Adia of Shastri Nagar. The police have registered a case. OCMan duped of Rs 14 lakhHoshiarpur: The police have booked two persons for allegedly duping a man of Rs14 lakh on the pretext of sending abroad. According to information, Abhikash Singh of Dugri Awan village, had lodged a complaint with the police. He told the police that promising him of sending him abroad, the accused travel agent Maninder Singh and Navjot Singh, both residents of Sirhand Road, Patiala, took Rs14 lakh from him but neither they sent him abroad nor returned his money. The police have registered a case. OCOne booked for ‘abducting’ minorHoshiarpur: The Bullowal police have registered a case against an unidentified person for allegedly abducting a minor girl. According to information, Manjeet Kaur of Pajjoditta village had lodged a complaint with the police. She told the police that her 17-year-old girl had gone to bring milk on June 8 but did not return. She alleged that she had been abducted by someone. OCMan booked for bigamyHoshiarpur: The police have registered a case against a person for allegedly solmenising a second wedding. According to information, Isha, daughter of Amarjeet Singh of Milap Nagar, has lodged a complaint with the police. She told the police that she was married to Mukesh Lal, son of Somnath of Barwa village, Ropar. She said he started harassing her for dowry after marriage and was married to someone else too. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/smugglers-held-in-hoshiarpur-intoxicants-seized-267762
13-06-2021||Talwara||Missing youth’s body found floating in Beas||The body of Akash Deep (20), son of Chaman Lal of Makkoval Sansarpur village, near Kamahi Devi, was found floating in the Beas on Saturday.He left home without informing anybody on his bike last week. The body was recovered from the Beas in the area adjacent to the HP border near Talwara. The HP Police recovered the bike of the deceased from the bushes. His relatives had lodged a missing report of Akash at Dasuya police station last week. The body recovered by the police was identified by the deceased’s mother.When the body was found, the police teams of Punjab and Himachal reached the spot, but the Himachal police took the body to Nurpur for post-mortem as the area where it was found lies in Himachal. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/missing-youths-body-found-floating-in-beas-267760
13-06-2021||---||6 smugglers held with huge cache of narcotics||Jalandhar, June 12Six smugglers, including two proclaimed offenders wanted in the 5-kg heroin recovery case, were arrested by the Kapurthala police on Saturday. A large amount of narcotics and illicit liquor were seized from their possession.Kapurthala SSP Harmakamalpreet Singh Khakh said the arrests were made under Operation ‘2s Siege and Search’ in the area of Sultanpur Lodhi police station launched by the district police.The accused have been identified as Rajvir Singh, alias Raju (23), Sukhjivan Singh (32), Lakhwinder Singh, alias Lakha (25), Amarjit Singh (23), and Kulbir Singh, alias Sohan (35), all residents of Lattianwal village and Harpal Singh, alias Pala (23), a resident of Toti village in Sultanpur Lodhi.During the search, different police teams seized 260 grams of heroin from accused Rajvir Singh and 265 grams of heroin from Sukhjivan Singh, 450 intoxicant pills form Lakhwinder Singh, alias Lakha, 510 intoxicant pills from Amarjit Singh, 270 grams of narcotics powder and one SUV from accused Harpal Singh and 150 kg of illicit liquor was seized from accused Kulvir Singh, alias Sohan.While some family members of some of these accused are settled abroad, Amarjit Singh is a daily wager and Kulveer Singh is a farmer by profession.The SSP further elaborated that both smugglers Rajvir Singh and Sukhjivan Singh were previously declared proclaimed offenders on August 1, 2019, and were absconding for the last few years. Many cases were already registered against them under the NDPS Act, he added.Special teams carried out raids on the drug smugglers by laying siege to the infamous Lattianwala village.The SSP said six different cases were registered against these smugglers under relevant sections of the NDPS Act and the Excise Act at the Sultanpur Lodhi police station.The SSP said the arrested smugglers would be produced before the magistrate by the police and their police remand would be sought to further investigate there backward and forward linkage so that further arrest can be made of those who are associated with these smugglers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/6-smugglers-held-with-huge-cache-of-narcotics-267759
13-06-2021||Our Correspondent||More than 2L SC/ST students unable to take exams, says AAP||Hoshiarpur, June 12Aam Aadmi Party held a protest demonstration today under the leadership of the Assembly segment in charge Hoshiarpur and state joint secretary Brahmshankar Jimpa, against the Congress government of Punjab. The protesters shouted slogans against the Congress government and demanded a strict action against the ministers and officials involved in the post-matric scholarship scam. During this, a helpline 7827273487 was also launched for the SC-ST students, where the students can register their problems.Addressing the protesters, Brahmpshankar Jimpa said the Education Minister was claiming of working hard for the development of the education system, while the real picture of the education system in Punjab was that more than 2 lakh SC-ST students were unable to take exams. He demanded that the Punjab government should issue a white paper on the issue of post-matric scholarship scam so that the truth of the scholarship scam could be exposed.Jimpa said although the Punjab Government had announced to release the final installment of the post-matric scholarship for the scheduled caste students for the academic year 2020-21 but the future of the remaining three sessions was still at stake. This is because the Joint Association of Colleges (JAC) have made it clear that it will not issue roll numbers to students due to outstanding amount for the remaining years.Brahmshankar Jimpa said the government had ruined the lives of millions of students due to the scam and because of it, many colleges in the state had refused to give roll numbers to the students. The colleges have also held certificates and degrees of the students. As a result, students have been deprived of applying for jobs. He demanded that the government should release the scholarships.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/more-than-2l-sc-st-students-unable-to-take-exams-says-aap-267758
13-06-2021||Avneet Kaur (26) got infected with the virus on March 26. While she started developing symptoms such as dry cough and continuous fever three days before testing positive||Avneet Kaur: ‘Be aware, don’t panic’||She said she contracted the virus from her mother. Both of them had attended a family function nearly a week ago before getting infected. A resident of Jalandhar Heights-2, Avneet works as a scribe and owing to her profession, she has to go out and meet people. Though she followed all precautions, the biggest challenge for her was to take care of her mother.Avneet Kaur, A scribeMy mother and I got ourselves tested from a government Covid care lab, the results of which initially scared us as my mother is also a diabetic. As, there are just two members in my family, I remember, during the road to recovery, I even cooked meals daily. This was the first time I tried my hands in cooking. Healthy intake was advised by my doctor, so I used to scroll on Internet to look for healthy and tasty dishes.“My mother and I got ourselves tested from a government Covid care lab, the results of which initially scared us as my mother is also diabetic. We followed all medications prescribed by our doctors. Luckily, our oxygen level was normal and had only lost taste and smell. The persistent fever developed fatigue in our bodies. Without the support of our housemaid, things remained rough for initial days. But later, I started taking interest in everything and cleaning the house on my own kept me busy and happy. As, there are just two members in my family, I remember, during the road to recovery, I even cooked meals daily. This was the first time that I tried my hands in cooking. Healthy intake was advised by my doctor, so I used to scroll on Internet to look for healthy and tasty dishes,” said Avneet.Due to adequate immunity in their bodies, the doctors instructed her and her mother to observe home-quarantine for 10 days, which extended to 20 days.Avneet further said, “I strictly followed home isolation and if I needed anything, I used to call my friends, who would keep the things outside my door. Experiencing minor body aches and weakness, I kept myself isolated from my mother. We stayed in different rooms. Though we got a bit panicky, we preferred to stay quiet and focused on our recovery. Frequent video calls with my brother and sister made the recovery easy. Avoiding solid intake, we tried to increase fluids and protein in our diet. With the help of oximeter and thermometer, we regularly tracked our temperature and oxygen level. Though recovery process feels tough, one should not lose patience. I did not skip my exercise routine for even a day and also motivated my mother to follow breathing exercise. With the help of the health teams, I learnt more about the virus and guided others about the same through the social media.”“All necessary precautions should be taken but once any symptom is experienced don’t generate unnecessary fear and doubts. Consult your doctor at the earliest. Proper sleep and a healthy diet were a big boost to keep the stress away,” added Avneet.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/avneet-kaur-be-aware-dont-panic-267757
13-06-2021||Our Correspondent||Covid-19: 4 die, 75 test positive in Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur, June 12The district reported four more deaths due to Covid, taking the toll to 944 on Saturday. Besides, the district also witnessed 75 fresh cases, with which the toll went up to 29,825.Giving information, Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Singh said the number of active cases in the district stood at 145 and 28,136 patients had recovered from the virus.Of the total number of cases reported, 59 patients were from Hoshiarpur district and six were reported from other districts. The fatalities were reported from various Hoshiarpur, Ludhiana and Amritsar hospitals.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-19-4-die-75-test-positive-in-hoshiarpur-267755
13-06-2021||---||2 succumb to Covid, 91 +ve in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, June 12With 91 fresh Covid positive cases reported today, the district tally went up to 61,884. Of these, 20 cases are from other districts. As many as two patients died due to the disease today. With this, the district toll has increased to 1,437.As many as 59,287 persons have recovered from Covid in the district while, the number of active cases in Jalandhar is 1,160.Four die in KapurthalaKapurthala today reported 14 fresh cases, with which the district tally went up to 17,271. Four persons died of Covid in the district today. The deceased include a 74-year-old man from Nakodar Road, a 77-year-old man of Bholath, a 60-year-old man of Hussainpur Dulowal village and a 67-year-old man of Sultanpur Lodhi. The district toll now stands at 510.Nawanshahr logs 13 fresh casesSeeing a significant drop in the Covid spread in the past few weeks, the district health authorities today reported 13 positive cases with no fatality being reported.Of the 13 cases, four each were from Sujjon and Balachaur blocks, two from Nawanshahr, one each from Rahon, Banga and Mukandpur and none in the earlier affected Muzaffarpur and Saroya blocks. The Covid test results of 921 samples taken is still awaited. The total number of positive cases in the district stands at 11,275 with 346 deaths for the past 15 months.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/2-succumb-to-covid-91-ve-in-jalandhar-district-267747
13-06-2021||---||25.9 pc population jabbed in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, June 12With 25.9 per cent of the total population in the district vaccinated till June 11, Jalandhar ranks fifth among all districts of the state in terms of vaccine coverage. However, in the 18 to 44 category, only 42,815 persons have been vaccinated in Jalandhar so far. Notably, the 18 to 44 age group amounts to nearly 50 per cent of the district population.Ghanshyam Thori, DC As many as 1,000 paid slots of Covaxin were booked in an hour. But the demand slowed down for the subsequent shots. We had anticipated 5,000 to 6,000 slots will be taken. But due to the slow pace of bookings later, in total only 3,000 slots have been taken so far.With a handful of sites offering jabs for 18 plus category - the district currently has only about 14,000 vaccines for the said age group.For the 18 to 44 age group, as many as 15,080 vaccines (11,490 Covishield vaccine doses and 3,590 Covaxin doses) are currently available in the district.With roughly 5,000 to 6,000 vaccines being administered in the district per day, about 1,000 to 1,200 are getting vaccinated with Covaxin, while the rest are getting Covishield shots. At this rate, the present supply will also be exhausted in a few days.Notably, due to erratic supply and lack of demand, two of the three session sites started for paid vaccines for the 18 to 44 age group were also closed recently. Currently, only one operates.DC Ghanshyam Thori said, “As many as 1,000 paid slots of Covaxin were booked in an hour. But the demand slowed down for the subsequent shots. We anticipated that 5,000 to 6,000 slots will be taken. But due to the slow place of bookings later, in total only 3,000 slots have been taken so far. Of the three session sites for which the slots had been started, two have closed due to lack of demand and the remaining one (Lyallpur Khalsa College) is only run from Sunday to Sunday. So we have a backup of about 200 vaccine for tomorrow and as many for the coming Sunday on June 20. We plan to extend the programme only till June 20.”Rakesh Chopra, district immunisation officer, said, “Of nearly 4 lakh persons in the 45-plus category, at least 75 per cent, have been vaccinated in the district. The issue with the 18 plus population is that the phase started late and we have been moving step-wise. We are vaccinating as per availability. A majority of the 18 to 45 category has been vaccinated with Covishield. About 35,000 doses of Covaxin received from the Centre have been administered. Total 8,500 Covaxin doses were received from the state, of which 4,500 have been administered. We have received about 12,000 doses of Covishield from yesterday and about 1,000 doses of Covaxin. These will now be administered to the 18 plus category from tomorrow.”Drive-through vaccination for divyangsHoshiarpur: Hoshiarpur Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait on Saturday said under a special initiative, divyangs could get vaccinated at drive-through centres at a dispensary in Nehar Colony on every Wednesday and Saturday from 10 am to 1 pm. The health teams would administer doses to them in their vehicles on priority. Also, bedridden patients can avail doorstep vaccination facility by sending a WhatsApp message at 78146-40600 and mobile teams of the Health Department would inoculate them at their doorstep. She said similar practice would be started at other session sites as soon the requisite numbers of vaccine were received. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/25-9-pc-population-jabbed-in-jalandhar-district-267554
