14-06-2021||---||4 succumb to virus, 106 catch infection in Jalandhar district||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 13The health authorities reported 106 new Covid-19 positive cases today. With this, the tally increased 61,990.The authorities reported four Covid-19 related deaths in the district today. The toll has reached 1,441. As many as 59,454 people have recovered from Covid while the number of active cases stands at 1,095 in the district.3 deaths in KapurthalaIn Kapurthala, 69 people tested positive, thus taking the total number of cases to 17,341. The authorities reported three deaths in the district today. The deceased include a 65-year-old man from Dhilwan village, a 76-year-old man from Ibrahimwal village and an 80-year-old man from Phagwara. The total deaths in Kapurthala reached 513.2 die, 13 +ve in NawanshahrThe health authorities reported 13 Covid cases in Nawanshahr district on Sunday. With this, the tally has increased to 11,288. The authorities reported two deaths in the district today. The deceased have been identified as a 75-year-old man from Rahon and a 57-year-old man from Muzaffarpur. At present, the district has 166 active cases and 134 patients were under home isolation. The number of recovered cases is 10,784. Urban Nawanshahr, urban Banga, Mukandpur, Muzaffarpur and Saroya blocks did not report any new case.2 succumb in HoshiarpurWith 85 persons testing positive for Covid, the tally reached 29,910 on Sunday. Not only this, two deaths were also reported, taking the toll to 946 in the district. The number of active cases is 660, while the number of patients who have recovered is 28,304.The total number of samples of Covid-19 taken in the district till date is 6,13,732, of which, 5,83,159 were negative, while 3,819 reports were still awaited and 623 samples were invalid. Among the dead were a 50-year-old resident of Shivalik Enclave, who died at a private hospital in Ludhiana; and a 77-year-old woman of Deowal village resident, who died at a private hospital in Hoshiarpur.Vaccination driveThe state government has extended the vaccination drive to cover elected representatives, shopkeepers, hospitality industry and drivers, among others, to boost the economy. The administration today informed that shopkeepers and their staff, indsutrial workers and vendors should get vaccinated.Kapurthala Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal said the vaccine was being administered at 29 session sites in the district. She said shopkeepers and their staff can get themselves vaccinated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/4-succumb-to-virus-106-catch-infection-in-jalandhar-district-268267
14-06-2021||---||Hoshiarpur cops arrest 39 with illicit liquor, intoxicants||Our CorrespondentHoshiarpur, June 13In pursuance of drive against drugs and illicit liquor initiated across the state on directions of DGP Dinkar, the Hoshiarpur police conducted Cordon and Search Operation (CASO) to comb off the drug smugglers from the district. Under the search took place in different areas, the police teams seized illicit liquor, heroin, intoxicant powder and 9.4 lakh drug money from the accused.SSP Navjot Singh Mahal, who was personally supervising this drive, said that the operations were conducted in Chak Routa village of Garhshankar, Harta, Jalota of Dasuya, Sandpur village of Talwara and Ghasitpur Tooran village of Hajipur. Similarly, in urban areas hotspots were identified and the operation was conducted in Valmiki Mohalla of Hoshiarpur and Chandigarh Colony of Tanda. Mahal further stated that 39 persons were apprehended during the operation while eight cases were registered under the NDPS and the Excise Act. The police teams seized 2,07,000-ml illicit liquor, 185-gm heroin, 286-gm intoxicant powder, during the operation. Drug money of Rs 9.4 lakh and four vehicles were recovered from the accused persons.Mahal pointed out that these kinds of surprise operations will continue in future also to eradicate the menace of illicit drugs and illicit liquor. He has appealed public to come forward to inform police about such wrongdoings in their surroundings so that police can take immediate action against anti-social elements.The accused arrested by the police have been identified as Narinder Kumar, alias Ninder, of Chak Routa village, Vikas, alias Vicky of Binewal, Garhshankar, Balwinder Singh of Chabbewal, Saurav Kumar and Bikram, alias Bicky, both residents of Balmiki Mohalla, Hoshiarpur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hoshiarpur-cops-arrest-39-with-illicit-liquor-intoxicants-268268
14-06-2021||Aparna Banerji||Pandemic brings the curtain down on stage performances||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 13The lights at the posh, air-conditioned and glazed-floored auditoriums in the city have remained off for months. There are no dhol beats, no strains of mellifluous stringed instruments or soothing vocals, no concerts and no one around the ticket windows — all due to the pandemic.Earlier, artistes generated a parallel economy which kept people entertained and auditoriums packed to capacity. A pre-pandemic artistes’ revolution in the district brought lucrative dividends for budding talents and revived businesses of some ignored auditoriums which lay silent for years due to lack of events. From the Virsa Vihar to the Saigal Memorial hall, many places saw a revamp in recent years, thanks to a renewed artistic excitement.Sad to say, all that has fallen silent during the pandemic.Theatrist and actor Ankur Sharma, who has been staging plays and hosting national festivals in Jalandhar, had to cancel two of his festivals during the pandemic. One for which liaisons had already taken place with national teams. His efforts earned theatre its first commercial audience. He hosted the first paid theatre shows in Jalandhar.His group Yuva’s stage play scheduled for World Theatre Day (March 27) this year had to be cancelled due to the pandemic. With Repertoire Grants from the government also hit, the group which had over 15 team members before the pandemic, is now left with four.“We were unable to host our Yuva Rang Utsav and the national theatre festival this year. The Repertoire Grants which we receive for artiste support could not be received because the national team was unable to come for inspection. Our rehearsals at local auditoriums have stopped, 20 people are allowed at weddings. But for us 20 people are involved in organising a play only. How can we host audiences,” says Ankur.A professor who pursues theatre as a passion, Ankur says with colleges unable to pay salaries for months, the suspension of theatre activity was a double whammy.Music director Jassi Katyal aka Jay K, who has given music in over 25 Punjabi films, says, “The pandemic has led to suspension of shoots. If there are no shoots, there are no films and there is no work for us. Hardly any film is being made these days. Prices have also been greatly reduced. We are paid much less since everyone claims there is a financial crunch. There are a host of support artistes and folk performers who have lost their only means of earning. These are very hard times for the industry.”Sixty-year-old ex-serviceman Manjit Singh, a retired Naik from the Indian Army, is popularly known as Baba Chimteyan Wala for his sterling bhangra performances with many famous singers. He has performed with the likes of Kanwar Grewal, Babbu Mann, Ranjit Bawa, Sunanda Sharma and Kaur B, but the pandemic has created problems for them. During the pandemic, he is relegated to his village as there are no shows or melas which acted as a major push for artistes during the season.He says, “Jadon performance dinda si tan enna pasina anda si, 3-4 litre pani pinda si. Loki cheekan marde si tariyan marde si...performance da apna nasha hunda...hun tan ghare baithe haan.” (When I performed, I sweated a lot and drank 3-4 litres of water. People cheered and clapped. It is addictive. Now I’m sitting at home.)“Our work has been greatly affected. This used to be a season of melas. People rained notes on us. Now, I sit at my ancestral village near Adampur. I sweep my home and cook food myself and feed three to four dogs. The government recently gave relaxations to certain essential commodities. Artistes need relaxation too. There is no means of subsistence. I had a habit of staying busy. The pandemic has taken a toll on my health. One may dance or work, but the magic of getting on stage increases an artiste’s life-span.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/pandemic-brings-the-curtain-down-on-stage-performances-268269
14-06-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||He is making books accessible to all with ‘Tera Tera library’||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 13While people donating immensely for temples, gurdwaras, or other development works is common site these days, but a youngster putting in efforts and showing zeal to open a library is rare! Mandeep Singh (26), who is a government job employee and an avid reader from Sultanpur Lodhi, is a fine example of such an initiative. For those who have never had any chance to read, or those who are beginners, or want to prepare for competitive exams, the library will prove to be a blessing for them.‘Pind di library layi kitaba di madad kro ji’, a poster is doing the rounds on the social media where Mandeep has urged people to donate books for the library he is going to start at Jabbowal village in Sultanpur Lodhi. The library will be named ‘Tera Tera library’. Mandeep has dedicated his own space for the library. In the poster, the youngster has urged people to donate books for a library that is going to come up at the village. So, if anyone has already read spare books at their homes, they can donate them for this cause.He has also reached out to writers and artists to support him in this initiative, and has been getting a good response in this regard.“Until now, I have received more than 250 books from writers and publishers. The library will start this week,” he said, adding that now, he has books in Urdu, Punjabi, English literature, novels, apart from various magazines and newspapers. He has also got books from the Languages Department.Never in his life, has he missed any book fair. This love and dedication played an important role in pursuing Mandeep to take this praiseworthy step of opening a library where there would be free access to everyone who wants to read. He said he was already in touch with several publishers because he would always purchase books to read and he would attend every book fest.“The books will be given for free and youngsters will be able to come here to prepare for their competitive exams and if any writer wants to have discussions, it will happen in the library,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/he-is-making-books-accessible-to-all-with-tera-tera-library-268270
14-06-2021||---||Man booked for not mentioning name of wife in passport||Tribune News ServiceNawanshahr, June 13An FIR under Section 12 of the Passport Act (holds a forged passport or any travel document) has been registered against Manpreet Singh of Sadar Banga in Nawanshahr. The police said the case has been registered on the complaint of Manpreet’s wife for not mentioning her name in the passport. She said Manpreet has been living abroad for several years.“The complainant said after two years of marriage, Manpreet got his passport made, but never mentioned anything about her. Suspecting that there was a chance he could marry another woman abroad, she filed the complaint,” said Investigating Officer Surinder Singh.The complainant has been living with her parents for long. The couple has a one-year-old child. The police said the woman filed the complaint after a dispute between the couple. The police said married woman getting duped by their husbands who have settled abroad has become a major issue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/man-booked-for-not-mentioning-name-of-wife-in-passport-268271
14-06-2021||DO YOU THINK CANCELLATION OF CLASS XII EXAMS WILL IMPACT STUDENTS WITH FOREIGN DREAMS?||Foreign colleges will surely tweak admission criteria||No, Class XII exams Won’t impact students muchThe decision of cancellation of CBSE/ICSE high school board examinations induced students to provide diverse feedbacks. Consequently, students wishing to continue higher education in abroad are devastated. In my opinion, this is false. Infact, as a result of this abort call for exams, students can get a chance to pursue their dream. To begin with, the announcement of cancellation of exams has relieved students of the mental stress and saved them from wastage of time which could have resulted due to further postponement of exams and hindered their higher education plans. Now, the students can decide their pathways and prepare for their English proficiency tests and apply for their favorite university/colleges in time. Whilst, a major thought of students about their marks and result of high school could impact the enrolment process in foreign universities. However, I am sure that many universities around the world have lowered their bar by exemption from scholarship tests such as SAT/ACT, additionally, by following lenient approach towards high school transcript percentages. Students should look on the bright side and focus on acting on their plans.Vishesh SobtiStudents should not worry about itAccording to me, there will not be any major impact of cancellation of holding board exams for Class XII. As the main role in the marking and grading system will be played by the school teachers themselves, thus the students will most preferably be benefitted with the move. No teacher would want to bring a bad result to its school and thus all students are expected to be performing well in the present circumstances. Though, the government is yet to disclose the strategy to be adopted for grading students, it probably will be student-friendly and students should not be worrying much about it. As the whole world is battling with the pandemic, even foreign universities are expected to understand the situation and devise new ways to make students eligible and compatible to pursue their higher education in foreign universities.Parmeet KaurStudies should not be hinderedCancellation of CBSE/ICSE Class XII exams is a wise decision by the Central Government as the pandemic is still raging and youth are getting affected more in the present surge. No doubt it will affect the education of the students who want to pursue higher studies abroad. But here is a glitch. Many so called universities are just fake one-room universities which cheat and extort money from the gullible students in the name of higher education. So the students and their parents have to be more careful and cautious about that. No doubt that the standard of education is much better than in India, but only two-three universities in China and Japan are graded in top twenty universities in the world. Not even a single university from India could make to the list of top 100 or 200 universities worldwide. Cancellation of the exams will affect the future of the students who want to enrol themselves in the foreign universities. The government should find a way out so that the studies of the students are not hindered. The standard of education can be gauged from the fact that most of the Nobel prizes are won by American professors and scientists. Though our IIMs and IITs are quite respected in foreign countries because of the high standard of their education, still much needs to be done to be at par with foreign universities.Dr JS WadhwaChance must be given to improve scoreCancellation of Class XII board exams has been a matter of concern recently. While several international universities have their own admission process, Class XII marks are often taken into consideration. There should be a proposal under consideration to allow students to take an offline exam at a later date if they are not satisfied with the score given by the school.Ruchi SetiaDecision has left pupils in quandaryKeeping in mind the health and safety of students in the wake of the devastating second Covid wave, the Centre and some state governments had cancelled Class XII board exams. But this has elicited mixed reactions from the student community. While a majority of them are happy, it has become a major cause for concern for others and their parents. The serious and career-conscious students aspiring to study in foreign colleges and universities are left in a quandary. They are least interested in online courses because these cannot compensate the campus experience. A continuous delay, dilly-dallying and shilly-shallying in the declaration of final results is unwarranted. It might upset the plans of students who have already applied and got provisional admissions, particularly in courses with limited seats, as they might lose their offers and scholarships, and be denied visas. They may also bear the brunt of expenses incurred in the whole process. Those who have recently applied or are yet to apply are apprehensive about either the rejection of their admission requests and fear wasting of an academic year or being left behind in teaching sessions. The global higher education scenario is facing potential challenges due to the pandemic; it has already led to drying up of scholarships, stringent travel restrictions and implementation of new visa rules, and scuttled the chances of students looking forward to studying abroad. Keeping in view the interests of millions of students, the CBSE/ICSE and state boards should end the dither and procrastination and come up with a clear-cut formula to prepare and declare Class XII results at the earliest to enable students to get admissions in their dream universities on foreign lands.DS KangStudents confident of realising their dreamEvery year, the number of students aspiring to pursue higher studies abroad is continuously increasing. Even the ongoing Covid pandemic has failed to deter their plans; many international educational institutions have reported a higher number of enrolments. Similarly, the cancellation of Class XII examinations and delayed results will also not impact their future interests. Despite confusion and uncertainties, most Indian students look at their education prospects from a long-term point of view; they are positive and confident to realise their long cherished aspirations and dreams. The international education industry thrives primarily on students from Asia. After China, India is the second main source of students joining higher academic institutions in Australia, Europe and the US. During the current health crisis, there has been a major paradigmatic shift in the entire education system worldwide. Mindful of the unforeseen circumstances prevailing in the Asian countries, many colleges and universities have become supportive and flexible. Though they have not changed their academic year, they have temporarily modified the rigid admission criteria. Together with relaxation in marks, they have started giving admission on the basis of the previous semester results or provisional certificates. Besides reducing tuition charges and offering liberal scholarships and other incentives, they are revising guidelines for work permit to attract students across the world. Moreover, in view of the changing academic demands during the pandemic, many prestigious institutions of higher learning have begun substituting traditional teaching methods with live online or pre-recorded lectures, video calls, online assignments and open-book exams. They are also offering umpteen short-skill apprentice online courses. Thus, students can enrol themselves and pursue overseas studies from their home country that may help in further studies and career advancement, and also provide an opportunity for skilled migration to a country like Australia.Tajpreet S KangNeed to address students’ concernsIt is unfortunate that the government had to cancel Class XII CBSE/ICSE examinations under the compelling circumstances due to the second wave Covid. A committee of all stakeholders had been formed to formulate an objective evaluation criterion in a fair and time bound manner, the report of which is still awaited. It is estimated that grading will be done on the basis of performance in internal assessments to be integrated with overall performance of previous examinations of Class X and XII. However, the meritorious students and their guardians are worried about their future, the foundation of which is largely based upon the grades achieved in Class XII. Such students who wish to join foreign universities/colleges are particularly worried about their future plans and their concerns being genuine need to be addressed appropriately without delay. It is proposed that those students, who will find themselves dissatisfied with their assessment, may be given an opportunity to be examined in a conventional manner within time frame while ensuring strict compliance with safety protocol. Alternatively, the government may initiate through diplomatic channels to prevail upon foreign universities to accept the evaluations/grading done under emergent circumstances originated from the pandemic adversaries being universally faced around the world.Jagdish ChanderEdu system needs serious reformsThe government decision to cancel Class XII exams due to Covid has got mixed response. Teachers and school authorities have welcome the decision. Some express happiness while bright students felt that their entire hard work and efforts were of no use and have been wasted. As our education system is completely science-based in approach and transparent, it is expected that the board will declare the result soon so that children can decide their future. Those who wanted to go abroad for further studies and are appearing for competitive exams such as NEET or JEE are more worried. College and universities are starting their admission process shortly and the admission process in foreign universities will be over soon. The cause for concern here is the delay in finalising the evaluation procedure. Students fear wastage of an academic year due to this delay. It is high time to bring a change in the education system. The move to cancel exams is certainly not a good idea, it affects mental health of children, some are facing depression by the feeling that their future is in jeopardy.Shashi KiranHelpline/e-Portal may lessen hardshipsPandemic has brought many changes in our routine life. Exercising restraint on extravaganza, people have skilled in facing adversity whereby social and cultural lifestyle has been rechristened to a new normal. Over the period of intense wave, academic curriculum and allied activities have also been adversely affected due to restricted mobility and various other norms. Schools and colleges are shut since the Covid outbreak and students to the extent possible are pursuing courses through virtual classroom studies. The online system is no doubt laden with inherent weaknesses but under the stringent protocols it looks like the only effective way out to keep on the academics. CBSE/ICSE Class XII exams have been cancelled due to the scare of further spread of the contagion. However, it becomes obligatory for the authorities to maintain uniformity and transparency to prevent any malpractices, while ensuring that the precious time and money of the students is not wasted due to any delay in obtaining required certifications or clearances from departments to pursue their career goals. While online counselling may sound well under the ongoing constraints but there may be certain issues pertaining to the aspirants intending to pursue studies abroad. The world over, most of the educational institutions have resorted to e-practices for admissions to colleges/universities for the courses opted by students and established facilitation centres. Likewise, the Government of India may set up a dedicated helpline or integrated e-portal for assistance and quick redress of problems of students, if any. As manifest of Covid blues, some enrolment hazards for admission in foreign universities/ colleges may still be experience by students but equally rational and appropriate solutions would emerge. Under the prevailing conditions, online admissions being inexpensive and least time consuming will largely mitigate the sufferings and save the future of younger generation in pursuing academics of their choice.Nirmaljit Singh ChatrathForeign varsities will tweak normsOver the past one year, impact of the Covid pandemic can be seen on various sectors such as industry, trade, business, education and tourism. As the second wave has started receding, the economy of the nation is beginning to recover.Examinations of students had been deferred by the government to ensure safety of students and avoid them contracting the virus by coming out in the public. Following the move of promoting Class XII students without holding exams, another concern among people now is the criteria through which they will be graded. Passion to go abroad for minting money has been in trend since years, owing to which various nations framed education policies in their universities and colleges paving way for students residing in other nations to study in their country.Rajat Kumar MohindruStudents undeterred to give up their dreamVanshikaQUESTIONEven in the third phase of the inoculation drive, we are still running short of jabs for the 18+ category. Do you think the government needs to go a long way in strategising a way out so that it can be well-prepared to handle such a situation in future?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to jalandhardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (June 17).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/foreign-colleges-will-surely-tweak-admission-criteria-268272
14-06-2021||---||Sanjha Adhyapak Morcha to hold protest on June 18||Tribune News ServiceJaladhar, June 13Holding the Education Secretary reopnsible for failing to come out with amicable solutions related to teachers, the Sanjha Adhyapak Morcha would be holding a dharna on June 18. Members of the morcha, Kuwinder Singh Josan and Navpreet Balli, said teachers would gather in large numbers of June 18 to hold a protest against the Education Department.Ganesh Bhagat and Harbans Lal said the dhana would be held to protest against anti-education policies of the Education Minister and Education Secretary.In a virtual meeting, teachers alleged that despite the objections raised by the Sanjha Adhyapak Morcha on the decisions cleared by a Cabinet sub-comitteee on March 5, 2019, the state government did not pay any heed to their demands.Teachers objected to a host of issues, including victmisation of teachers, reduction of structure and size of the department, closure of government school in large numbers, regualrisation of contrctual employees, bringing anti-teacher regulations in policy revisions, stalling promotions, non-shifting of computer teachers, non-consideration of non-border teachers (3582, 6060 etc.) in transfer policy, non-implementation of transfers in primary among other teachers, suspension of teachers without proper enquiries, asking teachers to work during holidays on oral instrsuctions and passing students en masse among prevalence of false data.Members said June 18 call has been be aimed at intesifying their struggle against the Education Department.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sanjha-adhyapak-morcha-to-hold-protest-on-june-18-268274
14-06-2021||Jalandhar||Harmanpreet 7th in BCA (Sem V)||Pakeeza 7th in MSc ChemistryPakeeza of Lyallpur Khalsa College, Jalandhar has bagged seventh position in the GNDU exams of MSc (Chemistry)-III Sem by getting 330 out of 400. This information was given in a press release issued by Principal of the College Dr Gurpinder Singh Samra. The President of the College Governing Council Balbir Kaur congratulated the students and wished them success in life.Harman 1st in BVoc Beauty & WellnessPhagwara: Four students from BVoc Beauty and Wellness (Sem VI) from Kamla Nehru College for Women have secured positions in the examination conducted by GNDU. Harman secured first position in the university with 386/400 . Rashneet Kaur secured second position with 380/400 . Mamta and Priyanka Sharma secured fifth position with 379/400. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/harmanpreet-7th-in-bca-sem-v-268275
14-06-2021||Aparna Banerji||Hamlet shuts door to outsiders||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 13Tired of witnessing a steady stream of city dwellers driving into the picturesque hamlet at odd hours amid the pandemic, Kukanet village in Hoshiarpur has barred the entry of outsiders.The village shut its doors to outsiders a week ago by deputing 10 to 15 men on “thikri pehra” at the entry point. Today, the villagers turned away around 400 vehicles keen on a weekend getaway.A jewel in the Shivalik hills, Kukanet has not reported a single Covid-19 case so far.Amid the pandemic, Kukanet suddenly found itself buzzing with visitors, with rowdy and often-drunk city dwellers holding night parties and pitching tents for overnight stay. Besides polluting the stream, broken bottles littered by visitors have been causing injuries to locals.A conflict last week was the tipping point when a group of boys, drunk and without masks, tried to snatch a mobile from a villager, leading to an altercation. The villagers allege the men misbehaved with policemen deputed at a checkpoint outside the village. Sarpanch Gurbachan Singh said: “Visitors are often without mask and seldom follow social distancing. We do not have Covid yet, but are scared. We don’t even have proper healthcare options here. Most visitors are from Delhi, Jalandhar, Amritsar, Bathinda and Tarn Taran.”Hoshiarpur SSP Navjot Singh Mahal said: “We have been getting plaints about nuisance and littering. The police have been asked to sensitise people. Drinking is prohibited here and those littering will face action.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hamlet-shuts-door-to-outsiders-267990
