15-06-2021||The district administration is still fighting to put an end to rumours related to Covid vaccines being spread in various villages. Several messages by doctors and common people who had been inoculated are being spread on social media. Such press notes are being forwarded and released without a miss on everyday basis. The health officials on Monday released a press note focusing on the need to get vaccinated and spreading awareness by saying “Main teeka lagvaan toh baad tandrust mehsoos kar reha haan” (I am feeling healthy after getting the jab). The officials on Sunday had released a press note that read||Fighting ‘superspreaders’ of rumours, fake news||Trash torment: MC staff strike hits garbage liftingMore than a month has passed that Nawanshahr Municipal Council employees have been sitting on a strike against the state government for not paying heed to their demands. The employees have been demanding regularisation of the staff working in the council for past more than 10 years. Due to no garbage lifting, the region is in complete mess and residents are bearing the brunt. The employees from Nawanshahr and Banga on Monday held protests against the state government and also burnt an effigy of the government. They said the government was not listening to their demands and was ignoring them. Their demands include that contractual system should be ended and safai sewaks and sewermen should be regularizes. Besides, they have also been demanding to reinstate the old pension scheme. The protesters said they would hold a state-level protest on Tuesday. Notably, Nawanshahr MLA Angad Singh and Municipal Council president Nawanshahr Sachin Diwan had recently called on Punjab Local Bodies Minister Brahm Mahindra and discussed the problems facing the city. The MLA had apprised the cabinet minister that the situation in the district was worsening due to the strike. TNS The district administration is still fighting to put an end to rumours related to Covid vaccines being spread in various villages. Several messages by doctors and common people who had been inoculated are being spread on social media. Such press notes are being forwarded and released without a miss on everyday basis. The health officials on Monday released a press note focusing on the need to get vaccinated and spreading awareness by saying “Main teeka lagvaan toh baad tandrust mehsoos kar reha haan” (I am feeling healthy after getting the jab). The officials on Sunday had released a press note that read, “Covid roku vaccine prati bhram door karan vaste football club de pradhan ne litti khurak (To dismiss rumours regarding Covid vaccine, a football club president got the shot).Trash torment: MC staff strike hits garbage liftingMore than a month has passed that Nawanshahr Municipal Council employees have been sitting on a strike against the state government for not paying heed to their demands. The employees have been demanding regularisation of the staff working in the council for past more than 10 years. Due to no garbage lifting, the region is in complete mess and residents are bearing the brunt. The employees from Nawanshahr and Banga on Monday held protests against the state government and also burnt an effigy of the government. They said the government was not listening to their demands and was ignoring them. Their demands include that contractual system should be ended and safai sewaks and sewermen should be regularizes. Besides, they have also been demanding to reinstate the old pension scheme. The protesters said they would hold a state-level protest on Tuesday. Notably, Nawanshahr MLA Angad Singh and Municipal Council president Nawanshahr Sachin Diwan had recently called on Punjab Local Bodies Minister Brahm Mahindra and discussed the problems facing the city. The MLA had apprised the cabinet minister that the situation in the district was worsening due to the strike. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/fighting-superspreaders-of-rumours-fake-news-268578
15-06-2021||Jalandhar||St Soldier students excel in M.Tech||Kirti 1st in BVoc Soft Dev (Sem-III)Kirti of Lyallpur Khalsa College has bagged the first position in the university examination of BVoc (Software Development)-III semester by getting 365 marks out of 400, whereas Varinder Singh bagged fourth position by getting 355 marks in the same class. The information was given in a release by Principal of the College Dr Gurpinder Singh Samra. He also said the college was committed to provide quality education to its students and it would ensure all possible help to the deserving and needy students.Tributes paid to Nirmal Milkha SinghKanya Maha Vidyalaya paid a rich tribute to its alumnus Nirmal Milkha Singh, an international sports personality. Sharing fond memories of her visit to KMV, Principal Prof Atima Sharma Dwivedi averred that Nirmal Milkha Singh was a proud alumnus of KMV from the batch of 1952-59. Prof Dwivedi further maintained that when Nirmal visited KMV during the Alumni Meet Pearls-2019, she found Nirmal very lively as she performed modelling on KMV’s stage.Online fitness contest organisedAn online fitness competition was organised for MGN Public School Class I and II students. More than 300 little champs participated in the event with vigour and enthusiasm. Class I students were involved in the jumping jack activity which they performed with utmost zeal whereas the kids of Class II were engaged in shuttle run pick and drop activity where the students brushed up their skills. Zoom sessions were hosted by the respective class teachers along with two judges for the conduct of the sports events.Karanpreet 3rd in Fashion DesigningKaranpreet of PCM SD College for Women got third position in university in BSc Fashion Designing (Sem I) in the examination conducted by Guru Nanak Dev University recently. She secured 435 marks out of 550. Riya Sharma managed it to ninth position with 424 marks. The result was 100 per cent. Principal Dr Kiran Arora lauded the students.Interactive Workshop on IPRThe PHD Chamber IP Facilitation Centre in Association with the Ministry of MSME and Lyallpur Khalsa College Technical Campus organised an interactive workshop on “Decoding Intellectual property rights.” Geeta Gulati (Advocate Trademarks and patent attorney) discussed her experience and underlined the need for Intellectual property rights to protect inventions and creative work of individuals in firms. She made the subject easy by sharing various examples related to IP of some of the biggest companies like McDonalds and Facebook.KMV gets 14 IPRs by copyright officeKanya Maha Vidyalaya has been awarded 14 Intellectual Property Rights by Copyright Office, Government of India. Principal Dr Atima Sharma Dwivedi averred that Dr Harpreet Kaur, Head, PG Department of Fashion Designing along with the research scholars of the department has received 12 IPRs. Harpreet has been awarded IPR for Innovative Chikankari Earrings, Minaal has been awarded 2 IPRs for Innovative Tiny Scraps Madhubani Wall Embellishments. Shelly Sharma got a copyright for ‘Adaptive clothing for the differently abled’. Maninder Kaur received 2 IPRs for sustainable and slow Fashion Design Logo, Dr Simerjeet (Faculty Fashion Designing) and Navneet for Madhubani Hand painted sneakers. Navdeep Kaur secured 3 IPRs for Uzbekistan, Tibetan and Chinese Mix Media. Besides this Dr Harpreet Kaur secured two IPRs for her PhD work i.e. Sustainable Keychain and Upcycled Crazy Quilted Cushion Cover. Dr Pardeep Arora and Dr Ravi Khurana of PG Department of Computer Science and Applications have also been awarded one IPR each.A talented storytellerPhagwara: Under the writing programme ‘The write now’ designed to identify writers who have the special gift of telling stories, Anchal Pandey, a student of Class X from Swami Sant Dass Public School, Phagwara, had registered herself. This programme is organised in partnership with the Scholastic and Quill Club writers for aspiring writers aged 9 and up every year. Through a two-stage selection process, Anchal was selected among the most talented storytellers from all over India. Then she underwent an eight-day (16 hours) mentoring programme that guided all the aspiring writers to complete his/her short story manuscript. After editing and proofreading, Anchal Pandey’s story was published in the book — “In Our Veins-Countless Stories”, which includes a total number of 17 stories. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/st-soldier-students-excel-in-m-tech-268579
15-06-2021||---||MP Manish Tewari inaugurates development works worth crores||Nawanshahr, June 14Lok Sabha MP from Sri Anandpur Sahib and former union minister Manish Tewari on Monday inaugurated various development works in his constituency.MP Manish Tewari inaugurated the construction of Mandhiani Road at the Balachaur municipal council. Darshan Lal Mangupur, MLA from Balachaur, Pawan Dewan, Chairman, Punjab Large Industrial Development Board, Narinder Ghai (Rinku), president, Municipal Council, and other dignitaries were present.Speaking on the occasion, MP Tewari said the development of the constituency was his priority and there would be no shortage of funds for development. He said the work would be completed at a cost of Rs 17.5 lakh. Many other development works had been started at a cost of about Rs 2 crore, which will be completed soon.Among others, Madan Lal, Director, Water Resources, Harjit Jadli, Chairman, Market Committee, Balachaur, Desh Raj, Vice-Chairman, Market Committee, Balachaur, District Youth Congress president Hira Khepar, councillors Naresh Chechi, Lal Bahadur Gandhi, Manga Rana and Bobby Rana were also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mp-manish-tewari-inaugurates-development-works-worth-crores-268570
15-06-2021||---||Irked over poor roads, Jalandhar residents block highway||Jalandhar, June 14Residents of Sainik Vihar on Monday held a protest against the Congress councillor due to lack of development works in their area.Rsidents came out on Jalandhar-Hoshiarpur highway in Rama Mandi and blocked it for some time after which cops persuaded them to move away from the spot. Led by Khushwansh Deep Dhami, locals then gheraoed office of councillor Mandeep Jassal.Irate residents alleged that main road of Sainik Vihar, which connected other colonies, including Ganesh Nagar, Taran Enclave, Dakoha and Arman Nagar, was not being repaired. “Internal stretches in the colony, where some people closely associated with the councillor reside, are being repaired while tenders for the main road have not been floated by the authorities concerned,” said residents.Locals added that as MC tippers and other vehicles use the main road, it got damaged. “Water supply pipes under the road have got damaged thrice due to heavy vehicles plying on the main road, but no steps have been taken to repair it by the councillor and MLA Rajinder Beri. The councillor and the MLA have been only giving us false assurances for the last four years. So, we decided to protest today,” said Veena Rani, a resident.Jassal said a proposal worth Rs 50 lakh has been passed by the MC for relaying two-three roads in Sainik Vihar. “The tenders will be floated soon. I expect the work to get completed within two months,” said the councillor.Persuaded by cops||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/irked-over-poor-roads-jalandhar-residents-block-highway-268571
15-06-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Dragon fruit, exotic mangoes, golden apple now at home||Tribune News ServiceKartarpur, June 14Ever since his sons decided not to join him in farming and went abroad, farmer Sukhwinder Singh Khakh (57) of Dyalpur village of Kartarpur chose to diversify his work and instead take to something that helps him reap more profits and invest less time.“Seasonal vegetables and crops involve a lot of effort. The entire family has to get involved so as to manage the crop, harvest it and market it. Even then the gains are not much. I toured abroad in the past few years, visited many orchards and understood their techniques for getting more harvest. I collected seeds from wherever I used to go and started growing them in my farm here. The results have been great. The fruits that I grew here managed to sell well in the market. Every year, I multiplied these plants and now instead of selling the fruits, my focus is on readying more plants in the nursery and marketing the saplings of these exotic varieties,” said Khakh.Sukhwinder Singh Khakh, FarmerSeasonal vegetables and crops involve a lot of effort. The entire family has to get involved so as to manage the crop and market it. Even then the gains are not much.The farmer showed his demonstration farm spread in an acre of land where he has been growing dragon fruits, golden apples, avocadoes, 10-15 varieties of mango, jujube (apple-ber) fruits, pomegranates, bananas and grapes. Walking past the pillars of concrete erected for planting dragon fruits, he showed the flowers erupting in the plants.“The colourful flower blossoms only for one night. It dies by the next morning and then bears the fruits. The fruits, which have started developing now, will ripen around November-December. There are four dragon plants around one pillar. There will be so much fruiting that I may get 25-30 fruits per pillar. Each fruit piece sells in the market for Rs 75-100. There is so much market of this fruit here. The demand is much higher than the production and many farmers are eagerly taking its plants and technology from me and have started raising their own dragon fruit farms,” he shared.He added, “Even if we do not sell our produce in the market and just tell one of our workers to put up a stall of exotic fruits on Kartarpur highway, it gets sold within an hour, fetching us even more price than mandis. I have recently harvested my apple ber. The volume of produce was really high. It got sold within a few days. Even after selling whole of the produce, people kept on inquiring for more fruit at my farm as they found it very juicy and delicious.”Khakh showed how he protected his golden apple (unusual for plains) using plastic nets. “The birds had been destroying my apple but the net kept the fruits safe this time,” he said showing varieties of mangoes, including Cambodian purple skin mango, elongated mangoes and various other exotic varieties which he said were fetching him much more price than even the alphonsos.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dragon-fruit-exotic-mangoes-golden-apple-now-at-home-268569
15-06-2021||---||110-year-old Fauja Singh sets fitness goals for younger generation||Jalandhar, June 14Fauja Singh (110), a long distance runner, who was felicitated by a team of World Book of Records, London, on Sunday, enjoys a laidback day at his village Beas in Jalandhar. He was honoured for being a veteran marathon runner and his unmatched contribution in promoting long distance running at this age.Avneet Kaur, Granddaughter of Fauja SinghIt is only because of him that none of us eat any fast food because he has taught us that such things can slow down the functioning of the body. Ever since my childhood, I have listened to him saying that no matter what, one must not skip exercise.Known worldwide for being a runner, he also nurtures some unknown interests that he often indulges in. He loves gardening and listening to Gurdas Maan songs whenever he is at his home. ‘Umra ch ki rakheya, dil hona chahida jawan’, ‘Baike dekh jawana baabe bhangra paaunde ne’ are some of his favourite numbers.On being asked about his wellbeing, he replies in a frail tone, ‘kamzori hai ajjkal thodi, garmi badi hai na’. But a resolute Fauja Singh doesn’t refrain from going out of his home and taking a walk. “I don’t want my body to fall ill, which is why I try to keep my body moving,” he said.Avneet Kaur (19), granddaughter of Fauja Singh, also sheds some light on Singh’s daily routine and his teachings. She said no matter what, be it winter or summers, his grandfather never misses his ‘Alsi ki pinni’. “He never fails to follow his morning ritual and keeps his diet very light,” she shared.“Also, it is only because of him that none of us eat any fast food because he has taught us that such things can slow down the functioning of the body,” said Avneet Kaur, adding that she is also into sports, is a football player and an athlete too. She said, “Ever since my childhood, I have listened to him saying that no matter what, one must not skip exercise. Even if we are inside, he asks us to do exercise every day,” Kaur said.She said she gets motivated seeing his grandfather’s love for fitness at this age. “He never speaks to anyone in a louder voice, so, this is what I have learnt from him in my life. We have also imbibed the same qualities from him,” she said.Was born with weak legs||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/110-year-old-fauja-singh-sets-fitness-goals-for-younger-generation-268577
15-06-2021||Talwara||Youth dies in road accident in Talwara||MC staff to hold ‘Halla Bol’ rallyHoshiarpur: The Municipal Corporation employees will hold a ‘Halla Bol’ rally on June 15 outside the District Administrative Complex. Kulwant Singh Saini, general secretary, Punjab Nagarpalika Sangathan, said new pay scales had to be implemented on January 1, 2016, but the government has failed to do so. He said dearness allowance has not been paid for more than two years. Employees were holding protests to get their demands fulfilled, but the state government has put them on the back burner, said Saini and added that the Finance Minister has forgotten how the SAD had to pay for what they had done during their tenure. Chief of Tubewell Operators Union Dalip Kumar and Karanjot Adia condemned the government for not paying heed to the demands of employees. OCPetrol station Robbery: 2 heldGarhshankar: The police have arrested two of the three bike-borne youngsters who had robbed a petrol station at Padrana village on Garhshankar-Hoshiarpur road. SHO Iqbal Singh said after filling petrol worth Rs 100 on June 11, the accused had injured the salesman (Honey Chumber) and looted Rs 10,000 from him. The incident was captured on CCTV cameras. During the melee, mask of one of the robbers had fallen and the salesman recognised him. The SHO said two of the three robbers were arrested while one was still on the run. Those arrested have been identified as Naresh Kumar, alias Nesh, and Harpreet Singh, alias Goni, both residents of Satnaur, and their accomplice as Vipan Kumar. The SHO said Vipan would be arrested soon. OCWoman arrested with 4-gm heroinNawanshahr: The Nawanshahr police arrested a woman with 4-gm heroin in Sadar Banga. The accused has been identified as Kamlesh Rani of Kahma village. The police said during a routine checking, they stopped a woman who after seeing the police baffled and threw a tissue paper near a motorcycle. The police seized 4-gm heroin from that tissue and arrested the accused under the NDPS Act. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/youth-dies-in-road-accident-in-talwara-268582
15-06-2021||---||Covid-19: 3 fall prey to virus, 98 test positive in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, June 14The health authorities reported 98 new Covid-19 cases in the district on Monday, taking the case tally to 62,088.The authorities reported three deaths in the district today and the toll reached 1,444. As many as 59,640 patients recovered while the number of active cases stands at 1,004 in the district.3 die in KapurthalaIn Kapurthala, 16 people tested positive today, thus taking the total number of cases to 17,354. Health authorities reported three deaths in the district. With this, the toll in Kapurthala reached 516.The deceased include a 47-year-old woman from Kapurthala city, a 50-year-old woman from Saido Bhulana village and an 82-year-old woman from Mauki village in Phagwara.Two die in HoshiarpurThe district reported two more Covid fatalities on Monday, taking the toll to 948, while 38 fresh cases pushed the infection count to 29,952.On Monday, 2,840 new samples of people with suspected flu-like symptoms were collected. With this, the total number of samples taken in the district till date has reached 6,16,572, of which 5,86,549 were negative, while the report of 3,231 samples was awaited and 623 were invalid.The number of active cases in the district is 471, while the number of patients who have recovered is 28,433. The district reported two deaths, of which a 36-year-old woman of Cheema village died at Dasuya Civil Hospital and a 57-year-old man of Budhawar block died at a private hospital in Jalandhar.Nawanshahr reports 11 casesThe health authorities reported 11 fresh Covid cases in Nawanshahr district on Monday. With this, the infection tally has increased to 11,299. No death was reported in the district today.At present, the district has 157 active cases and 131 patients are under home isolation. The number of persons who have recovered is 10,803. Urban Rahon, Banga, Mukandpur and Sujjon blocks did not report any fresh case today. At present, 18 persons are under treatment at L-II Covid care unit and seven at L-III Covid care unit.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-19-3-fall-prey-to-virus-98-test-positive-in-jalandhar-district-268581
15-06-2021||---||Apahaj Ashram in Jalandhar holds vaccination camp for inmates||Jalandhar, June 14The Apahaj Ashram (old age home), on Sunday, held another camp to vaccinate the 18-plus inmates and staff members of their ashram.The ashram is the only special home in Jalandhar to host free vaccination camps for their inmates. As many as 200 people were vaccinated at the camp. While some of them were inmates and staff members, the rest were outsiders or neighbours in the 18-44 age group who came to get themselves vaccinated after word spread about the free camp.Ghanshyam Thori, Deputy CommissionerVaccination camps are being held as per requests received from various organisations and ashrams. We have allowed to hold camps at the Apahaj Ashram & Nari Niketan so far.Tarsem Kapoor, chairman, Apahaj Ashram, said, “We urged the DC to allow us to vaccinate our inmates and he obliged. We are very thankful to him for that. On April 5, a camp for elderly inmates was also held at the ashram during which 150 to 155 inmates were administered the vaccine.However, some of our members in the 18-plus category are yet to be vaccinated as many people from the neighbourhood came to get themselves inoculated after they heard about the free camp. Of about 200 inmates, nearly 160 to 170 have been vaccinated while we would try to organise the camps for the rest soon again.”The ashram has also taken the initiative to bring the staff in their own ambulances.Meanwhile, the oxygen concentrators initiative started by the ashram is also finding many takers wherein free oxygen concentrators are provided to families in need.The ashram provides free installation and concentrators to Covid-positive people. At present, of the 11 oxygen concentrators donated to the ashram, nine are being used by various families.Special camps for persons with disabilitiesBesides, the dedicated camps are being held at shelter homes on special request. The only body catering to special camps for persons with disbilities (PwDs) is Chanan Association, which has organised four camps so far for people in the 18-44 age group. Both PwDs and their caregivers are being vaccinated at the camps.As many as 750 people have been vaccinated at Chanan Association Camps so far. However, these camps do not cater to shelter homes or ashrams but to individuals from specially-abled sector who are to know of camps through word of mouth or social media and then register online.Amarjit Anand, state coordinator, PWD vaccines, and president, Chanan Association, said, “We are carrying out registrations of PWDs and their caregivers through an online Google form specially registered by us. Three camps have been held at Chanan Association Vocational Centre at Wadala and one at the Guru Gobind Singh Avenue. Of the 750 people vaccinated, only 30 per cent are PWDs while rest are caregivers.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/apahaj-ashram-in-jalandhar-holds-vaccination-camp-for-inmates-268576
15-06-2021||---||Jalandhar residents don’t care two hoots about Covid norms||Jalandhar, June 14Just as numbers of Covid cases in the district have fallen from a peak of 1,200 plus to around 100 in the past week, residents have lowered their guard thinking that the second wave has totally ended.The city has started to witness massive traffic jams and shoppers can be seen thronging markets. For a moment, it seems that normalcy has been restored with coffee shops beginning to draw crowds and playgrounds opened up for players.Political activities and dharnas by various sections of society were on the full swing as the 2022 Assembly elections draw near. Despite schools and colleges being closed or on summer break, youngsters can be seen roaming around aimlessly.Moreover, residents have once again stopped following the health guidelines issued by the government to keep Covid at bay. People seldom practise social distancing or wear masks at at social, political or religious gatherings. Even the size of gatherings has started to increase, thus making mockery of the norms.The Aam Aadmi Party had a gathering of around 400 activists as it held a protest against the SC scholarship issue a few days ago. Around 300 workers of the Bahujan Samaj Party took part in a meeting in Phillaur on Sunday.As Martyrdom Day of Guru Arjan Dev was observed today, majority of the devotees and sewadars, including children were seen sans masks in most gurdwaras. Glasses used in chhabeel were not disposable and washed time and again to cater to large numbers. However, Gurdwara Singh Sabha, chose to serve disposable and packed thalis.The health authorities have been repeatedly asking masses to follow SOPs, as the third wave could attack more people with newer strains.As people complained about facing hardships in wearing masks during hot and humid weather, doctors asked them to go in for soft cotton and multi-layer masks.Kapurthala Civil Surgeon Dr Parminder Kaur said, “People have to remain watchful all the time. One must not stop washing hands, sanitise surfaces, practise social distancing and wear masks. We have been again and again asking people not to become complacent after getting vaccinated.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-residents-dont-care-two-hoots-about-covid-norms-268580
15-06-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Bittu booked for ‘pious’ seat remark after SAD-BSP pact||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 14Congress’ Ludhiana MP Ravneet Bittu was today booked for allegedly hurting the sentiments of BSP workers after he flayed the SAD for giving away “pious” seats like Anandpur Sahib and Chamkaur Sahib to the Bahujan Samaj Party.Bittu had last evening posted a video on his Facebook page, commenting on the newly forged SAD-BSP alliance. BSP leaders called the comment casteist and held protests across the state.At Buta Mandi in Jalandhar, they burnt Bittu’s effigy and demanded his resignation. “How and why can’t a BSP leader contest from a pious seat? Does the MP still consider Dalits or BSP leaders non-pious? Or maybe he considers the rest of the state less pious,” a BSP worker said.Meant Akali Dal deserted Panthic seatsMy statement has been misinterpreted. I only meant to say that the Akali Dal had deserted Panthic seats. I never passed any comment against Dalits. BSP doesn’t imply Dalits as the party has workers from all castes. My political mentor Malkit Singh Dakha is a Dalit. —Ravneet Bittu, Ludhiana MPThough the MP today posted another video giving clarification, it was rejected by the BSP leadership, which has planned another protest at Balachaur tomorrow.BSP state chief Jasvir Singh Garhi said: “Bittu has shown that he has not imbibed the lessons taught by the 10th Sikh Guru at the time of formation of Khalsa in Anandpur Sahib. He preached equality. Despite having been elected from Anandpur Sahib earlier, Bittu has now shown that people had wrongly chosen him.”Garhi said a complaint had been lodged with the Bathinda SSP by party leader advocate Navneet Kataria. “He has also attempted to malign the image of party chief Mayawati and general secretary Satish Mishra. An inquiry should be marked to a senior police officer and action should be taken,” the complaint read.BSP’s ex-general secretary Sukhwinder Kotli too demanded an apology from the MP. “We do not accept the clarification that Bittu has given today. His words are beyond our tolerance.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/bittu-booked-for-pious-seat-remark-after-sad-bsp-pact-268437
