16-06-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Just 1% contracted virus in 0-18 category in Jalandhar district so far||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 15Covid has hit everyone alike, be it the elderly in the first wave and youngsters in the second. Now, it is being anticipated that the third wave is most likely to affect children. More than 62,000 persons have contracted infection since the beginning of the pandemic in Jalandhar district. Of all these positive cases, as many as 736 in the age group of 0-18 age group got infected since March 2020. This number forms just 1 per cent of the total positive cases in the district so far.Out of 736 children, 457 are from the urban areas, while the remaining 279 are from the rural areas. And as many as 75 children were toddlers (below 5). The doctors said there was not any critical case and the patients recovered completely. Since the reports of a third Covid wave affecting the children are already making rounds, the parents are showing their concern towards the youth, toddlers and the newborns.One of the paediatricians from the Health Department said he had seen children showing extreme Covid symptoms, but they got treated well and hence no death was reported among them. He also said there was no such evidence yet that the third wave will affect the kids, but, still the parents must be extra careful and cautious so that the kids could be saved in the third wave.Dr Sandali Ghai Bhutani, a gynaecologist at Ghai Hospital said the scare among the expectant mothers and those planning to expand their family is quite evident. “Pregnant women come to me and ask how to safeguard their newborn babies after birth. Even the parents of teenagers also ask me when the vaccination will start for the teen kids,” she said.The doctor further said she was also coming across women who were earlier planning their pregnancy but have now deferred their plans until they get vaccinated and the situation normalises.“I have even seen two-three such cases where women got pregnant but decided not to keep the baby because of the worrying situation,” the doctor shared. “They told me that they don’t want to contract the virus and then see their baby suffer. This is how the situation has changed now,” the doctor said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/just-1-contracted-virus-in-0-18-category-in-jalandhar-district-so-far-269206
16-06-2021||---||‘Harian Chirian’ launched to help young girls make money||Jalandhar, June 15 ‘Harian Chirian’ (green sparrows), a project in which young girls will help their family members in earning, whose businesses and other works got affected during the pandemic, was launched today under the National Urban Livelihood Mission by NGO Sardar Ajit Singh Foundation Society with the help of Municipal Corporation.  Ramanpreet Kaur, president of the NGO and project director, said not only the girls from BPL families, but those from middle class families too have joined the NGO and the project. “The pandemic has affected everyone, even the middle class has badly suffered. So, the girls who have completed 12th have joined us, as they want to continue their studies as well as help their families amid the pandemic,” she said.  The girls make interesting stuff using old clothes, like purses, bags, handy bags, masks etc. So, the NGO has asked people to give the old clothes to them so that they could utilise the clothes and make something useful out of it.  The machinery and every requirement will be fulfilled by the Municipal Corporation under the National Urban Livelihood Mission and remaining work will be done by the girls. The MC will later organise exhibitions displaying these products. Ramanpreet said the motive was to gather resources for 100 girls and women this year so that they could earn for their families. In the next two years, the NGO wants to enrol 500 women with them. With this, the NGO is also fulfilling another aim of not using plastic bags and thus only cloth bags will be used.  Mayor Jagdish Raja and MC Commissioner Karnesh Sharma launched the project. The MC Commissioner said the NGO was doing appreciable work and they must try to enrol more than 500 women for which the MC will extend full support and help.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/harian-chirian-launched-to-help-young-girls-make-money-269207
16-06-2021||---||NIT aims to produce ready for industry graduates: Director||Jalandhar, June 15 Dr BR Ambedkar National Institute of Technology today invited delegates from industry for a programme ‘Industry-institute interaction: Road ahead’.  Jalandhar NIT Director Prof LK Awasthi said the institute had modified the BTech curriculum in which six months’ industry-oriented project-based training had been incorporated in order to produce proficient graduates ready for the industry.  Students will also be encouraged to undertake the final year projects in the industry with a joint supervisor from the industry. He further said even though there was a slowdown of activities in the institute due to Covid, the institute had declared this year as a ‘Year of Innovation, IPR and Technology Transfer’ to further enhance the footprints of institution in innovation and creativity.  The director’s address was followed by the words of wisdom by industrialist and Board of Governors chairman Subhash Chandra. He emphasised that the goal of any technical institution is to produce skilled, globally-competent professionals through quality technical education and to prepare them for immediate employment. The chairman also focused on collaborative degree programmes, professorial chairs sponsored by industries and development of R&D laboratories sponsored by industries at the institute. He said the steps taken by NIT-Jalandhar in implementing the six-month training programme in the industry would not only be beneficial for students and institute but also for the industry of the nation especially in Punjab. A delegation from the industry applauded the initiative of the institute aimed at strengthening the ties between industry and academia. Several industrialists participated in the debate actively and praised the efforts of Ralhan. They further briefly shared their ideas about how both the institute and the industry could come together for economic development of the country. They stressed on the need to focus on industry-based education to the students so that students especially in the technical institutions could meet the challenges related to work in industry environment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nit-aims-to-produce-ready-for-industry-graduates-director-269208
16-06-2021||---||‘Nayi Neev’ unfolds various aspects of entrepreneurship||Jalandhar, June 15 The Entrepreneurship Development Cell at the CT Group of Institutions has started a series of events called Nayi Neev (New Foundation) to unfold various aspects of entrepreneurship. Under this initiative, the institute plans to hold many online sessions. Three such sessions have already been held. CT Group managing director Manbir Singh and convener Vansh Raheja said this kind of series would encourage creativity, innovation, and collaboration among the students and was indeed needed to give a new point to the students and searching the profitable opportunities not only for personal growth but also contribute towards the economic growth of the nation.  He said these series would help the students to develop life skills that would serve them well beyond the classroom walls. These skills include problem-solving, teamwork, empathy as well as learning to accept failure as a part of the growth process. It also focuses on developing real-world skills that would help the students to lead exceptional lives in a rapidly changing world. In the first episode of this series, the basic and most essential topic chosen was ‘Founding roots to entrepreneurship’. Arushi Kalsi, an aspirant entrepreneur, was the eminent speaker. The session was having panellists from the team members of the CT Group. The students joined the live session on the different social networking media. She shared her experience that how she thought to establish a business separate from the family business. She also shared her journey of three years of experience of running an individual business line. The second episode of the series emphasised on ‘Readiness to become an entrepreneur: Right age, right mindset and right skills’ given by Karan Singla, managing director, Narain Group. The third episode of the series focused on ‘Entrepreneurial strategies: Generating and exploring new entry opportunities’ given by Sumit Tiwari, CEO, Timus Lifestyle.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nayi-neev-unfolds-various-aspects-of-entrepreneurship-269209
16-06-2021||Nawanshahr to get 7 placement camps soon
||Nawanshahr to get 7 placement camps soon||Nawanshahr, June 15 A district-level committee meeting on Drug Free India Campaign was held on Tuesday by Deputy Commissioner Dr Shena Aggarwal, where she reviewed the activities carried out under the Drug Free India Campaign in the district so far.  The DC said seven placement camps would be set up in the district to motivate the youth for employment. She said in these camps, the youth undergoing treatment in every outpatient opioid-assisted treatment  centre of the district would also be included. She said they’ll be trained by the Skill Development Department and be given financial assistance. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nawanshahr-to-get-7-placement-camps-soon-269210
16-06-2021||Phagwara||Talk on guidelines for science research journal||Science Research Journal Committee, Kamla Nehru College for Women, organised a webinar on “Guidelines for Science Research Journal”. Dr Vanita Chahal, Assistant Professor, Department of Botany, acted as the resource person.Priyanka, HoD, Department of Science, introduced Dr Vanita Chahal. In her presentation, Dr Vanita Chahal explained how to write the contents of research as well as review papers. She further discussed about the information to be presented in various parts of the contents like title, abstract, introduction, methodology, results and discussion, conclusion, references etc. She also shed light on the font style, font size and various other keywords to be considered while writing various papers. In conjugation with these things, she stressed on getting beware of plagiarism. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/talk-on-guidelines-for-science-research-journal-269212
16-06-2021||Our Correspondent||Woman among 11 held with intoxicants||Hoshiarpur, June 15The district police arrested 11 persons, including a woman, from different places and seized drugs from them.According to information, the police of Chabbewal arrested Amandeep Singh, alias Sona, a resident of Manan village and seized 30 gm of intoxicating powder from him.The police of Mehtiana arrested Bhupinder Singh, a resident of Tanuli village, and seized intoxicating pills from him.The Mahilpur police arrested Davinder Singh, alias Babbu, a resident of Ghamiala and seized 30 gm of heroin from him and impounded his vehicle.The Hariana police arrested Sahil Chaudhary, a resident of Gokal Nagar in Hoshiarpur, and seized 10 gm of heroin from him.The Tanda police seized 30-gm intoxicant powder from Tanda resident Mithoon and 35 gm of intoxicant powder from Sangram Singh, while Reena, a resident of Mohalla Sansian, Tanda, was arrested with sedative pills and capsules.The police of Dasuya arrested Fatan Chak village resident Gagandeep Singh and seized intoxicating powder from him.Meanwhile, the Hajipur police arrested Rahul Kumar, a resident of Panjdheri, Gagandeep and Kajan Masih, both residents of Mansoorpur, and seized 10-gm heroin from them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/woman-among-11-held-with-intoxicants-269213
16-06-2021||---||AAP starts 7-day hunger strike||Jalandhar, June 15Coming in favour of over 2 lakh Dalit students across the state, who have been denied roll numbers by the colleges, who are awaiting the release of Post-Matric Scholarship Scheme funds, the local unit of the Aam Aadmi Party today started a seven-day chain fast.The SC wing of the AAP sat on a dharna in front of the DC office raising their voice against Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh and SC Welfare Minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot for not coming to the aid of the harassed Dalit students in the state.SC wing district in charge Jalal Puri and vice-president Balwant Bhatia said the hunger strike had been started across the state to press upon the government to ensure that the Dalit students get their roll numbers well before the start of the examination.Party leader Dr Shiv Dyal Mali said the colleges and the government was playing with the careers of the poor students by harassing them at all steps, including during admission, issuing or roll numbers and delivery of their degree certificates. He said that the Congress had come to power assuring the SCs with all sorts of poll promises but had failed to even give them their right to education.Among those who participated in the protest were women wing chief Rajwinder Kaur, district chief Surinder Singh Sodhi, Doaba president Harminder Bakshi, vice president Harcharan Singh Sandhu, President district rural Principal Prem Kumar and Vice President SC wing Punjab Darshan Bhagat.70 get roll numbers just a day before examOn the sidelines of the protest by AAP, the Student Sangharsh Morcha led by Deepak Bali also organised an agitation against the government in the office of Deputy CommissionerBali said that as many as 70 Dalit students, who were to appear in examination to be conducted on Wednesday by IKGPTU, got the roll numbers at 4 pm.Himself a student of MA political science at Lyallpur Khalsa College, Bali said: “Ours is a completely non-political forum. All parties including Congress, SAD and AAP are just engaged in political stunts over the issue as elections are drawing near. So we are not joining any of them in our ongoing campaign”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/aap-starts-7-day-hunger-strike-269214
16-06-2021||Our Correspondent||Youth dies of drug overdose, 5 booked||Hoshiarpur, June 15The city police have booked five persons for culpable homicide after a youth died allegedly of drug overdose.According to information, Satish Kumar, a resident of Khanpuri Gate, lodged a complaint with the police that on May 25 his brother, Pradeep Kumar, had gone on scooty to collect money but did not return. He said his uncle, Ashok Kumar, informed him that Pradeep was lying unconscious in the house of Raman in Pipla Mohalla. They reached there and took him to a private hospital where doctors declared him brought dead. The complainant alleged that Raman Kumar, alias Rama, had made his brother consume intoxicant in excess. The victim's brother told the police that his brother was addicted to drugs and he (Pradeep Kumar) along with Raman Kumar had bought the drug from Gomsi Adia and Karan Adia, who in turn had bought the drug from Deepa and Sahit Adia. He alleged that the said persons were responsible for the death of his brother. The city police have registered a case against the five accused under Section 304 of the IPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/youth-dies-of-drug-overdose-5-booked-269215
16-06-2021||Jalandhar||0.01% pendency at Jal Sewa Kendra||DLSA secy visits children homeHoshiarpur: Aparajita Joshi, CJM-cum-Secretary, District Legal Services Authority, visited children home, special home and observation home, at Ram Colony camp here on Tuesday. She motivated the children to keep the environment clean and plant more and more saplings on the children’s home campus. She planted kinnu, guava and seasonal plants in with the help of NGO Sarbat Da Bhala. She asked the children to follow Covid protocols and learned about the difficulties of inmates there. During the inspection, the superintendent of special home apprised her about a 21-year-old youth who is a speech & hearing impaired and a resident of Pakistan. She immediately directed the officers of the special home to send the relevant documents to the office of the DLSA so that he is sent back. OCThree booked for Rs 7.25-Lakh fraudHoshiarpur: The police have registered a case against three employees working at a petrol pump on the charge of embezzlement of Rs7.25 lakh. According to the information, Jasdeep Singh of Jand had lodged a complaint with the police. He said Narinder Singh of Dhanwan Kot, Narinder Kumar of Jatoli and Rishu Kaushal of Ansran were working at his petrol pump. According to him, the said accused allegedly embezzled Rs7.25 lakh in collusion with each other. The police have registered a case against the three under various Sections of the IPC. ocTwo held with 7 stolen vehiclesJalandhar: The police have arrested two 19-year-old youngsters with four stolen Activas and three motorcycles on Monday. The accused have been identified as Ranjeet Singh and Mahesh Pandey. The police said the accused had a history of stealing vehicles and scores of cases had been registered against them. A case under Section 411 (Dishonestly receiving stolen property) and 379 (punishment for theft) of the IPC was registered against the duo. TNSTwo nabbed with smuggled liquorHoshiarpur: The Mahilpur police have arrested two persons and seized smuggled liquor from them. Roshan Lal of Binjhon village has been arrested with 9,000 ml of smuggled liquor. Also, Arun Kumar of Bajwara has been arrested with 2.88 lakh ml of liquor from the car he was driving. He was arrested when he tried to flee the spot on seeing a police naka at Mahilpur Main Chowk. Separate FIRs under the Excise Act have been lodged against both the accused. ocTwo booked for Rs 3-Lakh fraudHoshiarpur: The police have booked two persons for allegedly duping a woman of Rs3 lakh on the pretext of buying a land. According to information, Kulwant Kaur of Talwandi Salan village, told the police that Sucha Singh and Kulwant Singh, both residents of her village, had allegedly cheated her of Rs3 lakh on the pretext of selling a land. The police have registered a case against both the accused under various Sections of the IPC. ocWebinar on blood Donation DayHoshiarpur: On International Blood Donation Day, a webinar was organised by the District Legal Services Authority on Tuesday. Initiating the webinar, CJM-cum-Secretary DLSA Aparajita Joshi motivated the participants to donate blood. Addressing the webinar, DLSA panel advocate Malkit Singh Sikri gave detailed information about the day. He expressed his gratitude to the organisations donating blood, due to which human lives were saved. He motivated the blood donating organisations to donate more and more blood. At the end of the webinar, advocates Malkit Singh Sikri and Harman Singh thanked advocates Gurpreet Singh, Rajwinder Singh, Archana, Dr Jaswinder Singh Sandhu and Harjeet Kaur who participated in the webinar. OCE-poster making contest heldHoshiarpur: DAV College of Education organised an online inter-house e-poster making competition on World Blood Donor Day to make the students aware regarding the significance of blood donation. Teacher trainees from the different houses of the college participated in it. In the first category of inter-house competition, Swami Vivekanand House secured first position, Mahatma Gandhi House secured second and Swami Dayanand House third position. In the second category of individual competition, Asha got first prize, Khushnaseeb Rahanu got second, Priya got third prize and Manpreet Kaur, Simranjit Kaur and Priyanka Sharma got appreciation prizes. Principal Vidhi Bhalla congratulated the winners. oc||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/0-01-pendency-at-jal-sewa-kendra-269216
16-06-2021||---||Balanced diet, routine exercise must for regular cycle: Expert||Tribune News ServiceKapurthala, June 15In a ‘Live Dialogue’, organised online by Home Science Department of Hindu Kanya College, gynaecologist Dr Ruche Bhargava cleared the misconceptions regarding cycle irregularities among women. Addressing the students Dr Bhargava said several misconceptions are there regarding cycle-irregularities. Answering the queries, Dr Bhargava cited the need of balanced diet, routine exercise and maintaining emotional balance can lead to perfect period cycle.Dr Bhargava also stressed on adopting natural ways to handle mensuration-related problems. She said myths like effects of Covid vaccination on cycle irregularities are also false. She suggested all to start practicing ‘Chakki Asan’ to lower down the pain during mensuration. Instead of taking pain-killers, excessive use of which can disturb functioning of kidneys, girls should start taking hot liquids and hot-water massage and perform lower pelvic exercise. The ‘Live Dialogue’ was hosted by Prof Jasdeep Kaur. Prof Sarika Kanda and Prof Sunali Sharma organised the whole show under the guidance of Principal, Dr Archna Garg.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/balanced-diet-routine-exercise-must-for-regular-cycle-expert-269217
16-06-2021||Jalandhar||Blood Donor Day observed||Eklavya School, Jalandhar celebrated World Blood Donor Day with the students through online classes. The theme for this year’s World Blood Donor Day was “Safe blood saves lives” with the slogan “Give blood and make the world a healthier place”.Online activities were organised. A speech was given by Prabhgun of Class VII on Google Meet. Posters were made by the middle school students on donating blood. Principal Komal arora and Administrator Dimple Sharma appreciated the students’ efforts. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/blood-donor-day-observed-269218
16-06-2021||---||Cases fall below 50 after 4 months||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 15The number of daily Covid fresh cases in Jalandhar district has come down to 47 after more than four months. The daily tally had been below 50 till mid-February. The fall in the number of fresh cases being reported has brought much relief to the residents.The district, however, reported four more fatalities due to the infection. The total number of cases in the district so far has increased to 62,135 and the district toll today stands at 1,448. The number of active cases is 927 and the positivity rate today is 1.2 per cent.2 die, 24 +ve in KapurthalaThe health authorities today reported 24 fresh cases and two deaths. There are 347 active cases in the district as of now. The district tally is 17,378 and the toll is 516. The positivity rate as of today is 1.41 per cent. A total of 54 patients recovered on Tuesday. An Ashram at Sahni village continues to be the containment zone.Hoshiarpur reports 2 deathsThe district reported two more Covid fatalities on Tuesday, taking the toll to 950, while 46 fresh cases pushed the infection count to 29,997. With 3,350 samples collected from people with suspected flu-like symptoms today, the total number of samples taken in the district till date has reached 6,19,922. According to reports, 5,89,520 have been found negative, while report of 3,567 is awaited and 623 are invalid. The number of active cases is 539, while the number of patients who have recovered is 28,508.Only 6 fresh cases in NawanshahrNawanshahr recorded the lowest number of cases today with the health authorities reporting six fresh Covid cases. With this, the infection tally has increased to 11,305. A 65-year-old woman from Balachaur died of Covid in the district today. At present, the district has 140 active cases and 116 patients are under home isolation. The number of persons who have recovered is 10,822. Urban Nawanshahr, Urban Rahon, Banga, Muzaffarpur, Saroya and Sujjon blocks did not report any fresh cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cases-fall-below-50-after-4-months-269220
16-06-2021||Jalandhar||Antariksh Pasricha 2nd in MA Music||Refresher programme concludesA week-long induction/refresher programme concludes at Department of Mechanical Engineering, DAV Institute of Engineering and Technology. The programme was organised for the faculty members of technical education institutes. Titled as “Advance Materials and Processes for Sustainable Intelligent Manufacturing”, the programme was conceived to provide the knowhow on current state of research and development in the field of Materials and Manufacturing Processes especially with focus on sustainability and was conducted in completely online mode.Anubhuti 2nd in BVoc Web DesigningIn the result of B.Voc Web Designing (Sem I) of PCM SD College for Women in Guru Nanak Dev University, Anubhuti bagged second position by scoring 305 (76.25%) out of 400 marks. The college offers so many skill orientated courses for girls such as BVoc Web Designing and IT, BVoc Accounting and Taxation, BVoc Fashion Designing and Product etc. These courses equipped the students for jobs in various sectors as well as entrepreneurship. The fee of these courses is very nominal. After doing these courses, girls can explore and use their talents even by working from home and thus gain a highly rewarding self-employment. Principal of the college Dr Kiran Arora applauded the meritorious student for her success and wished for her bright future.Webinar on Quality in Higher EducationSt Soldier Co-Education College, Lidran, organised a webinar on “Quality in Higher Education- NAAC Parameters” in which education scholars shared ideas about how higher education can be brought to higher level. College Director Dr Veena Dada welcomed the keynote speakers of the webinar. Dr JP Panchori (Vice Chancellor, Himalayan University) presented his views on higher education in his inaugural address and gave detailed information about importance and score parts. Prof TS Mathur (Vice Chancellor, IIS University, Jaipur) in his keynote address talked about group discussions and emphasising on the importance of teaching the learning process of personality development. In the suggestion, he talked about what has changed in the teaching learning process with the development of technology.HOTS Olympiad WinnersAs many as 40 students of different classes of Eklavya School brought Laurels to the school. They cleared the HOTS Olympiad conducted by Wizklub. Wizklub, a holistic cognitive development edtech startup that builds excellence for the school children through its HOTS (Higher Order Thinking Skills) and SmartTech programs, had announced an international Olympiad to gauge cognitive skills of lakhs of participating children. The assessment covered logical thinking skills, comprehension skills, critical thinking skills, quantitative and problem solving aptitude and offers scholarships to the winners. The test has three stages-prelims at school level, quarterfinals at zonal level and the grand finale at international level. Eklavya School students qualified the first level of HOTS Olympiad. These 40 students include Rahul Pathi (Class I), Gurtej Singh (Class II), Ruth (Class III), Ekam Sangha (Class IV), Reeya (Class V), Prabhgun Kaur (Class VII), Prabhleen Kaur (Class VIII) and many more students from Classes I to VIII.Tanisha Ahuja 2nd in MSc (Chemistry)Tanisha Ahuja of MSc (Chemistry) Sem-III of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya got university position with 352 marks out of 400. She secured second position. Principal Prof Ajay Sareen congratulated Tanisha Ahuja and her family members. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/antariksh-pasricha-2nd-in-ma-music-269224
16-06-2021||---||30 participate in dance, music contests||Jalandhar, June 15Apeejay College of Fine Arts organised Futura Fiesta, an all-India dance and singing competition, which attracted 80 entries from all over the country. As many as 30 entries were shortlisted for performance on the day of the event. Renowned artistes from the world of music -- Yuvraj Hans, Shankar Sahni and Vivek Sahni, and from the world of dance -- Rohit Chawla, Manisha Mishra and Kumar Ravi were the judges for the competition. Dr Neerja Dhingra congratulated the winners and said dedication and whole hearted commitment was necessary to excel in performing arts. She also congratulated the departments of music and dance of the college for the grand success of such a magnificent program.Results: Singing (junior category): Dilraj Kaur 1, Harsifat Kaur/Chinmay 2 and Aditi/Sukhmanjot 3; singing (senior category): Anil 1, Harjinder/Steevon 2 and Parmeet 3; dance (classical category): Pranamya and Taranjot, special prize under-16  Harsimer Kaur; dance (semi-classical category): 1. Shubhaswee 1, Radhika 2 and Manya Chawla 3; dance (western category): Vrinda/Chanchal 1, Narinder 2 and Radhey 3; dance (folk category): Sukoon 1, Anustika 2 and Manya Rajput 3.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/30-participate-in-dance-music-contests-269225
16-06-2021||---||Kapurthala to screen those below 18 yrs from tomorrow||Kapurthala, June 15Kapurthala Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal said the district administration would start screening of children below 18 years of age in view of the preparations for the third wave of Covid. While addressing the district health committee meeting, she said this campaign would be launched from June 17 on the lines of Mission Fateh-II to screen children for Covid across the district.She said as the medical experts anticipate the third wave, the district administration and the health teams, comprising ASHA workers would visit every home to check the children having Covid symptoms. Terming it as an exercise whose time has come, the Deputy Commissioner said as the positivity rate falls to 1.5% in the district, the health teams must complete this task.She also asked all health officials to ensure bio-waste management in a proper manner from hospital, besides visiting the private hospitals for checking of bio medical waste management.The DC asked the SMOs to speed up the vaccination process as the Punjab Government has included more categories such as shopkeepers, rehriwalas, students and elected representatives. District immunisation officer Dr Randeep Singh said till now, nearly 1.60 lakh persons have been vaccinated in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kapurthala-to-screen-those-below-18-yrs-from-tomorrow-269226
