17-06-2021||Hoshiarpur||Man  held for  jewellery theft||2 booked for axing treesHoshiarpur: The Hariana police have booked Jalandhar residents, a father-son duo, on the charge of cutting and stealing trees on the complaint of Surinder Kaur of Mander village. She had filed a complaint in this regard against Neeraj Puri and Yograj Puri, both residents of Kalia Colony, Amritsar Road, Jalandhar, on May 6. After conducting an inquiry into the complaint by DSP Hq, the Hariana police have lodged an FIR against both the accused under Sections 417, 465, 468, 471 and 120-B of the IPC. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/man-held-for-jewellery-theft-269760
17-06-2021||Our Correspondent||16 arrested with intoxicants, pistol in Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur, June 16The district police arrested 16 persons and seized huge quantity of intoxicants, one pistol and 34 live cartridges from them in the last 24 hours. The police have also seized some vehicles from their possession.The city police stopped a car near Shimla Pahari Chowk last night. The driver tried to run away but he was nabbed and during search 15 gm of heroin, 285-gm intoxicating powder, one pistol and 34 live cartridges were found from Rahul, alias Dani, a resident of Jandiala. Also, 605 gm of intoxicating powder and 40-gm heroin was found from Sahil, alias Amritsaria, and Sahil, alias Naka, both residents of Ghanta Ghar.The Sadar police arrested Rohit Kumar, alias Suraj, of Sherpur Glind village and seized 30-gm intoxicating powder from him. Kulwinder and Ram Jagir, alias Shibu, of Bajwara village were arrested with 15 kg of poppy husk.The Bullowal police seized 20 gm of intoxicating powder from Bhaklan resident Bhupinder, while the Garhdiwala police arrested Inderjit, alias Nani, of Argowal village with 69 gm of intoxicating powder.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/16-arrested-with-intoxicants-pistol-in-hoshiarpur-269759
17-06-2021||---||Dullo demands CBI probe into SC scholarship scam||Our CorrespondentGarhshankar, June 16Former president of the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee and Rajya Sabha member, Shamsher Singh Dullo, on Wednesday met lawyers at Garhshankar Court Complex .While talking to reporters in chamber of advocate Pankaj Kripal, co-chairman, legal cell, Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee, Dullo said the alleged scholarship scam of Rs400 crore had dented the future of lakhs of Dalit students. He said the Central Government was blaming the Punjab Government and the state government was blaming the Central Government.He said in reality the Central Government, the incumbent state government and the previous Akali-BJP Government of the state were equally responsible for it. He said the investigation of the scholarship scam should be done by the CBI.Dullo further said the BJP’s announcement of making Dalit Chief Minister in Punjab this time was just an election stunt. He said if the BJP was in favour of Dalit community, then they should appoint Dalit as CM in any BJP ruling state.Speaking about the Akali-BSP pact, Dulo said in Punjab, the Akali Dal was taking recourse to crutches due to sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib and weakening of the Akali Dal due to farmers’ agitation. He said there was a big difference in the ideology of Akali Dal and the BSP.He said the people of Punjab would not support the SAD-BSP alliance. Speaking about the farmers’ movement, the Rajya Sabha MP said the Centre should have had considered the farmers’ organisations views before enacting the three laws.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dullo-demands-cbi-probe-into-sc-scholarship-scam-269758
17-06-2021||---||SSA union attacks Punjab Government with sarcastic poster||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 16In yet another attack, the Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan (SSA)/Mid Day Meal Contractual Employees’ Union today released a poster depicting the Cabinet sub-committee. Notably, the union had been protesting against the state government and seeking regularisation of the staff for long time.The poster reads: Cabinet sub-committee di soch: Kache mulazim vall na dekho, kache mulazim di na suno and kache mulazim layi kuch na bolo (Cabinet sub-committee’s approach: Don’t pay attention to contractual employees, don’t listen to them and don’t say anything for them). Ashish Julaha, a union member, said the Congress had come to power by promising that contractual employees would be regularised but it never happened. “Though a Cabinet sub-committee was formed, no one is listening to us,” he said.The union members said a huge protest would be held on June 19. Earlier, they had sent a ‘Get well soon’ card to the state government in the name of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh as a mark of protest. Jaldi theek hove Punjab sarkar, lokan di hun ehi pukaar, sarkar ji quarantine vicho aao baahar, read the card. In a sarcastic comment, the staff had said the government was sending an unwell person to 14 days’ quarantine, but it itself was under quarantine for the past four years because they were hardly working or listening to their demands, which is why the card was sent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ssa-union-attacks-punjab-government-with-sarcastic-poster-269756
17-06-2021||---||Two die, 65 catch infection in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, June 16A total of 65 fresh Covid cases were reported from the district with two deaths today. After the discharge and completion of quarantine period of 114 patients, the district now has 876 active cases. The positivity rate in the district now is 1.18 per cent.The areas from where Covid infections are still being reported include Madhuban Colony near Basti Bawa Khel, Kabir Nagar and Patti Kamalpur village. A total of 17 patients are under treatment for black fungus in the district. The total number of Covid cases reported in the district so far is 62,200 with a total death toll of 1,450.Positivity rate in K’thala 0.37%The health authorities today reported only eight fresh Covid cases and two deaths. It has been after a long time that the number of infections in the district has fallen to a single digit. The positivity rate in the district is 0.37 per cent. There are still 304 active cases in the district and the total number of persons who had contracted Covid in the district is 17,384 so far and 519 had succumbed to the disease. A total of 46 patients got discharged today.14 cases in NawanshahrNawanshahr district recorded 14 fresh Covid cases on Wednesday. With this, the infection tally has increased to 11,359 in the district. No death was reported today. At present, the district has 136 active cases and 112 patients are under home isolation. The number of persons who have recovered is 10,840 with a recovery percentage of 95.76 per cent. Urban Banga, did not report any fresh case. As many as 15 patients are admitted in L-II Covid care facility unit and five are in L-III Covid care facility.No fatality in HoshiarpurIt is for the first time after March 7 this year that no Covid death was reported in Hoshiarpur district. With 57 fresh cases reported today, the total number of Covid patients in the district has increased to 30,054.The total number of samples taken so far in the district is 6,23,158, out of which 5,92,615 were negative, while report of 3,654 is pending and 623 are invalid.A total of 3,236 fresh samples of persons with suspected flu-like symptoms were taken today. The number of active cases in the district is 493 and 28,611 patients have recovered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/two-die-65-catch-infection-in-jalandhar-district-269752
17-06-2021||---||Niku Park to reopen on June 19: Jalandhar Deputy Commissioner||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 16Having remained shut for about two months during the second Covid wave, Niku Park is set to reopen on June 19.Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori today directed the management of the park to prepare for its reopening. He said the park would remain open from 3.30 pm to 7.30 pm daily with 50 per cent of its capacity so that people of the city could enjoy the amusement facilities there.The park, spread in 4.5 acres, had been shut since April this year besides, earlier remaining closed for over seven months last year.The district administration had issued financial aid worth Rs12 lakh to the park, which was spent on various facelift works. Located in the heart of the city, it was in a dilapidated state due to lack of maintenance. The DC stated that in the past few months, during a drive, repair of all swings besides giving the park a facelift was initiated. He further added that all main swings and rides in the park that included the amusement bus, fountains, train, music fountains, floodlights, and others had been made operational lately. Further, CCTV cameras have also been installed on the park premises. Earlier, the DC had also formed a committee under the chairmanship of Municipal Corporation Joint Commissioner Harcharan Singh to ensure the maintenance of the park.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/niku-park-to-reopen-on-june-19-jalandhar-deputy-commissioner-269751
17-06-2021||---||Covid stigma: 11 days on, body  lies unclaimed in Jalandhar Civil Hospital||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 16Another example of people distancing themselves from their Covid-positive family members amid the pandemic has come to the fore in the district where no one has come forward to claim the body of a Covid patient who died 11 days ago.As per information, the body of the patient admitted to the Civil Hospital, who died due to Covid, had been kept in the mortuary. The police had been informed about this by the health authorities. Information regarding this had also been released by the administration so that it could be circulated and the kin could be informed.The deceased has been identified as Nirmal Singh (50) of Kapurthala Road, who was admitted to the Civil Hospital on June 4 and died the next day around 5.15 pm. Since then, nobody has turned up to claim the body and the officials said even the mobile numbers that were given while admitting the patient are also switched off. The authorities don’t have any other address or proof to search for the deceased’s kin.Sub Divisional Magistrate-II Harpreet Singh Atwal said: “The body has been kept in the mortuary and the police have also been informed in this regard. The deceased’s kin can come to the Civil Hospital mortuary to claim the body.”On being asked if such cases were prominent, the SDM said even when the relatives and family members are informed that they don’t have to worry about being infected they still are reluctant in receiving the body. “Though kin of the deceased are informed about the set protocols with which they can perform the last rites of the deceased, some of them are still apprehensive and shirk away from attending to the deceased,” he said.Notably, such cases where kin disown the body of a Covid patient are on a rise. The health officials and those who are on frontline dealing closely with the Covid patients said they feel strange and sad when they see people still discriminating with their own kin even after one year of the pandemic and awareness drives.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-stigma-11-days-on-body-lies-unclaimed-in-jalandhar-civil-hospital-269750
17-06-2021||---||Unlocked: Gyms, restaurants open again after two months in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, June 16A day after the state government announced some relaxations on Covid curbs, almost all gyms and most restaurants opened in the city today.The gyms and dining provisions at restaurants had been shut for almost the past two months since the second Covid wave had hit the region. The Jalandhar Gym Association, which has nearly 50 members, had been repeatedly lodging their protest demanding that they be allowed to open gyms to help the people maintain their fitness levels even in Covid days.Vikram Dhiman, owner of Gold’s Gym at Model Town said: “Our clientele had been calling us for the past two weeks asking us when we will open. As we finally opened today, there were nearly 150-200 members who came over and started their routine. We otherwise have more than 500 visitors a day in pre-Covid times.”As the gym started, the owner said he announced a few dos and don’ts as precautionary measures, apart from routine practices of thermal scanning, sanitisation and social distancing. “We have about 10,000 sq feet space and we have formed one-hour slots for 50 members at a time. The members will be able to enter only in their slot time with their own water bottles and towels. We have not opened sauna, steam and shower facilities yet. We have also not started any group activities like aerobics, bhangra, dance classes etc,” he said adding that slots would start at 5 am and would go on till 8 pm for maximum spacing and safety of all members. He also showed the glass partition which had been done between all treadmills and cardio machines for the same reason.Meanwhile, most dhabas and restaurants opened their dining facilities for public today. While earlier, most of them had been engaged in home delivery, they happily welcomed the new customers to sit and savour their food today. The response from public, they said, was not very enthusing at least on first day.Janak Raj, who owns Punjabi Dhaba, said: “We finally opened our dhaba for customers today. We only had been packing food for pick-up service. The response today was okay as people are still scared to come out and have food. They are still preferring to get it packed and take it home.”Some owners of restaurants are still awaiting more relaxations so as to start. As Rajan Chopra, owner of hotels and restaurants in the city, said: “We have so far only opened our coffee shop for seating purposes. Since there still is restriction of curfew at 8 pm, people cannot take dinner so early. So, we may open our restaurants for dining facility from July 1 onwards.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/unlocked-gyms-restaurants-open-again-after-two-months-in-jalandhar-269749
