18-06-2021||---||Class VIII Jalandhar student does his bit to ease vehicle ventilation, develops a device||Jalandhar, June 17A student of CT Public School, Parth Verma, studying in Class VIII, has filed a patent after developing a ‘Vehicle ventilation regulation device’, in collaboration with the Robotics and Automation Department of the CT University.The invention pertains to a vehicle ventilation regulating device that maintains the flow of pure air inside the vehicle by restricting the flow of polluted air present in the surroundings to enter the vehicle, hence ensuring the health of the user.Parth, a young researcher from Punjab, hit upon the idea when he found that smoke from the fields was penetrating into vehicles. He observed that smoke could be inhaled inside the car when the car ventilation was still on. He met Dr Harmeet Singh, Deputy Director IPR cell, CT University and discussed the issue with him in a bid to resolve this problem. So, they came up with the idea to automate the mechanism of keeping the vehicle’s internal air intact and tried making a system for existing cars.First, the 3D model was created in the software and then the circuit for the same was tested. The team developed the prototype in one week and the final system was tested successfully. Finally, the patent was filed. Parth Verma said, “The idea is ready for commercialisation and can be used in the existing cars. In the present invention, a vehicle ventilation regulating device comprises a push button manually operated by a user to enable ON, OFF or AUTO modes that results in opening or closing of an air inlet flap, smoke detection sensor detects presence of airborne particulate and unfavorable gases outside the vehicle, a controller (Arduino Uno) connected with the sensor.In the ON mode, the flap opens up to allow entry of air inside the vehicle, in OFF mode, the flap closes to prevent the entry of air inside the vehicle. It allows the entry of air only in the AUTO mode, opening/closing of flaps takes place to allow/stop the entry of air inside the vehicle according to sensor output comparable to the first threshold value (maximum air quality).”Congratulating the team, including the young researcher, Managing Director Manbir Singh said, “We are glad about tapping the young minds for research. We have found a gem at such a young age. I also urge every student to come up; even with a small idea as together we can do wonders.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/class-viii-jalandhar-student-does-his-bit-to-ease-vehicle-ventilation-develops-a-device-270279
18-06-2021||---||Swachh Bharat: Class XII Jalandhar girl designs app to ‘Bin the Dirt’||Jalandhar, June 17Having designed an application software for garbage management in the city, Nanaki Singh, a Class XII student of Cambridge International School for Girls, met Municipal Corporation Commissioner Karnesh Sharma to give a presentation on it.Named ‘Bin the Dirt’, the app as per Nanaki focuses on adoption of systematic procedure for placement of dustbins in the city, proper disposal and timely collection of household garbage and other litter. “The app is also helpful for receiving notifications and information regarding collection and disposal schedule of household garbage/waste in various areas of the city. It also has features such as time schedule, frequency of service for collection of garbage and the numbers to contact in case of any complaint,” she explained.Nanaki said she had conceptualised the app as a part of her contribution for Jalandhar to be a Smart City and as her social responsibility to keep the environment clean. While appreciating her efforts and concern for the city, the MC Commissioner said the app could be of great help to the Municipal Corporation in garbage management and said he would consider its use to make the city cleaner.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/swachh-bharat-class-xii-jalandhar-girl-designs-app-to-bin-the-dirt-270280
18-06-2021||---||Hockey: Drag-flicker Gurjit makes it to Tokyo Olympics||Jalandhar, June 17 Coming as a proud moment, an alumnus of Lyallpur Khalsa College for Women, Gurjit Kaur (25) has been selected for the Indian Women Hockey team for Tokyo Olympics. Hockey Punjab’s chief Nitin Kohli and general secretary Pargat Singh shared the information on Thursday. The Hockey India has announced the Indian Women Hockey team for Olympic Games scheduled to be held in Tokyo. Defender and drag-flicker Gurjit has played many international matches for the Indian team and scored many goals.  Gurjit said being selected for Olympic Games was always her dream, but this would actually come true when the Indian Women Hockey team would win a medal for the country. Hockey Punjab members congratulated Gurjit for her selection. Gurjit, who serves at North Centre Railways at Allahabad, has already participated in Commonwealth Games held in 2018 in Australia. She was also a part of the Indian team for Hockey World Cup the same year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hockey-drag-flicker-gurjit-makes-it-to-tokyo-olympics-270281
18-06-2021||---||Online yoga sessions, webinars begin ahead of Yoga Day||Jalandhar, June 17 Ahead of International Yoga Day falling on coming Monday (June 21), various institutes have already started organising online workshops, sessions and webinars imparting training to the youth and encouraging them to adopt these exercises in their daily routine for stress relief, especially in Covid times. A 10-day online yoga classes have been started for the students of all streams of Classes XI and XII of Kanya Maha Vidyalaya Collegiate Sr. Sec. School. The session was organised by the Department of Student Welfare. Eminent yoga expert Dr Vinod (Principal, OPM Institute of Education, Kapurthala) was the resource person for the classes. More than 200 students participated with full interest, enthusiasm and eagerness. The main aim of this session was to ignite a passion for fitness and yoga among the students as they sometimes feel stressed and depressed in the present time of Covid-19.During the session, asanas starting with warming up and stretching were followed by a series of Taar Asana, Ardhchakra Asana, Vajra Asana, Vriksh Asana, Mandok Asana, Bhujang Asana, etc. reducing psychological disorders, backache and other problems were discussed. He said practicing these asanas will also help in increasing positivity and emotional balance among students. Principal Atima Sharma Dwivedi encouraged the students to practice yoga in order to achieve holistic development as yoga inculcates the qualities of discipline, dedication, self control and concentration etc. Principal lauded the efforts of Dr Madhumeet, dean, Department of Student Welfare; Veena Deepak, co-ordinator, KMV Collegiate Sr. Sec. School; Anand Prabha and other faculty members of KMV Collegiate Sr. Sec. School for organising the yoga sessions.  Week-long yoga workshop under way at LPU The division of student welfare at Lovely Professional University is organising a seven-day holistic health workshop-“Yoga for You”. Occasion is the celebration of “International Yoga Day 2021”, which falls on June 21. For this, renowned resource persons, including experts in vedic dcience, psycho-neurobics, clinical psychology and more are to instruct the participants. This is a free workshop specially designed for students and staff-members to upskill their mind and healthy living during existing hard times. Different sessions on these days will cover “Sukshma Vyayama and Pranayam; chakra healing with psycho-neurobics exercises; strengthening of emotional immunity with brain related exercises; holistic health and wellness in Covid times; yoga for stress management; health and lifestyle boosting; and more. Neurobics is the science behind brain exercises, which are meant to decrease memory loss and increase the ease of taking in and using new information adequately. It’s a fact that the brain needs to practice and get better in a variety of skills for working the very best. Besides benefiting brain and memory power, neurobic- exercises are learnt to improve mood, focus, memory, and mindset, which is to be essentially done in these pandemic days. Similarly, clinical psychologists will also help assess mental, emotional and behavioural disorders and help people discover their strengths. Renowned experts for the workshop are Dr Mahesh Dogra (PhD in vedic science and psycho-neurobics); Prof BC Chauhan from Central University of Himachal Pradesh; Dr Shaveta Bhardwaj (Clinical psychologist and counsellor from Shrimann Super-speciality Hospital); Dr Poonam Singh (PhD in yoga from Yog Manthan) and Dr Sorabh Lakhanpal, head, DSW at LPU. The event is to last up to June 21. In fact, LPU is very keen to care for humanity and the society as a whole in all ways through continuous endeavours of one or the other kind. Webinar on ‘Importance of yoga during Covid-19’ A webinar on ‘Importance of yoga during Covid-19’ was organised on Thursday by Regional Outreach Bureau (ROB) and Press Information Bureau (PIB) under the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, Government of India. Guest speaker and yoga trainer Gurmeet Singh demonstrated various asanas and pranayamas like Gomukhasana, Mandukasana, Pawanmuktasana, Bhujangasana, Anulom Vilom, Bhramari, Kapalabhati, etc. to the participants. He further informed the benefits associated with these asanas. The trainer said there was no specific time and place to practice yoga and it could be done anywhere and anytime. Yoga keeps an individual active, increases metabolism and brings peacefulness, he added. Later during the webinar, a song dedicated to yoga was performed by Cdt. Shivraj Singh and Cdt. Varinder Singh, NCC Cadets from Government Senior Secondary Smart School, Amritsar. In his welcome address, Rajesh Bali, Field Publicity Officer (FPO), Field Outreach Bureau (FOB), Jalandhar, said in this lockdown and pandemic period, yoga is the best thing to adopt as a lifestyle habit as it helps everyone build a strong physical, mental and spiritual well-being. The session concluded with Shishu Kumar Sharma, Assistant Director, PIB, Jalandhar, presenting a vote of thanks to all the participants. Other officials of Ministry of Information and Broadcasting from the region also participated in the webinar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/online-yoga-sessions-webinars-begin-ahead-of-yoga-day-270283
18-06-2021||---||Beyond reach: Councillors flay shifting of Jalandhar dispensary||Jalandhar, June 17Dispensaries in the rural areas and non-developed areas play an important role for those who cannot afford to go to other private hospitals for minor problems. Two councillors from the city have raised an issue of the shifting of a dispensary. Ward number 72 councillor Mintu and that of Ward No. 78 Jagdish Samrai took up the matter of shifting of a government dispensary from their areas with the Civil Surgeon today and gave him a memorandum.They said people of 10-12 mohallas had been affected with the shifting of the dispensary. The affected areas included New Ratan Nagar, Ratan Nagar, New Guru Nanak Nagar, Shaheed Babu Labh Singh Nagar, New Shaheed Babu Labh Singh Nagar, Baba Kahn Das Nagar and Shiv Nagar among others with population of nearly 25,000 persons.The councillors said there were mothers who used to get themselves and their new born or toddlers vaccinated against various diseases on a regular basis at the dispensary. Also, people of the area would get first-aid treatment easily at the dispensary.Councillor Samrai said even though the population was high, the dispensary was shifted from the place, which was not fair to the residents of those areas. The councillors demanded that a permanent doctor, an experienced Auxiliary Nurse and Midwifery (ANM) and ward attendants be appointed at the dispensary to facilitate the residents.Samrai said earlier, the dispensary was at a walking distance but now the distance has increased and people would have to bear extra charges of transportation to reach the facility. He also said the matter had been brought to the notice of Jalandhar West MLA Sushil Rinku who assured them to raise the issue with the Health Minister.Most of the people at both the wards belong to economically weaker sections. About 80 per cent of the ward no. 78 is covered by slums.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/beyond-reach-councillors-flay-shifting-of-jalandhar-dispensary-270284
18-06-2021||---||Yoga Day: India Post to issue special cancellation stamp||Jalandhar, June 17 India Post is coming out with a special cancellation to capture the essence of the World Yoga Day on June 21. This unique initiative will mark the commemoration of the 7th International Day of Yoga. India Post will issue this special cancellation with a pictorial design through its 810 Head Post offices across India. This is going to be one among the largest such simultaneous philatelic commemorations ever.  In Jalandhar Division, Jalandhar City Head Post office and Jalandhar Cantt Head Post Office will put this special cancellation on all mail booked in the office on June 21. The special pictorial cancellation stamp will be an inked marking or impression with a graphical design with International Day of Yoga 2021 written in both Hindi and English languages. A cancellation is a postal marking used to deface a stamp to prevent its reuse. Such cancellations are valued collectibles and often subjects of philatelic studies. Over the years, the passion for stamp collection has seen a decline and to revive this hobby or art, India Post runs a scheme for philatelists. They avail stamps for collectors at philatelic bureau and counters in designated post offices. One can easily open a philatelic deposit account in any head post office of the country by depositing Rs 200 and get items like stamps and special covers. Additionally, commemorative stamps are only available at Philatelic Bureau Jalandhar City HO and counters or under the Philatelic Deposit Account Scheme. They are printed in limited quantities.  Like the last year, this year too most of the events will take place virtually in view of pandemic situation. The event will promote the main theme of this year “Be with Yoga, Be at Home.” All the employees in the post offices will also take the online pledge “I pledge to make YOGA an integral part of my daily life” through the AYUSH portal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/yoga-day-india-post-to-issue-special-cancellation-stamp-270285
18-06-2021||---||Attack on doctors: IMA to protest today||Jalandhar, June 17  Ahead of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) protest on Friday, the district unit of the  IMA-Jalandhar on Thursday submitted a memorandum to MLA Gurpartap Singh Wadala against assault on doctors.   To protest violence against doctors, IMA-Jalandhar has appealed to its members to gather at 9.30 am on Friday at the IMA house. All doctors have been requested to wear black badges on the occasion.  Doctors appealed to the PM to take steps to stall violence against doctors, demanded universal vaccine for those above 18 and demanded setting up of a separate research cell to study mucormycosis fungal disease in detail.  Memorandum to be submitted to various MLAs, doctors read, “In the midst of the pandemic we are deeply hurt to see the increasing incidents of physical violence against the doctors and health care professionals in the country. The brutal assault on our young doctor in Assam and the assault on lady doctors and even on veteran practitioners across the country are really causing mental trauma among the practitioners. Many doctors have also lost their lives on account of dedicated service to thousands of people.” They further wrote, “There are also cases where both husband and wife being doctors have also lost their lives leaving behind their children as orphans, IMA is maintaining a registry of all such cases and we periodically submit these details to the authorities seeking recognition and support of these families.”  Appealing the PM to intervene in order to stop the assault on doctors, the IMA in its letter, also demanded promulgation of the Health Services Personnel and Clinical Establishments (Prohibition of Violence and Damage to Property) Bill, 2019.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/attack-on-doctors-ima-to-protest-today-270286
18-06-2021||---||Three die, 78 down with virus in Jalandhar district||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 17With 78 fresh Covid positive cases reported today, the district tally has increased to 62,278. Of these, five cases are from other districts. As many as three deaths were reported in the district on Thursday. With this, the district toll has risen to 1,453. As many as 59,971 persons have recovered from Covid in the district while the number of active cases in Jalandhar is 854.Three die in KapurthalaKapurthala district today reported 23 positive cases in the district, taking the district tally to 17,404. Three persons died of Covid in the district today. The deceased have been identified as a 67-year-old woman of Kapurthala city, a 70-year-old man of Baza village and a 68-year-old man of Shatabgarh village.Hoshiarpur reports 2 deathsThe district health authorities today reported 64 Covid cases and two deaths due to the infection. The two deceased include a 35-year-old woman of Panduri Phungra village, who was under treatment at Military Hospital in Jalandhar, and a 40-year-old woman from Nangal Data village, who died at the PGI.A total of 3,215 samples had been taken and the positive rate was 2.08 per cent in the district. Of the new cases, 22 were the contacts of previously infected persons. The total number of active cases now stands at 472.Nawanshahr on path of recovery, says DCNawanshahr district reported 13 fresh Covid cases and no death on Thursday. Urban Banga and Saroya block did not report any case. The total number of active cases now stands at 133, out of which 111 are under home isolation.Nawanshahr Deputy Commissioner Dr Gurpreet Singh Kapur said the number of Covid cases in the district was declining steadily due to which the district was rapidly moving towards Covid-free status. However, he also appealed to the people to strictly follow the guidelines.Notably, since June 3 to date, the number of Covid positive cases is under 20 and even the recovery rate is nearly 96 per cent in the district. Over 1,55,400 persons have been vaccinated in the district.So far, 2,24,558 samples have been collected in the district out of which, 11,332 persons have tested positive while the report of 782 samples is awaited. As many as 10,855 patients have recovered. The positivity rate of the district is 5.04 per cent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/three-die-78-down-with-virus-in-jalandhar-district-270288
18-06-2021||---||‘Covid frontline workers’ to aid infected, recovered patients||Tribune News ServiceKapurthala, June 17To deal with the current Covid pandemic situation, the Kapurthala district administration has taken a step forward to train youth to help Covid-infected and post-Covid patients in recovery.The course named ‘Covid frontline worker under M/s JITM Skill Pvt. Ltd’ was inaugurated by Kapurthala Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal today at the skill centre here.A total of 57 candidates will be trained under this course. Candidates will go for 21-day training on how to take care Covid patients in the centre. Post-Covid care will also be part of this training. The DC said after 21 days of training, the trainees would go for on-the-job training in hospitals for next three months and will be helped in placement subsequently.She also said mobilisation for this course was done by District Bureau of Employment and Enterprises, Kapurthala, and each trainee would go through counselling by the career counsellor of District Bureau of Employment and Enterprises.The DC distributed kits of the course among trainees. Additional Deputy Commissioner (D) Surinderpal Angra, District Employment Generation and Training Officer Neelam Mahay, and officers from the Punjab Skill Development Mission Rajesh Bahri, Ajay Kumar and Kamal Kumar and career counsellor Gaurav Kumar were present on the occasion.Will also undergo on-the-job training||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-frontline-workers-to-aid-infected-recovered-patients-270289
18-06-2021||Jalandhar||infra pangs taken up with PSPCL||DC inspects flood protection worksJalandhar: To meet the challenge of any flood-like situation in the coming rainy season, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori on Thursday inspected the flood prone areas of Jalandhar to oversee flood protection work worth Rs 7.51 crore. The DC, while visiting the flood prone areas of Shahkot subdivision, said the administration was duty-bound to ensure that the vulnerable points were strengthened so that there was no possibility of floods in the district. The DC reviewed the pace of ongoing work along with river Sutlej adding that this work must be completed by the starting of next month. He said that any sort of laxity in this work was totally unwarranted and undesirable. Thori said he would periodically review the progress of this work to ensure that it was completed within stipulated time period. TNSScience city opens with Covid curbsKapurthala: Pushpa Gujral Science City will be opening now with certain Covid restrictions. It will remain open from 9 am to 6 pm for seven days. A notification in this regard has been released by the Directorate of Cultural Affairs, Archaeology and Museums regarding opening of museums, memorials, monuments and other sites of the department. In the notification, it is said that the opening shall be subjected to any local restrictions put by the Deputy Commissioner. TNSAAP chain fast enters day 3Jalandhar: On the third day of the hunger strike on Thursday, Aam Aadmi Party’s mahila wing state president Rajwinder Kaur and district president Surinder Sodhi said they would continue their protest in every Assembly constituency against the post-matric scholarship scam. They said until all students didn't get their roll numbers and degrees the dharna would continue. She lauded the Delhi government's decision to provide training to 5,000 health assistants. They said the Congress government had failed to keep its promises made during the Assembly polls in 2017. They said the state government was leaving a legacy of scams. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/infra-pangs-taken-up-with-pspcl-270291
18-06-2021||---||Jalandhar administration cremates unclaimed body of Covid victim||Jalandhar, June 17Officials of the District Administration, Jalandhar, once again, ensured cremation of a Covid-19 deceased in a dignified manner as nobody from his family came forward to claim the body.Notably, a Covid-19 positive patient was admitted to the Civil Hospital on June 4, who died the next day. The patient was identified as Nirmal Singh (50) of Kapurthala Road. After the death of the patient, no one came forward to claim the body and the phone number of the attendant was also switched off. The body was kept in the mortuary for about 12 days and every effort was being made by officials to trace the family members of the deceased.DC Ghanshyam Thori said the body of the deceased was wrapped by the health authorities according to protocol under the supervision of Dr Kamraj at the local Civil Hospital and then taken to the cremation ground, where officials, along with NGO Aakhiri Ummid, performed his last rites with full respect.Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori exhorted people to dial control room numbers 0181-2224417 and 0181-2224848 for any kind of assistance in the cremation of persons, where no one from the family or society comes forward. He said the district administration was working round-the-clock to assist people during this ongoing health crisis and solicited people’s support to tide over this catastrophic second wave of the pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-administration-cremates-unclaimed-body-of-covid-victim-270292
18-06-2021||Jalandhar||Certificates of merit for 3 students||Workshop on Business SimulationLyallpur Khalsa College Technical Campus in its endeavour to provide quality education to its management students organised a one-day workshop on business simulation. It is one of the latest methods of providing theoretical as well as practical knowledge to the students of management followed by IIMs and other top business schools across the world. The resource person for this workshop was Ashish Kumar (alumni of IIM Indore and director of Biziga Solutions Private Limited). Ashish explained the concept of business simulation to students and faculty members. He stated that in business simulation game players receive a description of an imaginary business and an imaginary environment and make decisions — on price, advertising, production targets, etc. — about how their company should be run.Physics series organisedKanya Maha Vidyalaya has taken yet an innovative initiative to promote sciences among students by organising KMV International Series (Physics Chapter). Under these series, students will be taken to world’s renowned research laboratories like CERN, ENEA etc. virtually. In order to inculcate the scientific temperament and curiosity of research among students, fourth episode of KMV International series was organised. Dr Ashutosh Goel, Associate Professor, Department of Material Science and Engineering, Rutgers, The state University of New Jersey, was invited as the keynote speaker of the fourth episode of KMV International series. The topic of Dr Goel’s talk was “Turning Nuclear Waste into Glass”. Before starting his talk, Dr Goel gave the virtual tour of Department of Material Science and Engineering, Rutgers. Later Dr Goel introduced the concept of nuclear energy and waste associated with it. He shared various facts regarding radioactive materials and their disposal protocols.int’l Day of the African ChildInternational Day of the African Child was observed in Eklavya School. The day was used to highlight the current situation and rights of the African child to quality education and a better life. A special assembly was organised. Students of class X delivered a speech informing the significance of this day and students of Class VIII made charts on the topic of “Education and Children’s Rights”. Videos were shown to the students regarding the issues that children are facing day by day specially in Africa. Students wrote slogans to spread awareness among the children about their rights and aims to examine the elements of a child-friendly justice system, including the application and use the four principles of children’s rights as a tool for realising access to a child -friendly justice system in Africa. Dimple Malhotra (Administrator) said that such kind of days should be observed among youngsters.Webinar on ‘Say No To Plastic’Police DAV Public School organised an online webinar entitled, ‘Say No to Plastic” for the students of Classes VI to XII under Pollution Reduction Drive being promoted by United Nations Environment Programme and actively supported by ISCON in India. The resource person was Divyam Prabhakar, member ISCON, who shared through power presentation the harmful effects of use of plastic in daily life, and how it can be evaded. He also guided the students how they could contribute in the initiative taken by UNEP and get themselves registered.Rani fIrst in BVoc (Fashion Designing)Students of BVoc (Fashion Designing (Sem III)) of PCM SD College for Women received accolades by bagging first, second, third and fourth university positions in the examination conducted recently by Guru Nanak Dev University. Rani bagged first position in university by securing 354/400. Shallu nailed it to second position with 329 marks. Amanpreet Kaur made it to third position in university by securing 312 marks. Simran bagged fourth position and Sanjana managed it to fifth position by securing 310 and 309 marks respectively. Principal Dr Kiran Arora applauded the endeavours of the meritorious students and wished them luck for their future.Infra boost for IKGPTU HoshiarpurIK Gujral Punjab Technical University (IKGPTU), Hoshiarpur Campus got its academic block upgraded with better infrastructure this week. Vice Chancellor Prof (Dr) Ajay Kumar Sharma said that the upgraded academic block comprised of two-storied building that has newly-constructed laboratory of mechanical, civil and computer engineering and other amenities. The team of Hoshiarpur campus also apprised VC about other academic activities.On this occasion, Hoshiarpur Campus Director Dr Ashish Arora, senior faculty Reetipal Singh, Deputy Registrar Gaganjot Singh Malhi, faculty and staff members were present. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/certificates-of-merit-for-3-students-270295
18-06-2021||---||30:30:40 formula fair, best: Academics||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 17Quite satisfied with the CBSE’s 30:30:40 formula for the preparation of final result of Class XII students, principals of most schools in the city are of the opinion that this was the best and the most fair criterian for assessment of the students.A majority of teachers and principals are satisfied with the formula declared today as they said it was based on the suggestions taken from them in the past few weeks through online meetings and emails. They said thankfully, there was no surprise element in the formula this time and hence even the students and their parents were not reacting to it.MGN Public School Adarsh Nagar, principal Kanwaljit Singh Randhawa has termed it a perfect formula as it would help the students to be evaluated in the most appropriate manner. “Since a due weight age has also been given to Class X board examination, it will help bringing in more fairness. We have already conducted all practical examinations for Class XII, by calling in external examiners. We were also through with the pre-board examination. The whole process now involves culling the marks, reporting them all and making the calculations, which by all means will not take more than 15 days, even if the teachers work laboriously day and night,” he said, adding that the results of the ICSE Class X pass-out students, who were now with him in Class XII, too would have to be drawn again from the parents which could be little time consuming.Like him, principal of Sanskriti KMV School Rachna Monga, too has said, the CBSE’s decision of picking the marks of the best three subjects in Class X too was a very wise decision. “Unlike most of the other schools, we had conducted the pre-boards of Class XII in an offline mode and hence we are very sure that the marks that we would be sending would be completely genuine. We conducted the practical of some of the subjects. So, largely, the compilation and uploading work is to be done. Our teachers were still to be through with their Class X compilation work for the CBSE and now they have another board class assessment work in hand. In a way, they will have to work for long hours now for few weeks,” she said.Like Sanskriti KMV, Rashmi Vij, principal of PoliceDAV Public School, too said they had taken pre-boards on an offline mode. “But we had taken three pre-board examinations for Class XII for their better preparation since they stayed home all the year through. Now, we will have to see which pre-board examination marks we should take for the best evaluation. Overall, the formula is good. It is just that all those students who had become more serious in their Class XII from career point of view and were expected to give better result this time might suffer a bit. They are usually are 10-15 dark horses who emerge each year. These are those students who had performed average in previous years but all of a sudden show exceptional results. Their work will surely get overshadowed but the CBSE has surely given them a chance to appear in examination as well somewhere later.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/303040-formula-fair-best-academics-270296
