19-06-2021||Jalandhar||Players in Jalandhar awarded Scholarship||Autistic Pride Day observedStudents of Eklavya School observed Autistic Pride Day. The objective was to raise awareness about the people suffering from this disorder called Autism Spectrum Disorder. Science educator Gaurav Mehandiratta conducted an online workshop via Google Meet for middle and senior school students to make them understand the importance of observing the day. He said: "It is a developmental condition that many have because of which it is difficult for them to interact with people in a social setting. Because of this, many people are harassed and their rights are violated. Not only that, they are often misunderstood and are labelled as a 'snob' and 'anti-social' without really understanding what they go through. Not just on Autistic Pride Day, but also on other days. They are people like us and do not deserve to be discriminated against." Principal Komal Arora and Administrator Dimple Malhotra also appreciated the educator for conducting the workshop.KMV celebrates foundation dayKanya Maha Vidyalaya celebrated its foundation day. In 1886, Lala Dev Raj had laid the foundation of the first girls’ educational institution in Jalandhar which became popular as Kanya Maha Vidyalaya, said KMV Principal Dr Atima Sharma Dwivedi. Arya Shiksha Mandal president ChanderMohan congratulated the KMV family. He averred that it was a great moment to express a profound sense of pride, exuberance and elation over the progressive, age relevant, holistic education being imparted at KMV.Students bring laurels to collegeStudents of MA (Music Vocal) Semester III of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya secured meritorious positions in Guru Nanak Dev University examination held recently. Simranjeet Kaur bagged the first rank with 381 marks. Priya stood third with 367 marks and Manpreet secured the 10th rank with 351 marks. Shama got the 11th position with 346 marks. Principal Ajay Sareen congratulated Head of Department Dr Prem Sagar, students and other staff members of the department.Students shine in GNDU examsAnjani of Lyallpur Khalsa College has bagged the second position in the GNDU exams of MA (Political Science) Semester-III by getting 343 marks out of 400 whereas Sukhveer Kaur and Kirandeep Kaur bagged the third and fifth position by getting 338 and 336 marks respectively in the same class. This information was given in a release by college Principal Dr Gurpinder Singh Samra. Dr Samra said the college had a policy of providing all kinds of support to the meritorious students of the college who excel in academics, sports and other co-curricular activities. President of the College Governing Council Balbir Kaur congratulated the students and wished them success in life. Prof Manpreet Kaur, Head, Department of Political Science, Prof Anu Moom and Dr Ajitpal Singh were also present on the occasion.Workshop on Time managementEklavya School conducted a workshop on ‘Time management’ under a CBSE-approved programme “Hubs of Learning”. Educator Rita Rani conducted a planned and organised meeting with all members of the schools. The topic of the workshop was “Time management”. She said: “Time never waits for anyone and continues at its own pace. Once it is gone, it never comes again, so we need to respect and value it. We should be punctual and make a habit of finishing everyday’s work on the same day without delaying it or putting it off on tomorrow. People who use time judiciously always achieve success in life. In today’s life, time is more valuable than money. Every single moment of life flows with the current of time. For this reason, every moment of life has importance.”Art of Living workshop organisedHans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya in collaboration with Art of Living workshop organised a workshop on ways to handle stress and increase immunity for stress-free teaching during Covid times under the guidance of Principal Ajay Sareen. The resource person for the workshop was Dr Minakshi Gupta, MD Gynae, and Vivek Vansal from the Art of Living. A practical session was taken by Dr Minakshi Gupta where she emphasised upon the usage of Sudarshan Kriya that is quiet helpful to increase our immunity and is essential for our daily life balance. She gave practical session on certain yoga aasanas which are helpful in releasing stress.College students shine in examsPhagwara: Kamla Nehru College for Women announced that its BSc Economics (Semester-V) students brought laurels to the institution. Sangeeta Devi secured the first position with 78.75 per cent marks, Pooja bagged the second position with 73.75 per cent marks and Kiranpreet Kaur got the third position with 73.5 per cent marks. College Principal Dr Savinder Pal congratulated the students, parents and the teachers of the Economics Department for this achievement. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/players-in-jalandhar-awarded-scholarship-270856
19-06-2021||A CCTV footage of some Kapurthala residents falling prey to an open manhole in a locality has gone viral. Popularly known as “Paris of Punjab” for its exquisite pink architecture and formerly famous greens||CCTV grabs mocking ‘Paris of Punjab’ go viral||Screening & testing kids for Covid-19Keeping in view the anticipated third wave of Covid, screening of children below 18 years of age was initiated in Kapurthala district by health teams on Friday. As many as 9,181 households were visited by the teams. Children below 18 are being screened for Covid, anaemia, co-morbidities etc. to prevent any major complications in them. Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal had announced the drive by the district administration a few days ago. Health teams comprising ASHA workers visited several homes to check children who had Covid-like symptoms and Rapid Antigen Tests were conducted on all children who were screened. Epidemiologist Dr Rajib Bahagt said: “Under the drive, no child had tested positive for Covid. Teams are also checking them for anaemia and other co-morbidities to make sure that they aren’t impacted much in the coming days too. Children with disabilities are also being screened on a priority by the teams. The screening shall go on as long as all children are not covered.” While 81,348 families out of 1,09,854, comrpsiing 74.05 per cent of the district had already been covered until Tuesday, the DC has asked officials to cover all remaining families in the next 10 days.103 youths employed under ‘Mission Red Sky’Since the launch of ‘Mission Red Sky’ in October last year, 103 district youths have successfully got employed in various companies after giving up drugs under the mission. The mission was launched by the state government with an objective of bringing drug addict youths out of the drug swamp and to push them into the mainstream. The mission had been of resounding success in Kapurthala district. Under it, degree-holder youth or those desiring to set up self-employment units and registered with the OAT (Opioid Agonist Therapy) clinics were identified and trained for interview for jobs. Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal said initially in October 2020, the main objective was to identify such youths and then link them with OAT clinics to save them from the scourge of drugs. A PCS officer, SDM Sultanpur Lodhi Dr Charumita has been appointed as the nodal officer for proper implementation of this mission. The selected youths are paid a monthly salary of Rs6,000 to 13,000 besides incentives are also given according to the work. She said it had not only provided them with job and self-employment but also increased social acceptance of them in the society. Four such persons were selected in October and November last year, three in December and nine in January, for jobs. Since February, 23more had been employed. Various reputed companies such as Asian Tires, Jumato, Prime Cinema, Galaxy Edutech and Topaz Health CARE were the employers. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cctv-grabs-mocking-paris-of-punjab-go-viral-270854
19-06-2021||Jalandhar||‘Yoga a secret of healthy life’||“Yoga is emerging as the only way for relieving mental pressure and relaxation to keep body fit across the world. With the increase in commute time and long working hours, one rarely gets time to hit the gym or going out for walk. As a result, people get prone to an unhealthy lifestyle. This life style leads to many diseases. Yoga for 10-15 minutes daily energises the body and make the body feel fresh for a whole day”.These views were expressed by Dr Rajesh Grover, Director, Science City, on the occasion of International Yoga day celebration at Science City. Further, he said, yoga played an important role since ancient times, practicing yoga keeps many diseases like blood sugar, blood pressure and depression away. Additional Deputy Commissioner Avtar Singh Bhullar was also present on this occasion. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/yoga-a-secret-of-healthy-life-270853
19-06-2021||Jalandhar||Trademark: Cookware manufacturer files complaint||A prominent cookware manufacturer from the city has lodged a complaint with the city police for the misuse of his trademark by another company. In his complaint, Paramjit Singh Bhatia, partner in Heera Industries, Preet Nagar, said that he was the manufacturer of cookware, pressure cooker, non-stick and hard anodised ware. He said he was running his industry for the past 45 years and selling these items under the registered trademark ‘Black Magnum’.“Since I have got my trademark and logo registered with the authorities, no other person or manufacturer can use it in an unauthorised manner. I have a good turnover with my items being sold in India and abroad. I get my manuals and packing material printed from two authorised printers— Yogesh Kumar of Dhan Mohalla and Harpreet Singh of Every Shine Printer. About 25 days ago, Harpreet Singh visited a cutter shop for some job work and found my manuals with logos getting printed by someone else. Bhatia said the cops had assured him of thorough inquiry to nab the wrong doers. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/trademark-cookware-manufacturer-files-complaint-270852
19-06-2021||---||Jalandhar lad cracks PCS exam||Jalandhar, June 18Showing strong grit and determination, city-based youth Dilpreet Singh, who had cleared Punjab Civil Services (PCS) examination conducted by the Punjab Public Service Commission with the 12th rank in general category has improved his performance in the results declared today.He has attained eighth rank in the general category. This was his second attempt and had been taking training for tehsildar for the past 16 months. He had initiated his training in his hometown before moving to Banga, where he is still currently posted. He said his family was already in a party mood owing to his sister’s birthday. “My result has added to their happiness,” he said.A resident of Kalia Colony here, Dilpreet did his BTech in mechanical engineering from Punjab Engineering College in Chandigarh. His father Manmohan Singh is a Power Grid Corporation of India employee and his mother is a headmistress of a Government School in Lidran village. An aspiring youth, he had also appeared for the UPSC exam and is keeping his fingers crossed for his selection to the Indian Administrative Services too.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-lad-cracks-pcs-exam-270851
19-06-2021||---||Balbir Singh Seechewal uses donations to purchase ambulance||Jalandhar, June 18Having received gold as donations for gold plating domes atop a new building coming up at Nirmal Kutiya, environmentalist Balbir Singh Seechewal has decided not to indulge in any extravaganza during the pandemic and rather utilise the donation to purchase an ambulance for ferrying patients from rural and semi-rural areas of Shahkot to hospitals in Jalandhar and other cities.The ambulance was flagged off by Shahkot MLA Hardev Laddi and Jalandhar Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori recently.The ambulance has been purchased at a cost of Rs 19.25 lakh, which will be available for residents 24X7. The ambulance has been equipped with oxygen cylinders and other state-of-the-art facilities.Seechewal said 11 oxygen concentrators have been purchased with the assitance from Non-Resident Indians, six of which have already been provided to Covid patients. He stressed that no security or rental charges were being levied from patients for using the concentrators.Seechewal said Canada-based Drishti Foundation has donated five computers for government schools in the kandi area. Spokesperson of the Drishti Foundation, Gurvinder Singh Boparai, said the NGO had donated 20 computers earlier as well.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/balbir-singh-seechewal-uses-donations-to-purchase-ambulance-270850
19-06-2021||---||Doctors hold black-badge protest in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, June 18Doctors affiliated to the IMA organised a peaceful march against attack on health workers here on Friday. They wore black badges and gathered at the IMA Hall in Gujral Nagar. Holding the banners of ‘Save the Saviour’ majority of the doctors also dressed in black as a mark of protest. They also carried banners saying ‘ Say no to violence against doctors’.Dr SPS Grover, a protesting doctorNo OPD was suspended at any of the hospitals on Friday and doctors only wore black badges as a mark of protest. However, we demand that violence against doctors be stopped and we have sought intervention of the PM on the issue.In the morning, doctors gathered at the IMA house and held a meeting until 10.30 am and discussed various demands. On Thursday, they sent a memorandum to Prime Minister Narendra Modi demanding stopping of violence against doctors. The doctors said there was a need to develop a mechanism to protect doctors from becoming the targets of unwarranted ire and violence. IMA national vice-president Dr Navjot Dahiya, district president Dr Amarjit Singh, secretary Dr Naresh Bathla, Dr SPS Grover, Dr Puneet Pal Singh Grover, Dr Rakesh Vig ex-president Punjab, Dr Alok Lalwani, Dr Sushma Chawla, Dr Jasmine Dahiya, Dr Jay Pee Singh, Dr Gagandeep, Dr Vikas Sood, Dr KS Makkar, Dr Deepali Chawla, Dr VP Sharma, Dr Manish Aggarwal and Dr RS Bal were present at the meeting.Dr SPS Grover said, “No OPD was suspended at any of the hospitals on Friday and doctors only wore black badges as a mark of protest. However, we demand that violence against doctors be stopped and we have sought intervention of the PM on the issue.”Phagwara: Doctors belonging to the Indian Medical Association (IMA) led by IMA former state president Dr SPS Sooch on Friday wore black badges and submitted a memorandum to SDM Phagwara Shayari Malohtra on Thursday.Doctors appealed to the Prime Minister to take steps to stall violence against doctors, demanded universal vaccine for those above 18 and demanded setting up of a separate research cell to study mucormycosis fungal disease in detail.Doctors Sooch, Anoop, Jasjit Virk, Vijay Sharma, Supreet Virk, Chiman Arora and Rajiv Gupta while talking to media demanded that hospitals should be declare as protected areas. They also demanded promulgation of the Health Services Personnel and Clinical Establishments (Prohibition of Violence and Damage to Property) Bill, 2019. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/doctors-hold-black-badge-protest-in-jalandhar-270849
19-06-2021||Jalandhar||Common Entrance Examination rescheduled for July 25||DC orders fir against labJalandhar: Taking action against a lab for overcharging patients for RT-PCR test, the district administration on Wednesday asked the local police to register an FIR against the erring lab after two scribes conducted a sting operation against the lab. DC Ghanshyam Thori said as per a complaint received from journalists of a news website, Gupta Lab at Kamal Hospital charged Rs1,500 for RT-PCR test; however, the government had fixed a fee of Rs450 for this test. The complainants had also submitted a copy of the receipt of the fee charged by the lab as evidence. TNS24x7 flood control roomJalandhar: DC Ghanshyam Thori on Friday said the district administration would start a 24x7 Flood Control Room at the administrative complex to monitor any kind of flood-like situation in the district. After participating in a state-level review meeting chaired by Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan, the Deputy Commissioner passed on the directions to all concerned departments regarding flood management in the district. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/common-entrance-examination-rescheduled-for-july-25-270848
19-06-2021||---||Six from Surjit Hockey Academy make it to Olympics||Jalandhar, June 18The authorities announced a 16-member Indian hockey team (men) for the Tokyo Olympics. Of these, eight are from Punjab, including six from Surjit Hockey Academy — Harmanpreet Singh, Hardik Singh, Manpreet Singh, Shamsher Singh, Dilpreet Singh and Mandeep Singh.Office-bearers said it was a matter of pride that six players from the academy have been selected for the Olympics. Indian hockey captain Manpreet Singh got married recently.Harmanpreet, who had scored two goals in 2017 when India defeated Pakistan 7-1, has also made it to the team. Harmanpreet took training at Surjit Hockey Academy in his early years and so has Shamsher Singh, who hails from Attari, was selected in senior Indian hockey team in 2019.Shamsher spent six years in Jalandhar and trained at Surjit Hockey Academy. He was in Class VII when he came to the city to polish his skills. His father Hardev Singh is a farmer and mother Harpreet Kaur is a housewife. On being asked if he had ever thought that he would make it to the Tokyo Olympics, Shamsher said, “Never, to be very honest. I just wanted to train at the academy in Jalandhar and play for the nation.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/six-from-surjit-hockey-academy-make-it-to-olympics-270847
19-06-2021||---||Gurinder Kaur: Leaving imprint on paper & students’ mind||Jalandhar, June 18Till two years ago, Gurinder Kaur was just a government school mistress taking English classes for her students. During her free time in lockdown, she added a new talent of calligraphy that has made her all the more popular among her students. She has even exhibited her talent at Sabhyacharak Mela-2021 organised at the Virsa Vihar here recently and was applauded for her talent by the visitors.Gurinder Kaur, TeacherIt is quite playful to see the friendship of ink with paper and the results are always surprising. I have always had a good handwriting and mainly used cursive style which made calligraphy easier for me. I try to use both contemporary and traditional styles in a single composition.Talking about her transition, Gurinder said: “I took the job of a teacher soon after I completed my post-graduation from Panjab University, Chandigarh. Except some God-gifted talent and passion, I had no background in fine arts. I brushed it up taking help from internet and started pursuing it as a freelance work. Since my students know about my skill, they too have begun following my Instagram page and keep on taking guidance from me for the same. I keep uploading my tutorial videos on my page ‘Calligraphy_by_inder’.”She credited social media for inspiring her to be innovative and claimed that it was the most effective way of meditation for her. Talking about the material that she uses, she said: “I began with Spencerian and transitioned to Copperplate, my favourite technique, using pens like refill, dip, glass, oblique pen holder and brushes to create various thin and thick strokes applying varied pressure to create visually pleasant impressions on papers.”As a calligrapher, she likes to experiment with wide range of inks, pens, nibs on different paper and fabrics. She quips, “It is quite playful to see the friendship of ink with paper and the results are always surprising.” Apart from calligraphy, she is also interested in other forms of art with different mediums such as watercolor, acrylics and sketching.Showing her work, Gurinder said: “I have always had a very good handwriting and used cursive style which made calligraphy easier for me. I try to use both contemporary and traditional styles in a single composition. I work in both English and Punjabi. It has a great scope with people asking for handmade greetings, wedding invites, plaques outside home and offices, book marks and wall hangings of motivational quotes and gurbani.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/gurinder-kaur-leaving-imprint-on-paper-students-mind-270845
19-06-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Joining hands for a social cause||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 18Contributing their bit, members of the Youth Morcha, Jalandhar, are distributing langar to the patients at Civil Hospital from the last 50 days. Besides this, a similar service is also being carried out for the migrant workers at the city bus stand from past nearly a month.Around 20 volunteers along with nine members of the morcha are engaged in this service. All the youth involved in the work are city’s businessmen who came together at the time of Kisan Morcha events held in the past few months.“Supporting Kisan Mazdoor Ekta, we were holding events at Delhi borders besides organising parallel programmes in Jalandhar which brought us all together. We developed a good system to manage langar and hence we decided to carry it on at the lunch hour for the 120-150 poor patients and their families coming for treatment at the Civil Hospital,” said Gagandeep Dhatt, president of the morcha, adding that two members were engaged in service on a particular day and a roster had been made so that everyone was doing the duty turn-wise-turn.Other members of the morcha who are engaged in this service are Vikram Dhiman, Manbir Singh, Jaskirat Toor and Prabhjot Khalsa among others. While Dhatt’s family is running Ramgarhia Group of Institutions, Dhiman runs a popular gym in the city, Manbir is the MD of CT Group of Institutions, Toor has a business in electronics and Khalsa runs a tyre store.Sharing details of his initiative, Dhatt said: “The langar is cooked at a gurdwara on Garha Road under the supervision of our members and gurdwara staff. Everything is cooked fresh daily. The key objective of this is to serve humanity during the time of pandemic where people are losing their loved ones besides facing financial loss of their daily wages. We will continue the same in future too.”Besides langar, the morcha members are also engaged in other social welfare works. Recently, the members donated Rs 31,000 to a poor migrant worker for the marriage of his daughter. Besides, they also provided him ration for the wedding, trousseau and footwear for the bride, blankets, bed sheets and kitchenware.The members said they had planned more initiatives too. “We will be donating tricycles to some physically disabled persons. Next, we are also going to start a plantation drive,” they said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/joining-hands-for-a-social-cause-270841
19-06-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||187-year-old Gol Kothi regains its original glory||Tribune News ServiceKapurthala, June 18A project to revive tourism in the state by renovating heritage buildings initiated by ex-tourism minister Navjot Sidhu four years ago has finally started taking shape.As the work had started in November 2017 to restore four buildings, it’s the 187-year-old Gol Kothi, which has found its lost glory. Covering nine kanals and nine marlas, the kothi in which Maharaja Jagatjit Singh resided in for sometime in the 1880s, was completely in a shambles.Having been declared unsafe by the Public Works Department around five years ago, a part of it had been temporarily closed and the remaining was being used as the residence of the Chief Medical Officer. Located right opposite the office of Kapurthala SSP, the initial target to finish the project was May 2019. At a cost of Rs 4.98 crore, the renovation work has been completed by Rajasthan-based Rajputana Constructions Pvt Ltd.Skilled workers from Madhya Pradesh were roped in to ensure that the original touch and heritage look of the building was not lost and the work was done using slaked lime and red sandstone.The onlookers have been seen commenting that while Hadira, another historical building renovated in Sultanpur Lodhi in 2019 had lost its original look, Gol Kothi partly retained its originality. The kothi was built on the orders of Maharaja Fateh Singh in 1833 as the residence of Maha Mantri of his state.Three other buildings, which were to be renovated as a part of the ‘conservation and adaptive reuse of colonial heritage’ project started by Sidhu included Deewan Hall, Buggy Khana and Gulabi Kothi, popularly known as Bhoot Bangla. The plan was to connect Kapurthala and Sultanpur Lodhi to Jang-e-Azadi near Kartarpur, Goindwal, Tarn Taran and Amritsar, for a religious and historical tourist circuit.Kapurthala Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal said the projects were being directly dealt with the Tourism Department. “A tender for setting up a restaurant inside it had been floated recently. Any plans for its formal inauguration will be known to the department officials,” she said.She said a part of Darbar Hall, which earlier housed the administrative complex , was renovated a year ago. “Another part of it is currently being renovated. Deewan Hall can be the next project in line. Since Buggy Khanna still houses the office of the Vigilance Bureau, it needs to be vacated first and relocated, before the work commences,” she added. Tourism Minister Charanjit Singh Channi said he would discuss the latest status of the heritage buildings with officials concerned and accordingly plan works.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/187-year-old-gol-kothi-regains-its-original-glory-270824
19-06-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||MIS-C: Jalandhar Civil Hospital sets up clinic to screen children||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 18In order to combat multisystem inflammatory syndrome in children (MIS-C) and screening of patients, the Jalandhar Civil Hospital has started a clinic at paediatrics OPD where any child suffering from fever for more than three days will be investigated for MIS-C and parents will be counselled regarding the disease.Multisystem inflammatory syndromeDoctors said even if a child suffers from fever for a single day, parents immediately confuse it with MIS-C.Apart from this, training of 10 staff nurses has been going on following which they would be deputed at paediatric Covid wards whenever the need arises.Dr Sahil Vikas, paediatrics specialist, Civil Hospital, came up with an idea to ensure that proper arrangements were in place to tackle emergency in near future.“Sensitisation of parents is very essential to ensure that they don’t indulge in getting medical tests of their kids unnecessary. I want to send a message that there is no need to create panic, but visit the doctor,” he said. In the clinic, doctors would investigate children suffering from fever with a history of coming in contact with a positive patient. Doctors would also check whether the child has been suffering from any other infection and then the treatment would be provided accordingly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mis-c-jalandhar-civil-hospital-sets-up-clinic-to-screen-children-270815
19-06-2021||---||Covid-19: Jalandhar district reports 72 cases, 1 death||Jalandhar, June 18With 72 fresh Covid cases reported today, the district tally increased to 62,350 cases. Of these, three cases are from other districts. Also, one death has been reported today. With this, the toll in the district has gone up to 1,454. As many as 60,100 persons have recovered from Covid in the district while the number of active cases in Jalandhar is 796.2 die in KapurthalaKapurthala district today reported 22 fresh cases, with which the tally has gone up to 17,425. Also, two persons — a 50-year-old woman of Dariwal village in Kapurthala city and a 65-year-old man of Saiflabad village — died of Covid in the district today. The toll in Kapurthala has now reached 527.5 fresh cases in NawanshahrNawanshahr district reported five fresh Covid cases and no death on Friday. Urban Banga, Urban Nawanshahr, Urban Rahon, Balachahur and Saroya block did not report any case. The number of active cases in the district now is 116, out of which 92 are under home isolation.Notably, since June 3 to date, the number of Covid positive cases is under 20 and even the recovery rate is nearly 96 per cent in the district. The district tally is 11,337 and the toll is 349. As many as 14 patients are admitted in L-II Covid Care facility unit and four in L-III Covid Care facility unit.Hoshiarpur sees 3 deathsAfter the report of 3,269 samples of suspected Covid cases was received today, 43 persons were found positive. The district health authorities also reported three deaths. As many as 3,169 fresh samples were also collected today. The positivity rate in the district remained at 1.41 per cent.The district now has 460 active cases after the discharge of 52 patients. Nearly 43 L-II beds and three L-III beds are occupied in the district while the remaining patients are under home isolation or in hospitals of other districts. The district tally as of now is 30,161 and toll is 955.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-19-jalandhar-district-reports-72-cases-1-death-270596
19-06-2021||Jalandhar||Man nabbed with heroin, arms||A Jalandhar rural police team today apprehended a drug smuggler with 1 kg heroin and arms, busting an inter-city drug racket in which two undertrials lodged in two jails of the state were issuing directions to the accused.Identified as Lachman Singh, a resident of Joriyan Ghanour, Sangrur, the police apprehended the smuggler and seized 1 kg heroin, two pistols (.32 bore), two pistols (.30 bore), six cartridges 7.65 (.32 bore) and another six cartridges (.30 bore) from him.Lachman Singh was apprehended while he was going to Adampur from Amritsar via Kisangarh. He was travelling in a Swift car. An FIR has been lodged against him under Sections 21(C), 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act and Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act at the Adampur police station.The accused revealed that he was in regular touch with Karamjeet Singh (lodged in the Nabha jail) and Manpreet Singh (lodged in the Faridkot jail). As per the police, Karamjeet and Manpreet had sent Lachman to Amritsar to bring heroin and arms and Lachman was going to further supply the consignment to some “anti-national elements”. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/man-nabbed-with-heroin-arms-270514
