20-06-2021||---||PwDs left to fend for themselves||Aparna BanerjiTribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 19Out of 18,000 people with disabilities (PwDs) in the district, only 750, including their guardians, have been vaccinated at four camps so far. The camps, which were organised by non-governmental organisations (NGOs), stalled due to shortage of vaccination. These special camps were held at the Chanan Association office in Wadala and at some other sites.The nationwide lockdown imposed last year and the first and second waves had a crippling effect on the PwDs as they were confined to their homes.While the administration has not taken special initiative to reach out to specially abled amid the pandemic, vaccination camps for the PwDs in the district were started by activist Amarjit Singh Anand.A few days ago, a poster bearing picture of the Chief Minister was released by Anand to create awareness for vaccinating the PwDs in the state. The poster was shared with the Department of Social Security and Development of Women and Child, but it has still not been released formally.Anand said, “We started vaccination drive for the PwDs. A total of 750 PwDs, including their guardians, have been vaccinated in four camps held so far. There are 18,000 PwDs in Jalandhar as per rough estimate. We cant organise any further drives as vaccine has not been made available to us. The camps were started by the Chanan Association. There are no special vaccination camps for disability sector. Leave alone door-to-door drive, not even a special camp has been organised for disabled persons.”He said, “I prepared a special banner to create awareness among 18 plus PwDs to get vaccinated. But the Social Security Department has not released it so far. Disabled persons are on their own and no drive has been organised to reach out to them.”When Anjali Dada, founder, Soch (NGO), tested positive along with her autistic son, she chose to stay back at home to take care of her son rather than getting hospitalised.Reason: She knew that there was no medical facility where her son could be taken care of like home. Even after one year of the raging pandemic, the PwDs have been largely been ignored by the government.Dada said, “Several members of my family, including my son tested positive months ago. The virus affected me badly, but I did not get hopistalised as I knew my son couldn’t be cared for by anyone else like I do. There have been at least three more similar cases in the district. Thankfully, my NGO and I have been providing couselling to such parentsd and helping them tide over the crisis. Our volunteers are also helping with food. Is there any governemnt facility or intiative providing help to such families?”She said, “The vaccination drive was formally started by Amarjit Singh Anand in the district. Only citizens and NGOs are pitching in to help autsitic and special needs persons in such crisis. The governemnt intiative is missing.”Jalandhar Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said, “There was paucity of vaccine. Today after many days 15,000 beneficiaries have been vaccinated in the district. We have recieved 12,000 vaccines in the 45 plus category. A total of 39 mobile teams are reaching out to people. The District Programme Officer will be directed to ensure proper arragements for the PwDs wherever needed.”Covid: District reports 2 deaths, 55 fresh casesWith 55 fresh Covid cases reported today, the district tally has increased to 62,405. Of these, 12 cases were reported from other districts. Two Covid deaths have also been reported today, with which the toll in the district has risen to 1,456. As many as 60,241 persons have recovered from Covid in the district while the number of active cases in Jalandhar is 708.3 die in KapurthalaKapurthala today reported 14 fresh cases, with which the district tally has increased to 17,440. Three persons also succumbed to the deadly virus today taking the toll to 530. The deceased on Saturday have been identified as a 60-year-old woman of Phagwara, a 65-year-old woman of Jatike village and a 60-year-old man of Kadupur village.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/pwds-left-to-fend-for-themselves-271351
20-06-2021||---||9 months on, bank customer fails to get back money||Jalandhar, June 19A case of illegal withholding of a customer’s money by HDFC Bank has come to the fore. For the last nine months, Vasudev Gupta, a resident of Adampur, has been running from pillar to post to get back his money, but to no avail. The bank had reportedly transferred his Rs 1,43,016 to another bank account. And despite repeated attempts, he could not get back his money.Recounting his ordeal, the victim said he worked as a broker in the Adampur mandi and for the paddy season last year, the government had decided to transfer the entire amount of the ‘J’ form through NEFT to the farmers’ accounts. Orders were issued and a large number of NEFTs were done daily under the directions. Under the same payment arrangement, Vasudev Gupta transferred Rs 84,960 and Rs 58,056 from his bank to a farmer, Ramandeep Singh, an HDFC bank account holder, on October 19 and 20, respectively, in 2020. While he submitted his IFSC code correct, he made a mistake by writing one incorrect digit of the farmer’s account number. However, the bank also transferred the amount without matching the account numbers.Ramandeep Singh told Gupta on October 23 that he did not receive the money. Subsequently, Gupta visited the bank and inquired about the same. After verification, the manager of the Adampur bank branch, told him that the amount had been transferred to a different account number.“The money was transferred to the account of Jaspreet Kaur, a resident of Ghudiyal village, who is a defaulter of credit card. The bank earlier asked me to contact Jaspreet Kaur to get her consent for getting back the money from her account. After visiting the village, I could not trace Jaspreet Kaur. Nobody knows about her whereabouts. The account was also found freezed, but the bank authorities failed to retrieve the amount. I have sent a complaint against the bank to the PMO, but nothing has happened so far,” added Gupta.Meanwhile, the bank manager of the bank concerned, said the complaint had been marked to the Chandigarh-based head office and the officials would shortly resolve the issue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/9-months-on-bank-customer-fails-to-get-back-money-271133
20-06-2021||---||6 villages register 100% vaccination||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 19Residents of six villages in Kapurthala district, in the 45+ years category, have been vaccinated 100 per cent. Earlier, the vaccination in Nangal Lubana, Sultanpur Lodhi and Bholath villages has crossed 95 per cent. In villages Kirpalpur, Ghug, Lamme, Husowal, Mandi Road area and Muktram Wala all people over 45 years of age have been vaccinated.Kapurthala Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal said under the Mission Fateh-2 campaign, teams of the Health Department have conducted door-to-door screening of the people to make them aware about vaccination which has yielded meaningful results.The total population of Kirpalpur village is 352 out of which 109 persons above 45 years of age, all 109 of whom have been vaccinated. Besides, the total population of Ghug village in Begowal block is 317, out of which 84 fall in the 45+ years category have been vaccinated.Similarly, the population of Lamme village is 1,521out of which 413 persons above 45 years of age have been vaccinated.Out of 166 population of Husowal village in Begowal block, 63 persons are above 45 years of age who have been vaccinated. Of the population of 412 in the Mandi Road area of Begowal, 102 are over 45 years of age, all of them have been vaccinated. Similarly, in Muktram Wala village in Tibba block, all 67 persons over 45 years of age have been vaccinated.Earlier, at Nangal Lubana village 1,300 out of 1,334 people above 45 years of age had been vaccinated. While at Bholath, 2,188 out of 2,354 people above 45 years of age and in holy city Sultanpur 3,286 people have been vaccinated.The Deputy Commissioner also called upon the other villages to come forward for vaccination at the earliest so that the epidemic could be brought under control as soon as possible.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/6-villages-register-100-vaccination-271134
20-06-2021||Ajay Joshi||Like father, like daughter||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 19A father’s love is unparalleled. The role he plays in shaping the life of his children can never be substituted.Achievements aplentyPawani Bhatia has won gold in 25 metre breaststroke in the U-9 Inter State Open Swimming Championship held in Chandigarh; a bronze in 25 freestyle and silver in breaststroke; bronze medal in 50-m breaststroke in Sahodaya U-12 event; Won best swimmer award twice in Sant Das Public School; Youngest athlete title winner in 5-km mini-marathon; and received outstanding swimmer award from DC and state sports minister in 2018 among other awardsRegwinder Bhatia was titled Best Water Polo Player of Punjab in 1997 and has remained National Swimming Champion. He is a swimming coach in the Education DepartmentRegwinder Bhatia (39) is one such father, who as a single parent, is not only setting high parenting goals, but also toiling hard to make his daughter an acclaimed swimmer.Pawani Bhatia, his 8-year-old daughter, is the youngest swimming champion in the town. Coincidently, it was around three years ago, that she clinched her first medal on Fathers’ Day only. She won silver medal in the first Punjab State Modern Pentathlon Championship, 2018, held in Ludhiana. Since then, she has only excelled to become a state and national champion.While Regwinder, who himself has remained a national champion in swimming, says, it’s a blessing to see his daughter rise in the same sports. He spends hours in training and providing her the right upbringing.A physical education lecturer at a government school, Regwinder has been raising his little girl on his own, when she was just one-and-a-half years old. “She was just three, when I first taught her how to swim. The passion to opt for the sport ignited after she accompanied me in various matches. As a coordinator, I have to conduct swimming events for the Education Department across the state. Therefore, I used to take Pawani along. Seeing other players, she also once evinced interest in participating in the matches. She was just five, when she competed with girls above her age in Under-9 state championship. Since then, there was no looking back. She has bagged many gold medals in state and national swimming events. I hope that she will win more medals in future and make the country proud,” he proudly said.Separated from wife after a year of Pawani’s birth, Regwinder said: “Initially, I got depressed worrying how will I raise my daughter alone. A child needs both parents for a better upbringing. Even the thought of raising a child alone never crossed me. However, later with the support of my parents, I developed the will and confidence that I can do it. From learning cooking to scrolling parenting lessons on the internet, I gained knowledge on everything. It became easier day by day. As a sportsperson, I can’t let my daughter eat fast food, so I cook healthy pizzas, sandwiches and burgers at home only. Pawani is also fond of cooking now and helps me sometimes. I believe I managed to raise her alone due to the emotional connect a parent shares with his child. She doesn’t want to go to her mother now, who left us to fulfil her dreams,” Regwinder said.A resident of Preet Nagar, near Sodal Road, Regwinder feels proud to be Pawani's father, who he says is dedicated towards her passion even at this tender age. While swimming pools are shut due to the restrictions imposed to check the ongoing pandemic, he has created an artificial pool at home for her to practice and is at present giving her training in yoga and other strength workouts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/like-father-like-daughter-271137
20-06-2021||---||Over 100 from 27 nations take part in ‘New-Era Education’ course||Jalandhar, June 19 In collaboration with Indian Technical and Economic Cooperation (ITEC)-the Division of Ministry of External Affairs (Government of India); Lovely Professional University (LPU) organised a five-day long ‘New-Era Education’ course for 100+ participants from 27 countries. These participants were education officers, senior administrators and teachers from the Ministries of Education, universities, institutions and schools of SAARC, Latin-American, African and Central Asian countries, including Turkmenistan, Kazakhstan. Relevant to existing times, the topic covered was for a certificate programme in ‘adapting to a new era of blended teaching and learning’. Educational sector faced a major challenge during the pandemic, when there was a sudden closure and lockdown, and offline teaching was shifted to online mode. This paradigm shift in a short span was only possible through adaptive ICT-based tools and techniques. Developing simple and easy to use tools were the need of hour from both the teachers and learners perspective. Amid such chaos, LPU did not waste a single minute and emerged, perhaps, as the first university of the country to adopt effective educational methodology. It immediately incorporated smooth conversion of offline to online teaching, training the trainers, research and innovations to convert all challenges into opportunities. Presently, this course aimed to demonstrate effective methodology that was developed by the LPU for the smooth conversion of offline teaching to online teaching. After attending this programme, participants learnt and understood a lot about psychological impact, stress management, training approach and assessment tools for effective online teaching-learning. This online certificate course was slated for all those who are to teach and learn online in altered circumstances. Director of ITEC Programme & Additional Director Aman Mittal expressed his pleasure on this unique endeavour and stated: “With such endeavours, LPU is definitely proceeding towards making India ‘Vishv Guru’ once again. We are happy that the Ministry of External Affairs reposed immense faith in the versatile doings at LPU, and preferred it to deliver the government’s prestigious programme to many countries at a time. This programme is certain to generate immense goodwill and cooperation among the developing countries.” ITEC programme is a bilateral programme of assistance by the Government of India. Under ITEC and related programmes, 160+ countries in Asia, Africa, East Europe, Latin America, the Caribbean, Pacific and Small Island countries are invited to share in the Indian developmental experience acquired over seven decades as a free nation. After successful completion of the first programme on information technology, this second consecutive programme of valuable instructions at LPU disseminated all-inclusive learning to the diverse group of participants. LPU’s Executive Dean Dr Lovi Raj Gupta and ITEC Programme Co-Ordinator Nitesh Mahajan revealed their determination to fulfil such tasks and keep on helping out the global society.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/over-100-from-27-nations-take-part-in-new-era-education-course-271138
20-06-2021||---||Four city-based students bag national scholarship||Jalandhar, June 19 Four students from the district have been selected for the National Means-cum-Merit Scholarship (NMMS). The students will get an annual scholarship of Rs 12,000 for four years. The students are currently studying at Sain Das Senior Secondary Aided School in the city. While Lakhan scored fourth rank in the NMMS exam in the general category from the district, Kartik Mishra secured the 27th rank in the same category. Similarly, Kashish clinched 39th rank in the OBC category and Sohana got the 61st rank in same category. National Means-Cum-Merit Scholarship is a centrally-sponsored scholarship scheme. It is implemented by the Department of School Education & Literacy under the Ministry of Human Resource Development with the objective to financially support the meritorious students of the economically weaker sections of the society. The NMMS encourages disadvantaged students to continue their studies at the secondary level by offering a scholarship amount of Rs12,000 per annum. Every year, this MCM scholarship is made active during the month of November and almost 1,00,000 scholarships are disbursed among bright students. Regular students of Class IX with a score of 55% marks in Class VIII final exam appear for the exam. Sudeep Jain, a teacher of the school said, the students were preparing for the exam for the past one year. The scholarship would be given to the students till their schooling.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/four-city-based-students-bag-national-scholarship-271139
20-06-2021||Ashok Kaura
||Union govt ready for talks with farmers: Som Parkash||Phagwara, June 19 The Union Government is fully committed to resolving the issue of farmers but they too should adopt a positive attitude towards dialogue so that the issue can be resolved. This was stated by Union Minister Som Parkash, while interacting with the media at Ashish Hotel here today. He said the first demand of the farmers was to repeal the laws due to which the matter was not resolved. “I have personally tried to persuade their leaders and they hope that the matter will be resolved soon,” he said. Talking about the post-matric scheme, he said due to the scam in Punjab, the scheme of the entire country has come to an end and we have re-launched it and now 60 per cent of the centers and 40 per cent of the states will contribute. He said the Punjab Government had not accounted for the last three years due to which Punjab was not getting the benefit. Regarding the agreement reached between Akali Dal and BSP, he said any party can come to an agreement with anyone. Asked if the BJP would form an alliance with anyone, he said it was not the time for elections.  Continuing the development process, he said a bypass of about 10 km would be constructed from Bahuan village on the Phagwara-Banga road to Chachradi which would be connected to Jalandhar-Ludhiana GT Road for which the work has already been started. He said soon the outer ring road of Phagwara city would also be constructed. He added the work of the Phagwara-Hoshiarpur road, which was to be widened, has been completed. Crores of rupees have been sanctioned for this. He said the road from Sugar Mill Chowk to Nakodar would also be widened and Rs 15 crore has been sanctioned from Phagwara to Darvesh village, an area of Kapurthala district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/union-govt-ready-for-talks-with-farmers-som-parkash-271140
20-06-2021||Jalandhar||Flying sikh remembered||to the Flying Sikh. The Principal said he brought laurels to the country by winning so many championships.Webinar on skin careThe Department of Home Science and the Department of Fashion Makeovers of Apeejay College of Fine Arts organised a Webinar on the theme of ‘’Skin Care: Insights from Professionals’’ in which Dr Cheenam Bhatia, specialist in nutrition and dietetics in Sri Guru Ram Das University of Health Sciences and Research, Amritsar and Dr Suhani Sareen, a certified dermatologist with expertise in clinical procedural threw light on various aspects of skin care. Dr Cheena spoke at length about the role of healthy nutrition and the importance of hydration and supplements in improving the skin quality. Dr Suhani spoke about the harmful effects of stress and stressed on the right products to be used keeping in mind the skin type as a part of essential skin care. Dr Neerja congratulated Monica Anand and Meenal Sandhuon organising such an informative webinar.Shweta Puri second in Biz mgmtShweta Puri of Lyallpur Khalsa College, Jalandhar has bagged 2nd position in the University exams of Post Graduate Diploma in Business Management (PGDBM) - I Semester by getting 265 marks out of 300 whereas Paramjot Kaur bagged 3rd position by getting 264 marks, Jaspreet Kaur bagged 4th Position by getting 263 marks, Rama and Shubham Gupta bagged 5th position jointly by getting 260 marks, Mandeep Kaur bagged 7th position by getting 257 marks and Anjali Sharma bagged 9th position by geeting 250 marks in the same class. This information was given in a press release by the Principal of the College Dr Gurpinder Singh Samra. The President of the College Governing Council Balbir Kaur congratulated the students and wished them success in life. Dr Rashpal Singh Sandhu, Head, Departmentof Commerce was also present on this occasion.Geeta first in MSc Fashion DesigningKanya Maha Vidyalaya result of MSc Fashion Designing semester was declared. Geeta from (Sem I) bagged first position by securing 478/525. Manpreet Kaur stood second with 474/525 and Ruchika bagged third position with 468/525. Principal Prof Atima Sharma Dwivedi congratulated the students and the faculty of PG Department of Fashion Designing on the success and appreciated them for their hard work. She expressed confidence that the students ably guided and mentored by the extremely qualified and dedicated faculty will continue their journey of success in the future as well.Covid Vaccination Camp organisedA Covid Vaccination Camp was held at Police DAV Public School. Cent per cent target of vaccination of the first dose of all the teaching, non-teaching, support staff, including bus drivers and conductors was achieved. Dr Rashmi Vij, the Principal, is working on this project. For that matter data was collected through Google Form. Vaccination was administered by Dr Indu and her team from Civil Hospital with the support of Dr Vanita of the school.Darshana first in B Voc Web DesigningThe result of BVoc Web Designing and Development (IT) (Sem V) of PCM SD College for Women turned out to be outstanding. Darshana bagged first position in the GNDU by scoring 329 (82.25%) out of 400 marks and made the institution proud. The Principal of the college Dr Kiran Arora applauded the meritorious student on her success and wished for her bright future. She also averred that the college provides a conducive academic atmosphere and infrastructure for the students to excel in their studies.Emancipation Day celebratedJuneteenth, also called Emancipation Day, Jubilee Day,Black Independence Day or Juneteenth Independence Day - annually celebrated on June 19 as an end of slavery in the United States -was observed at the Eklavya School. The day was celebrated at the Eklavya School by students to show that colour of skin does not matter and freedom of everyone is what matters. Children gave speech and made drawings on Black lives matter and Importance of freedom for everyone. Chairman JK Gupta appreciated students’ efforts. Director Seema Handa also acknowledged students on their high valuable thoughts. Administrator Dimple Mahotra and Principal Komal Arora motivated students to participate in such activities. The June month honours African American people’s rich range of experiences, struggle and achievements throughout history and into the modern day. In 1863, during the American Civil War , President Abraham Lincoln issued the Emancipation Proclamation, which declared more than three million slaves living in the Confederate states to be free. More than two years would pass, however, before the news reached African American’s living in Texas the orders were issued. It was not until Union soldiers arrived in Galveston, Texas, on June 19, 1865, that the state’s residents finally learned that slavery had been abolished. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/flying-sikh-remembered-271324
