21-06-2021||Do you think govt needs to go a long way to handle vax drive?||Better planning, execution need of the hour||Must act now to prevent 3rd waveVaccination has appeared to be a hectic and difficult task for the government. When the vaccination drive was launched in January, people were hesitant earlier but soon, the nation started facing shortage of doses when the second wave started causing havoc. Things got worse when obtaining vaccine from foreign nations became difficult. Seeing the past difficulties, the government should plan in advance to prevent the most feared third wave which is expected to be hitting children more. The third wave is also predicted to be having far long impending consequences thus focus needs to be laid on vaccinating masses at a large scale and also on procuring vaccines. On the laissez-faire principle, state governments should be at liberty to procure doses but the government itself should not be the distributor of it. A collaborative approach must be followed by involving other stakeholders such as NGOs, self-help groups etc and the government should restrain from selling vaccines and the same shall be provided free of cost to ensure effective implementation of the vaccination drive. Data should also be collected in each district so that the drive could be made easier by knowing the estimates about the need to procure more doses.Raja CheemaFocus should be laid on vaccination driveTo curb the menace of Covid, vaccination is the only remedy. The process of manufacturing vaccines was a bit slow in the recent past, but few days back the Centre transferred adequate funds to the manufacturers of Covishield and Covaxin to increase their production. As masses have become aware of the pros and cons of the jab and the need to get inoculated as early possible, the demand for the doses has increased manifold these days in contrast to the manufacturing. Everybody expects that in July the supply of the vaccine will certainly increase benefitting the youths especially from 18-44 years. The Government of India should revise the rate of doses at private hospitals to promote the drive among masses. The government should issue a notification that those who desire to get vaccinated after 28 days of the first dose can get the shot. In my opinion, the Centre and the state government should allow vaccination from 8 am to 5 pm every day. Similarly, the vaccination drive should be carried out at colleges, schools, railway stations, bus stands and other places and creating awareness among the masses through media it is also playing a positive and effective role in this drive.Rajat Kumar MohindruVax production needs to be boostedThe Centre is responsible for the erratic and chaotic vaccination drive for the 18+ category. It was clear that the scientists and drug companies worldwide were preparing for vaccines against Covid. These are the fastest manufactured vaccines in the history. So, many countries had already booked in advance the vaccines from the manufacturers. But our government was busy preparing for elections in some states and celebrating false narrative that we have won the battle against Covid. The results are before us when the second wave caused havoc in the country. Recently, S Jayshankar had left for the US for demanding vaccine doses. Our government falsely changed the interval between two jabs of a vaccine, firstly from 28 days to two-four weeks, then from six-eight weeks and now from eight-12 weeks. Dr Anthony Fauci, adviser to the US President, had warned that if the gap between two doses is increased without keeping in mind the science behind it, then the virus can mutate into a more lethal form and cause more damage. The government needs to authorise more drug companies to manufacture more vaccines so that whole population of India, more so the young people of 18-44 age group are fully vaccinated in time.Dr JS Wadhwamore manufacturers needed to meet demandIndia’s much-hyped massive Covid vaccination rollout has drawn widespread criticism for flawed planning, differential pricing and shortage of doses, and lack of access to vulnerable persons in rural and remote areas. Vaccination of health and frontline workers, elderly persons and those above 45 years with co-morbidities went on smoothly till supply crunch of jabs hit the drive. Witnessing a sudden spike in positive cases among youth, the Centre’s decision to include persons above 18 years from May 1 was highly ill-conceived. Along with the Centre reneging on its commitment to provide free doses and their failure to purchase vaccines from the domestic and foreign pharmaceutical manufacturers such as the Serum Institute of India, Bharat Biotech etc, the states deferred the Phase III exercise for an indefinite period and restrained people from going to hospitals and crowding at vaccination centres. It is an irony that the world’s largest producer of vaccines is still starved of them. As compared to the US and UK, the percentage of vaccinated persons in India is abysmally low. How can we cover the entire population with limited vaccines? It will remain a pipe dream for three years unless the Union Government scales up indigenous production or procures the doses from abroad to administer 10 million doses daily, rather than being complacent with 3 million only.Tajpreet S KangNeed to work on strategising driveAfter indigenous production of Covaxin and Covishield, India launched its nationwide three-phased inoculation drive with great fanfare and optimism on January 16 to achieve herd immunity that might contain the lethal pandemic. But from the very beginning, the ambitious exercise hit umpteen stumbling blocks such as vaccine hesitancy, driven by plain obscurantism, superstition and suspicion about its efficacy; misplaced governmental priorities; vaccine diplomacy and export of huge quantities of doses to fulfil external commitments. Apart from this, the aggressive vaccination of prioritised categories of healthcare and frontline workers followed by senior citizens and those above 45 with co-morbidities added to acute shortage of vaccines that disrupted the whole process. In the meantime, the Centre announced a new liberalised vaccine policy to ramp up the third phase of the inoculation drive for the 18-44 age groups from May 1. The Centre shirked its social responsibility of providing cost-free vaccines and shifted the onus on the states, private hospitals and industrial establishments to purchase them directly from domestic manufacturers at different rates. Despite placing orders, they did not get the requisite jabs. The foreign producers like Pfizer and Moderna also refused to deal directly with them. Non-availability of doses led state governments to suspend the vaccination process for 18 plus category indefinitely. Besides promoting inefficiency, inequality and absence of transparency, the gap between demand and supply of vaccines has turned the whole inoculation programme into chaos. If Indian firms can make deals to purchase vaccines from international pharma companies, then why can’t the Centre? It should revisit its vaccine strategy to ensure adequate delivery of jabs and help Indian citizens tide over the worst humanitarian crisis.D S Kang Centre must take the responsibilityAs a policy matter, the Centre is solely entrusted with the job of purchasing and distributing Covid vaccines for supplying them to states/UTs which are given the responsibility of administering the vaccination programmes to logical conclusion. Under the latest arrangements which are to be implemented with effect from June 21, all states/UTs are expected to strategise their action of inoculating the public for its smooth implementation. For this, most vital aspect is to explore the possibilities of near zero wastage of vaccines which can be ensured through matching demand and supply of vaccines at a given point of time. For this purpose, all states/UTs are supposed to integrate their software with the online system envisaged by the Centre. Secondly, the groups eligible for vaccination need to be prioritised on the basis of their vulnerability. Thirdly, both the platforms of online registration and walk-in registration are required to be operational with emphasis on online registration to ascertain the demand in advance and avoid chaos at vaccination centers. Fourthly, there is need to identify more venues of vaccination for maximising coverage both in numbers and areas in order to complete the process in a time bound manner.Jagdish ChanderSmooth vaccination should be ensuredHealth services remain optimally stretched since the Covid outbreak. Our doctors/ paramedics and other frontline workers have been fighting the disease to save affected people admitted at hospitals. After the vaccination drive was rolled out in the nation, the government’s inability to provide required stocks with the states to inoculate masses has eroded people’s faith in our implementation of health programmes. Moreover, as the apprehension of third Covid wave among children still stands, the government must streamline the delivery mechanism at all inoculation centres and review its orders so as to resume adequate vaccine supplies to all approved centres, including private hospitals to avoid crowding at government centres. Free jabs should be given to the extent possible or the prices should be rationalized and kept affordable for all. Above all, well-being and safety of all nationals is paramount to bring back normalcy in businesses and academics. This is also a vital and essential factor for the early retrieval of the economy and other routine curriculum in this era of pandemic. Obviously, the government will have to ensure smooth vaccination at the earliest and reorient strategies so as to be well prepared against any such eventuality in future.Nirmaljit Singh ChatrathNeed to jab maximum persons in min timeThe third wave of Covid is inevitable and feared to be affecting children more. Though we are not sure about when it would hit the nation, arrangements to deal with it effectively should be made immediately. The government needs to make an effective strategy to keep the virus at bay and the only weapon that we are equipped with to fight the deadly virus is the vaccine. Advance planning and preparation can help and save from repeating the mistake and tragic circumstances that caused havoc recently in the second wave. Increasing the number of inoculation centres can help minimise the spread. Focus should be laid on covering maximum population under the vaccination drive. Vaccine stocks needs to be pushed for the possible third wave. States should be given a free hand to tackle and suppress the chain. All private and government hospitals should be ready to deal with any kind of emergency. It is time to strengthen surveillance as well as ensure enough vaccine stocks.Shashi Kiran QUESTIONThe CBSE has given the 30:30:40 formula for evaluation of Class XII results. Do you think this will be a correct and satisfactory assessment for the students?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to jalandhardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (June 24).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/better-planning-execution-need-of-the-hour-271826
21-06-2021||---||Traffic snarls: Relief on way for Shiv Nagar residents||Jalandhar, June 20  Shiv Nagar Area residents, who had been a harried lot for the past five years, due to long traffic jams in the area finally got a breather. Vicky Kalia, councillor of Ward No. 64, who had taken up the matter with the authorities, said finally, the issue that had been troubling the residents for so long will be resolved now as land for a new road leading towards the towards Industrial area has been acquired. This will bifurcate the traffic.  Notably, residents of Shiv Nagar had been filing complaints with the Municipal Corporation (MC) since the Chandan Nagar railway underbridge (RUB) got constructed. Until now, there was only one way for the traffic coming in from and going towards the railway underbridge, i.e., from Shiv Nagar streets, which had been causing a great inconvenience to people living in the area. Commuters would often indulge in fight with each other when cars, scooters and auto rickshaws used to get stuck in the narrow streets while crossing.  Even the residents used to find it difficult to have a sound sleep whenever heavy rush of vehicles would pass through the area.  RUB boon for others, bane for Shiv Nagar area residents  Having been proposed by the Municipal Corporation (MC) since August 2010 and remaining mired in various controversies pertaining to land acquisition for nearly five and a half years, the much-awaited Chandan Nagar railway underbridge (RUB) was finally opened in 2016. Residents of nearly 50 colonies, including Sodal Area, Industrial Area, Preet Nagar, Dada Colony, Globe Colony and Shiv Nagar, which falls on the other side of the Sodal railway crossing, were benefited with the opening of the bridge, as their earlier passage used to get blocked for more than 120 times a day owing to frequent passage of trains between Jalandhar and Amritsar.  Students of Shiv Joti Public School, Seth Hukum Chand School and SD School, which fall on either side of the track, were also much affected. Several accidents had also taken place at the crossing in the recent past, especially around Sodal Mela during which there is much rush across the crossing site. This is how the need of the RUB was felt, but, while it came as a blessing for others, Shiv Nagar area residents remained in problem, but, now with the new path, this problem will also get resolved. Vicky Kalia, the councillor of the area said the traffic will now be made one way on both the roads, so, that no problem arises in future.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/traffic-snarls-relief-on-way-for-shiv-nagar-residents-271575
21-06-2021||Ajay Joshi
||Students slam govt, urge Capt to revoke decision||Tribune News Service Jalandhar, June 20 Two days after the Cabinet approved government jobs for sons of MLAs, #StopPleasingMLAs started trending on Twitter and other social media platforms. The users who took to the microblogging platform to denounce the move of the state government included students and civil services aspirants. The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) has been criticising the Chief Minister on the issue and termed it ‘Kewal Congress Ghar Rozgar’ instead of ‘Ghar Ghar Rozgar Yojana’ launched by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to provide jobs to poor and meritorious youths after forming the government in 2017. Irked students tweeted #StoppleasingMLAs and conduct exams. They sought equal opportunity for aspirants prpearing for exams despite facing odds in their lives. City-based Prabhjot tweeted, “Please raise voice against the Punjab Government for its unfair policy to give employment to sons of MLAs. We have been preparing for the government exams for quite a long time. It’s injustice to deserving students. Cancel the posts.” Another aspirant Gurpreet Kamboj tweeted, “Jobs to sons of MLAs are an act of corruption in kind. The decision must be reversed.” Apart from students, the move has not gone down well with academicians as well. A government lecturer on condition of anonymity said, “Introducing insensible compassionate grounds to give jobs to anyone is beyond acceptance. Government jobs should be given on merit basis.” Mastan Singh, another youngster tweeted, “The jobs for which Punjabi youths are preparing hard for the last five years, the government is distributing them in an unfair manner. Capt Amarinder roll back your decision.” Gagan Bhullar tweeted, “We have sacrificed four years preparing for jobs and the government gives them to sunflowers of MLAs without competition. Kindly, roll back the decision.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/students-slam-govt-urge-capt-to-revoke-decision-271576
21-06-2021||Aparna Banerji
||No need to panic, say experts||Tribune News Service Jalandhar, June 20 With first invasive aspergillosis case reported in the district, green fungus has joined a host of comorbidities associated with Covid-19. Earlier, the authorities reported 82 cases and 18 deaths from black fungus in the district. Barring black fungus and multisystem inflammatory syndrome in children (MISC), no case of white or yellow fungus has been reported in the district. Doctors said there was no need to panic as green fungus was non-communicable and has less fataltiy rate than black fungus.  Dr Ramesh Gupta, Family Welfare Officer, Jalandhar, said, “As green fungus is not notifiable, we are not collecting information about it. As per instructions, only cases with mucor (mucormycosis) are notifiable. There are 82 cases reported in connection with mucormycosis, which include both suspected and confirmed cases. The deaths (both suspected and confirmed) from black fungus are 18. Of the total 82 cases, 43 patients are from the district, 35 from other parts of Punjab and four from other state. Out of 18 deaths, 11 are from the district and rest from other districts. No green fungus case has been formally reported to us.” Dr Ashutosh Dhanuke, consultant and pulmonologist, Critical Care Centre, Sacred Heart Hospital, Jalandhar, said: “Fungus is present everywhere in our environment for ages. There is no need to panic as green fungus is non- communicable and unlike black fungus it doesn’t require surgery and can be cured with medical treatment. Patients with green fungus have a 50 to 60 per cent chance of survival. If treated, fatality rate is much lower.” Dr Dhanuka said, “Allergic aspergillosis is pretty common, especially among those having asthama, and it can be cured easily. The one we tested yesterday is invasive aspergillosis, which invades lungs and weakens tissue. It is more severe version of the fungus.” He said diagnosis of this disease is complicated and rare. “In most cases patients are given tuberculosis medication as it occurs rarely and most doctors cannot diagnose it. A positive culture, coupled with immune wekaness and compatible CT findings are imperative to come to the conclusion that patient may be suspect. In non-immuno-compromimsed person it is not even a concern. In this very case, the biopsy report found that the fungus was invading lung tissue. That was a sure diagnosis that the fungus had penetrated lungs.” Speaking about the 61-year old patient, Dr Ashutosh said the patient is currently stable and has been taken out of the ICU. After some days, CT scans will be done to monitor further progress, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/no-need-to-panic-say-experts-271577
21-06-2021||Strap||Over 1.50 L vaccinated in Kapurthala district so far||Tribune News Service Jalandhar, June 20 More than 1,71,000 persons have been vaccinated in Kapurthala district. Until June 20, the total number of persons vaccinated in Kapurthala reached 1,71,738. They include 83,413 senior citizens. On June 19, as many as 4,801 were vaccinated in the disrtrict in a single day. On an average, 4,500 people are being vaccinated at Kapurthala every day. Last Saturday, as many as 1,800 persons were vaccinated at Kapurthala. Special camps were held at the Army area, Radha Soami Dera, Shri Satyanarayan Mandir and Rani Sahiba Mandir for the purpose. Deputy Commssioner Deepti Uppal said shopkeepers, hoteliers, dhaba staff, sarpanches, panches, councillors and drivers among others were vaccinated on a priority basis by the state government in the special camps. She said the same was being done with an aim to speed up the local economy which had been affected due to the pandemic. During vaccinations, 29,987 persons in age groups of 45 to 60 years, 13,504 labourers and 14,410 persons with serious illnesses had been vaccinated in the district. Civil Surgeon Dr Parminder Kaur said it was time for those who received the first dose of Covaxin to get their second dose. She appealed to the people to visit their nearest vaccine camp for the second dose of Covaxin. Notably, 100 per cent vaccination had also reached in certain villages of Kapurthala, including Kirpalpur village, Ghug village in Begowal, village Lamme, village Husowal, Muktram Wala village in Tibba block, village of Nangal Lubana, Bholath and Sultanpur. Some of these villages fall in the Begowal block where many villages showed impressive percentages of people vaccinated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/over-1-50-l-vaccinated-in-kapurthala-district-so-far-271578
21-06-2021||Strap||Closed since April amid Covid-19 heat, Nikku Park reopens with curbs aplenty||Tribune News Service Jalandhar, June 20 After remaining closed for two months, during the second wave of the Covid pandemic, Jalandhar’s famous children’s playground and a place for amusement — Nikku Park — opened for visitors again on Saturday. Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said the park would be opened with 50 per cent capacity everyday from 3.30 pm to 7.30 pm so that people can enjoy entertainment activities, rides and swings at the park.Kids peaking out of amusement trains, enjoying joy rides, teasing each other on swings, and running around on freshly-cut grass were some of the scenes being witnessed as the park opened up after a long period of time. The park, spread in a sprawling 4.5-acre area, had been closed since April. While it stayed closed for seven months last year, it also stayed closed for two months this year. The DC said the 50 per cent capacity is aimed at ensuring that everybody abides by the Covid protocol so that the health and safety of all visitors could be ensured. The DC further said a financial help of Rs 12 lakh had been extended to the park and the money had already been spent on various works and rides at the park. A repair campaign for its swings had also been run for the park recently in view of its dilapidated condition after being closed for long durations amidst the pandemic. Situated in the posh Model Town area, right in the middle of the city, the parks, swings, rides, amusement bus, fountains, train, music fountain, flood lights, etc, had recently been made functional again. The park also got CCTV cameras installed at its premises. A committee under Joint Commssioner MC, Harcharan Singh was also constituted for effective maintenance and operations at the park. A resident Surjit Kaur said, “My daughter was getting bored at home but we brought her to the park as soon as it opened because it is the one place where kids throughly enjoy. With online classes and long sitting hours, the play and amusement at the park is necessary for children to have healthy, active lives. This is really a welcome decision.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/closed-since-april-amid-covid-19-heat-nikku-park-reopens-with-curbs-aplenty-271579
21-06-2021||---||3 succumb, 41 test positive in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, June 20The district on Sunday reported 41 new Covid-19 cases, taking the tally to 62,446. Of these, eight cases are from other districts. The district reported three deaths due to the virus. With this, the death toll has risen to 1,459. As many as 60,366 people have recovered from the disease in the district while the number of active cases in the district is 621.1 die, 24 test positive in KapThe district on Sunday reported 24 fresh cases of Covid-19, taking the tally to 17,465. The district reported the death of a person due to the virus, taking the toll to 531. The 32-year-old victim was a resident of Mainwa village in the district.New cases: 41Total cases: 62,446New deaths: 3Total deaths: 1,459Total recovery: 60,366Active: 621Helpline number of ambulance: 108Emergency Helpline: 104Jalandhar helpline for Covid or other medical queries: 0181-2224848Distt Immunisation Officer contact: 94171-64164Website for Covid bed info: https://jalandhar.nic.in/||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/3-succumb-41-test-positive-in-jalandhar-district-271580
21-06-2021||---||Take benefit of agri college, MP urges youth||Nawanshahr, June 20MP Manish Tewari on Sunday appealed to the youngsters to take benefit of the agricultural college set up at Balowal Saunkhari in Nawanshahr by taking admissions without any late fees till June 23. BSc Agriculture classes will start in the college.Tewari said the agricultural college would also benefit the youth of the Kandi area as well as students of surrounding areas who had to go to Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana, for the course. He said the students who had passed Class XII could get admission in the college till June 23 without any late fee and till June 30 with late fee. Students pursuing a diploma in agriculture could also apply before the announcement of the results.He appealed to the members of panchayats and teachers of senior secondary schools to motivate as many students as possible to enrol in the agricultural college so that they could progress in the field of agriculture.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/take-benefit-of-agri-college-mp-urges-youth-271581
21-06-2021||---||Making Father’s Day delightful||Jalandhar, June 20A city-based budding chef Bhavuk Aggarwal organised a ‘Cook for father' event to celebrate Father’s Day. A large number of residents participated in the event which was organised virtually on ‘Cook with Bhavuk Aggarwal’ page. In the four-day long competition, participants cooked scrumptious cuisines to beat the fellow contestants. Bhavuk said the entries were received from various places, including, Dubai,UAE, New york, Punjab, Kolkata, Lucknow, Haryana, Maharashtra, Pun and Faridabad. Bhavuk, who has himself remained part of various TV reality shows said, Chef Harshita Aggarwal, master Chef Season 6 fame judged the event.Special attraction of the contest remained healthy dishes prepared by all participants using grains and flours such as ragi,bajra, kuttu, dalia, multigrain flour, Maize flour,etc.While Afsana Firoji bagged the first position in the event, Prerna Khurana remained at the second spot followed by Ruchi Saxena.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/making-fathers-day-delightful-271584
21-06-2021||Our Correspondent||2 women among eight held with intoxicants||Hoshiarpur, June 20The police have arrested eight peddlers, including two women, and recovered huge quantity of intoxicants from them.The Model Town police have arrested Yugraj alias Yogi, a resident of Nainowal Jattan, and seized 35-gm intoxicating powder from him. Cops nabbed Surjeet alias Sarju, a resident of Roop Nagar. A total of 24 bottles of liquor were seized from him.The Chabbewal police arrested Paramjeet alias Pammi of Sariala Kalan village and recovered 16-gm heroin from him.The Tanda police have claimed to recover 70-gm intoxicant powder from Sarvjit Kaur alias Roji of Chandigarh Colony and Harpreet Singh alias Happy.The Dasuya police have arrested Ajit, a resident of Usman Shaheed. Cops seized 45-gm intoxicating powder from him.The Mukerian police have claimed to seize 5-kg poppy husk from Kamaljeet, a resident of Narnaul.The Hajipur police have confiscated 55-gm intoxicating powder from Ranjit Singh of Purika village.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/2-women-among-eight-held-with-intoxicants-271585
21-06-2021||---||Out on parole, Jal ex-councillor shot in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, June 20Unidentified assailants on Sunday shot former councillor Sukhmeet Singh (44), alias Deputy, who was the kingpin in the infamous Mickey kidnapping and ransom case and was released on parole recently.The incident took place on Sunday evening when the victim was crossing the Gopal Nagar area. As per reports, nearly a dozen bullets were pumped into his body.Eyewitnesses told the police that around four men carrying firearms, who had arrived in an i10 car, shot at Sukhmeet, who was on his motorcycle. He was immediately rushed to a private hospital, where the doctors declared him brought dead.The former Congress rural president was arrested for kidnapping Gagan Mickey, the son of film distributer and coloniser Subhash Nanda. Sukhmeet had demanded Rs 1 crore as ransom.As per sources, the police recovered eight bullet shells from the spot and are checking the CCTV footage to identify and trace the accused.DCP (Crime) Gurmeet Singh said police teams had been formed to identify and trace the accused.Meanwhile, the SHO of Police Division number 2 said the incident was reported around 5.15 pm and apparently, Sukhmeet, a resident of Sawan Nagar near Dana Mandi, was killed due to some old enmity.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/out-on-parole-jal-ex-councillor-shot-in-jalandhar-271713
21-06-2021||Jalandhar||Pargat Singh calls it case of horse-trading||Congress leader and Jalandhar Cantt MLA Pargat Singh today objected to the grant of jobs to the sons of two MLAs by the Cabinet, calling it a clear case of “horse-trading”. He is the latest to join several Congress leaders and Cabinet ministers who have opposed the move.Speaking to mediapersons, he said such decisions were detrimental to the image of the Congress government ahead of the 2022 elections. Lauding the five Cabinet ministers for opposing the decision, Pargat said he was surprised CM Capt Amarinder Singh was unmoved despite widespread opposition in the Cabinet. He sought immediate withdrawal of the decision.Pargat said: “I don’t know what parameters were adopted to grant them jobs. Clearly they have not been chosen on compassionate grounds. What kind of perception do we want to create? Despite opposition by Cabinet ministers, the CM is siding with the two MLAs. If this is not horse-trading what else is? The message is clear — the CM will do what he wants, even if five ministers oppose it.”“There are those who laid down lives for the country, families of policemen who died during terrorism, 450 farmers who lost lives during the kisan morcha, why isn’t there a special quota for them. They are being ignored to favour 2 MLAs. The decision should immediately be withdrawn,” he said, adding the move would have serious repercussions for the Congress. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/pargat-singh-calls-it-case-of-horse-trading-271675
