22-06-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Skipper Manpreet inspires budding players from Mithapur||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 21Selection of captain Manpreet Singh and Mandeep Singh of Mithapur in the Indian Hockey team, which will participate in the Tokyo Olympics, has made Punjabis’ proud.Mithapur’s youngsters and budding hockey players belonging to humble families have a reason to realise their dreams. Most players, who belong to lower middle-class families, said selection of Manpreet and Mandeep has motivated them to work hard.They recall regarding their meetings and sessions with Indian Hockey captain Manpreet. Around 40 youngsters take training under the Youth Sports Club, Mithapur.Daman Jyot Singh (19), son of a farmer, still remembers how he was in awe of captain Manpreet, who has now qualified for the Olympics. Fondly addressing him as ‘Paaji’, Daman said it was because of Manpreet that he started playing hockey. “I have met Manpreet ‘Paaji’ several times along with other players. A few years ago, when I saw him on TV and discussed his performance, I immediately asked my father to help me in joining a hockey club. This is how my journey started,” said Daman.Harvinder Singh (17), who has been playing for the last 10 years, and whose mother works as a tailor said whenever these hockey stars visit the village, they always meet budding players and share techniques.“One thing I have learnt from him is that you have to have a goal in life and should work continuously without showing any attitude until you achieve your goal,” said Harvinder.Rajat Sharma 17 has a similar experience to share. “We always look forward to meeting captain Manpreet. Initially, he used to play with us and it’s a proud moment for us that he has qualified for Olympics. He always tell us that if he can reach at this place, anyone can. His teachings are with us,” he said.Kuldeep, who was one of the first coach of captain Manpreet, said whenever Manpreet comes to the village, he always visits the stadium and likes to spend time with these dedicated players. He said Manpreet teaches them various techniques.Kuldeep, who has been coaching since 2006, said Manpreet came to him when he was 13. He said he often gives Manpreet’s example to youngsters. “I want budding players to learn fast and soar high in their lives,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/skipper-manpreet-inspires-budding-players-from-mithapur-272331
22-06-2021||---||12-year-old held captive by friend’s parents, thrashed||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 21A 12-year-old boy was held up and brutally beaten up by family members of another boy, a Class XII student, over a petty altercation. Though the incident happened on June 18, an FIR was registered in the case by the police on Sunday.Satwinder Singh of Bir Bansiyan village in Phillaur was kidnapped and held up for hours at the house of his friend Karanveer, where the latter’s family tied him up and beat him up, punched and kicked him until members of Satwinder’s family came to his rescue.A case under Sections 323, 341, 342, 506 and 34 of the IPC has been registered at the Goraya police station against Karanveer Singh, his brother Jasveer Singh, alias Jessi, his father Kuldeep Singh and mother Kulwinder Kaur, all residents of Bir Bansiyan village in Phillaur.An FIR was registered on the complaint of Satwinder and his father Amandeep Singh’s at the Goraya police station here on Saturday.In his statement to the police, Satwinder Singh (12), a Class IX student and resident of Bir Bansiyan village, said on June 18, he was playing with Karanveer Singh at Gurdwara Sahib Kalyan Ji in his village when they had a fight and Karanveer slapped him on his face.Satwinder complained that after hititng him, Karanveer called up his mother Kulwinder Kaur on the phone. Fifteen minutes after the call, Kulwinder Kaur along with Karanveer’s brother Jessi, came to the gurdwara on a scooter and while abusing him, took him along on the scooter forcibly.Satwinder said he also made an attempt to escape from them but they caught him again and took him to their house in the same village.Satiwnder said he was taken into a room of their house where he was tied up with ropes by Kulwinder Kaur, Kuldeep Singh and Jessi.Satwinder further said the four of them held his neck and beat him up, hit him with sticks on his thumb, shoulders, elbow, back, punched him, kicked him and hit on his ears with their slipper. He said he was punched on his right eye by Jessi following which he started crying loudly. Twelve-year-old Satwinder was held up in the room for nearly two hours — from 1.12 in the noon to 3 pm.He said on hearing him cry, his grandmother Harbans Kaur, aunt Sarabjit Kaur, uncle Raghveer Singh came and freed him from the ropes. While the family of Karanveer fled from the spot, Satwinder was brought to his home from where he was taken to a hospital at Bundala by his father Amadeep Singh. Satwinder was sent to get an X-ray done at the Civil Hospital, Jalandhar, after which he is currently under treatment at the Bundala hospital.As per the FIR, Satwinder received nine injuries from blunt weapons as per the doctor’s report. SHO, Goraya police station, Inspector Hardev Preet Singh said: “The boy’s claims were found to be true after the medical examination. A case has been registered against the family and teams are on the lookout for them.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/12-year-old-held-captive-by-friends-parents-thrashed-272332
22-06-2021||---||Revenge crime: 4 booked for killing Begowal youth||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 21Four men have been booked for the murder of a 22-year-old man at Begowal in Kapurthala. Mukul, a resident of Ward Number 9, Charhdi Patti, Begowal, was shot dead on Friday night. Four persons, two of them real brothers, have been booked for the murder of the youth who was apparently killed in an act of revenge. In a statement to the police, the deceased’s father said three men — Mangal, Shera and Lovely — came to their house on the night of June 18. When asked about his son, the deceased’s father Ashok Kumar told them he had gone to play in the ground. He said the men returned but shortly afterwards he got to know that some shots had been fired in that direction.He said upon reaching the ground, his son was found to be shot and writhing in pain. While the 22-year-old was taken to a private hospital from where he was referred to Jalandhar. The youth died on the way.Ashok Kumar said his injured son told him that Prince, a resident of Jabbowal, along with his brother Mangal (Mangal had been caught for selling drugs five momths ago) suspected Mukul was behind his arrest. Ashok said his son told him he was hence targeted for revenge. A case has been registered under the NDPS Act at the Begowal police station. While Prince is currently abroad, the police is on the lookout for remaining three persons.SHO, Begowal, Raman Kamar said, “Five months ago, Mangal was nabbed in a durg case and they suspected Mukul behind it. The boys were also involved in dsoutes and had made videos of one party beating each other up. Amidst these disputes, the 22-year-old boy was shot by the other group. We are on the lookout for the accused.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/revenge-crime-4-booked-for-killing-begowal-youth-272333
22-06-2021||---||Tanker with 24,000-litre petrol stolen||Jalandhar, June 21With the fuel prices touching new highs month by month, the incidents of fuel theft have started rising in the district. One such incident was reported in the district too. An oil tanker carrying 24,000 liters of petrol was reported to have been stolen from the depot of Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited (HPCL) on Sunday. The incident was reported on Sunday evening. Sources said the tanker was stolen by some unidentified miscreants in the wee hours on the same day.The driver of the tanker, Joginder Singh, told the police that he had brought the tanker from Bathinda on Saturday. After getting it checked at the depot in the evening, he left for his home. However, when he returned in the morning, the tanker was not there. It was stolen.Inspector Sullakhan Singh, SHO, Rama Mandi police station, said a police team was formed to nab the accused.“Besides, a case under Section 379 of the IPC has been registered and we are verifying CCTV footages to trace the accused,” added the SHO.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/tanker-with-24-000-litre-petrol-stolen-272334
22-06-2021||---||11 labourers hurt  as jeep overturns||Our CorrespondentHoshiarpur, June 21As many as 11 labourers travelling in a pick-up jeep were injured when it overturned near Garhshankar. The labourers were heading to Himachal from Uttar Pradesh.The ill-fated vehicle collided with a culvert and overturned. The labourers hailed from Moradabad district of Uttar Pradesh were going to Santokhgarh in Una district of Himachal Pradesh.The injured were rushed to the Garhshankar Civil Hospital for treatment while three in critical condition were further referred to the Hoshiarpur Civil Hospital.The injured have been identified as Pushpinder Singh (26), Kamaljit (17), Davinder Singh (55), Budhia (36), Ram (28), Pappu (40), Mukesh (18), Davinder (29), Neeraj, Rajwanto and Aman.The injured labourers said they were returing to their workplace in Santokhgarh. Davinder, driver of the jeep, said he lost the control over the vehicle, which collided with a culvert and overturned.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/11-labourers-hurt-as-jeep-overturns-272335
22-06-2021||---||Jalandhar district sees 2 deaths, 33 fresh cases||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 21With 33 new Covid positive cases reported on Monday, the district tally reached to 62,479 cases. Of these, four cases are from other districts. Two Covid deaths have been reported today. With this, the death tally in the district has risen to 1,461. As many as 60,461 people have recovered from Covid in the district while the number of active cases in Jalandhar is 557.Kapurthala reports 1 deathOne person died of Covid in the district on Monday while as many as 21 persons were reported positive in Kapurthala, taking the total number of positive cases to 17,487. The deceased at Kapurthala today is a 61 year old man from Tibba village. The total deaths in Kapurthala have reached 532.14 test +ve in HoshiarpurWith 14 new positive patients, tally rose to 30,263 in Hoshiarpur district on Monday. With one more death, the toll reached 960. With the acquisition of 2,793 new samples, the total number of samples taken in the district till date has reached 6,37,699. As per the reports received from the lab, 6,07,231 were negative, while 3,320 reports were still awaited and 690 were invalid. Of the 2,250 samples received today, 14 new cases of Covid-19 were traced, which includes three reported from other districts. The number of active cases is 310, while the number of patients who have recovered is 28,993. The patient, who died today, is a 72-year-old woman of Nainowal village.Just 5 cases in NawanshahrThe health authorities reported five fresh Covid cases in Nawanshahr district on Monday. With this, the total tally has increased to 11,366. One death was reported in the district today. At present, the district has 95 active cases and 78 patients are under home isolation. The number of persons who have recovered is 10,920. Urban Nawanshar, Urban Banga and Balachaur blocks did not report any fresh case today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-district-sees-2-deaths-33-fresh-cases-272336
22-06-2021||Jalandhar||Man shot dead in Kishanpura||Within 24 hours of the murder of a city-based ex-councillor Sukhmeet Deputy, another man was shot dead in broad daylight here on Monday.The incident took place in the Kishanpura area of the city. Coincidentally, the second firing incident also took place outside an ex-councillor’s office. The deceased has been identified as Happy Sandhu, a resident of Succhi Pind.Meanwhile, DCP Gurmeet Singh claimed that the bullet was fired accidentally. “After preliminary investigation, it was established that Sandhu died to mishandling of firearm by him and his friend Inderjit Singh. Therefore, so far a case of 'act of negligence' has been registered at the Rama Mandi Police station,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/man-shot-dead-in-kishanpura-272337
22-06-2021||---||Spreading the message of fitness||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 21To mark the 7th International Yoga Day and spread across a message of fitness various schools, colleges, social and political leaders and institutions organised yoga sessions and webinars today.While National SC Commission Chairman Vijay Sampla celebrated the day at his place in Hoshiarpur, ex-minister Manoranjan Kalia attended an event organised by BJP circle 4 team at Dakoha near Rama Mandi.Pushpa Gujral Science CityPushpa Gujral Science City celebrated International Yoga Day by organising a two-day online workshop. Expert Yoga practitioner, Col Sewa Singh, was the resource person at this occasion. The workshop started with warming up and stretching followed by asanas, including a series of padmasanas, sukhasan, tadasana, bhujang asana and ended with Shavasana. Col Singh emphasised on performing asanas regularly for 5 to 10 minutes daily for a happy and stress free life. Dr Neelima Jerath, Director-General Science City, while giving introductory remarks at the occasion said that amidst increasing distractions and stress of modern life, certain research studies have indicated that yoga can be effective in reducing stress and improving mental well-being and general physical improvement. Like all physical exercises, it can help build muscle strength, increase flexibility, boost up endurance and tune up body organs. The fact that it is less strenuous makes it safer and easier for all age groups to practice. Dr Rajesh Grover, Director, Science City, urged the participants to adopt yoga as a routine activity in their daily life.GNDU Regional CampusInternational Yoga Day was celebrated at GNDU Regional Campus at Ladhewali. The online session was organised by NSS unit of the Department of Laws in association with the Department of Journalism and Mass Communication and the Department of Electronic and Computer Science. Sanjay Kundra, head, Department of Physical Education, MGN Public School, Adarsh Nagar, was the resource person. He spoke about the importance and significance of yoga for human health and for society. He explained and gave live demonstration of various asanas along with his children. Dr Roopam Jagota, Head, Department of Laws, welcomed the guests and highlighted yoga as a way of life and explained its significance in bringing about harmony between body and mind for spiritual discipline. Dr Komal K Mehta was the moderator for the session. He emphasised that yoga is a valuable gift of ancient Indian traditions and has changed our lifestyle.Eklavya SchoolEklavya School observed a virtual Yoga Day. The celebration started with an online class of yoga in which all the staff members, students along with their parents participated energetically. After that an online speech was presented by educator Shilpa Kapoor in which she explained the importance of practicing yoga daily and also explained the theme for International Yoga Day is “Yoga at Home and Yoga with Family.” This is followed by online debate competition by the students of senior and middle school. Parents of primary and pre-primary school participated for online yoga practice with their kids, they all appreciated school authorities and staff for taken out such kind of online practices. Students also showed their talent in online poster making completion in which they made different postures of yoga practicing.MLU DAV College, PhagwaraUnder the guidance of Principal Dr Kiranjeet Randhawa, International Yoga Day was celebrated at MLU DAV College, Phagwara, with great zeal. A webinar was organised for teachers and students. They demonstrated various asanas followed by omkar chanting, warm up exercises were taken up and the participants performed sitting and standing asanas, importance of these were explained simultaneously. Dr Randhawa encouraged students to practice regular yoga to remain fit and improve concentration. Yoga is an old discipline from India. It is both spiritual and physical. Yoga uses breathing techniques, exercise and meditation. It helps to improve health and happiness. Dr Randhawa further explained that yoga helps us to reduce stress, promote relaxation and some medical conditions. A growing trend of people around the world embracing Yoga to stay healthy and rejuvenated and to fight social isolation and depression has been witnessed during the pandemic.Hindu Kanya College, K’thalaIn the inter-college competitions organised by Sports Club of Hindu Kanya College, Kapurthala, to mark International Yoga Day, Vidushi from Saint Soldier Co-ed College, Jalandhar, won first position in video making competition while Saloni from Hindu College, Amritsar, won slogan writing competition. Khushpal Singh from Sri Guru Arjun Dev Education College, Khadoor Sahib, remained runner up in video making. Kiranpreet Kaur from Sri Guru Arjun Dev Education College remained second while third position was won by Akhsriti from HMV, Jalandhar. Davinderdeep Kaur from Hindu Kanya Collegiate School, Kapurthala, won consolation prize in slogan writing competition. Judgement was done by a panel comprising of Dr Kulwinder Singh, Dr Ritu Gupta and Prof Jasdeep Kaur.Apeejay College of Fine ArtsOn the concluding day of the Healthy Body Healthy Lifestyle Week being organised in Apeejay College of Fine Arts from June 15 to 21 to mark the International Yoga Day, a yoga workshop was organised in which Kriti Gupta a certified yoga teacher, Ministry of Ayush, Government of India, engaged the teachers in yoga exercises to improve their overall well being. The teachers practiced with the yoga instructor and learned important breathing exercises and other exercises to improve their flexibility and strength. The Principal said yoga was a form which is suitable for all age groups and exercise should be done with regularity to reap the long term benefits. She said the healthy lifestyle week has helped the teachers and made them conscious of the need to work towards their physical fitness.Innocent Hearts GroupInternational Yoga Day was celebrated with great enthusiasm at all five branches of Innocent Hearts Schools and Innocent Hearts College of Education. Teachers, parents and students showed their full enthusiasm in the one-hour session on the occasion of Yoga Day. On this occasion, the yoga session was conducted by Sonia Aron and Meena Gupta. Both are certified yoga trainers from the Ministry of AYUSH and Sri Sri School of Yoga. Sharmila Nakra, Cultural Head, Innocent Hearts Group of Institutions and Holistic Healer, welcomed the yoga instructors. Sonia Aron explained the spiritual, mental and physical benefits of yoga and mentioned that yoga is an essential part of life. Meena Gupta performed exercises, pranayama and many more yogasanas and trained the participants also. The session ended with meditation with the sound of ‘Om’. Sharmila Nakra thanked everyone and shared a message that doing Pranayama and Yoga not only keep us physically strong but also keep us optimistic and also makes the surrounding positive.St. Soldier GroupVishwa Yoga Day was celebrated by the students of St. Soldier Group of Institutions by telling about the importance of yoga in mental peace, healthy body, in which students while doing yoga at home inspired others to do yoga as well. Students performed different types of yoga. Apart from this, yoga asanas were said to be the best method to stabilise the body, control one’s thoughts and fill positive energy in the body.CT GroupKeeping the 2021’s theme “Yoga for Well Being” on mind, CT Group of Institutions, South Campus, Shahpur, held a one-hour offline yoga session in which the guest trainer Rajan Syal from Parindey academy motivated the staff members to opt for yoga. The event was graced by CT Group co-chairperson Parminder Kaur Channi, vice-chairman Harpreet Singh, and Campus Director Dr Rahul Malhotra along with a few staff members. CT Public School and CT World School held online yoga sessions in which guest trainer Mayur Ahmed, International Yoga Trainer and Haryana Governor Awardee, gave a few simple tips of yoga to remain healthy in order to strengthen the immune system in the period of Covid. Channi said: “This day is important in two ways, one is that we can dedicate this day to yoga and other is solidifying the immune system in this tough period.”Ivy World SchoolIvy World School under the aegis of the Vasal Education Society celebrated International Yoga Day. To convey the message of keeping mind and body fit through asanas. Students from various classes shared their videos and photos. On this occasion, Principal S Chauhan shared the importance and need of practising yoga to stay fit and healthy. President of Vasal Education Society KKVasal, Chairman Sanjeev Kumar Vasal, Director Ena Vasal and CEO Raghav Vasal appreciated the efforts of the students and added that the celebration of International Yoga Day was a reminder to incorporate yoga in everyday routine to enjoy a happy life.Pyramid CollegeThe day was celebrated by the Pyramid College of Business and Technology (PCBT) with great enthusiasm. Dr Sanjay Bahl, Director, PCBT, demonstrated various asanas followed by Omkar chanting. Warm up exercises were taken and performed sitting and standing asanas, importance of these were explained simultaneously. The yoga practice concluded with synchronised recitation and regular practice of yoga was encouraged as yoga reflects the union of individual consciousness. A virtual session with yog acharya on G-Meet was also held at 1130 am to bring peace, harmony, happiness and success to everyone. The session was taken by HKL Sharma, retired principal and yoga practitioner for more than 20 years. He emphasised on the importance of yoga and physical exercise for in daily lives as yoga is a mental, physical and spiritual practice that needs to be carried every day.Vajra CorpsVajra Corps Celebrated 7th International Day of Yoga on the theme ‘Yoga at Home - Yoga with Family”. Common yoga protocols including asana, pranayama and dhyana sessions were organised for all ranks and their families by Vajra Corps formations in Jalandhar, Amritsar, Ferozepur, Ludhiana and Beas Military Stations to improve physical, mental, emotional and spiritual health. All ranks and families of Vajra Corps joined the Yoga Day programme and practiced Yoga from their homes, making use of various digital platforms. At the end of the session, a pledge was taken by all participants to observe self-discipline and to abide by all advisories and protocols on Covid issued by the government. They also pledged to use yoga techniques to enhance their immunity to fight the coronavirus.HoshiarpurSports Cell of BJPOn 7th International Yoga Day, BJP Sports Cell Punjab organised a yoga camp under the chairmanship of State Convenor Dr. Raman Ghai. On this occasion, yoga was performed under the instructions of Yoga expert Dr Surabhi Sood. Vice-Chairman of Indian Red Cross Society and former MP Avinash Rai Khanna was specially present. Khanna, while addressing the people at the conclusion of the Yoga camp performing yoga daily keeps the mind calm and the body healthy.District Yoga AssociationInternational Yoga Day was organised by the District Yoga Association, Hoshiarpur, in which participants appeared online according to the national protocol. The centre of this yoga programme was Yoga Ashram located in Narayan Nagar. Under the supervision and guidance of yoga gurus Surendra Kumar, Swami Gyananand, Anita Jaswal, the participants did yoga by staying in their homes by joining online links.STC BSF Kharkan campYoga day was celebrated at STC BSF Kharkan camp in which all the officers, subordinate officers, jawans, recruits, especially female recruits and family members of staff of Subsidiary Training Centre Kharkan participated. Online yoga programme was also organised. Musical yoga was presented by a team of recruits and instructors. Essay and quiz competition awareness on yoga was organised and Sanjeev Bhanot, IG STC, BSF Kharkan rewarded the winners of essay and quiz competition. He motivated the BSF personnel and recruits to adopt yoga as a regular practice for physical fitness and mental peace. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/spreading-the-message-of-fitness-272339
22-06-2021||---||Sikh groups celebrate Gatka Divas on Yoga Day||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 21To counter the Yoga Day celebrations held across the region, activists of Shiromani Akali Dal (Amritsar) today organised Gatka Divas by displaying Sikh martial arts at various sites across the region.In city, the event was held at Guru Nanak Mission Chowk where SAD (A) leaders along with a contingent of about 25 gatka experts displayed their skills at the centre of the road intersection for about two hours this afternoon. The organiser of the event Sukhjit Singh Daroli Kalan said another event was held in the evening at Adampur. He said the idea of holding the display of gatka was to encourage the skills among the youth and to prepare them to face any kind of tyranny with full strength and vigour.He said the practice of gatka helped the youth deflect from drugs and focus more on their physical and mental abilities. He said similar events had been held all across Punjab.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sikh-groups-celebrate-gatka-divas-on-yoga-day-272340
22-06-2021||Kanya Maha Vidyalaya||Reverence for dads||Jalandhar: Kanya Maha Vidyalaya celebrated Father’s Day with much fervour. The celebrations were organised by the Department of Student Welfare. During the celebrations, KMVites expressed their love for their fathers and came up with wonderful presentations to convey gratitude to their fathers for their unconditional love. The whole event was planned by Pranavcheet and Arzoo, members of student council of KMV. During the celebration, students displayed their love and affection by designing unique posters, slogans, object paintings and also shared poems and songs dedicated to their fathers. Posters made by Aarzoo, Avleen and Gurdev Kaur along with song of Pranavcheet were appreciated a lot. Principal Prof Atima Sharma Dwivedi averred that fathers have always played a special role in each of our lives. She further maintained that their unconditional love, support and the feeling of a security blanket around us is unmatched and therefore, KMV salutes all the fathers for their sacrifices on this very special day.IVY World SchoolIVY World School organised “Father’s Day celebrations”. The virtual celebration began with a beautiful performance by tiny tots on “Papa Kehtey hai Bada Naam Karega”. The little wonders showcased their love and respect for their fathers through various activities such as card making, cooking skills with Master Chef Dish, singing, dance performances and reciting poems dedicated to fathers. A special virtual performance was conducted for father -child duo to perform on the beats of dancing songs. Fathers enthusiastically took part in all the activities despite of their busy schedule. Not only this, the fathers also took part in many games like newspaper wrapping game, balloon game, push-ups etc. The celebration concluded with fathers expressing their feelings and also appreciated the efforts of the school for the virtual celebrations. S Chauhan, Principal, Ivy World School, expressed her joy and happiness and quoted “A dad is someone who wants to catch you before you fall but instead picks you up, brushes you and let you try again”.Doaba CollegeStudent Welfare Committee of Doaba College virtually celebrated Father’s Day with the theme “Love You Papa”. The event was very unique as fathers of many students participated in this event along with 105 participants. Principal Dr Pardeep Bhandari, Doaba College Jalandhar, while sharing the screen with his father Jagmohan Bhandari, said that father adds strength and confidence in our lives and every father is a role model and superhero for their children. All the dignitaries were accorded a hearty welcome by Prof Sonia Arora and Prof Surjeet Kaur, conveners of the organising committee. Event began with dance performance by students Jyotika and Muskan. Arti expressed her adoration towards her father through handmade card and Aseem presented his emotional bond with his father through emotive letter. Meaningful fun activities were also organised during this occasion viz “Stepping Generation” game in which Parveen Rawal, father of Rashi Rawal, was declared overall winner. Varinder Singh, father of Sakshi bagged title of “Chupe Rustam – Papa”. In “Sarvagun Sampann – Papa” fathers –Harish Mahindru, Sham Lal and Darshan Singh were declared the winners.State Public SchoolState Public School, Jalandhar Cantt, never leaves any stone unturned for overall development of a child. This time to celebrate Fathers’ Day, many online activities were planned for the different classes to show their unconditional love and care for their father. On this occasion, classes Nursery to IInd shared the pictures of memorable moments with dad along with a beautiful message while students of classes IIIrd to VIth made their daddies feel special by presenting an act/dance/skit/song before them and classes VIIth to XIIth showed their token of gratitude by presenting their dads with special gift or impressed them with their cooking skills. President Dr Narotam Singh and Gagandeep Kaur along with Principal Savina Bahl appreciated the efforts done by the students and congratulated them on this occasion.Tagore’s International Smart SchoolTagore’s International Smart School commemorated Father’s Day in which the students participated enthusiastically with great zeal and zest. Management of Tagore’s educational society Dean Vinod Shashi Jain, Ruchika Jain appreciated and conveyed thanks to parents for supporting their wards in conducting different activities. To make fathers feel special, students paid reverence to their fathers by making photos frame, greetings, posters, reciting poems, dedicating songs with heartwarming expressions and doing their favourite activities accompanying their fathers. Parents appreciated the efforts of school authorities for this unique idea of involving Fathers in such celebrations. Dean Vinod Shashi Jain commended the endeavours of the guiding force and the winners and added that Tagorians are not only inclined towards academic but are all rounders. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/reverence-for-dads-272341
22-06-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||No govt purchase, farmers fail to get MSP for maize||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 21Maize crop is somehow not finding much popularity among farmers. The Agriculture Department is finding it hard to convince the farmers of Doaba — a region more suitable for the crop — to sow maize as the alternative kharif crop. Farmers say low market price, no government procurement and problems in drying the harvested produce were making it less remunerative to sow maize this season.The area under maize was down to 1.08 lakh hectares even last year and this time, as the sowing for the kharif varieties of maize has begun, the department has set a target to bring 1.5 lakh hectares under the crop. Even now, as the spring maize has started arriving in mandis, the farmers are ruing that their crop is being sold at as low as one-third of the MSP of Rs 1,850 per quintal. Since there is no government procurement, the private players are offering only Rs 600 to Rs 850 per quintal (depending on the moisture content in the crop).Director, Agriculture, SS Sidhu said, “No doubt that maize is the best alternative to paddy and we are dependent on private buyers for the price. But we can certainly hope for a better price in the days to come as some bio-asanol projects being approved by the Centre are in the pipeline and these could get set up in parts of Doaba and Majha in the near future.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/no-govt-purchase-farmers-fail-to-get-msp-for-maize-272251
