23-06-2021||To save depleting groundwater and in view of shortage of labourers for paddy sowing in the wake of Covid||‘Direct sowing of paddy helps conserve water’||Moving towards clean cookingWith the help of a team of a Phgawara gas agency, ex-council president Malkiat Singh Raghbotra organised a camp to provide free cooking gas connections to needy women under the Prime Minister Ujjawla Scheme. Women facing financial crisis and those who are dependent on wood and kerosene for cooking were helped to fill the forms. Raghbotra said a large number of forms were filled by women from various areas.Giving ‘wheels’ to differently-abledThe Begumpura Helpline Organisation distributed wheel-chairs among four physically disabled persons from underprivileged families. President of the organisation Satish Banti said the wheel-chairs were offered to residents from Mohalla Hadiayabad, Kotrani, Piparangi and Chakk Hakim. Banti said their organisation had been lending a helping a hand to the needful in the tough times. He also said any physically disabled person belonging to economically weaker family could approach them for a wheel-chair or tricycle. The vice-president of the organisation also stated that they had been providing all possible help to persons suffering from Covid. Contributed by Ajay Joshi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/direct-sowing-of-paddy-helps-conserve-water-272847
23-06-2021||Jalandhar||Cooking without fire activity in summer camp at DIPS Blooming Dales School||FDP on teaching pedagogyLyallpur Khalsa College Technical Campus organised seven-day faculty development programme on ‘Paradigm shift in teaching pedagogy due to COVID-19’. The major thrust of this faculty development programme is addressing the unprecedented challenges faced by educational systems worldwide due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The motivation towards organising this FDP was focused mainly on finding solutions to these challenges. Dr Kalyan Sahoo, (Vice Chancellor, Arni University, HP) said faculty vitality is the main ingredient to enhance professional education and competence. The 21st century is called the age of digital technologies and knowledge, therefore their needs to be a dynamic approach in imparting education. Dr R K Gupta (Vice Chancellor, Maharaja Agrasen University) also addressed the audience stating the importance of teaching pedagogy in Covid era.Father’s Day celebratedThe bond of a father and his child is unusually special and Delhi Public School made the Father’s Day celebrations all the more heartwarming by connecting the duo in a meaningful way. The string of surprises for all the dads, was infinite and the happiness on the faces of children reflected the ultimate nobility of this treasured relationship. The school celebrated the day in its own special way by asking students to honor their fathers and other father figures in their lives. The students later shared the pictures, collages and videos of their beautiful memories of the day with the school. The spirits of young students are not dampened during these unprecedented times, as was evident from the way they celebrated Father’s Day, depicting their unending love and gratitude for their fathers. Numerous activities were compiled by the school to make the day enthralling and unforgettable. The DPSites treated their fathers to their favourite breakfast treat, to kickstart the special day.New Pro V-C of Apeejay Stya varsityDr Sucharita, Director Apeejay Education Society (AES), and formerly Principal, Apeejay College of Fine Arts (ACFA), has been elevated to the post of Pro Vice Chancellor, Apeejay Stya University, Sohana. Chairman, AES and Chancellor of Apeejay Stya University Sushma Paul Berlia bestowed this honour on Dr Sucharita in recognition of her dedication and commitment to AES. Dr Sucharita has been the longest serving Principal of ACFA and during her tenure of more than 25 years she has made the college a national as well as global presence. Dr Sucharita thanked Berlia and expressing her happiness stated that she would try to fulfill her responsibility with earnestness. Dr Sucharita was congratulated by the Principals of schools and colleges under AES.Jeenat fifth in MA (History)Jeenat of Lyallpur Khalsa College Jalandhar has bagged the fifth position in the University exams of MA-History (Sem-I) by getting 304 marks out of 400 whereas Shivani bagged 9th position by getting 300 marks in the same class. This information was given in a press release by the Principal of the College Dr Gurpinder Singh Samra. He also said that the College was committed to provide quality education to its students and it would ensure all possible help to the deserving and needy students. The President of the College Governing Council Balbir Kaur congratulated the students and wished them success in life. Dr Suman Chopra, Head Department of History, Dr Amandeep Kaur, Dr Karanbir Singh and parents of the students were also present on this occasion.Hanu ist in MA (Music Vocal)The students of MA (Music Vocal) Semester-I of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya brought laurels to the institution by getting university positions. Hanu bagged 1st position with 357 marks, Ranjan got 4th position with 349 marks, Aanchal Sharma secured 5th position with 343 marks, Harpreet Kaur got 6th position with 342 marks and Anushka bagged 13th position with 326 marks. Principal Prof Dr Ajay Sareen congratulated the students, HoD Dr Prem Sagar and other faculty members of the department. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cooking-without-fire-activity-in-summer-camp-at-dips-blooming-dales-school-272841
23-06-2021||Jalandhar||Patwaris decide to give up additional charge||Members of the Revenue Patwar Union and the Revenue Kanungo Association on Monday announced to give up the additional charge (working for three to four revenue circles) other than the one directly under them.They alleged that there were 4,716 posts of patwaris, but only 1,995 had been filled and the work against the vacant posts had been assigned to them for the last many years. They said they were working without any additional perks.Harvir Singh Dhindsa, president, Revenue Patwar Union, said similar was the situation kanungos. “While there are 661 posts, only 500 have been filled. Work against the 161 vacant posts has been assigned to the existing staff,” he added.Dhindsa said under-training patwaris working at Rs 5,000 per month for the last three years were the most exploited lot. Out of 1,227 patwaris who had joined in December 2016, more than 400 left their jobs as they felt being exploited physically and financially. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/patwaris-decide-to-give-up-additional-charge-272826
23-06-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||A mix of vertical garden & Punjabi culture||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 22This house in JP Nagar has become a landmark location because of its unique style of plantation. When owner of the house, Jasreen Kaur, got it constructed around two years ago, she had it in mind that she should have a garden, which would impart it a completely different façade.“I searched a lot. I surfed the Net, made some enquiries and finally made up my mind. I went for a vertical garden, which now covers two frontal sides of our corner house. I hired a Jammu-based designer for fixing all the attachments, perforated pots, plates and do some initial plantations. Though it involved a good initial investment, but now I feel that the concept has been much appreciated by the onlookers. People have begun calling our house ‘paudhian wala ghar’ (meaning house with plantation),” said Jasreen, who is a government schoolteacher.Though the house has some little garden space within and outside the boundary wall, Jasreen tells that through the vertical garden concept, she has been able to raise as many as 1,900 plants, mostly short bushy evergreen varieties and creepers – wandering jew and jade without using an inch of space.“Metal attachments have fixed all detachable pots along the outer walls of the house. There is no hassle at all when it comes to watering plants. Within four to five minutes, all the plants get watered through drip irrigation. I just have to switch on a tap, supervise randomly if all the plants have got enough water and switch it off. As soon as this process gets over, I can feel some coolness in the outer area of my house as perhaps the walls also get sprinkled with water leading to dissipation of the heat.”Jasreen takes us to the room of her twin daughters ¬- Jazel Nandan and Jazika Nandan - and draws the blinds to show natural light and view of foliage from windows. “We put flowering plants in the pots visible on the vertical walls through this window. It brightens up their room,” she beams.Jasreen’s lawn area within the boundary wall is special. She has given a touch of Punjabi culture to it. “We have got the walls thatched with mud to give it a look of rural Punjab. We have put up cots and enjoy the evening breeze lying down here. We also have fixed some Punjabi artefacts on the walls, including hand fans, small charpoys amd sieves. We do barbecue in this section of our house and our friends like to sit out here and have fun,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/a-mix-of-vertical-garden-punjabi-culture-272824
23-06-2021||---||‘Zoomanians’ make the most of world virtual competitions||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 22The PG Department of Journalism and Mass Communication of Doaba College organised the Zoomia World Online Competition. Dr Simran Sidhu and Prof Priya Chopra along with other faculty facilitated the 150 students for participating in the virtual competitions. For this event, a virtual ‘Zoomia World’ was created by the department in which all participants ‘zoomanians’ were taken on exciting rounds of competitions.Principal Dr Pardeep Bhandari said in this era of online teaching and learning through platforms like Zoom, the words “Zoomia World” and “Zoomanians”, as coined by the department, would soon be recognised globally.Kalpana, a second year student of Bachelors in Journalism and Mass Communication, hosted the whole event, enacting as the pilot of this virtual space ship. An online RJying Competition was conducted through Zoom, in which a word was given to participants to show their creativity. The competition was hosted by Tarun, a HNI TV news anchor, an ex-student of the department. Other segments, “Main aur meri dadi” and “Khat ke zariye”, one of the categories of the competition under “Me…Media…Message” were presented by Gurmeet and Meetali, both students of the department.The selected works from the categories, “Main aur meri dadi” and “Khat ke zariye”, which would be broadcasted in an audio form in future on the community Radio, “Radio Raabta 90.8 MHz”. The students were also encouraged to participate in other competitions, including frozen frame and slogan writing. Gaurav Maini, alias RJ Garry MY FM, an alumnus, answered various questions of eager participants and shared tips related to the Radio Industry and also on ways to attain success as an RJ.A special workshop on ‘Acting and voice modulation’ was conducted by Prof Deepak Sharma. The entire faculty and students Rashi, Kanika and Aseem made their substantial contribution in conducting the event.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/zoomanians-make-the-most-of-world-virtual-competitions-272823
23-06-2021||---||Events organised to mark three years of autonomy to Kanya Maha Vidyalaya in Jalandhar||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 22Kanya Maha Vidyalaya organised a “Commemoration” event to celebrate successful completion of three years of autonomy. The celebrations were organised to pay homage to the founding father of Kanya Maha Vidyalaya — Lala Devraj.Various academicians and dignitaries, including Arya Shiksha Mandal president Chander Mohan, KMV Managing Committee vice-president Dr Sushma Chawla, general secretary Alok Sondhi, secretary Dr Sushma Chopra, member Nirja Chander Mohan, treasurer Dhruv Mittal, Udaipur Maharana Pratap University of Agriculture and Technology former Vice-Chancellor Dr Sarabjit Singh Chahal, Jagat Guru Nanak Dev Punjab State Open University Vice-Chancellor Dr Karamjeet Singh, Dr GS Brar from Joint DPI Colleges, Dr NS Tung and Dr Mandeep Kaur from Guru Nanak Dev University, New Delhi Lady Shri Ram College of Commerce Principal Dr Suman Sharma, UGC Education Officer Dr Nikhil, and Dr A Nirmala, former Principal and Secretary, Ethiraj College, Chennai, were present on the occasion.Principal Dr Atima Sharma Dwivedi said the celebration was important as it marked the successful completion of three years of autonomy of KMV- the first and only autonomous women college in Punjab.During her presentation, Dr Dwivedi eloquently explained various academic reforms that had been initiated at KMV under autonomy. Prof Dwivedi also acquainted everyone with all new age programmes, including Honours programmes and various value added courses, offered only at KMV much to the benefit of the students. Dr Dwivedi also expressed her heartfelt gratitude to Dr Jaspal Sandhu, Vice-Chancellor, Guru Nanak Dev University, for constantly guiding and mentoring KMV at every step. The Arya Shiksha Mandal president also congratulated the KMV family on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/events-organised-to-mark-three-years-of-autonomy-to-kanya-maha-vidyalaya-in-jalandhar-272822
23-06-2021||Garhshankar||Driver held with 40-kg poppy husk||Mishap: 1 booked for negligenceGarhshankar: Sandeep Singh, a combine operator, sleeping in front of his combine parked at a petrol pump in Chauhra village on the Garhshankar-Banga main road was crushed to death due to accidental running of the combine on Monday night. Victim’s brother Jaspal Singh told the police that his brother Sandeep Singh (27) was a combine operator and Malkit Singh, alias Bagga, a resident of Khanjan Nagar in Lakhimpur Kheeri district (UP) was working with his brother. On Monday night, Malkit Singh drove the combine over Sandeep Singh and fled the spot. Seriously injured Sandeep was taken to the Civil Hospital, Garhshankar, where he succumbed. The police have registered a case of death due to negligence against Malkit Singh and handed over the body to relatives after the postmortem. OCHajipur team win cricket tourneyGarhshankar: Hajipur village team defeated Rampur Bilron team by eight runs in the final match of the 4th Baba Mir Hussain Cricket Tournament held in Sauli village. Pankaj Kripal, co-chairman of the Punjab Pradesh Congress Legal Cell, was the chief guest and distributed prizes to the players. Kripal called upon the youth to pay attention to sports and quit drugs. He said, “We have already distributed gym kits to about 80 youth clubs in Garhshankar and now soon more gym kits will be distributed to 100 youth clubs.” He also announced a grant of Rs5 lakh for constructing rooms of village elementary school. OCMan booked in dowry caseHoshiarpur: The Bullowal police have booked Amit Kumar, a resident of Shalimar Nagar here, in a dowry harassment case. According to information, Vandana, a resident of Muradpur Guru Ka village, in her complaint to the police alleged that after marriage her husband Amit started harassing her demanding more dowry. She said that when the demand was not fulfilled, the accused harassed her and threw her out of the house. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/driver-held-with-40-kg-poppy-husk-272821
23-06-2021||---||Jalandhar students excel in NTSE||Jalandhar, June 22Dimpalvir, a Class XI (medical stream) student of Cambridge International School, Chhoti Baradari, has brought laurels as he stood first in the district and second in Punjab in the National Talent Search Examination (Stage 1), the result of which was declared on Tuesday.A resident of Master Tara Singh Nagar, Dimpalvir, scored 193 out of 200 marks. Like his parents, he too wants to become a doctor.His father Dr Tarunvir, mother Dr Neeru and family members Kulwinder Gakhal and Kulwant Gakhal said they were now concentrating to ensure that he prepares well for the next stage.Another student, Dhruv Aggarwal, who aspires to be an engineer, attained the fourth rank in the NTSE in Jalandhar and stands at 36th position in the state. A non-medical Class XI student from Swami Sant Dass School, Dhruv scored 180 marks out of 200. His father Sumit Aggarwal is a businessman while his mother Sumit Aggarwal is a housewife. Dhruv said he had taken offline examination set up at the government school in December last week and was since then hopeful of a good result.Students of MGN Public School, Urban Estate, too have qualified the NTSE. Man Agochar Singh has got 173 marks. Gunjan has scored 165 marks and Pratham Onkar Singh has obtained 162 marks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-students-excel-in-ntse-272818
23-06-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Shot-putter Tajinder Pal Singh Toor has a Jalandhar connect||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 22As Punjab’s shot-putter Tajinder Pal Singh Toor (26) qualified for the Tokyo Olympics with an Asian and national record throw at the Indian Grand Prix 4 in Patiala on Monday, The Tribune takes a look at his Jalandhar connection.Toor had started taking training under his coach Mohinder Singh Dhillon at Jalandhar Sports College in 2014. He was introduced to the coach by his paternal uncle who was also a sportsperson. The coaches have an eye for everything, they can recognise the talent in a player and then give it a new shape with their magical hands and same thing happened with Toor.When Dhillon first met Toor, he found out that Toor had a good physique to be a sportsperson, but was comparatively low on strength. The coach started with rigorous training and there came a time when Toor surprised Dhillon and his uncle by developing great strength and would do number of bench press in a day, which was impossible for others to believe.“I have always believed that if you are determined enough, you will achieve your goal and will surprise others,” said Dhillon, adding that during initial days, performance of Toor went down, but his hard work made him scale new heights.While sharing another interesting fact about Toor, the coach said the shot-putter was always inclined towards javelin throw. “When Toor started, he used to share his love towards javelin throw,” he said.Dhillon has been associated with Toor since long and provides him training at present as well. He said youngsters get motivated after players make it to Olympics.“The Athletics Federation of India has been helping players to excel. It’s because of the efforts of the federation that even during the pandemic, events have been organised and our players got a chance to showcase their talent,” said Dhillon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/shot-putter-tajinder-pal-singh-toor-has-a-jalandhar-connect-272810
23-06-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Doing real-time practicals online made easy, thanks to simulation softwares||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 22As colleges have been conducting online classes for the last 16 months and many students across the region failed to attend even a single practical class, the educational institutions have started exploring means to ensure that the Covid-19 affected batches do not remain at loss.Recently, colleges have started organising virtual practical classes for students by deploying available softwares in the market to give students the best possible hands-on-experience and real-like simulation effects.The management of Lovely Professional University said they have bought softwares from companies-based in the US and Bengaluru to take practical classes of students through simulation.Aman Mittal, Additional Director Public Relations, LPU, said, “We have got softwares on topics related to electronics, modulation of machinery, IT and chemistry. Softwares are giving students a good virtual laboratory experience in handling machinery, lab apparatus and IT gadgets. These have good 3D effects and have made students much familiar with practical aspects of topics that they are studying. In chemistry, they can do all experiments, including titration and use of reagents via these softwares. When they have to boil something, they can see vapours exactly in the time they would do if they were in chemistry laboratory. If there is to be a colour change, this, too, will show up virtually for better understanding and memorisation of students.”Mittal said, “For the last more than one year, priorities in investments for the university have changed completely. Since we do not have students at the moment, we have not invested on any physical asset. Instead, we are working on upgrade of the online education system. Our hotel management faculty has been engaged in making best videos on cookery for a better demonstration, but there are certain topics in almost all streams for which we do not have available means at the moment for proper online teaching. We are deferring classes of all such subjects to the subsequent semesters for we hope that we will be able to develop better means to handle them in another few months.”The authorities at Dr BR Ambedkar National Institute of Technology, too, are mulling to have practical classes through simulation softwares soon. Dr LK Awasthi, Director, NIT, said: “Though we are expecting colleges to open after a few weeks, we cannot be sure as to how and for what duration students could be on campus. Some students from far off areas might not be able to join in time, even though we have been asking all of them to get vaccinated and be prepared for a possibility of offline classes in the near future. In any case, we need to focus on practical classes of the students for we do not want the current batches of students to look like laggards with nil experience when they enter the industry. Thus, we will soon be starting virtual laboratory classes for them.”Likewise, authorities at Lyallpur Khalsa College Technical Campus, have started providing students workshops on business simulation. “Recently, we invited IIM Indore alumni Ashish Kumar, who is also running a business simulation company ‘Bizaga’. He made students practice business simulation games on topics related to pricing, advertising and production, among others. The workshop enhanced practical skills of students and taught them to run a company as a CEO in virtual environment, without involving any risk and inculcated in them entrepreneurship skills,” said Dr Inderpal Singh, HoD, Lyallpur Khalsa College.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/doing-real-time-practicals-online-made-easy-thanks-to-simulation-softwares-272800
23-06-2021||Ajay Joshi||Hope amid gloom: His mettle, elbow crutch keep him going||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 22Lockdown pushed many people to extreme poverty and brought with it many unprecedented challenges amid pandemic. However, what remained the only constant amid these gloomy times was the ‘hope’ to bring life back on track.Shiv Kumar, a 32-year-old physically disabled educationist, is doing his bit to turn the tide in his favour. After graduating from the National Institute of Technology (NIT) Jalandhar, in 2012, little did he know that his disability would be such a major disadvantage for him in bagging a job in any company though he had secured a good All-India Rank in the entrance exam.Thereafter, he started giving tuitions to engineering aspirants and also joined a private coaching centre in Kota to teach students in order to stay afloat.After gaining some experience, Shiv, a native of Jharkhand, returned to Jalandhar in 2015, to start afresh. Subsequently, he opened his own coaching centre WIIT-JEE (Way to IIT) near Maqsudan. While his family members stay back in Jharkhand, he says the only support he has is his mental strength and his elbow crutch. His only aim is to prepare students to clear entrance exams for engineering and medical colleges.However, things went topsy-turvy after the outbreak of Covid. “In these four years, I never faced such hard times. Most of the students have left the coaching centre. While we also switched gears but offline classes were my USP. We are now finding it hard to keep the coaching centre running. But, teaching is my only passion which I developed over the years, hence I will continue to teach,” added Shiv, who is now struggling to get students. Strong-willed Shiv doesn’t consider his disability (an undergrown leg, which couldn’t be cured medically) to be an obstacle in fulfilling his dreams.Shiv gave employment to othersA native of Jharkhand, Shiv Kumar returned to Jalandhar in 2015 and opened his own coaching centre WIIT-JEE (Way to IIT) near Maqsudan. He managed to become independent and even give job to others. His only aim is to prepare students to clear entrance exams after Class XII.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hope-amid-gloom-his-mettle-elbow-crutch-keep-him-going-272796
23-06-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Covid hits family income, girls help parents make ends meet in Jalandhar||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 22Two teenaged girls here reach their place of work ahead of time only to do extra work and lend a helping hand to their families amid pandemic.Rajni and Manpreet Kaur, both 19, are studying and working simultaneously to improve the economic condition of their families. Two months ago, Rajni lost her father to a severe lung infection. After his death, she took the responsibility to earn for her family and help out her mother who runs a small dhaba, the work of which has been severely affected due to Covid.Enrolled for graduation in fashion designing, she makes cushion covers, designer bags and masks using old clothes. She has joined an NGO, Sardar Ajit Singh Foundation Society, which in collaboration with Jalandhar Municipal Corporation has started a special project for girls under the National Urban Livelihood Mission. Under the mission, the MC would help the girls in selling their items.The project is named “Harian Chidian” (Green sparrows) under which the NGO aims to enrol 100 girls who want to help their families in making ends meet.“The source of income was completely shaken after my father’s death. So, after I passed out of Class 12, I wanted to do a job and my teacher advised me to join this NGO. Now, I am working and have gained confidence that I will be of some help to my family,” Rajni said.Manpreet Kaur, daughter of a foreman who doesn’t earn much, also observed that amid the pandemic it was not easy for the father to feed the family. Just out of Class 12, she took admission in BSc and started working.“I enjoy making completely new and pretty items by using the old ones. Also, I have seen my family struggling, which is why last month I decided to do the job,” she said.NGO president Ramanpreet Kaur said both girls were sincere and when they shared their stories with her, she felt they were in dire need of help.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-hits-family-income-girls-help-parents-make-ends-meet-in-jalandhar-272794
23-06-2021||---||Covid-19 pandemic: Jalandhar district records 36 fresh cases, two fatalities||Jalandhar, June 22The district on Tuesday reported 36 fresh cases and two deaths. With this the tally and toll has increased to 62,515 and 1,463, respectively. This is second time after the outbreak of second wave that the daily cases have been recorded lowest i.e. in two digits at 36. Moreover, the active cases have also dropped to 505. As many as 60547 patients have recovered for the deadly virus.One dies in HoshiarpurWith 26 fresh positive cases, the district tally rose to 30,289 in Hoshiarpur on Tuesday. Also, with one more death, the toll has increased to 961. Health authorities said with the collection of 2,916 new samples, the total number of samples taken in the district till date has reached 6,40,615. As per the reports received from the lab, 6,09,652 were negative, while 3,771 reports were still awaited and 710 were invalid.Of the 2,465 reports received today, 24 fresh cases have been traced, while two are reported from other districts. The number of active cases is 318, while the number of patients who have recovered is 29,010. The patient who died today is a 95-year-old woman of Purheeran locality in Hoshiarpur.Except 1, zero cases from Nawanshahr blocksNawanshahr district today reported one fresh case and death of a 75-year-old woman of Muzaffarpur block today. The only case was reported from the Balchaur block while all other blocks reported zero cases. At present, there are 91 active cases and 77 are under home isolation. The district tally is 11,367 (4.66 per cent) while the recovery rate has crossed 96 per cent. The number of deaths now stands at 353 (3.10 per cent). At present, there are 10 vaccination sites in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-19-pandemic-jalandhar-district-records-36-fresh-cases-two-fatalities-272611
23-06-2021||Ajay Joshi||2nd green fungus case in Jalandhar in 3 days||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 22In less than a week, Punjab reported its second case of green fungus. A 43-year-old patient, who had recovered from Covid on June 3, was diagnosed with the disease on Monday.A resident of Rehru village, the patient had tested positive for Covid in May and recovered on June 3. Complaining of constant cough, low-grade fever and blood in sputum, he was re-admitted to Sacred Heart Hospital at Maqsoodan on June 14.While the patient is stable and taking treatment for green fungus, also known as aspergillosis, Dr Ashutosh Dhanuka, consultant and pulmonologist, Critical Care Centre, Sacred Heart Hospital, said, “The patient was earlier hospitalised after testing Covid positve. He had stayed in the hospital for 16 days after which he was discharged. However, the patient again visited the hospital for persistent cough and fever. Since, the patient was a follow-up case of severe coronavirus infection, a series of medical investigations like bronchoscopy and microbial cultures were performed. The patient was found positive for green fungus. The patient isn’t on life support but taking into account the seriousness of the disease, he is under strict monitoring”.After a 61-year-old patient was diagnosed with green fungus on June 19 at the hospital, this is the second case reported after three days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/2nd-green-fungus-case-in-jalandhar-in-3-days-272739
