24-06-2021||District and Sessions Judge-cum-District Legal Services Authority chairman Kanwaljit Singh Bajwa released 19 parrots at the Judicial Complex which were illegally kept at a farm house and were recovered in a raid conducted recently. Notably||Nawanshahr Diary: Wings of freedom||Challans no deterrentPeople can be seen wandering on streets without wearing a mask and issuing of challans to Covid norms’ violators everyday is not serving the purpose in Nawanshahr. Not only this, even mandatory sample collection of violators for RT-PCR tests is also proving to be a no deterrent. The number of offenders in the district is increasing on daily basis.Combating drug menaceDeputy Commissioner Dr Shena Aggarwal reviewed the progress of the anti-drug campaign in the district during a meeting with the district team. She also reviewed the programmes such as ‘Buddy’ and Drug Free India campaign. The DC directed all concerned departments to expedite their anti-drug awareness activities. The officials of the employment department were asked to provide maximum self-employment opportunities to the drug addicts so that they could be integrated into the mainstream of the society and the officers of the Sports and Youth Services Department were asked to draw up programmes through youth clubs to motivate the youth towards sports and other constructive activities so that they don’t fall prey to malpractices of drug abuse. The DC also directed to increase the number of drug-free villages in the district. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nawanshahr-diary-wings-of-freedom-273316
24-06-2021||Jalandhar||Jalandhar: ‘HMV- A nursery of Olympians’||Online slogan-writing competitionIn a series of activities held to commemorate the 400th Prakash Purb of Guru Teg Bahadur, an inter-department online sketching and slogan writing competition was held at Guru Nanak Dev University Regional Campus at Ladhewali. Students from various departments of the campus participated enthusiastically in the competition and showcased their creativity. The theme of the competition was on the life and teachings of the ninth Sikh Guru. The slogans were mainly taken from the Bani of the Guru. Nishant, Swamjit Kaur and Harman from the Department of Laws, bagged the first, second and third positions, respectively. Amandeep Kaur from the same department was given a consolation prize. Jyoteesh Malhotra, Associate Dean of the Campus, said the teachings of the Guru are relevant even in the modern times and students should learn from his life and teachings.Webinar on women empowermentKapurthala: In a webinar organised by the Public Administration Department of Hindu Kanya College on ‘Women empowerment at grassroot level’, Madhya Pradesh Institute of Social Sciences Research Director Dr Yatinder Singh Sisodia put light on various challenges and options relating to women empowerment. Addressing the national-level webinar which was attended by over 200 participants, Dr Sisodia said empowered women can bring noticeable change in society and several studies across the country have substantiated this fact. In the areas, which are governed by women, the social vices are under control. He said women should be given free hand to take decisions and society should back their decisions. Dr Sisodia exhorted all women to participate actively in politics and refrain from becoming name-sake representatives only. He put light on different provisions of the Constitution which ensure women empowerment and highlighted the reasons behind the shortcomings.World Olympic Day observedKanya Maha Vidyalaya observed International Olympic Day with much fervour and enthusiasm. The celebrations were organised by the Department of Physical Education. During the celebrations, KMVites expressed their love for sports and came up with wonderful presentations to convey the significance of sports in everybody’s life. During the celebration, students conveyed their message by designing unique posters and slogans and they also shared video messages depicting the importance of physical fitness. Principal Prof. (Dr.) Atima Sharma Dwivedi averred that sports is an essential part of our life as it helps in maintaining the physical, mental and spiritual health of a person and therefore, KMV salutes all the sports person for their relentless dedication on this very special day. She averred that players at KMV are provided many facilities which include free education, hostel, mess and transport facilities. They avail a lot from state of the art infrastructure comprising gymnasium, health club, swimming pool and sprawling playgrounds. Principal lauded the efforts of Department of Physical Education for successfully organising the celebrations. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-hmv-a-nursery-of-olympians-273315
24-06-2021||Jalandhar||Jalandhar teacher in Malaysian event||Two teachers from the state have been selected for the online Malaysian Technical Cooperation Programme for 'Digital Tools to Develop Basic English Language Proficiency', being organised by the Malaysian Government.Rohit Singh Saini, English lecturer from Government Senior Secondary School, Qadianwali, Jalandhar, is one of the two teachers who has got selected. These teachers will participate in the scheduled virtual training programme organised by the Malaysian Government. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-teacher-in-malaysian-event-273314
24-06-2021||Our Correspondent||Five arrested with drugs in Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur, June 23The district police arrested five persons, including a woman, and seized intoxicants from them.According to information, cops at the Model Town police station arrested Jagtar Singh, alias Lambad, a resident of near Civil Hospital and seized 35 gm of intoxicating powder from him.The police of Chabbewal arrested Badial village resident Baljit Bhatti and seized 26 gm of heroin from him. The Garhshankar police arrested Sandeep Kaur of Denowal Khurd and seized 30 gm of intoxicating powder from her, while the Mehtiana police arrested Amritpal Singh, a resident of Khanaura, and seized 20 gm of heroin from him.Meanwhile, the Dasuya police seized a large quantity of sedative pills from Gulshan Kumar, a resident of New Civil Lines.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/five-arrested-with-drugs-in-hoshiarpur-273313
24-06-2021||---||Jalandhar students shine in NTSE||Jalandhar, June 23Harshit of Innocent Hearts School, Green Model Town, has cleared the Stage 1 of the National Talent Search Examination (NTSE) conducted by the National Council of Education. The Level 2 exam will be taken in October. Around 40,000 children appeared for the exam in Punjab. Principal Rajiv Paliwal congratulated Harshit and his parents and wished him luck for the Level 2 examination.Three students of Police DAV Public School have also cleared Stage 1 of the NTSE. The efforts of the three students of Class X — Suryansh Rathore, Mayank Kumar and Gargi Natta — and their mentor Sunita Pardesi were lauded by Principal Dr Rashmi Vij.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-students-shine-in-ntse-273312
24-06-2021||Jalandhar||Girls learn robot assembling in Jalandhar||The Innovation Hub of Pushpa Gujral Science City in collaboration with the National Council of Science Museums organised a two-day workshop on robotics. More than 50 girl students from across the state participated in the workshop.Dr Neelima Jerath, Director General, Science City, giving introductory remarks at the occasion said robotics is one of the most innovative and promising technologies that is going to find its place in almost all applications of the future. Further, workshops serve as an effective platform for the school and college girl students to take their first step in robotics. She also emphasised on the need to promote girl students in the field of robotics. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/girls-learn-robot-assembling-in-jalandhar-273311
24-06-2021||Jalandhar||‘Govt claims of uninterrupted electricity supply fell flat’||A delegation of farmers under the Kirti Kisan Union and the Doaba Kisan Sangharsh Committee met the Powercom officials of Kartarpur division against the erratic supply of the electricity. Farmers demanded adequate power supply to be ensured for the motors at farms and the current cuts being imposed to be stopped. XEN Powercom assured farmers on their demands. The twin farm unions however threatened of a widespread struggle if their demand were not met.Kirti Kisan Union leader Jagroop Singh said the promises of the government to ensure adequate power supply to farm motors during paddy season has proven to be false. He said with the state government and the Powercom in deep slumber, various villages were facing enormous power cuts during the most critical season.He said feeders associated with Bidhipur, Lidhran, Ambian Tohfa and Cheema were impacting about a dozen villages where farm motors were being adversely impacted due to only four hours of power supply. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/govt-claims-of-uninterrupted-electricity-supply-fell-flat-273308
24-06-2021||---||Standard of women’s hockey witnesses a decline in Punjab||Jalandhar, June 23Surjit Hockey Academy on Wednesday celebrated International Olympic Day here at Surjit Hockey Stadium, Burlton Park. The celebrations kicked off the International Olympic Day with a cake cut by players and the office-bearers of the academy.Surjit Academy celebrates Int’l Olympic DayDronacharya Awardee and Olympian Rajinder Singh (Junior), who recently got appointed as the Chief Hockey Coach by the Punjab Government, congratulated all the players on this day. Expressing concern over the falling standard of women’s hockey in Punjab, he said the Department of Sports, Punjab, would soon take up hockey at the grass-root level in the state with full planning so that more Punjabi players can make their place in the Indian hockey team.Harjot Kaur of Surjit Hockey Academy also read a paper on International Olympic Day on the occasion. Earlier, the players paid tributes to late Milkha Singh and his wife Nirmal Milkha Singh.Speaking on the occasion, Surjit Hockey Society general secretary Iqbal Singh Sandhu said Punjab led the country in hockey but the selection of only one player Gurjit Kaur in Indian women team for Olympics-2021 is a testament to the sharp decline in the level of women’s hockey in Punjab. As many as nine players are in Olympic hockey squad from neighbouring state Haryana.Sandhu said Government Senior (Girls) Secondary School, Nehru Garden, Jalandhar, had been running the country’s leading girls hockey training centre for almost 40 years now and Olympian and International players like Nisha Sharma, Harpreet Kaur, Ajinder Kaur, Rajni Sharma, Surjit Bajwa, Sharanjit Kaur and Rajbir Kaur are the products of this hockey centre.Apart from producing Olympians, international and national athletes, Punjab had the honour of winning the highest number of national championships till 2016, but this excellent hockey centre got permanently closed in 2016.Sandhu said a hockey academy for girls should be established in Jalandhar without any further delay. He also demanded that an experienced woman hockey coach should be appointed to impart hockey training who could better understand the difficulties of the women players.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/standard-of-womens-hockey-witnesses-a-decline-in-punjab-273307
24-06-2021||Jalandhar||Man crushed to death by truck in Jalandhar||2K litres of lahan seized, destroyedHoshiarpur: In a joint operation, a team of the Dasuya police and Excise Department seized 2,000 litres of lahan in the Mand area from the banks of the river Beas. According to information, acting on a tip-off, the joint team conducted a raid near Saidowal village and seized 2,000 liters of lahan hidden on the river bank. The lahan was destroyed on the spot and an FIR under the Excise Act was registered against unidentified accused. OCCell phone found from jail barrackHoshiarpur: The Central Jail administration during a search found a mobile phone from the jail barrack. The city police have registered a case. Assistant superintendent Surinder Kumar in a complaint lodged with the police station city said the jail administration, after a tip-off, conducted a search in barrack number 20 and found a mobile phone, without SIM card, hidden in a bag on the roof inside the barrack. The city police have lodged an FIR under Section 52-A of the Prisons Act against unidentified accused. OCF&CC meeting tomorrowJalandhar: The Finance and Contract Committee (F&CC) meeting of the Jalandhar Municipal Corporation will be held on June 25. The meeting will be attended by Senior Deputy Mayor Surinder Kaur, Deputy Mayor Harsimranjit Singh Bunty and members of the committee councillors Gian Chand and Gurwinderpal Singh Bunty Nilkanth. The proposals include the installation of decorative light and poles on Maqsudan flyover from the service lane towards Maqsudan Chowk, repair and maintenance of Company Bagh, and providing and laying of sewer line at various areas in the city. TNSRegistrations for scanning centresJalandhar: A meeting of the advisory committee of the PC-PNDT Act was held here on Wednesday at the Civil Surgeon’s office. During the meeting, deliberations took place on the agenda for the applications received for the registration for scanning centres. Four scanning centres applied for new registrations, of which three of them were given clearance on the unanimous nod of the committee members. One application has been kept pending. TNSIKGPTU signs MoUKapurthala: With an objective of imparting high academic knowledge to the students and faculty, IK Gujral Punjab Technical University (IKGPTU) has signed another foreign MoU with University of South Alabama of United States of America. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/man-crushed-to-death-by-truck-in-jalandhar-273300
24-06-2021||Jalandhar||Cousin rapes 4-year-old in Jalandhar village, held||An incident of a four-year-old girl’s rape by her 23-year-old cousin on Tuesday has shocked residents of the Bhogpur town.The accused is learnt to be living with his uncle (chacha) after the demise of his parents. He had reportedly got hooked to drugs but unaware of his wrong habits, the girl’s parents left her at his mercy at home. When the parents returned, they found their daughter lying unconscious on the bed in a pool of blood while her cousin went absconding. The girl narrated the whole story to her parents who lodged the complaint immediately.SHO Manjit Singh said the accused had been arrested. “He was hiding locally but we have nabbed him. He will be produced in the court on Thursday. The medical examination of the victim too has been conducted today,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cousin-rapes-4-year-old-in-jalandhar-village-held-273298
24-06-2021||Our Correspondent||FIR registered after a month in bike theft cases in Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur, June 23Four motorcycles were stolen from the Talwara-Hajipur area by unidentified thieves and it took around a month for the Talwara and the Hajipur police to register FIRs for the said thefts.According to information, Thakur Chand, a resident of Bhatoli, had parked his motorcyle at Adda Chaudhary Da Bagh on May 19. When he came back the bike was not there. Balvir Singh of Sawar village had parked his motorcycle outside his quarter on May 11, but when he returned from duty at 11 pm, the bike was not there. The Talwara police have registered two FIRs in this regard against unidentified persons on June 22.Gurpreet Chand, a resident of Nikku Chakk village, complained to the Hajipur police that he had parked his motorcycle outside a house at Sibbo Chakk turn near Radha Krishna palace in the morning of June 7. When he came back in the afternoon his bike was not there. Amjad Khan of Sibbo Chakk told the police that he had parked his bike at Rally turn in the morning of June 12. In the afternoon at 2 pm, he found that someone had stolen his bike. The Hajipur police have registered two FIRs in this regard against unidentified persons on June 22.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/fir-registered-after-a-month-in-bike-theft-cases-in-hoshiarpur-273297
24-06-2021||---||ICMR conducts sero survey in Jalandhar's Shahkot block||Jalandhar, June 23The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) conducted sero survey at Nimazipur village in Shahkot block of Jalandhar, in which blood samples of 40 villagers were taken. The survey is being done to find out the population that contracted the virus and developed antibodies. The villagers whose samples were taken also included children from 5-18 years of age.Samples of four kids in the 6-9 age group were taken and eight samples of 10-17 age group were also taken.Also, after six months the block did not report even a single Covid case. Block Extension Educator Chandan Mishra said since February till May end, 15-20 cases were being reported from the block on an everyday basis, but now the situation has improved. There are 63 active cases in the block at present.Dr AS Duggal, Senior Medical Officer (SMO), said the cases had definitely declined. “Earlier, cases were detected during rapid antigen tests, but now the cases are less,” he said, adding that one positive change he has witnessed is that people are now coming forward to get themselves vaccinated and there is no more fear and scare among them. “If we look at the trend in starting, there were several apprehensions, which are now going away with time,” he said.Regarding the third wave, he said people shouldn’t become careless again now after the cases have fallen down. “The main problem is the lackadaisical attitude of the people,” the SMO said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/icmr-conducts-sero-survey-in-jalandhars-shahkot-block-273294
24-06-2021||---||Where is promised 8-hour power supply, ask farmers||Jalandhar, June 23Quite against the tall claims of the government of providing an eight-hour promised power supply, farmers in many parts of the district claimed to be getting the electricity for only five-six hours a day. The unscheduled power cuts amid kharif season have been subsequently delaying the sowing of paddy. Apart from this, the farmers also complained of non-functional helpline numbers of Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL).Rana Singh, a farmer at Lidhran villageForget about supplying power to irrigate our fields, even the domestic supply remains disrupted throughout the day. The government had assured to provide uninterrupted power supply between 10 pm and 6 am, however, due to unscheduled power cuts, the timings have reduced from 11pm to 5.30 am.It has been 13 days since the paddy sowing season kicked off this year across the state. Considering the consumption of water required to prepare the fields for sowing the crop, the PSPCL officials had assured to provide minimum eight hours of continuous power supply to the farmers. However, the water pumps run dry during the scheduled time. Rana Singh, a farmer at Lidhran village said, “Forget about supplying power to irrigate our fields, even the domestic supply remains disrupted throughout the day. The government had assured to provide uninterrupted power supply between 10 pm to 6 am, however, due to unscheduled power cuts, the timings have reduced to 11pm to 5.30 am. Even during these six hours, supply remains disrupted.”Before the onset of monsoon, water pumps are used to irrigate the fields where paddy saplings are transplanted. The paddy needs standing water for growth, but cultivators are finding it difficult to plant saplings. Sometimes, finding labour in the early hours also becomes a tiring task.“On one hand, the Agriculture Department is asking us to go for direct sowing of paddy, on the other, the marginalised farmers don’t even get the basic requirements. Farmers do not ask for anything, but need power supply so that they can produce grains, which is also not given to them,” rued Palwinder Singh alias Pala, another farmer who wakes up at four in the morning to prepare his fields. The pumps can’t be run many a time due to outages.Farmers are a distressed lot but the Agriculture Department and the government is doing nothing. The agriculture unions also confirmed that they have been receiving complaints from farmers on frequent power cuts. “If the power supply snaps during the paddy plantation time, the electricity board should ideally compensate for it the following day by giving additional hours of power equal to the time of cut imposed the previous day. Unfortunately, the electricity board workers don’t even come to repair the faulty transformers on time,” said Balwinder Waraich, a farm leader.While sources inside the Electricity Department claimed that due to the unfulfilled demands, the department has shortage of workers, the PSPCL officials didn’t respond even after several attempts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/where-is-promised-8-hour-power-supply-ask-farmers-273293
24-06-2021||---||Covid-19 Pandemic: 7 deaths, 51 cases reported in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, June 23With cases subsiding steadily for the past many days, Jalandhar however, reported a whopping seven deaths today. With 51 fresh Covid cases reported today, the district tally increased to 62,566. Seven Covid deaths, reported today, have pushed the district toll to 1,470. As many as 60,619 people have recovered from Covid while the number of active cases is 477.Two die in KapurthalaKapurthala today reported 30 fresh cases, with which the district tally has increased to 17,532. Two people died of the deadly virus in the district today. The deceased at Kapurthala today include a 42-year-old woman from Gopipur village and a 60-year-old man from Phagwara. The total deaths in Kapurthala have reached 535.One dies in HoshiarpurThe district reported one more Covid fatality on Wednesday, taking the toll to 962, while 23 fresh cases pushed the infection count in the district to 30,312. With 2,976 new samples of people with suspected flu-like symptoms collected today, total number of samples taken in the district so far has reached to 6,43,591. According to the reports received from the lab, 6,13,563 samples were found to be negative, while the report of 2,815 samples is awaited and 710 samples were invalid. Health officials said the number of active cases was 296, while the number of patients who have recovered is 29,054.Recovery rate 96% in Nawanshahr Nawanshahr district today reported three fresh cases and a death of a 52-year-old man of Mukandpur block today. Sujjon, Mukandpur and Balachaur blocks reported one case each. At present, there are 67 active cases and 55 are under home isolation. The district tally is 11,370 (4.64 per cent) while the recovery rate has crossed 96 per cent. The number of deaths now stands at 354 (3.11 per cent).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-19-pandemic-7-deaths-51-cases-reported-in-jalandhar-district-273292
24-06-2021||---||Jobs to MLAs’ sons: AAP stages protest outside MP Santokh Chaudhary’s residence in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, June 23Activists of the Aam Aadmi Party today held a protest against the state government. Protesting against the provision of jobs to MLAs kin, AAP members marched from the Dr BR Ambedkar Chowk to the residence of Jalandhar MP Santokh Chauhary. Activists carried an effigy of the CM with them — fashioned after an ‘arthi’ or a funeral bier complete with a matki (earthen pot).With practically no social distancing measures in place and many party activists even sans masks, the activists also raised slogans against the state government.The march took place amidst heavy police presence. Members of the party raised party fags and posters of anti-government slogans which read — “Ohdedaron sharm karo”, “Punjab sarkar murdabad”, “Na rehna e raja ne na rehne vazeer”, “Jhoothi saunh khan vala Capt murdabad”.Youth wing Punjab co-president Gurinder Singh, Joint Secretary Punjab Amritpal Singh and District Youth President Ramneek Randhawa among others addressed workers.Speaking on the occasion, Gurinder Singh said if the state government did not withdraw its decision to give jobs to its favourites, then youth workers of the AAP shall be holding hunger strikes across the state. Gurinder said the state government’s decision was condemnable. Mahila Wing president Rajwinder Kaur and District president Olympian Surinder Singh Sodhi said the recent incidents in the state had proved that the promises of jobs in every home made by the CM were only meant for some chosen persons and MLAs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jobs-to-mlas-sons-aap-stages-protest-outside-mp-santokh-chaudharys-residence-in-jalandhar-273291
24-06-2021||---||Councillors resolve to act against coloniser in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, June 23Even though there are reports of more than 150 illegal colonies coming up under the area of Municipal Corporation, Jalandhar, but an ad hoc committee of seven councillors has decided to initiate inquiry against a big land shark, who alone is learnt to be a defaulter of Rs100 crore to the exchequer.As per the reports of the committee headed by Congress councillor Nirmal Singh Nimma, the coloniser, who also owns a marriage palace near Jalandhar Cantonment, has been proceeding with the sale of plots in 17 illegal colonies without the payment of any licence fee and external development charges to the MC. “The coloniser has applied for 18 other colonies but the actual area at site is many times more than that shown on record and hence the payments made by him towards the MC are far too low”, alleges Nimma.The councillors take names of few colonies run by the dealer which include Defence Colony Part 3, New Defence Colony on Phagwara Road, Panchsheel Avenue at Birring and Paragpur Royal Estate. Nimma said, “We have sought files related to the matter from Senior Town Planner Parampal Singh. We have been told today that the store keeper is away and hence the files could not be taken out. Tomorrow is holiday on account of Kabir Jayanti and we are expecting the files to be delivered to us on Friday for assessment. We have already consulted a senior advocate on the matter and we may proceed with a case against the coloniser through the vigilance wing of the Local Bodies Department.”Nimma claims that if this single case could be taken up and recovery is made, it could act as a deterrent against hundred-plus other defaulters and illegal colonisers. “After getting the files, we will also visit the sites and cross-check the facts mentioned on the records with the actual area on ground”, he said. He said according to the report available with us, the coloniser has sold off plots in 105 acre of land near Jalandhar Cantt paying a token money of just Rs 8.8 lakh for the 18 colonies without taking due authorisation from the civic body. The councillors allege that the MC officials are hand in gloves with the officers who have allowed them to act freely without taking any due action.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/councillors-resolve-to-act-against-coloniser-in-jalandhar-273060
24-06-2021||Jalandhar||Women panel chief dithers on case against minister Charanjit Channi||After taking up the cudgels earlier for re-opening a case against minister Charanjit Channi pertaining to sending “inappropriate” messages to an IAS officer, Punjab State Women Commission chairperson Manisha Gulati today showed much discomfiture over queries in the case.“There has been a lot of upheaval in the government. I do not want to comment on the sensitive issue. The only thing I can say is that the report is pending with the government,” said Gulati, who had staged a dharna over the issue, while refusing to take any further questions in the case today.Earlier, she had announced she was not afraid of losing her job. Meeting officials here, she directed the police department to resolve all pending complaints within 15 days. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/women-panel-chief-dithers-on-case-against-minister-charanjit-channi-273099
24-06-2021||Jalandhar||Jalandhar-origin man is Oz judge||Pardeep Singh Tiwana (51), who has his roots in Kot Kalan village near Jalandhar Cantt, is the first Indian to be appointed a judge of a County Court in Australia. Tiwana was born and brought up in England. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-origin-man-is-oz-judge-273202
