25-06-2021||Jalandhar||Short film on female foeticide||Two booked for demanding dowryHoshiarpur: The police have booked two persons for seeking dowry and harassing their wives. According to information, Anisha Rani, daughter Surinderpal, a resident Chhangla, told the police that she got married to Vishal, a resident of Sarai Khas village. She said after the marriage, her husband allegedly started harassing her and started demanding more dowry. She said her husband threw her out of the house. In another incident, Asha Devi, a resident of Talwara, told the police that she was married to Sanjeev Kumar, a resident of Raipur Rasulpur village, Pathankot. After marriage, her husband allegedly harassed her and threw her out of the house for not fulfilling his demands. OCThree held with illicit liquorHoshiarpur: The police have recovered illicit liquor from the possession of three persons. Himmat Kumar, a resident of Naloian, was held with 24 bottles of liquor by the Model Town police. The Bullowal police have arrested Suraj Kumar, alias Rana, a resident of Kalubahar, and seized 191 bottles of illicit liquor from him. The Garhshankar police reocvered 20 boxes of smuggled liquor from an MPV at a naka. The driver has been identified as Akashdeep, a resident of Mohalla Gobindpur, Phagwara. Separate FIRs have been filed against the accused. OCMan booked for marrying againHoshiarpur: The police have booked a person for marrying again without giving divorce to his first wife. Deepshikha, a resident of Mohalla Shalimar Nagar, told the police that Dharminder, a resident of Kishangarh, Basant Kunj, New Delhi, had married her. She said she came to know it later that it was his second marriage and he had not divorced his first wife. Deepshikha said Dharminder harassed her after marriage and thrashed her for not bringing enough dowry. The police have registered a case against Dharminder under the relevant sections of the IPC. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/short-film-on-female-foeticide-273795
25-06-2021||Jalandhar||Sukhmeet murder: Police to bring jailed criminals on production warrant soon||The Commissionerate Police probing the murder of former councillor Sukhmeet Singh Deputy would bring jailed criminals on production warrants for questioning in the case.In a video message, Deputy Commissioner of Police Gurmeet Singh said the police were working on various angles and now it would bring some jailed criminals suspected to have enmity with Sukhmeet when he was in jail.He said we had zeroed in about them and the team would bring them in a day from Kapurthala jail.Similarly, he said in Happy Sandhu death case, police have sent teams in Gurdaspur to nab the accused.The DCP said four accused—Harmanjeet, Mohit from local Shiv Nagar, Davinder Singh and another from Sri Hargobindpur— who were present at the spot were booked in the case and teams would soon nab them. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sukhmeet-murder-police-to-bring-jailed-criminals-on-production-warrant-soon-273794
25-06-2021||---||Blind murder, robbery case cracked: 2 nabbed||Jalandhar, June 24Clues at the crime spot followed by a scientific investigation helped the Phagwara police crack blind murder and robbery case within three-days in which a 35-year-old security guard of a brick kiln was killed by robbers in the wee hours of June 20. Two accused involved in the crime have been arrested.The accused have been identified as Mussa, son of Mohammand Khan, alias Bhatti, a resident of Bela village, Chamba, Himachal Pradesh and Sukhwinder Singh, alias Lucky, son of Gurcharan Singh, a resident of Gujratan village, Phagwara. One of their accomplices, Baljit Singh, son of Jaswant Singh, a resident of Rampur Sunera village is on the run and would be nabbed soon.Disclosing further details, Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP), Kapurthala, Harkamalpreet Singh Khakh said on the intervening night of June 19 and 20 of this month, some unidentified people robbed a New Holland 3630 tractor by killing Des Raj, a security guard of a brick kiln situated in Bhagana village.He added that a case was registered on the statement of the deceased Des Raj’s wife Usha resident of Purra, Madhya Pradesh.He said the police teams were working on different theories to solve the case and found some clues at spot in its scientific probe which helped in reaching the accused Mussa and Sukhwinder.He said both were arrested during a checking from Canal Bridge in Duggan village, Rawalpindi when they tried to flee. The SSP also added that the kingpin is on the run but the police teams would raid his hideouts and arrest him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/blind-murder-robbery-case-cracked-2-nabbed-273793
25-06-2021||---||Cases subsiding: 2 die, 33 new infections in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, June 24With cases steadily subsiding for the last couple of days, 33 new Covid positive cases were reported on Thursday. With this, the district tally reached 62,599. Of these, five cases were reported from other districts. The health authorities reported two Covid-related deaths today. The toll in the district has increased to 1,472. As many as 60,683 people have recovered from the virus in the district while number of active cases in Jalandhar stand at 444.4 positive in NawanshahrThe health authorities reported four fresh cases in the district today. Block Rahon, Banga, Muzaffarpur and Saroya blocks did not report any case. At present, the district has 66 active cases and 53 persons were under home isolation. The district tally was 11,374 (4.62%) while the recovery rate stands at 96.32%. The number of deaths now stands at 354 (3.11%). Eight patients are admitted at L-II Covid Care facility.No death in HoshiarpurThe health authorities reported 18 new cases the district on Thursday. With this, the total number of cases increased to 30,330. Of these, six have been reported from other districts. No Covid-19 related death was reported by the authorities today.The health authorities informed that a total of 6,45,852 samples have collected in the district.According to reports received from the lab, 6,16,269 were negative while 2,352 tests reports are awaited. At present, the district has 266 active cases and 29,102 patients have recovered so far.14 cases, 1 death in KapurthalaIn Kapurthala, 14 people tested positive today in the district, thus taking the total number of positive cases to 17,546. One person died due to the virus in the district. The deceased was an 81-year-old woman from Lodhi Bhulana village. A total to 536 people have fallen prey to the virus in Kapurthala district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cases-subsiding-2-die-33-new-infections-in-jalandhar-district-273792
25-06-2021||Aparna Banerji||30.4% inoculated in Jalandhar district till June 21||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 24The district has a population of about 22 lakh, but only 6.67 lakh (30.4%) have been vaccinated until June 21, the day India saw a record 88.09 lakh doses administered to people. In Jalandhar, 9,188 persons were vaccinated on this record-making day.With intermittent shortages still slowing down the vaccination drive in the district from time to time, Jalandhar yet ranks fourth in the state in vaccinating its population.Of a population of 21,93,509, as many as 6,67,458 persons have been vaccinated in the district. Of these 60,000 have received Covaxin doses, while the rest over 6 lakh have been administered Covishield.Of the various categories vaccinated, the 45 to 59 category is the most vaccinated in the district with over 2 lakh while in the 18-plus age group, just over one lakh persons have been inoculated .Meanwhile, intermittent shortages of vaccines still persist, which render the drive erratic in district. One day only 5,000 persons got the jabs. While district was averaging 10,000 to 12,000 vaccines per day some weeks ago, shortages brought the per day average down to 3000-5000.With vaccine stock running out yesterday, merely 5,000 persons were vaccinated in Jalandhar. But with stocks received late last night, 12,600 received the jab in the district on Thursday.Dr Rakesh Chopra, District Immunisation Officer, said: “The drive depends on the supply of vaccines. We hope of a smoother supply in coming days.” All vax centres open to 18+ nowThe district had separate centres for the 45-plus and 18-plus categories earlier. But now all centres are open for above 18. Before June 21, vaccines for 45-plus and 18-plus groups were being received separately from the state and the Centre, respectively. But with all centres opened to 18-plus category now, officials hope it will help eliminate much of the confusion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/30-4-inoculated-in-jalandhar-district-till-june-21-273791
25-06-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Abuse, abandonment: Punjab Police Mahila Mitras helping those in distress||Tribune News ServiceNawanshahr, June 24Punjab Police Mahila Mitras (PPMM) deployed in various police stations of Nawanshahr have been emerging as a great help for those in distress and are struggling to get justice. At 12 police stations in Nawanshahr, 24 PPMM are deployed to resolve the issues of those who suffer at their homes, be it women, elderly or children.Most of the problems that PPMMs deal with include women complaining about abuse at their homes, where the culprits are husbands and other male members, or senior citizens complaining about their children abandoning them and indulging in drugs and other malpractices.Sub-inspector Neelam Kumari has been posted as the in-charge to look after the work of Mahila Mitras posted in the district. Kumari said sometimes strange, unusual and horrible incidents also come into the fore that she had never experienced during her service. “Any woman, child or elderly can call on helpline number 181 and the complaint gets registered at the headquarters in Chandigarh. The complaint is then marked to the concerned district in charge. We then ask PPMMs in those specific areas to go and check the situation with the duty officer and the issue is resolved,” she said.One of the mitras shared that a girl (15) had left her home after having some disagreement with her parents and she wanted to go to her grandparents’ home. “When she couldn’t find the proper address, she started crying when some passer-by spotted her and informed at 181. This is when Mahila Mitras reached there and the issue was resolved,” she said.SSP Alka Meena said special measures have been taken to curb the crimes against women. During a meeting with the Punjab Police Mahila Mitra personnel, the SSP urged them to perform their duties diligently and honestly and directed them to listen to the problems of women, children and the elderly and solve them immediately.“In order to curb the crimes being committed by the Punjab Police against women, children and the elderly, the Additional Director General of Police (Community Affairs) had started a wing under which two women are deployed in every police station. Under the programme, the Punjab Police has issued helpline numbers 181, 112 and 1091 for the convenience of women,” the SSP said.She appealed to the women, children and the elderly to contact the helpline numbers issued by the police if anyone has any problem.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/abuse-abandonment-punjab-police-mahila-mitras-helping-those-in-distress-273790
25-06-2021||---||Jalandhar gets Rs10-crore bhawan, women park on Kabir Jayanti||Jalandhar, June 24In order to woo the Dalit votebank ahead of the 2022 Assembly poll, the Congress took various decisions to please around 22 lakh members of the Bhagat community members in the state on the occasion of Kabir Jayanti on Thursday.Besides announcing a chair in the name of Sant Kabir in Amritsar, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, made two announcements for Jalandhar – a Bhagat Kabir Bhawan which would come up on 120-feet road on six kanal commercial land of the PUDA at a cost of Rs10 crore and an exclusive women sports park in Bhargo Camp — where the Bhagat community is largely concentrated.Capt Amarinder’s speech was live streamed across four Kabir Temples in the city through huge screens, including the ones set up at Bhargo Camp, Tilak Nagar, Basti Bawa Khel and Ishwar Nagar, all falling in Jalandhar (West) constituency. The Bhagat community had gathered in all these temples for prayers today. All arrangements were made under the supervision of MLA Sushil Rinku.Rinku said Bhagat Kabir Bhawan would have a 13,000 sq ft covered area and have a seating capacity of 500 persons. “The site is just 100 metres away from Babrik Chowk. The land has already been approved by the PUDA for the project after a meeting of the Empowered Committee. Even the work will be executed by the PUDA,” he said.Rinku said, “Jalandhar women are engaged in making sports goods from homes. They weave volleyball nets, stitch footballs, strings of badminton rackets, cricket bats, among others, but they have never played these games. They are reluctant to go to public parks for physical exercises. We will develop a sports park exclusively for women and equip it with sports items for playing tennis, badminton, football, volleyball and a gym so that they can enjoy sports and maintain fitness. Most likely, this project will be handed over to the MC. I will ensure that the work gets started within our tenure.”He said the site of the park falls at Bhargo Camp. “It’s 2-acre plot of the Central Government of which Bhargo Camp police station is also a part. This space was being used to dump concrete waste by residents. Recently, I deployed trucks to clean the park. The location is very good, but the land was lying unused for years,” said Rinku.Hi-tech Kabir jhopri at KashiThis Kabir Jayanti, the main attraction for the Bhagat community, which travelled to the revered place ‘Kashi’ to pay obeisance was the new high hi-tech jhopri. Rajesh Bhagat, who is the mahant of Mool Gaddi, said many people converged at the site on Thursday, which is of much importance to the community, as it was in this place that Kabir wrote holy verses and spread across the message for unity and end of casteism. “The moment anyone enters the jhopri, he can hear the recorded audio of Kabir ji’s bani,” the mahant said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-gets-rs10-crore-bhawan-women-park-on-kabir-jayanti-273789
