26-06-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Punjab Govt’s flagship campaign against drug abuse in limbo||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 25‘Tu Mera Buddy’, a flagship campaign of the state government against drug addiction, was started in August 2018. However, nodal officers of government schools, mentioned in the list of the district administration completely disowned the scheme and said they were no longer associated with it. About ‘Tu Mera Buddy’ schemeThe current scenario is that ‘Tu Mera Buddy’ has been left to online seminars or speeches on drug de-addiction delivered by students once or twice a year.While the administrative officials blame it on the pandemic and online education, insiders said the Education Department was not interested in this campaign and they very smartly converted it into ‘Buddy Group’.The ‘Buddy Group’ has nothing to do with the check on drugs and is rather based on sharing of class notes, videos, question papers and other school-related information during the pandemic to the students who do not own mobile phone.As this correspondent made calls to several government schoolteachers and principals, all of them initially mistook the ‘Tu Mera Buddy’ campaign of DAPO with the ‘Buddy Group’ concept. The teachers said the Education Secretary in the last few months stressed so much emphasis on the ‘Buddy Group’ programme that they had completely forgotten the three-year-old drug-related campaign.In Jalandhar, five best schools under ‘Tu Mera Buddy’ concept have even got screened – GSS Smart School, Gandhi Camp, Government Model Co-Educational School, Ladowali Road, GGSSS Basti Sheikh, GSS Smart School, Maqsudan, and GGSS School, Patara.When the nodal officer and English lecturer Jatinder Kumar of Gandhi Camp school was contacted, he denied having been deputed for any such work. Likewise, Principal of Patara school Rajinderpal Singh said, “We have held a few online events and a speech on drug abuse. Ther is no nodal officer for this scheme in the school.”A college principal when contacted said the scheme could clearly not be followed the way it had been initially designed. “It’s only through indirect methods that we can motivate students not to fall in the wrong trap. We cannot physically reach out to students and see what they are upto,” he said.Principal Kiran Randhawa of MLU DAV College, Phagwara, denied having any student enrolled under the ‘Tu Mera Buddy’ scheme of the state government. “Our teachers are very vigilant to note any wrong behaviour of students. So, this aspect is being taken care of well without any scheme as well,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/punjab-govts-flagship-campaign-against-drug-abuse-in-limbo-274328
26-06-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||‘Learnt lesson only when I had no money to get my child vaccinated’||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 25Honey (name changed) (34) was in college when he started consuming drugs. His father sent him off to Saudi Arabia so that his son could work and get out of this deadly trap. For five years, Honey worked as a driver there and never consumed drugs. He also earned a good amount of money. But the relief was short-lived.This is the tale of a father who learnt his lessons hard way. Spending his entire money on drugs, he says he couldn’t even afford Rs 1,200 for his daughter’s vaccination.Honey came to his village last year in March when Covid lockdown was imposed. He could never go back. Father to a two-year-old daughter, he shared that he again fell into a bad company and then got hooked to heroin. This time, he did whatever it took for drugs. He opened a secret account, where he put his money he had earned by working hard abroad. He spent the entire money on drugs.When he ran out of his entire savings, he started using money from the joint account he had with his wife. “My wife would ask me, where was the money going and every time, I started making excuses. I knew my family members were suspecting me of falling prey to drugs again, but I never confessed,” he said.Honey further shared that it was in December last year when he met with an accident and his leg was fractured, and his world turned upside down. “I was confined to bed. One can imagine the misery. I needed heroin but couldn’t arrange it from anywhere. Who would I ask to get it for me? That was the time I confessed of my addiction to my elderly father. He was shocked and disheartened. I used to scream and shout for drugs, but my parents and wife would ask me to stay calm. They stood by my side like pillars,” he said, adding that the need for heroin was soaring day-by-day.Honey said when he recovered, the first thing he did was to procure drugs. “Tusi changa maada sab bhul jaande ho. Je dimaag kahe vi ki eh galat hai, mann nai manda. This is a road to death,” Honey said.But the day of actual realisation came when he needed Rs 1,200 to get his daughter vaccinated. He did not even have the required amount for his daughter in his pocket. He was shattered.“That day, I decided to go get myself treated and thus I am now getting treatment at the de-addiction centre and am determined to shun this bad and killing habit,” he said.Chaman Singh, the Project Director of the de-addiction centre in Nawanshahr where Honey is under treatment said he came himself and talked about his problems. “I would say that in such cases of self-realisation, the recovery gets easier,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/learnt-lesson-only-when-i-had-no-money-to-get-my-child-vaccinated-274329
26-06-2021||---||Jalandhar district sees 26 fresh Covid cases, 1 casualty||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 25With 26 fresh Covid cases reported today, the district tally increased to 62,625. Of these, three cases were from other districts. Also, one Covid death has been reported in the district today. With this the district toll has risen to 1,473. As many as 60,745 people have recovered from Covid in the district while the number of active cases in Jalandhar is 407.2 die in KapurthalaKapurthala on Friday reported two deaths and as many cases. The district tally now stands at 17,549. The deceased in Kapurthala today include a 30-year-old woman from Sandhu Chatha village and a 24-year-old woman from Dessal village. The district toll today stands at 538.3 test +ve in NawanshahrThe health authorities reported three fresh cases in the district today. Block Urban Nawanshahr reported one case and Muzaffarpur reported two cases. At present, the district has 61 active cases and 49 persons are under home isolation. The district tally now stands at 11,377 (4.61 per cent) while the recovery rate is 96.36 per cent. The number of deaths now stands at 354 (3.11 per cent). Eight patients are admitted at L-II Covid care facility.23 cases in HoshiarpurThe district on Friday reported 23 new cases, pushing the tally to 30,353. Of these, one was reported from some other district. Health authorities said the total number of samples taken so far in the district was 6,48,597. Around 2,745 samples of people with suspected flu-like symptoms were taken today.According to the reports received from the lab, so far, 6,18,597 samples have come back negative while the reports of 2,722 samples are awaited and 735 are invalid. The number of active cases in the district is 228 and 29,163 patients have recovered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-district-sees-26-fresh-covid-cases-1-casualty-274330
26-06-2021||---||Lost his way home, 104-yr-old Jalandhar resident united with family in 3 hours||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 25The Commissionerate Police reunited a 104-year-old man, Boota Ram, with his family here this afternoon. The man had forgotten his way home and was found roaming in the streets of Shaheed Babu Labh Singh Nagar this morning.SHO, Basti Bawa Khel police station, Ashwini Kumar made efforts for three hours which finally bore fruits. This morning, some residents in Shaheed Babu Labh Singh Nagar saw an aged man roaming about helplessly. They took care of Boota Ram until the police arrived at around 11 am. Acting swiftly, a police team reached the spot and took the elderly man with them to the Basti Bawa Khel police station.The SHO said Boota Ram told the police that he had left the home to have a haircut at a nearby salon but while returning he forgot his way home. Some residents helped him with drinking water and tea, besides informing the police.It was much later that Boota Ram recalled that he belonged to Rasulpur village in Nakodar after which constable Rakesh Kumar sent his picture to his relatives living in Rasulpur village, who immediately identified Boota Ram. They informed his family members about the incident, who shared the information with his son Lakhvir Singh, living in Shaheed Babu Labh Singh Nagar, the place from where Boota Ram went missing.After receiving the information, Lakhvir Singh immediately rushed to the Basti Bawa Khel police station, where he took a sigh of relief on seeing his father safe. Lakhvir Singh thanked the SHO Ashwini Kumar, ASI Roop Lal, and constable Rakesh Kumar for their concerted efforts in reuniting his father with the family.He stated that all members of the family, including grandchildren, were worried about their grandfather, who went missing this morning.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/lost-his-way-home-104-yr-old-jalandhar-resident-united-with-family-in-3-hours-274331
26-06-2021||---||This one-year-old girl already has a record to her credit||Our CorrespondentHoshiarpur, June 25A year and nine-month-old girl from Bhangala town in Mukerian Sub-Division, Aarohi Mahajan brought laurels not only to her native town and district but also Punjab by making it to ‘India Book of Records’ with her extraordinary feat to recite names of fruits, vegetables, body parts and music instruments.In a rare feat, Aarohi Mahajan’s name got registered in the India Book of Records at a tender age of one year and nine months. She was awarded with an appreciation letter, a medal, a badge, a pen and a unique card by the coveted organisation.Congratulating the family on the achievement, Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait said it was an impressive start of Aarohi since the beginning to get acclaimed in the India Book of Records at such a tender age. She said under the slogan of the organisation ‘extraordinary feat, extraordinary people’, Aarohi had made her parents, district and state proud with unique qualities. She congratulated Aarohi’s father Vivek Mahajan, mother Meenakshi Mahajan and grandmother Radha Gupta for the achievement and wished the little girl a great success in the future as well.Father of Aarohi Vivek Mahajan, who is doctorate in Music from Delhi University & singer, said he has been in this profession for quite long and his daughter has also developed a special passion for music. The family gave a few months training to Aarohi to make it to India Book of Records but she couldn’t do it in her previous two attempts but this time in her third efforts she bagged the appreciation, he added.Vivek said now after registration on May 22, her appreciation was confirmed on June 2 and they received the letter of appreciation etc. on June 22.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/this-one-year-old-girl-already-has-a-record-to-her-credit-274332
26-06-2021||---||Manoranjan Kalia corners Congress govt over giving jobs to MLAs’ kin||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 25BJP leader and former state president Manoranjan Kalia on Friday said the BJP was observing June 25 as Black Day in protest against the policies of the Congress party.Condemning Capt Amarinder Singh for giving jobs to MLAs’ sons, Kalia said the recent decisions showed that the party could do anything for protecting chair even if it was not in public interest.Kalia said, “To curb the growing dissidence among Congress legislators in Punjab, Chief Minister Capt Amrinder Singh took the decision in the Cabinet meeting to appoint the son of Fateh Jang Bajwa MLA as Inspector in Punjab Police and the son of Rakesh Panday MLA as Naib Tehsildar on compassionate grounds by suspending the rules of compassionate appointment as these appointments did not cover under the rules of compassionate appointments. Moreover, there was a hue and cry in the Congress itself.”“Immediately after coming to power in 2017, Capt Amarinder Singh appointed former Chief Minister Beant Singh’s kin as DSP on compassionate grounds. The said appointment was stayed by the Punjab and Haryana High Court,” Kalia said.Kalia said, “Chair is more important than public interest for the Congress. The Congress can go to any extent to save it. The BJP is observing 25th June as Black Day to make the people of India vigilant because those who forget history are condemned to repeat it.”Kalia also made reference to the Emergency saying on this day (June 25), an emergency was clamped in the whole country by then Prime Minister late Indira Gandhi. At that time, the fundamental rights, enshrined in the Constitution of India, were suspended, the censorship was imposed on the Print Media and all the leaders were put behind bars. All this was done to save the prime ministerial chair of late Indira Gandhi whose election was declared null and void by then Justice Jagmohan Sinha on June 12, 1975, in a decision of an election petition filed by late Raj Narain. Thus June 25,1975, was black day for Indian Democracy.He said, “Though 46 years have passed and no party in power can repeat this blunder but those tendencies are still prevalent in the Congress. There is no democracy in the Congress. The post of the national president of the Indian National Congress on the one pretext or the other is still being rotated in the Gandhi family between mother and son (Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/manoranjan-kalia-corners-congress-govt-over-giving-jobs-to-mlas-kin-274333
26-06-2021||---||Kapurthala: RCF’s green energy drive gets big boost||Tribune News ServiceKapurthala, June 25Under the Indian Railways Green Energy initiative, Rail Coach Factory has now enhanced its rooftop solar plant capacity in addition to existing 100 kWp plant. The RCF has planned to enhance its solar energy production capacity by 900 kWp under RESCO model.In the first phase of this project, solar plant of capacity 151.38 kWp (kilowatts peak) has been commissioned at administrative building of the RCF. It was inaugurated by Ravinder Gupta, GM/RCF, in presence of senior officers of the coach factory.This plant is expected to generate 604 kWp per day and generate 2,20,460 kWh per year. This will save electric saving of Rs 6,18,288 per year. RESCO will establish and operate the plant and charge a very nominal rate of electricity from the RCF.The officials also said the second phase of balance work is in progress and would be commissioned shortly at various locations in RCF. “These solar panels will be installed at Technical Training Centre, Lala Lajpat Rai Hospital, Senior Secondary School and other locations. A total of 900 kWp will generate 13,14,000 kWh and save electricity energy of an amount of Rs 39,42,000”, they said.The set up of solar plant will help RCF in its endeavour to provide clean environment besides, reducing the need for finite resources.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kapurthala-rcfs-green-energy-drive-gets-big-boost-274334
26-06-2021||---||Delay in repair of roads leading to Jalandhar's Maqsudan Chowk irks commuters||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 25Demolished roads leading to the Maqsudan Chowk have been causing inconvenience to residents. Reportedly, it has been more than two months since the 50-metre (Maqsudan Chowk to Maqsudan bypass highway) and 300-metre (Maqsudan Chowk to DAV college ground) roads were dug but the construction work hasn’t been completed so far.The delay in re-carpeting of the roads is posing a threat to the lives of the commuters. The road from the chowk to the DAV College is being used to reach to several destinations, including the Jalandhar-Amritsar highway. Hence, the commuters have been suffering since the road has been demolished. Owing to the construction, the traffic has been shifted on single lane, causing frequent traffic snarls.The shopkeepers adjacent to the road said, “Though the roads need to be repaired, it wasn’t a suitable time as the monsoon has arrived and too much water was getting accumulated. The concrete is further aggravating the trouble as it is making tough for the commuters to cross the road smoothly. Sahil Makkar, one of the shopkeepers, said although authorities had taken a good decision to construct new roads and get rid of potholes, but they need to expedite the work.People from all over the city come here to buy all kind of items. The largest vegetable and fruit mandis are also located on the same stretch, therefore immediate attention is needed. Heavy trucks and tractor-trolleys put residents’ lives at risks. Jimmy Singh, a commuter who uses the road frequently said many minor accidents have already taken place on the road in these two months. Sewerages and drainage pipes have also broken during the demolition process, so immediate repair was the need of the hour, he further added.Meanwhile, Ranhul Dhawan, MC Engineer, said, the road needs to be closed for 28 days so that the concrete settles properly. But, it would be repaired shortly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/delay-in-repair-of-roads-leading-to-jalandhars-maqsudan-chowk-irks-commuters-274335
26-06-2021||Jalandhar||Farmers take to streets, seek 8-hr power supply||Members of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Rajewal) on Friday held a protest outside the office of the Chief Engineer, Electricity Board, Jalandhar, against erratic power supply in rural areas during paddy season.Farmers complained that despite being promised power supply of eight hours by the state government, electricity was being provided for only couple of hours. Protesters said they never received eight-hour power supply from any feeder.District chief Mandeep Singh Basra said power lines were not maintained and overloading of transformers was the main reason behind inconsistent power supply.Irate farmers said in case a transformer burns, officials of the PSPCL seek bribe to change it and they bear the entire expenditure.They alleged that the SDOs at many sub stations were collecting money from farmers to hire people to run feeders. Agitators said stern action should be taken against erring officials.They also complained regarding non-installation of domestic meters and said officials were asking owners to source wires at their own expenses. Protesting farmers said electricity was vital for the growth of farm economy.Jathedar Kashmir Singh Jandiala, Balvir Singh, Pala Singh, Amarjit Singh Shergill and Mohan Singh, among others, were present on the occasion. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmers-take-to-streets-seek-8-hr-power-supply-274336
26-06-2021||Hoshiarpur||Newborn with fatal infections gets a new life||A newborn baby got a lease of life after he was treated successfully for various serious infections at Ivy Hospital, Nawanshahr, recently.“A couple of Pakhowal village near Garhshankar in Hoshiarpur district had reached Ivy Hospital on June 10 night with their baby in a very serious condition,” said Dr Karan Arora, Consultant-Paediatrician and Neonatologist, Ivy Hospital who treated the baby.Dr Karan said the baby was in a gasping state with a very less heartbeat. He also suffered from skin lesions, complete cyanosis and multiple seizures with oxygen saturation level of only 30%. The baby was put on a ventilator immediately.Next morning, his Echo test was conducted, which showed severe persistent pulmonary pressure (PPHN) on heart and spinal fluid test (CSF) and severe infections (bacterial meningitis) in brain and lungs.“The baby’s condition was critical but yet we did try our best to save his life,” said Dr Karan Arora. After four days of careful treatment, the baby gradually recovered. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/newborn-with-fatal-infections-gets-a-new-life-274337
26-06-2021||---||Police prevent child marriage in Nawanshahr||Jalandhar, June 25Nawanshahr Police stopped a child marriage in Aur block here on Thursday evening. A complaint in this regard was registered through the child helpline number and the police raided the venue where the marriage was going to take place.Sub-Inspector Satnam Singh said he was informed that a family in the block was going to marry off their 16-year-old daughter. “The family told us that the sister of the boy was to go abroad, so she wanted the marriage to take place at the earliest,” the police said.A case was not registered in this regard. The police said the issue was resolved as the girl’s family realised the mistake and called off the wedding.A Child Development Protection Officer said the complaint was received on the child helpline number and then the department acted in association with the police. “Even today such cases come to the fore, and in some cases, the parents take the step because of the involvement of the girl and boy,” the officer said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/police-prevent-child-marriage-in-nawanshahr-274338
26-06-2021||Jalandhar||CT group holds 18-day UN Summit||Gauri, Ishmeen clear NTSE examTwo students of Delhi Public School, Jalandhar- Gauri Gupta and Ishmeen Kaur cleared the prestigious NTSE (Stage 1) exam with flying colours. While Gauri Gupta secured 42nd rank by scoring 179/200. Ishmeen Kaur secured 109th rank and scored 162/200 marks. The proud parents of these achievers expressed their heartfelt gratitude to Principal Ritu Kaul and to the team of teachers for guiding the students at every step. The elated students attributed their success to the school and thanked the teachers for keeping their morale high even during the pandemic. Pro Vice Chairman Thakur Arun Singh and Principal Ritu Kaul congratulated the meritorious achievers on their success and urged them to remain focused in order to crack the next level.Conference on yogic sciencesThe Department of Physical Education and Department of Education, DAV University, organised a two-day international conference on “Innovative Pedagogical Approaches for Integration of Physical Education and Yogic Sciences in Teacher Education”. All the eminent speakers and participants were welcomed formally by CP Singh, Asst. Professor Department of Physical Education. Dean Academics Dr RK Seth threw light upon the objectives of the conference and also welcomed all the speakers and guests in the conference, which was followed by the address of Registrar DAV University Dr KN Kaul.Online ad-mad contestThe Commerce Club of PG Department of Commerce and Management of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya organised “Vigyaapan Srijana : A Blend of Creativity and Madness”- an Online Ad-Mad Competition. Binoo Gupta-Incharge Commerce Club, Shefali Kashyap-Coordinator, Yuvika-Incharge of Sem VI classes, Ritu Bahri-Incharge of Sem IV classes, Anjali-Incharge of Sem II classes were the part of the organising team along with three student assistants Radhika Verma, Jyot Sifat Kaur and Arshiya. Binoo Gupta said the objective was to inculcate marketing and advertising skills in the students to develop their personality as a tool adopted for innovative teaching pedagogy.daviet Students get jobsSix students from various departments of DAV Institute of Engineering & Technology (DAVIET), who will be passing out in July 2022, have been placed in Paxcom India Pvt. Ltd at a pay package of 6.00 LPA. The selected students Madhav Verma, Prashant Kumar Singh, Akshit Malhotra, Kanav Chadha, Sukeerat Kaur and Sahil Uppal said they had started preparing for the placement drive early and concentrated on developing their interpersonal skills along with the enhancing their knowledge about the core areas. Vishav Kapoor, Manager (Industry Interface) - Department of Training and Placement appreciated the hard work put in by students and highlighted that special efforts were done to make them ready for interviews and tests. Dr Manoj Kumar, Principal DAVIET congratulated the students on their success.Virtual Farewell organisedIn a series of ‘Virtual Farewells’, first farewell party was organised by PG Department of Commerce in Kamla Nehru College for women Phagwara. Students of BCom, BBA 4th & 6th semester and MCom 2nd & 4th semester alongwith teachers of the department and Principal Dr Savinder Pal joined together on Google Meet in two sessions for the farewell. Principal, Dr Savinder Pal and Sanjna Walia (HoD) conveyed their best wishes to the students for future life. Various games were played along with songs and dance performances. Modelling rounds were also there, on the basis of which titles were awarded to the students. Which are as follows; Pooja Banga- KNC (PG), Manju Pandey-Ms. KNC (UG), Komal-Ms. Cute Smile (PG), Jasleen-Ms. Cute Smile (UG), Nitika-Ms. Elegant (PG), Anjali-Ms. Elegant (UG) and Aashima Gupta-Ms Confident (UG). The Principal congratulated all teachers and students for organising such well managed virtual event.kmv alumni hold Inspirational seriesKanya Maha Vidyalaya has started Alumni Speaks- a series of inspirational talks under which renowned and prominent alumni of KMV will be addressing KMVites online in order to inspire them. Under this series, the first inspirational talk was organised by the PG Department of Computer Science and Applications which is ranked topmost in ‘Best Value for Money Category’ in India and amongst top 30 colleges of India as per India Today Survey 2020. The guest speaker for the webinar was Ramika Julka from USA. She has been a student of MSc Computer Science at KMV and has worked at Infosys and Amdocs. During the webinar, Julka shared her own experiences of life and her journey of becoming an IT professional. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ct-group-holds-18-day-un-summit-274339
26-06-2021||Hoshiarpur||Two killed after tempo overturns||One booked for assaulting girlHoshiarpur: The Garhshankar police have booked a man on the charge of abusing and assaulting a girl. According to information, Mahidwani village resident Sapandeep Kumari told the police that she was coming along with her brother to Garhshankar riding his bike. On the way, Ajay Kumar, a resident of her village, in an inebriated state pushed their bike. She alleged that the accused allegedly tore her clothes, assaulted and injured them. OCTwo booked for gamblingHoshiarpur: The Model Town police have arrested two persons on the charge of gambling under the guise of lottery and found cash and slips worth Rs 2,300 from them. The accused have been identified as Rajeev Kumar, a resident of Bassi Khwaju, and Subhash Chander of Bhim Nagar. OCex-police dav lad in Olympics teamJalandhar: An alumnus of Police DAV Public School and a hockey player Hardik Singh has been selected to compete in Tokyo Olympics. He is one of the eight players selected from Punjab to be a part of the Indian Hockey Team that will participate in Tokyo Olympics. Hardik took admission in Police DAV in Nursery class in the session 2002-03. After passing his Class X from school, he got selected at Surjit Hockey Academy, Jalandhar. Dr Rashmi Vij, principal of the school, congratulated his parents, coach Dupinder Singh and school sports in-charge Vinod Sharma on his selection. TNSThree arrested with drugsHoshiarpur: The police arrested three persons and seized narcotics from them. During a naka, the police arrested Rahul Sharma of Canal Colony here and seized 115 gm of intoxicating powder from him, while a Krishna Nagar resident Subhash Arora was arrested with 10-gm heroin. Similarly, Jatinder Kumar of Tajewal was arrested with 105 gm of intoxicating powder. The accused have been booked under the NDPS Act. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/two-killed-after-tempo-overturns-274340
26-06-2021||---||BJP starts ‘Modi for Sikhs’ campaign||Deepkamal KaurTribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 25Having inducted some Sikh leaders into the party recently, the BJP has started yet another campaign in the state to woo prominent Sikh families ahead of the Assembly polls.The party has issued 150 sets of books for each constituency titled “PM Modi and his government’s special relationship with Sikhs”, which were printed by the I&B Ministry in November.BJP leaders have been told to frame a list of 150 prominent Sikh families for each Assembly segment. The party leaders will personally visit them to hand over the books and get a picture clicked with them. These pictures are to be uploaded on the social media for wider circulation and to spread the message to negate the effect of ongoing “kisan andolan” against the party.BJP Jalandhar district rural president Amarjit Singh Amri yesterday posted a photo of him gifting the book to Satbir Singh, an international hockey player. He said the list was being prepared and the move would carry the message of the PM and his government to many households.Ex-CPS KD Bhandari, who was earlier known to be annoyed with the party leadership over the “kisan andolan”, said: “I have received 150 books for distribution among some noted Sikh faces in Jalandhar north constituency.”The book carries the matter related to the role of the Congress in 1984 riots, Kartarpur corridor developed during Modi’s tenure and celebrations of 550 years of Parkash Purb of Guru Nanak. In some of the pictures carried in the book, Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Badal is also seen with Modi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/bjp-starts-modi-for-sikhs-campaign-274217
26-06-2021||Aparna Banerji||Doctor found using seized scan machine||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 25Three years after an ultrasound machine of a Jalandhar-based scanning centre was seized for conducting illegal sex determination tests, the machine — handed over to the custody of court — was again found being used by a doctor during an early morning raid by a team of the Haryana Health Department here.Didn’t inform govtThe unregistered machine was in custody of court after a 2018 raid on another centre, where this doctor had worked. He got it released, but never informed the Health Dept.Dr Raman Gupta, district family welfare officerThis is the second time in three years that a team from Haryana — employing a decoy patient — has busted a scanning centre violating the Pre-Conception and Pre-Natal Diagnostic Techniques Act here.The centre was raided two months ago and an FIR was lodged against the doctor for conducting illegal tests. The machine seized then was in possession of the police.A team, comprising Fatehabad Assistant Civil Surgeon Dr Girish Kumar, Deputy Civil Surgeon Dr Sharad Tuli, Fatehabad Nagrik Hospital medical officer Dr Gunjan Bansal, had set up the decoy to carry out the raid. District Family Welfare Officer Dr Raman Gupta and a police team accompanied them.The Kartarpur police have booked Dr TPS Multani, owner of Multani Diagnostic Centre, and four touts — Kanta Devi, Asa Rani, Sukhwinder Kaur and Salim Masih — under Sections 420 and 120-B of the IPC and 3A, 3(3), 4, 6(a), 18 and 23 of the PNDT Act. The four suspects have been arrested, while the doctor is at large.Dr Kumar said: “The Civil Surgeon, Fatehabad, had received information that illegal sex determination tests were being conducted at the centre. A deal was struck by a decoy patient with a Jalalabad woman for Rs 40,000. The woman took her to Kapurthala, where another tout met them. Both then took her to Kartarpur, where the decoy patient came in contact with two more touts, who finally brought her to the centre.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/doctor-found-using-seized-scan-machine-274252
