27-06-2021||Jalandhar||International Anti-Drug Day observed||Shanu Sharma 1st in MSc (Botany)Students of MSc (Botany) Sem-III of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya have brought laurels to the college. Shanu Sharma topped the Guru nanak Dev University exam with 85.5% marks. Palk Sharma 84.8% marks stood second, Kajal with 83.1% stood third, Shalini Dhiman with 82.2% stood fourth and Deeksha with 82% marks stood fifth. 15 students of M.Sc. (Botany) Sem-Ill of HMV got more than 70% marks. All the students passed in first division. Principal Prof Dr Ajay Sareen congratulated the students. Dr Anjana Bhatia, HoD Botany, also encouraged the students for achieving greater heights. Dr Shweta Chauhan, Dr Nitika Kapoor, Dr Shuchi, Ramandeep Kaur and Harpreet Kaur were also present to congratulate them.Ananika 2nd in BVoc E-commerceStudents of Apeejay College of Fine Arts of BVoc (E-Commerce and Digital Marketing) Sem V have garnered glory in results of Guru Nanak Dev University by bagging top positions. Ananika got the second position in the university with 338 marks out of 400. Ashpinder, Ramnik, Jaskaran, Saksham and Aditya got 6th, 7th, 9th, 10th and 11th positions, respectively. College Principal Dr Neerja Dhingra congratulated the meritorious students. She appreciated faculty members of Computer Science and Commerce Department for guiding these students to a sparkling success.Rope skipping competition heldWith a view of making physical fitness a way of life, Ivy World School under the aegis of the Vasal Educational Society organised virtual ‘Inter-House Rope Skipping Competition’ for the students of Classes IV to VIII. Young players participated in the competition showcasing their stamina, strength, determination, skill and spirit. They proved that even Covid can’t take away the sheer grit and determination these young ones have. Principal S. Chauhan also shared her expression on this occasion and said that such kind of healthy competitions assert confidence and ebb trepidation. She added that now days we see children and adults remain stuck with gadgets which in turn spoils their health so we must make healthy choices to stay fit.Faculty Development ProgrammeA faculty development programme was organised by Internal Quality Assurance Cell of Kanya Maha Vidyalaya. The resource person for the FDP was Dr Hitesh Sharma from IKG Punjab Technical University, Kapurthala. Dr Sharma during his address acquainted everyone that there is a major paradigm shift in course designing and delivering. He also told that in any programme the basic outcomes are employment skills, research and innovation, communication and curiosity. He also clarified the difference between learning goals and learning objectives and what was the need of defining them. He explained that the basic aim of this exercise as per quality mandate of UGC is to improve the employability/ self employment of students, to strengthen the link of students with society and industry.75th Independence anniversaryThe NSS unit of Lyallpur Khalsa College, Jalandhar, is organising a series of multi-dimensional events to commemorate the 75th Indian Independence Anniversary in 2021. As per the direction of Dept. of Higher Education, Punjab, a series of events was planned by NSS unit of the college in March-April. Chief programme officer Satpal Singh said nine events such as lecture on yoga, webinar on balanced diet, panel discussion on importance of freedom and how to maintain individual independence, online survey related to cleanliness and saving natural resources and poster-making competition have been conducted. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/international-anti-drug-day-observed-274785
27-06-2021||---||Congress workers honoured||Jalandhar, June 26Punjab Pradesh Congress Sunil Jakhar and Punjab Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Friday felicitated the district coordinators of ‘Farz manukhta lai’ for doing outstanding work to give relief to people during ongoing Covid crisis.District coordinators from Kapurthala Daljeet Singh Raju and Jalandhar Ashwin Bhalla were among other leaders who were honoured by Jakhar and Sidhu. The leaders hailed the district coordinators for doing exemplary work during the hour of crisis. Expressing gratitude to Jakhar and Sidhu for recognition of their work Raju and Bhalla said that this will inspire them to work more for well-being of people.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/congress-workers-honoured-274783
27-06-2021||Jalandhar||Over 100 youths, children participate in cyclothon||Actively promoting sports in the region, the Rurka Kalan Youth Football Club (YFC) on Saturday observed International Day against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking with a motive to sensitise the rural youth about the adverse effects of drugs on human life.The YFC organised an event to mark the day in association with the Phillaur Punjab Police Academy (PPA) under the leadership of IPS officer Suhail Qasim Mir. To observe the day, an awareness cyclothon was organised, which was participated by over 100 youth and children. The cyclothon was flagged off by Qasim Mir from the Phillaur DSP Office, which further passed through the Sant Nagar, Akalpur, Bakapur, Jajja, Muthada Khurd, Bir Bansian etc. villages.Taking out the rally along with children and youngsters, Suhail Qasim Mir was felicitated by local youth and children at various villages like Akalpur, Jajja and Bir Bansian. After the completion of rally, an event was organised at the Rurka Kalan YFC Stadium, where Mir and other participants were enthusiastically welcomed by the village sarpanch, panchayat members, members of Sarv Pakhi Vikas Manch, members of Rotary Club Rurka Kalan Eco and other personalities.Meanwhile, to make people aware on drugs, a street play was performed by women football players namely Kajal, Dolly, Mandeep, Manisha, Sandeep, Pooja, Ramneek and Navneet.Sharing his views, president and founder of the YFC Gurmangal Dass said it was high time to intensify unified efforts against drug abuse to wipe out this menace to ensure drug-free environment. Mir also pointed out that we should protect people from drugs by promoting sports and value-based education system. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/over-100-youths-children-participate-in-cyclothon-274781
27-06-2021||---||‘Awareness drives should not stigmatise abusers’||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 26An awareness drive on the occasion of International Day against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking was organised by the Youth Morcha, Jalandhar, along with Jalandhar Police Commissionerate. This drive was conducted in the Model Town market on Friday.The event saw the presence of Youth Morcha President Gagandeep Dhatt, Vikram Dhiman, Manbir Singh, Prabhjot khalsa and Rajeev Duggal along with Harinder Singh Gill, ACP, and Model Town Inspector Surjit Singh along with other police officials.Members highlighted several causes that push the younger generations to hook on to drugs. He added that the drug demand reduction programmes should not emphasise on stigmatising addicts, but it should rather focus on trying to educate people, particularly school and college students.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/awareness-drives-should-not-stigmatise-abusers-274778
27-06-2021||Our Correspondent||International Anti-Drug Week: Police book 95 persons in Hoshiarpur district||Hoshiarpur, June 26The district police observed International Anti-Drug Week, which concluded here on Saturday. On the directions of SSP Navjot Singh Mahal, raids were conducted at the suspected hideout of the peddlers. The police had initiated special campaign against drugs since June 1 and various operations were conducted.Special cordon and search operations were conducted throughout the district. As many as 139 cases have been registered and 159 persons have been arrested during the month of June and 86 cases have been registered against 95 persons specifically during the international week.Twenty four vehicles, two pistols, live cartridges and Rs 14.2 lakh drug money has been seized by the police along with 1,026-gm heroin, 5.36-kg intoxicant powder, 101-kg poppy husk.The SSP said in addition to that, special campaign against drugs also focused on disposal of drug and forfeiture of property under the NDPS Act. An auction was organized at the Police Lines here to dispose of the vehicles of persons convicted in NDPS cases. As many as 89 vehicles were auctioned for Rs 18,02,900.As part of the campaign, special awareness drive against drugs was launched in the district. Under this, 123 anti-drug seminars, 155 meetings were conducted in various police stations. Oath taking ceremonies against drugs were conducted at sub-divisional level. A solidarity cycle rally of 25 km was held in which both police and public participated. In order to promote good health, a solidarity run against drugs of 5-km was held on Saturday, in which about 100 persons participated. Police personnel of Hoshiarpur conducted a foot march through the city to aware people against substance abuse and appeal was made to people from all sections of society to come forward to uproot this menace.To involve students in the awareness campaign, an online speech/skit competition was held in which 79 students from various schools of Hoshiarpur participated and winning students were felicitated by SSP Hoshiarpur. Manvi Behl, Jasleen and Manya Sharma respectively won the 1st, 2nd and third positions in the competition. Furthermore, for the first time in the district a huge amount of drugs were destroyed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/international-anti-drug-week-police-book-95-persons-in-hoshiarpur-district-274776
27-06-2021||International Day Against Drug Abuse & illicit Trafficking||Former addicts pledge to end drug menace in Jalandhar district||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 26On the occasion of “International Day against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking”, a large number of reformed persons (who have given up drugs) on Saturday pledged to wage a war against the drug menace in the district.In a unique initiative, the Commissionerate Police roped in a number of reformed persons and asked them to share their experiences to disseminate the message of carving a drug-free district by encouraging other addicts to come out of this vicious circle.During the function organised in association with Bolster Treatment and Rehabilitation Centre at the local Police Lines, some reformed persons shared their experiences in the presence of Member Parliament Chaudhary Santokh Singh, MLAs Sushil Rinku and Rajinder Beri, Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori. They stated that addiction to drugs was not in the interest of any human being. They said dependence on drugs ruined families and everyone. They shared incidents of losing their jobs and getting financially drained. They said the motivation of shunning drugs would come from within and the support of the family and professional counsellors was a must.The MP threw light on the efforts being made by the state government to wipe out the menace of drugs from the state. He highlighted the efforts of NGOs in tackling this menace by creating awareness among masses through campaigns.MLAs Sushil Rinku and Rajinder Beri lauded the efforts of Commissionerate Police in organising such a seminar to apprise people of the ill-effects of drug abuse through the victims themselves. They assured the administration of their support in its future endeavours against this menace.The Commissioner of Police and Deputy Commissioner said the motive of roping in people who had already bear the brunt was to ensure that the people who have suffered woes must narrate their tales from their mouth to the masses.They said it would exhort addicts that if others could shun drugs, then why couldn’t they. Both the officers say if a person has will power it was quite easy to shun the menace of drugs but due to social stigma attached to the menace, it needs a lot of courage to come forward and tell the people.SSP, Jalandhar Rural, Naveen Singla got a cycle rally organised at Kartarpur to mark the day. He along with other police officers participated in the rally and spread awareness about the drug menace. Singla said to further raise awareness against the scourage of drugs, a week-long awareness drive would be launched in the district as announced by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh during a state-level virtual event to mark the occasion.Share experience||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/former-addicts-pledge-to-end-drug-menace-in-jalandhar-district-274772
27-06-2021||Garhshankar||Father-son held with illicit liquor||Two killed in road accidentJalandhar: Two youngsters from Phagwara lost their lives in a road accident. The deceased were identified as Sajan Kumar (23) and Abhishek Kumar (19), both residents of Dharamkot Mohalla. The accident took place on the Phagwara-Hoshiarpur road. The deceased were heading towards their home on an Activa when a speeding truck hit them from the rear side. Having received fatal injuries on their head and chest, both succumbed to their injuries on the spot. SHO Phagwara City, Inspector Surjit Singh said, the accident was reported at midnight. The SHO said after conducting the post-mortem, the bodies were sent for cremation on Saturday. While the police are searching for the CCTV footage, an FIR was registered against an unidentified person. TNSMan booked for duping youthsHoshiarpur: The Mukerian police have registered a case against travel agent on the charge of cheating youths of lakhs of rupees on the pretext of sending them abroad. In his complaint to the SSP, Parminder Singh, a resident of Behbal Manjh, said the accused travel agent, Amandeep Singh, a resident of Ladowali Road, Jalandhar, took several lakhs of rupees from him and some other youths for sending them abroad. The accused neither sent them abroad nor returned his money. The complaint was investigated by the economic offences wing of the district police and after that the police registered a case against the accused under Sections 406 and 420 of the IPC. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/father-son-held-with-illicit-liquor-274769
27-06-2021||Ajay Joshi||Setting Trends: Casting fleeting memories of newborns||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 26Have you ever thought of preserving the first impressions of your newborn? How about having 3D replicas of their tiny hands and feet only to cherish them forever?Mehak Mehndiratta (26), a city-based woman, has come up with her start-up ‘Myriadimpressions ByMehak’, with which she creates casting keepsakes to help couples make memories and hold on to them forever. Looking for a career option after her marriage last year, she finally landed herself into a new venture of creating myriad impressions.“As I have always been fond of art and creativity, I searched for options which would not only help me become independent but also fill my heart with content. Hence, my decision to choose this venture was completely based on the idea of helping parents bond with their baby. At MyriadsimpressionsByMehak, I prepare 3D casts of hands and feet of their ‘bundle of joy’.While this concept is new in the town, it is already popular in big cities. 3D life casting impressions of babies’ hands and feet are a reflection of tenderness and love of parents while welcoming their child. It helps preserving the magic of childhood and every other emotion,” added Mehak.After gathering knowledge on myriad impressions and doing a course on the same from Mumbai, Mehak started her venture over a month ago. Videos on her creativity on the social media have already received an amazing response. Quite a new concept for the city people, it is now slowly becoming a fad.“My start-up is dedicated to immortalise life form in the form of a cast. It’s a process of replicating human body parts in a lively mold through various moulding and casting techniques. I take impressions on refined quality of Plaster of Paris, which is skin friendly and organic in texture. To ensure safety and perfect results, the PoP has been imported from the UK. While it sounds simple, it’s a long process which needs precision,” added Mehak.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/setting-trends-casting-fleeting-memories-of-newborns-274751
27-06-2021||Our Correspondent||Children may be next soft target, warns expert||Hoshiarpur, June 26“Children were never thought to be the face of this pandemic globally. However, with various viral mutations occurring with an impending dearth of vaccinations for children, they are thought to be the next soft targets for the SARS-CoV-2.”Dr Manu Sharma, Consultant-Paediatrics and Neonatology Consultant As per the data of the UNICEF, children are at the lowest risk of developing serious disease and contribute to just 4% of the total hospital admissions globally. It is the blow to their psycho-social development that we need to ponder.Dr Manu Sharma, consultant-paediatrics and neonatology consultant at Max Hospital, said this during an online awareness talk. He said as per the medical data of the UNICEF available, children are at the lowest risk of developing serious disease and contribute to just 4 per cent of the total hospital admissions globally. It is the blow to their psycho-social development that we need to ponder.Only a minute proportion of children develops severe disease or requires hospitalisation, but the pandemic has disrupted the life-saving health services which include vaccinations, well-baby clinics, and normal antenatal care (pregnancy care). A delay in treatment for elective procedures and ongoing treatment for chronic illness has also affected the health of many.The children are also deprived of outdoor physical activities and play time, this lack of exercise is leading to health issues such as obesity and future risk of metabolic syndrome. A peculiar rise in screen time and addiction to the internet is also noticed in kids. When this is coupled with inadequate parental surveillance it exposes the child to an ocean of content that has positive and negative impacts.In an attempt to stay connected with their peer’s children spend a lot of time on social media. This in particular is responsible for increased incidences of cyberbullying. The reports directly relate this to increased anxiety, stress, low self-esteem, and even suicidal tendencies in children. The advertisements also make children vulnerable to indulge in alcohol, smoking, and drugs.It is very correctly said that man is a social animal, this isolation and social distancing has been challenging for everybody. Being deprived of their peers and mates has led to drastic behavioral changes in kids. There is acute compromise for outdoor activities and most of the children across the globe are deprived of playtime which essentially inculcates the habits of healthy competition and team spirit. An amalgam of undue aggression and depression is on the rise in children, especially in teens. The key signs observed are changes in eating and sleep patterns. It is really important to talk to your teens or child if any such behavior is observed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/children-may-be-next-soft-target-warns-expert-274749
27-06-2021||---||Beneficiaries in 26 villages jabbed in Jalandhar district||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 26Through an intensive drive carried out in rural areas, beneficiaries of 26 villages in the district have been vaccinated 100 per cent in a span of just five days.The villages include Daduwal, Lagriyan, Dhinpur, Bhullar, Bhoda, Sherpur, Shampur, Rampur, Tandi, Cholang, Nangal Khurd, Dhudana, Kohja, Jania Dashmesh Nagar, Sidhpur, Nangal Jiwan, Chuhar, Kasampur, Bolina, Saifabad, Bacchowal, Bhattian, Mansurpur, Tarkhanmajra and Jandu Singha.Jalandhar Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori urged other villages to ensure 100 per cent inoculation to prevent the third wave of the virus. He said only vaccination can tackle the pandemic.The Deputy Commissioner said it was due to the efforts of healthcare workers and panchayat members that eligible beneficiaries were vaccinated in special camps.Thori said the administration would also send names of these villages to the state government for issuance of special grant of Rs 10 lakh as announced by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh.1 falls prey to Covid in dist, 21 new cases Jalandhar: With 21 fresh Covid cases reported today, the district tally has increased to 62,646. Of these, nine were reported from other districts. Also, one Covid death has been reported today, with which the district toll now stands at 1,474. As many as 60,810 persons have recovered from Covid in the district while the number of active cases in Jalandhar is 362.Kapurthala reports 1 death, 13 fresh casesKapurthala today 13 fresh cases with which the district tally has increased to 17,563. One person died of Covid in the district today. The deceased in Kapurthala today has been identified as a 32-year-old woman from Kala Sanghian. The toll in Kapurthala is 539 now. TNSNo death for 3rd day in HoshiarpurHoshiarpur: The district on Saturday reported 24 fresh cases, pushing the tally to 30,377. Of these, one was reported from some other district. It was for the third consecutive day that no death due to Covid was reported in the district. Health authorities said the total number of samples taken so far in the district was 6,51,267. Around 2,670 samples of persons with suspected flu-like symptoms were taken today. According to the reports received from the lab, so far, 6,21,580 samples have come back negative while the report of 2,362 samples is awaited and 759 are invalid. The number of active cases in the district is 228 and 29,163 patients have recovered so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/beneficiaries-in-26-villages-jabbed-in-jalandhar-district-274733
27-06-2021||Ajay Joshi||Petrol price hits a century in Jalandhar||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 26Petrol price, for the first time, touched a 100-mark in the district on Saturday. This is the fifth time in the last one month that fuel prices, including diesel, have been increased. While there is no respite from the rising prices of fuel, it has caused a huge dent on the pockets of farmers and auto-rickshaw drivers. Apart from this, the subsequent rise in fuel prices have impacted the budget of residents as well.On Saturday, the petrol was sold at Rs99.32 to Rs99.48 at various fuel stations in the city. Besides, the premium quality petrol or speed petrol was sold at Rs102.05.Last time, the fuel prices were changed on Friday and petrol price was increased by Rs0.47. In the last 10 days, the petrol price in Jalandhar has been fluctuating between Rs97.63 and Rs99.42. In addition, the price of diesel was sold at 99.88 per litre, which is the highest so far, in the city.People from middle and lower income groups are upset over the soaring prices, as they burn a hole in their pocket. According to them, a meaningful part of their earning goes into footing the fuel cost. While residents prefer avoiding refilling their vehicles, petrol pump operators also said consumption rate on both fuels was decreasing gradually. Ranjit Singh, president, Bhagat Singh Auto-Rickshaw Union, said: “It has become hard for auto-rickshaw drivers to bear the fuel cost. They will eventually have to increase the daily fare. Earning their livelihood through auto-rickshaws only, drivers rue that their daily earnings have reduced to Rs300 to Rs400,” Ranjit said.Similarly, farmers are equally facing the brunt of fuel hike. Amid paddy sowing season, their investment has only increased. “Most part of our earning is being spent on running agricultural machines and tractors only. However, the government isn’t paying any heed towards our plight. The subsidies are of no use, when we have to spend our earning on other things,” Jagtar Singh said.Kashmiri Lal, another farmer and a farm union leader, said their input cost in farming was increasing day by day owing to hike in fuel prices. “It is entirely a political game as oil companies have stopped revising fuel prices before five states went to poll between March and May. Once the poll results were out, the oil companies started gradually increasing prices of oil and diesel,” he said. The Centre has brought the entire trade activity, barring petrol and diesel prices, under the ambit of the GST,” he said.Hence, be it the income group, industrialists or farmers, there is a unanimous demand to roll back the fuel prices.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/petrol-price-hits-a-century-in-jalandhar-274726
27-06-2021||Our Correspondent||Two friends drown in Garhshankar,1 miraculously escapes||Garhshankar, June 26Two youngsters drowned and their friend had a narrow escape after two cars fell in the Bist Doab Canal near Kot Fatuhi around 10.30 pm on Friday.Jatinder Singh, a resident of Sarhala Kalan, said he had gone to meet his friend Manjinder Singh, a resident of Chela, on his car.He said his friend Anmol Khabda, a resident of Ghumiala village, and Jasdeep Singh Jassi, a resident of Kot Fatuhi, were following him in another car.Jatinder said as they were heading back home around 10 pm, his SUV fell into the canal. He said he somehow managed to break the windshield and sat on the roof of the car. He said around 12 o’clock, two residents of Alawalpur village, took him out safely.Jatinder said he had no idea that the vehicle in which his friends were travelling had also fallen in the canal.He said he found out in the morning that Khabda’s family members with the help of the police and divers were searching for his friends. After fishing out the vehicle, the police recovered bodies of Khabda and Jassi from the car.The police personnel said Khabda had tried hard to get out of the ill-fated vehicle, but he failed as his leg got stuck with in the glass.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/two-friends-drown-in-garhshankar-1-miraculously-escapes-274718
27-06-2021||Aparna Banerji||International Day against Drug Abuse & Illicit Trafficking: Few takers for OOAT clinics in Jalandhar district||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 26Compared to 4,737 drug addicts admitted during April to December last year, only 698 drug dependents reported to the OOAT (Outpatient Opioid Assisted Treatment) clinics in the district from January to May this year.While the de-addiction services in the district witnessed a huge spike in people turning up for OOAT services last year, the registrations have dramatically dwindled this year. Sources say this is because after massive unavailability of drugs during lockdown last year, majority of the drug dependents turned up for treatment. However, officials say the numbers have only stabilised to pre-Covid scenario, hence no dramatic hike was witnessed this year.While 9,761 drug users/dependents were registered with the OOAT programme last year until March 2020, the number rose to 13,600 by July 2020 and further rose to 14,498 by December 2020.There is a drastic difference in monthly new registrations for the OOAT programme as well. After the lockdown in March 2020, the April month witnessed the steepest hike. In April 2020, 1,432 new persons enrolled for the OOAT programme while in April 2021, the new registrations were a miniscule 115.Similar patterns prevailed for the rest of the monthsIn May and June 2020, as many as 1,097 and 382 new registrations took place in OOAT programme but for corresponding month this year, the new registrations for May have been a mere 150.Dr Aman Sood, Assistant Professor, Psychiatry and De-Addiction, said, “During the lockdown last year everyone was compulsorily relegated to homes which resulted in a massive unavailability of drugs as well. This resulted in a huge increase in reportage which was observed across de-addiction services. With a smooth sailing this year with no strict lockdown being imposed, the numbers have only come close to the average. People weren’t bound to homes this year. Our OPD and in-house patient numbers are quite normal. There have been 15 to 20 admissions at the de-addiction centre in general at most times. Also, the numbers appear quite lesser due to the lockdown last year. Last year we witnessed an unprecedented situation.”A source said, “The real cause is not being addressed in the scenario. It is clear drugs were unavailable last year so people had to report for treatment. This year there is no need for treatment because drugs are freely available.”Experts said heroin remains the drug of choice for majority of addicts amidst the pandemic as well. Gap in monthly enrolmentsThere is a drastic difference in monthly new registrations for the OOAT programme. After the lockdown in March 2020, the April month witnessed the steepest hike. In April 2020, 1,432 new persons enrolled for the OOAT programme while in April 2021, the new registrations were a miniscule 115.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/international-day-against-drug-abuse-illicit-trafficking-few-takers-for-ooat-clinics-in-jalandhar-district-274716
