28-06-2021||Jalandhar||Six alumni of Jalandhar's DAV College make it to Tokyo Olympics||Six alumni of DAV College, Jalandhar, have been selected in the Indian Hockey team, which will participate in the Tokyo Olympics 2021. College Principal Dr SK Arora said it was a proud moment and a golden chapter has been added in the history of the institute.“DAV College is a garden where Olympians bloom. The college has given 27 Olympians, two Padma Shri, nine Arjuna awardee, four Dhyan Chand awardee, two Dronacharya awardee and numerous Maharaja Ranjit Singh awardees to the nation. Now, six players would be representing Indian hockey team in Olympics. Earlier, two players participated in the Helsinki Olympics 1952, one player in the Melbourne Olympics 1956, three players in the Rome Olympics 1960, five players in the Tokyo Olympics 1964, six players in the Mexico Olympics 1968, two players in the 1972 Munich Olympics, four players in the Moscow Olympics 1980, two players in Los Angeles Olympics 1984, one player in the Seoul Olympics 1988, had had paticipated in the prestigious sporting event,” he said.Arora credited this achievement to the hard work of teachers, coaches and students of physical education department. Dr Manu Sood, HoD, Physical Education, said alumni captain Manpreet Singh, Harmanpreet Singh, Hardik Singh, Dilpreet Singh, Gurjant Singh and Shamsher Singh have practised hard to make their place in the team.Sood said it’s the second time that a student of the DAV College would be leading the Indian hockey team. Prior to this, in the 1972 Munich Olympics, Harmeek Singh had captained the Indian team. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/six-alumni-of-jalandhars-dav-college-make-it-to-tokyo-olympics-275088
28-06-2021||---||Rs 50-cr properties of drug smugglers attached in 2 yrs||Jalandhar, June 27 If data available with the police is to be believed, properties worth over Rs 50 crore of drug smugglers in Jalandhar rural and Kapurthala areas has been attached in the last two years. Properties worth Rs 5.84 crore belonging to 15 smugglers was attached at Lattianwala village in Kapurthala. Similarly, properties worth Rs 3.28 crore belonging to seven drug smugglers in Boot village were attached. As drug activities remain rampant here, in a recent swoop in a village by SSP HKPS Khakh, six smugglers were arrested from Latianwala village and three from Boot. Rehrwan village in Shahkot beats all records where movable and immovable assets belonging to six smugglers to the tune of Rs 40.32 crore had been attached. The drug mafia here, including Swaran Singh, his son Sukhpreet Singh, Dilbagh Singh, his brother Kulwant Singh, Jaswinder Singh and Varinder Pal Singh, largely dealt with several quintals of poppy husk.  Their farmhouses, residential properties, cars, bikes, scooters, trucks, combines, tractors, tippers, etc, all have been confiscated by the police, said Jalandhar Rural SSP Naveen Singla. Property worth Rs 1.28 crore of noted smuggler Gurnam Singh Gamma was attached.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rs-50-cr-properties-of-drug-smugglers-attached-in-2-yrs-275089
28-06-2021||---||Polio drive for  migrant workers’ kids kicks off in Nawanshahr||Jalandhar, June 27Dr Nisha Shahi, Deputy Director, Office Health and Family Welfare Punjab, and Dr Gurdeep Singh Kapoor, Civil Surgeon Nawanshahr launched a three-day anti-polio drive, on Friday in the slums of Dana Mandi, Nawanshahr, to protect the migrant children from polio.On the occasion, Deputy Director Nisha Shahi said no child should be deprived of polio drops. District Immunisation Officer Javinderwant Singh Bains said on the first day of the Pulse Polio Campaign, a total of 2,201 children were given polio drops.He said 246 children in Nawanshahr, 167 in Banga, 131 in Rahon, 151 in Balachaur Urban, 651 in Muzaffarpur, 230 in Mukandpur, 119 in Sujjo, 234 in Sarwa and 403 in Balachaur rural area were given polio drops. “Children who were not given polio drops would be administered the drops on June 28 and June 29 by going door-to-door.In Muzaffarpur, as many as 12 teams were deployed to provide drops to the children of migrant workers’ families working in bus stands, railway stations, slum areas, brick kilns, buildings under construction and factories, and the doctors were present to monitor the teams.On this occasion, Block Educator Maninder Singh also appealed to the NGOs, religious and other social organisations of the block to extend their fullest support to the children during this campaign for giving polio drops to the children and to motivate the parents to get their children vaccinated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/polio-drive-for-migrant-workers-kids-kicks-off-in-nawanshahr-275090
28-06-2021||---||18,744 children administered polio drops on Day 1||Jalandhar, June 27As many as 18,744 children were administered polio drops today on the first day of the pusle polio drive. The first day of the Pulse Polio Migratory Round kicked off on Sunday in the district. The drive was started at the city bus stand with Civil Surgeon Dr Balwant Singh administering polio drops to children in the ages of 0 to 5.The three pulse polio campiagn shall be held for three days starting today it conclude on June 29. Inugurating the camp today, Civil Surgeon Dr Balwant Singh said while India has been declared polio free by WHO, cases are still being found in the neighbouring country. Keeping this in mind, the migratory pulse polio campaign has a very important role for the health and safety of children.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/18-744-children-administered-polio-drops-on-day-1-275091
28-06-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Helping aspiring designers weave their dreams||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 27A unique start-up in the form of online video tutorials created by city-based textile designer and 2010 National Institute of Fashion Technology (NIFT) entrance topper Pallak Kakkar Khanna (29) has come as nothing but a boon for youngsters aspiring to take admission in top design institutes in the country.Khanna, through her YouTube channel, The Design Ladder, began free classes in the pandemic times for the aspirants of NID and NIFT and in a span of nearly 10 months has produced great results. Her students have got AIR – 2, 8, 59, 65, 136, 137, 242 and so on. “It was so satisfying that I have so many students who have their own success stories to tell. They share how they made it to the institute of their choice by developing concept clarity through my channel,” boasts Khanna about what she calls her ‘social entrepreneurship initiative’.A resident of Shaheed Udham Singh Nagar here, she says that she remembers the time when she was an aspirant. “There were hardly any good coaching classes available and they all used to charge hefty amounts up to Rs 1 lakh per course or more. After completing my course in 2014 with a rare 10 CGPA score, I worked with designers in Japan, Switzerland and Netherlands. I returned after gaining experience and worked as designer in my dad’s textile industry. I got married and have a daughter now. It was on August 15 last year that I realised that I must rekindle my passion which has always been to undertake design education in a creative way,” she narrated her story.Showing the video tutorials that she has been preparing, she said, “My single video involves a full team effort spanning over two to four weeks with professional animators putting in 2D and 3D animations to make videos interesting and memorable. My team members are based in Delhi and Mumbai. Ahead of working for any video, I prepare a proper plan and fit into it some easy learning concepts. For the current affairs videos, I have been giving unique tips for memorising the answers. For the same reason, some of my videos have close to 1 lakh views.”Khanna further adds, “I check out every comment on my video and try to reply to all doubts and queries. I sometimes even make videos for clarifying common doubts of the students. For one-to-one interaction, I use Instagram messaging with my students.”Sharing about her passion for design, Khanna tells, “I was so obsessed with drawings since my childhood that I sometimes used to sit in washroom and do my work there so that no one could disturb me. My mother realised this passion in me and encouraged me to take part in all the art competitions since my childhood. I have participated in many contests held locally as well as at far off places like Hyderabad.”She credits her success to the constant support and encouragement of her husband Ankur Khanna and in-laws and sums up: “I want to help out as many students as I can through my free lectures, so that no dream is left unfulfilled due to the unfortunate crisis.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/helping-aspiring-designers-weave-their-dreams-275092
28-06-2021||Hoshiarpur||Man booked in dowry case||Wife booked for withdrawing Rs 31LHoshiarpur: The Dasuya police have registered a case against a woman on the complaint of her husband for allegedly withdrawing Rs 31.77 lakh from the joint account in the bank. Dasuya resident Jaswinder Singh in his complaint to the police said that his wife Mandeep Kaur allegedly withdrew Rs 31.77 lakh from their joint account and went to her maternal home in Joginder Nagar Rama Mandi. The police have registered a case against the woman under Section 406 of the IPC. OCSeven arrested with narcoticsHoshiarpur: The district police have arrested seven persons, including a woman, and seized narcotics and Rs62,000 drug money from them in the last 24 hours. The Garhshankar police during a naka arrested a smuggler from near the canal and seized 20 kg of poppy husk and Rs62,000 drug money from him. The accused has been identified as Bhupinder Singh, a resident of Darapur. The Bullowal police arrested Amaninder Singh, a resident of Tohliyan village, and seized 30 gm of intoxicating powder from him, while the police of Mehtiana seized sedative injections from Patti village resident Amrik Kumar, alias Happy. OCGodown security guard assaultedHoshiarpur: The Garhshankar police have booked a man on the charge of assaulting and robbing a security guard of FCI godowns. The victim had stopped the accused from consuming liquor in the godowns of FCI. Security guard Yoga Singh told the police that he stopped Satnam Singh from taking alcohol inside the premises. The accused assaulted him with an iron rod and took away Rs500. OC2-day placement camp from todayKapurthala: A two-day placement camp, organised by the District Employment Bureau, will start from Monday at Ambedkar Bhawan in Kapurthala. Neelam Mahe, Chief Officer, District Employment Bureau, said on the first day of the camp, graduate candidates would be interviewed by various companies and the participating candidates would be registered on the spot. Candidates who are interested have been asked to contact the Bureau’s helpline number 98882-19247 for more information. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/man-booked-in-dowry-case-275093
28-06-2021||---||Jalandhar athlete Gurindervir sprints to glory at Patiala's NIS||Jalandhar, June 27Gurindervir Singh, a star athlete from the district, has added another feather to his cap by claiming a new meet record at the 60th National Inter-State Senior Athletics Championship held at Netaji Subhas National Institute of Sports, Patiala.Breaking his own personal best record of 10.30 seconds, he finished the 100m race in 10.27 seconds that concluded in the late evening hours. With this new record, the 20-year-old won gold medal in the sprinting event.His coach Sarabjit Happy said as many as 24 athletes had participated in the event. The second spot was also clinched by a city-based youth Lovepreet Singh, who finished the race in 10.47 seconds, and Amia Kumar remained at third spot with bronze medal by consuming 10.49 seconds to complete the dash. He had earlier created the national record of 10.26 seconds in the 100m race.From practising on city parks to moving to the dharamshala, the athletes trained hard to prove their mettle. “Owing to the lockdown, the government had not allowed practising in the sports complexes. Hence we resort to practising in fields, parks and roofs of our houses in the wee hours. Ahead of this championship, we daily used to practise in the dharamshala,” added Sarabjit, who has been training the two champions for the past five years. Even as Gurindervir created a new meet record, he couldn’t qualify for the upcoming Olympics as the qualifying time for Olympics in 10.05 seconds.The top athletes — Gurindervir and Lovepreet — will now drill hard for the upcoming Asian Games, the Commonwealth Games and other national and international events.Apparently, due to the unavailability of synthetic tracks and proper diet and dietician, Gurindervir could not touch the microseconds time for qualifying Olympics. His coach said if the state fulfilled our demand, our players could easily break national record as well. While the sports department only issued diet charges of Rs 200 to the players, they managed to bear all the expenses with the help of donations by NRIs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-athlete-gurindervir-sprints-to-glory-at-patialas-nis-275094
28-06-2021||---||With 2 more plants, O2 generation capacity set to increase in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, June 27With the declaration of two new oxygen plants in government facilities in the district, the oxygen generation capacity is set to increase with the number of cylinders expected to be raised to 3,300 per day soon. The government oxygen generation capacity is all set to be raised to 1900 LPM per day with two more plants announced on Sunday.With the number of Covid-19 cases witnessing a big reduction and no case of the Delta variant surfacing in Jalandhar so far, the district administration is speeding up the installation of oxygen plants.The Civil Hospital already has a 700 LPM (litres per minute) plant on its premises installed amid the peak of the second wave earlier this year. The DC announced that the district administration is all set to commence the construction of two PSA (pressure swing adsorption)-based oxygen generation plants for government hospitals.Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said the first plant with a capacity of 1000 LPM would come up at the Civil Hospital while the second plant having a capacity of 200 LPM would be developed at Nakodar Sub Divisional Hospital. He said both the projects would strengthen the existing oxygen generation capacity in government-run healthcare institutions.While the process has been in place ever since the peak period of the second wave when the district touched over 800 cases a day, PSA plants were installed at several hospitals in the past few months.So far, NHS, New Ruby, Tagore, Patel, Shriman, Global, Capitol hospitals and PIMS have their own plants.Assistant Commissioner and Nodal Officer for Covid Hardeep Singh said: “The government oxygen generation capacity alone will be hiked to 1900 LPM per day soon. The capacity of plants dedicated solely to manufacturing of oxygen for medical (not industrial) oxygen will reach 3300 LPM in the district. Besides, directions have been issued to all private hospitals needing more than 50 cylinders per day to install their own PSA plants to avoid chaos during impending waves of Covid, just in case. We also have 1,000 beds and equipment ready in the district to tackle any Covid exigency.”The Assistant Commissioner said, “While Shriman, New Ruby, Patel and Global Hospitals have already installed plants, PIMS and Capitol have a contract with INOX to receive 5-6 metric tonnes of oxygen when required. Overall 10 MT oxygen will be added to district oxygen capacity with these privately installed plants.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/with-2-more-plants-o2-generation-capacity-set-to-increase-in-jalandhar-district-275095
28-06-2021||---||Jalandhar district sees 1 death, 13 fresh infections||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 27With 13 new Covid positive cases reported today, the total district tally reached 62,659 on Sunday. Of these, a case has been reported from other districts. One Covid death has been reported today. With this, the death tally in the district has reached 1,475. As many as 60,874 persons have recovered from Covid in the district while the number of active cases in Jalandhar is 310.Kapurthalaa logs 7 cases, no deathIn Kapurthala, seven persons were reported to be positive in the district, taking total number of positive cases to 17,570. There has been no Covid death in the district for the first time in months.1 death in NawanshahrNawanshahr district today reported three fresh cases and no death. Muzaffarpur reported two and Balachaur block reported one case. At present, there are 51 active cases while 36 are under home isolation. The district tally is 11,384 (4.57 per cent) while the recovery rate is 96.43 per cent. The number of deaths now stands at 356 (3.12 per cent). At present, six persons are seeking treatment in Level-II Covid-care facility.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-district-sees-1-death-13-fresh-infections-275098
28-06-2021||---||3 under scanner for viewing child porn||Jalandhar, June 27Following the report sent by Cyber Tipline, the district police, both city and rural, have been directed to register cases against three persons for browsing, viewing and sharing objectionable content related to children on social media platforms.The accused have been identified as Hardeep Singh, a resident of Succhi Pind, Rajinder Shah, a resident of Kabulpur and Jasvir Singh, a resident of Bahopur village.Assistant Director General of Police Cyber Crime, Punjab, reportedly stated that after receiving the reports from the Cyber Tipline, the cyber cell of Jalandhar and Mohali have been investigating the matter on sharing child pornographic content on their Facebook messenger and Instagram accounts. If found guilty, cases would be registered against them under Section 67B of the Information Technology (IT) Act at their respective police stations in Rama Mandi, Bhogpur and Maqsudan.The Ministry of Home Affairs, Government of India, regularly monitors various social media platforms and internet websites to keep check on online enticement and objectionable content related to children, hence, the matter was came to the light after active supervision by ministry officials.The accused had shared pornographic videos related to children and other content on their social media sites.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/3-under-scanner-for-viewing-child-porn-275099
28-06-2021||---||Good Samaritan out to help youngsters||Jalandhar, June 27In a noble gesture, a city-based non-resident Indian (NRI) has come forward to help a student complete his education and chase his dream.Manpreet Singh, a resident of Kishanpura, was finding it difficult to pursue his education and become a classical dancer. After getting selected at National Kathak Kendra, New Delhi, shortage of funds pushed Manpreet into depression.As he lost his job last year, his sister has been a sole breadwinner in the family. After managing for a year with limited funds, Manpreet stared at a bleak future.Philanthropist Amolakh Singh Gakhal (62), who resides in the US, assured to help Manpreet in completing his education. Gakhal, who has helped numerous students having humble background, has pitched in with financial support to Manpreet.Gakhal along with his brothers — Iqbal Singh Gakhal and Palwinder Singh Gakhal — has lent a helping hand in promoting sports and development works in villages on several occasions.From providing sports kits to players participating in hockey coaching camp run by the Surjit Hockey Academy to awarding outstanding players with cash prizes, Gakhal brothers have always been on the forefront when it comes to encouraging youngsters and enabling them to cherish their dreams.Gakhal brothers donated Rs2 crore for development of parks, schools and marriages of girls hailing from Gakhal village. Last year, they awarded Rs5.51 lakh prize during the 37th edition of the Surjit Hockey tournament.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/good-samaritan-out-to-help-youngsters-275102
28-06-2021||Do you think 30||A stop-gap arrangement, but best alternative amid pandemic||Decision to hit sincere studentsEducation is a major source to tailor a student towards a new steam of professionalism towards his future to which he desires. Covid pandemic has proved to be a bonanza for those students who were weak in various subjects and were not sure that they will get through/pass, but it has upset the prospects of those students who had studied hard and were aiming to score good marks for getting admission to various courses and some were also preparing for overseas education. The 30:30:40 formula has been welcomed by various students/institutions. In my opinion, an alternative to this was that physical examinations could be conducted following all preventive rules and regulations for those who wanted to appear in examinations. Exams should be conducted within a stipulated period and the results be announced within no time so that students who want to show their talent can prove their ability by appearing in the examination. As the most affected with this decision are students who work hard and study seriously to score good marks to secure a good future for them.Rajat Kumar MohindruDecision a fait accompli nowThe pandemic has affected many people in several ways. Both lives and livelihoods have been the target of this malady. But still there is no end to it as many scientists and epidemiologists predict a third wave and many waves subsequently. Offline exams for the Class XII students of CBSE and ICSE were an enigma both for the students as well as for the government. Many dates were announced but ultimately they were cancelled and 30:30:40 formula was conceived and the Supreme Court also gave a positive nod and thumbs up for the same. Though the parents had moved a petition in the court for the offline exams but the same was rejected. The question is that how a student can achieve same marks for all classes. The grading could be different for different classes. Again, when the exams for IIT, IIM and CLAT can be held offline, then why not for Class XII? Now as the decision has been given a final touch, the students and their parents have to swallow the bitter pill. Though the teaching fraternity have different views about it, now it’s a fait acompali.Dr JS WadhwaStakeholders must accept the alternativeIt is unfortunate that the government had to cancel the CBSC and CSICE Class XII examinations due to Covid. However, the evaluation criteria devised by the experts is the best alternative available under the given circumstances. Moreover, the Supreme Court has validated the said evaluation plan and as such the same should be acceptable to all stakeholders. The option to improvise the results, as demanded by the students, should be given at the outset before declaration of results is not tenable. The option to appear for fresh examination in case the students are not satisfied with the marks obtained under evaluation criteria is already provided under the original scheme. As regards, compartment and private students, the Supreme Court has allowed taking physical examination to be held between August 15 and September 15.Jagdish ChanderGood assessment policy of boardsThe CBSC/CISCE has adopted a good assessment policy for computation of marks. It is the most appropriate scheme under the present circumstances and mostly the students are happy with it because such type of situation appears rarely, even the Supreme Court of India has given its nod to this formula. The CBSC has divided the marks assessment in two components theory and practical. A committee under the leadership of the Principal and two senior teachers will be formed to prepare the results following the policy matter. This decision is taken in large interest of students. The students, who are not satisfied with this can take up Class XII exams to be held on a later date when the pandemic situation is conductive, then it will be too late and the year will be wasted and won’t be of much help for competitive exams too and the date to declare the results should be announced to save the future of students.Shashi KiranDoes not withstand touchstone of logicThe 30:30:40 formula for evaluation of Class XII students has come on the radar as it does not withstand touchstone of logic, fairness and genuineness. Though it has got an approval of the apex court, experts feel it will fail to provide correct and satisfactory assessment of students. The inclusion of Class XI marks in the preparation of final result is a bitter pill for average students and will affect the college/university admissions badly. With a changed syllabus and introduction to new subjects and extensive curriculum, majority of students had taken this class lightly and did not perform well. It will also be a rude shock for some bright students having scored average marks in previous years and had become more serious in Class XII and were expecting better results this year. Moreover, the usual practice of conducting difficult model examinations and stingy evaluation in most schools will affect their final marks. Students have expressed concern about manipulation of marks by schools to favour some students. Hasn’t the Covid scourge made it imperative to revamp our overall education system?Tajpreet S KangNeed to adapt to changing scenarioLike its earlier decision to cancel board examinations, the CBSE’s new 30:30:40 assessment formula to compute and declare Class XII final results by July 31 has drawn a mixed responses from students, parents, teachers and other stakeholders across the country. While some have called it ridiculous and unfair, others have hailed it as unbiased, time-bound and holistic. Even the Supreme Court has endorsed it on the ground that it would protect the interests of the student community by putting an end to the feeling of uncertainty that could have a negative impact on their physical and mental well-being. Formulated by an expert committee, the evaluation scheme is subject to certain conditions in order to avoid any kind of malpractice and favouritism by some school authorities. The total marks or grades awarded to a student should be in consonance with his past performance in board exams. There is a clear-cut provision for compartment and private students and for those who are dissatisfied with the evaluation criteria or wish to improve their performance; they all can appear in the offline exams to be conducted when the Covid situation becomes conducive, probably in mid-August or September. In the given scenario, this innovative marking methodology will allay general apprehensions about admissions to higher study courses in coveted colleges and universities at home country and abroad. It is time the academicians adapt to the changing circumstances in view of the current pandemic.D S KangNot fair, but only possible way outAny formula or decision on education in special circumstance like Covid fury must ensure that students are not deprived of what they deserve and are competent to hone their innate potentials. More intelligent and outstanding lot should not be equated with average or below average students, saying in other word, “be tarred with the same brush”. We have no doubt in the capability of educationists and higher courts and all decisions would be taken in the larger interest of students. A consensus at nation-level is imperative. There seems to be some logic behind the students’ approach of seeking SC intervention in to the matter. A number of students will be affected by the formula and it also doesn’t ensure parity. But, keeping the present situation in mind, no other alternative is as good as this one.BM SinghNo other alternative available with boardsApproach of all students is usually not the same in Class XI. Many are non-serious earlier and get on pace later while some are focused towards their studies from the beginning. Also, due to a shift to higher secondary pattern many also are unable to make their mind about the stream that they wish to choose and sometimes shift from one stream to another. During this period of transition, most of their time is gone in making decisions and grabbing information. It is near the pre-board exams that they start understanding the pattern and the right approach to examinations. Thus giving equal importance to Class XI and XII pre-boards is not fair. Many schools are also said to be awarding less scores to students to prepare them for boards which will now be affecting the students badly. Though amid the pandemic this is still the best policy to evaluate students, I appeal college and universities to give fair chance to all deserving students.Manish Aggarwal3-yr period not enough to evaluate a studentCovid has affected students’ school education as well as examination results. For Class XII students, the CBSE has devised three years performance evaluation method with online registration facility for the examination on the board’s portal. Students and parents have flagged their concern and suggested to follow either last six years’ performance evaluation or internal assessment of students’ performance.TS BhattiA reasonable alternativeThe past one year has been difficult for all sections of the society. Scared of the contagion, educational institutions were forced to remain shut for almost a year and studies had to be pursued online as a stop gap arrangement to classrooms, to the extent possible. Meanwhile, a more virulent second wave of the pandemic led to delaying and finally cancellation of exams. After a careful review, pupils up to Class X were proposed to be elevated to the next level on the basis of internal assessment and previous results. Keeping in view that the valuable time of the students intending to pursue higher studies in India or abroad may not be wasted, it has now been decided to promote Class XII students also on the basis of CBSE/ CISCE specially designed assessment formulae. Mostly, the academicians have welcomed the criteria and have rated it as the best preposition under the prevailing circumstances. Nevertheless, some students and parents moved the court against the cancellation of Class XII exams, questioning the evaluation criteria. Ending the uncertainty on the method of calculating marks/ grade of Class XII students, the apex court accepted the CBSE and CISCE assessment formulae as substantially reasonable alternative.Nirmaljit Singh ChatrathBest in present scenario of CovidTimes have been tough for everyone more so for students who have borne a huge brunt of it. Their studies have taken a big hit because of delayed exams and results. Our large student community is on the threshold where after completing schooling they enter into various streams of their choice for higher education. The first thing they need at this point is the result of Class XII. The 30:30:40 formula seems to be the best in the present scenario. This seems fair as it is dividing their percentage over a period of three years and not just the past one year which has been extremely stressful. Besides, the students have also been assured of a chance to appear for physical exams after the situation improves if they are not satisfied with their result.Dr Vani AroraReforms a step in right directionCovid may prove to be a blessing in disguise. The CBSE had to, willy nilly, cancel Class XII exams compelling it to seek other channels of evaluation like results of pre-board examinations, Class X, internal assessment scores etc. This might have started the long overdue process of examination reforms. The bogey of a final examination takes away the will to discover, the joy of learning as well as the pleasure of teaching. Now, with the 30:30:40 formula, it seems something like that will be the criteria for evaluation in the future. Perhaps it is time to look at how other countries examine their school graduates. Whatever, the examiners are by and large happy.Prof Mohan Singh20:30:50 formula would have been betterJatinderpal Singh BatthQUESTIONCovid fatalities and cases are decreasing in the district and unlocking process has already begun with lifting of the weekend curfew. How should the district administration prepare itself to prevent the anticipated third Covid wave?Suggestions in not more than200 words can be sent to jalandhardesk@tribunemail.comby Thursday (July 1).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/a-stop-gap-arrangement-but-best-alternative-amid-pandemic-275103
