29-06-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Online classes taking heavy toll on children’s attitude towards studies||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 28It is their second year of sitting at home, not going to schools and keeping busy with their phones. All because of the pandemic. Lethargic attitude, carelessness, irritated nature are what teachers are now noticing among the children.Online studies have taken a toll on children’s attitude towards studies and behavioural changes. Teachers say bright students, who were earlier remain conscious of their grades, no longer care. Why? Because they all are getting promoted to next classes without having to appear for exams, and even if they do, the online exams cannot come on par with the offline ones.Kulwinder Singh, president of the Democratic Teacher Front, and teacher of one of the Government Middle School, said parents are desperate to send their wards to schools because they hardly give time to the studies but remain glued to the phones the entire day. “Today in a meeting of the front, we have also raised a demand to open schools in a phased manner. One day, students of one class can come, and second day, another class. This is how the problem could get resolved a bit, otherwise it is getting difficult to handle the children,” he said.“Several brilliant and bright students, who used to study to score good marks and would keep asking questions, are now sitting like other students. So, basically, the enthusiasm of attaining good marks has subdued,” he said.Sarabjit Singh, another government school teacher, said last year, there was still some energy in students as they were trying to get used to the online system, but now, that has faded away. “The parents tell us that students remain on the phone every time, but they don’t know why they don’t do homework. It is only because they have their phones, but spend their time doing other things on the phone, instead of studying,” he said.The teachers said the parents were now restless and worried about their children’s studies and growth. Nothing can beat the fun of teaching a student in the classroom and monitoring the graph of every student personally, the teachers said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/online-classes-taking-heavy-toll-on-childrens-attitude-towards-studies-275547
29-06-2021||---||Punjab Roadways, PRTC staff go on 3-day strike throughout the state||Jalandhar, June 28Passengers on Monday had a harrowing time at the city bus stand after staff of the PRTC and the Punjab Roadways announced their three-day chakka jam strike throughout the state. While PRTC and Punbus buses remained off the roads, private buses overcharged passengers.Intensifying their protest, the contractual workers’ union of the Punjab Roadways started their protest at 8 in the morning and kept the bus stand and roadways depots closed for four hours. The protesters stated that they would continue their protest for the next three days and would gherao the Moti Bagh residence of CM Capt Amarinder Singh. The union members stated that the protest was held across 18 roadways depots in the state and at seven PRTC depots.Despite the fact that the government had termed justified the demands of Punbus employees at various occasions, nothing had been done to implement them, said the protesting drivers and conductors.Gurpreet Singh, a union leader, said, “As per the law, the services of a contractual worker must be regularized within 240 days of his/her job, but their services have not been regularised though they have put in many years of their services. We have been working on meagre salaries, but the government is not doing anything for us.”Another member said there had been no addition to the Punjab Roadways’ existing fleet over the years. The general secretary of the union said the main demands that needed immediate attention were implementation of the Supreme Court’s guidelines of equal wages for equal work and the Punjab and Haryana High Court’s orders regarding the cancellation of driving permit of private buses and the regularisation of the services of the contractual workers.Besides, the secretary said they had also put forth the demand to cover workers under the Punjab Pension Scheme, loan waiver of Punbus and DA to be given to all drivers and conductors.Meanwhile, a meeting of the SCBC Union of Punjab Roadways was held under the leadership of Guru Naam Das, a permanent worker of the roadways employees union, at the city bus stand. Even after four years, the government could not ban any type of mafia. And no outsourcing workers were being regularised. “Corruption is rampant in the Transport Department. Employees are not being promoted.The bodies of new buses should be taken from good agencies. New staff should be recruited in the roadways. The government deliberately delayed the recommendations of the Sixth Pay Commission and so is the case with the transfer policy,” said Baljeet Singh, president of the union. Manjeet Singh, Kuldeepak, Ramandeep Singh and Salwinder Kumar attended the meeting. The SCBC union supported the strike initiated by the Punbus union.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/punjab-roadways-prtc-staff-go-on-3-day-strike-throughout-the-state-275549
29-06-2021||---||1 death, 26 cases in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, June 28With 26 new Covid positive cases reported today, the total district tally reached 62,685 cases. One Covid death has been reported today. With this, the death tally in the district has reached 1,476. As many as 60,927 persons have recovered from Covid in the district while the number of active cases in Jalandhar is 282.No death, 4 +ve in K’thalaFour persons were reported positive in the Kapurthala, taking total number of positive cases to 17,574. No Covid death was reported in the district on Monday.No death in HoshiarpurThe district reported no Covid fatality on Monday while 21 new cases pushed the infection count in the district to 30,421. As many as 2,819 new samples of persons with suspected flu-like symptoms was taken on Monday. The total number of samples taken in the district so far had reached 6,56,353. According to the reports received from the lab, 6,26,125 are negative, while the reports of 2,809 samples are awaited and 815 samples are invalid. The health authorities said the number of active cases is 162, while the number of patients who have recovered is 29,297. The reports of 2,819 samples were received on Sunday, out of which 19 positive cases were reported today, while two more were reported from other districts.2 cases in NawanshahrNawanshahr district reported two fresh cases in Sujjon and Saroya block. No death was reported here on Monday. At present, there are 36 active cases while 27 are under home isolation. The district tally is 11,386 (4.57 per cent) while the recovery rate is 96.56 per cent. The number of deaths now stands at 356 (3.12 per cent). At present, six persons are seeking treatment in Level-II Covid-care facility.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/1-death-26-cases-in-jalandhar-district-275550
29-06-2021||---||His house enthrals even the passers-by!||Jalandhar, June 28For Baldev Singh Sodhi (72), a retired bank manager, his plants and flowers worked as a medicine and therapy during his depressed days. Sodhi lost his wife around 16 years ago, and that is when he started feeling alone and sad. But then it was his greens that helped him get him get out of his sadness. Sodhi shifted to Jalandhar from Ludhiana in 2011, and initially he kept a few plants and one can just gauge the fondness of Sodhi for plants by just passing by his house, as he has over 400 plants at his house.The terrace seems to be like a peaceful haven. Several colourful flower pots lying on the terrace, with beautiful and colourful flowers, including bougainvillea, petunia, cactus flowers, roses, etc, always manage to catch the attention of the passers-by. Sodhi has also installed artificial grass on the boundary walls and now he plans to install the same on the ground too. Even the balcony, ground floor, and first floor tell Sodhi’s love for nature, as hardly any corner is seen without a flower pot. There are several money plants in the house too.He has a kitchen garden on his rooftop where there is cauliflower, brinjal, bottle gourd (lauki), bitter gourd, cucumber, etc along with fruit trees such as pomegranates, guava etc. “I spent my pension on my family and my plants. I don’t keep anything for myself, and don’t save. Just for my family members and my plants,” said Sodhi.He spends two hours in day and two hours in the evening with the plants. “I might skimpy meals, but I never forget to water my plants,” said Sodhi. This retired bank manager said he himself prepares the saplings from the seeds.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/his-house-enthrals-even-the-passers-by-275551
29-06-2021||---||Delinking NPA from basic pay: Doctors strike work||Jalandhar, June 28Doctors of the PCMS (Punjab Civil Medical Services) Association held a protest at the ESI Hospital (which currently operated as Civil Hospital) in Jalandhar against delinking of the NPA (non-practising allowance) from basic pay, here today. Government doctors today suspended the work and sat on a dharna at the hospital from 10 am to 2 pm. The strike was observed in response to a call of the Joint Punjab Doctors Coordination Committee. While the OPD services remained suspended, medico emergency services also remained partially suspended today. About 60 doctors of the PCMS Association participated in the strike, while all 250 doctors of the PCMS Association in the district remained on strike in response to the statewide call. While doctors also held a protest on the issue on Friday, there shall be another protest on Tuesday. Doctors also marched to the Civil Surgeon's office carrying banners reading — ‘No cut in NPA’ and ‘Covid warriors feel cheated’. Dr Harish Bhardwaj of the PCMS Association, said, “Initially, our NPA was reduced from 25 per cent to 20 per cent. Later, it has been delinked from the basic pay. This is how doctors are being responded for their services during the Covid time. We demand 33 per cent NPA. We shall also be holding a protest on the issue tomorrow.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/delinking-npa-from-basic-pay-doctors-strike-work-275552
29-06-2021||---||Fire breaks out at chemical factory||Jalandhar, June 28A major fire broke out at a chemical factory situated at Shekhein village on Hoshiarpur Road here on Monday. The goods kept in the factory were destroyed in the fire. However, no loss of human life was reported in the incident. As per information, the incident took place at around 5 in the evening and it took almost four hours for officials of the Fire Brigade to douse the flames. Smoke could be seen billowing out of the factory.The moment the fire broke out, the workers came out and started putting water to douse the fire, but remained unsuccessful. Blasts were heard by the people living nearby continuously for several minutes. A Fire Brigade team reached the spot and after hours of putting in efforts and using several fire tenders, they could succeed in controlling the fire.The SHO, Patara, said after getting to know about the incident, they reached the spot and asked people to stay away from the spot and did not allow anyone to go near the factory. “We were concerned that no one should get injured in the fire. Fortunately, no human life was lost, but the actual amount of loss will be ascertained by the owner,” the SHO said, adding that the reason behind the fire could not be ascertained.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/fire-breaks-out-at-chemical-factory-275554
29-06-2021||Aparna Banerji||Erratic power supply troubles farmers amid paddy season||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 28A week ago, several farmers of Kapurthala loaded transformers onto a trolley and then held a dharna at the Khaira Dona Feeder, exhorting the Electricity Department to keep their transformers with them as they were of no use to them in the peak of summers amid paddy season.Despite promise of an uninterrupted electricity supply of eight hours, farmers across villages in Jalandhar and its neighbourhood complained of hefty power cuts which are leaving their fields with only four to five hours of electricity supply per day. Across the rural areas in the district and its periphery, farmers have been reporting a paucity of electricity in the middle of the paddy season which is giving them a hard time.The 2019 floods affected the Lohian-Shahkot belt, made things worse for the farmers here. Their fields continue to get polluted water after the floods.Salwinder Singh, a farmer of the Jania village in Shahkot, said: “Ik sada pani peen yog nahi te utton bijli puri nahi mildi. Across the Buddhanwala, Baupur, Bagga, Raiwal, Jamsher among others feeders across Shahkot farmers have been hit due to paucity of power supply. We have spoken to the SDO and SDM today as well. We get electricity for only four to five hours a day, in Lohian too. After the 2019 floods, the waters of the villages got polluted. We are getting chemical-laced water supply in the village. Bores have to be dug deeper. It is not even potable. At home, we have ROs but in fields, people are forced to drink contaminated water only. Poor farmers are worse off.”Tarsem Singh, a farmer from Gyanpur village near Sultanpur Lodhi Kapurthala said: “What would we do without water? Power cuts are understandable if the weather conditions are adverse. But even during normal days, we are facing power cuts for two to three hours. Our village gets power from the Jhal Laiwal feeder. Despite eight hours promised on record, we only get four to five hours of electricity. We have held various morchas. While residential areas are getting supplies, it’s the fields and motors which are facing cuts during the peak paddy season.”Amanjot Singh, a farmer from Jandiala said: “Ideally, the government should have ensured a hassle-free power supply. We got regular supply for the first 10 days of the paddy season. But later, electricity supply became more erratic. Diesel is Rs 100 per litre. Poor farmers can’t even afford generators. Two hours of running generator per day is costing farmers too much. The Pandori feeder hardly gives power for six hours a day.”Deputy Chief Engineer, Kapurthala Circle, Inder Pal Singh said, “An electricity supply of around eight hours has been ensured to farmers in Jandiala in the past 24 hours. In other villages as well, power supply is being ensured on a priority basis. There have been very little cuts except in an emergency.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/erratic-power-supply-troubles-farmers-amid-paddy-season-275555
29-06-2021||Our Correspondent||Hoshiarpur: 6 held with 7 pistols, intoxicants, cash||Hoshiarpur, June 28Under a special drive initiated by the Hoshiarpur police against anti-social elements, six persons were apprehended and four FIRs were registered against them. As many as seven pistols, 38 cartridges, 100-gm heroin, 24 sedative injections, a Swift car, and Rs 40,000 were recovered from them within a week’s time.SSP Hoshiarpur Navjot Singh Mahal said a special drive was initiated under the supervision of SP Investigation Ravinderpal Sandhu and Rakesh Kumar DSP investigation. Under this drive, a team led by Gurpreet Singh, DSP Headquarters and Inspector Bikram Singh, SHO Tanda apprehended Jaswinder Singh, alias Jassi, a resident of Preet Nagar, Fatehgarh Churian Road, under PS Sadar, Amritsar (Rural).Two pistols, 18 live cartridges, and three magazines were recovered from him and an FIR was also registered against him at Tanda police station. It was later found out that Jaswinder Singh already has two murder cases and a case of theft registered against him under the Arms Act in Amritsar. He is currently on bail.Another team led by Tushar Gupta, ASP Garhshankar, and Inspector Iqbal Singh, SHO Garhshankar apprehended Satnam Singh, alias Kaka of Denowal Khurd, recovering 1 country-made pistol, five live cartridges, 24 sedative injections, and Rs 40,000 from him. An FIR under the NDPS Act and the Arms Act was registered against him.Also, Inspector Shiv Kumar I/C CIA Hoshiarpur, apprehended Shahbaaz Singh, alias Sahu, of new Fatehgarh locality, under Model Town police station, Hoshiarpur, recovering three pistols and 10 cartridges from him. A case under the Arms Act was registered against him at Hoshiarpur police station, Model Town.The Bullowal police have arrested Gurbachan Singh and Harwinder Singh of Dograwala Subhanpur, district Kapurthala and Lakhwinder Singh of Fullan Bhaini Miyan Khan, Gurdaspur near T-point Sandhran Sodhian, recovering 100-gm heroin, one pistol, five cartridges, and a car from them. An FIR under the NDPS Act and the Arms Act was registered against them at the Bullowal police station. SP RPS Sandhu said all cases were being investigated thoroughly to unearth the forward and backward linkages.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hoshiarpur-6-held-with-7-pistols-intoxicants-cash-275558
29-06-2021||Punjab State Safai Karamchari Commission chairman Geja Ram has sought a complete inquiry report in the next 10 days in the alleged case of financial exploitation of sewer men and pump operators by the contractor in Phagwara Municipal Corporation. The chairman of the commission directed the enquiry after visiting Kapurthala. Taking a serious note of providing salary of only RsRs=5||No more exploitation of sanitation workers||Ensuring the insurance of beneficiariesHariom Sharma, a Phagwara-based social worker, and a Good Samaritan, provided Ayushman Bharat Health Insurance cards to beneficiaries. To help the locals avail the benefit of the Ayushman Bharat Health Insurance scheme, an awareness camp was also organised by Sharma in the Gonspur area of ward No. 11. Hariom distributed cards to those who had applied for the for them online, in a door-to-door campaign. Sharma told the beneficiaries that they can avail the free medical treatment up to Rs 5 lakh under the scheme. He further added to help the physically disabled, elderly and widows in getting their monthly pensions.Leaving youths in lurchWhile the administration has been claiming to take action against illegal agents, seven more youths of Shivpuri area in Phagwara have fallen prey to an illegal travel agent. He duped the youths of Rs 1 lakh each on the pretext of sending them to Dubai. Baldev Kumar, a resident of Shivpuri, told the police that they had approached the accused travel agent through a poster, who later asked them to pay Rs 50,000 each for work visa. “After few days, he again demanded Rs 50,000 in two installments and asked for our passports and other documents, however he neither gave us our money nor the visa. We have been in lurch for the past six months,” added Baldev. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/no-more-exploitation-of-sanitation-workers-275747
29-06-2021||Jalandhar||Lyallpur Khalsa College, Jalandhar, student Akanksha Nayyar Ist in MTM||Tau’s Day celebratedChildren of Eklavya School celebrated Tau Day. Various online activities were organised like circular shapes, finding the circumference and diameter and using tau instead of Pi. The concept was explained on charts, making activity videos and explaining it. Chairman JK Gupta said children should take part in such mathematical activities to curb their maths phobia. Director Seema Handa also appreciated the students who took part in Tau Day. She said the first known use of tau was approximated by Archimedes in the third century. “He was born in the Greek city-state of Syracuse. Archimedes was known as one of the greatest scientists of the classical age, who among many other things, calculated Pi to the most precise value known. Pi is defined as the ratio of a circle’s circumference to its diameter as is tau, but some believe that Archimedes work would have been all the better if he had relied more on tau than Pi”, the students were told.Students seleted for internshipAs many as 145 students of Apeejay College of Fine Arts were selected for internship listed in Internshala. All the selected students would be given monthly internship of Rs5,000 or Rs10,000 according to their contribution to the company. Principal Dr Neerja Dhingra congratulated the selected students and said that the students would continue their study while doing work for the company during the internship. She showered best wishes on students and considered their selection a first step towards self reliance. She said that they would get work experience and know the specialised field of their interest to be able to materialise their dreams in future.CT Group signs MoUThe Department of Fashion Design, CT Group of Institutions, has signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with a leading fashion Brand ‘The Fashionate’ by renowned International Fashion stylist and designer Shelja Sharma. She has worked with many Bollywood and other film and television celebrities. The Memorandum of Understanding will provide the department students with enormous opportunities to work with her on different design projects undertaken at the ‘The Fashionate’ as well as design internships directly under her guidance.Enlightening virtual workshopTo instil the spirit of active citizenship and to sensitise the young minds about the different types of inequalities that exist in society, Mayor World School in collaboration with Oxfam India and Young Leaders for Active Citizenship (YLAC) organised an enlightening virtual workshop for teachers and students of Grade IX. The workshop was conducted by Asmita Prabhakar. She emphasised on raising consciousness among the individuals about a host of societal problems persisting in the society and inspiring students to make a difference in the community through Oxfam Equality Club.SPICMACAY event at DPSDelhi Public School provided a unique week long “Ashram” like experience to bring the students closer to our heritage. Students from Classes I-XII attended the ANUBHAV-2021 programme initiated by SPICMACAY (Society for Promotion of Indian Classical Music and Culture amongst Youth) in which they were exposed to varied nuances of dance, music and theatre. The students of DPS, Jalandhar, got an opportunity to connect with some of the greatest ‘Gurus’ and experts through various activities like classical music and dance, intensives/workshops, talks, Nad Yoga, Hatha Yoga, theatre, a cinema classic, folk arts and Crafts etc.Best Research Paper AwardSrishti Bhandari, an MSc (Hons) Biotechnology student of Lovely Professional University, has won ‘Best Research Review Paper Writing Award’ at the prestigious ‘National Research Paper Writing Competition- 2021’. Srishti’s innovative research review paper will now be published in internationally recognised ‘Mindshare Yuva Book Series’ of Young Scholars. Her winning paper is titled as-“CRISPR/Cas9 an Embryo Genome Editing System: A Review”. CRISPR/Cas9 is a Nobel Prize winning technology which is to edit genes by precisely cutting DNA. It is a simple technology yet a powerful tool for editing genomes. It allows researchers to alter DNA sequences and modify gene function.Sports Trials at HMVHans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya organised selection trials of the sports wing for the session-2021-22 at HMV playground. The players of various games took part in trials. The players were from Punjab and Haryana. Principal Prof Dr Ajay Sareen said that the selected players will be given free boarding, lodging and coaching in concerned game. They will be given free coaching in academics and free equipment for game. On this occasion, coaches of various games Kulbir Singh Saini (hockey), Sunil Kumar (rugby), Satwant Singh and Meenu Dogra (weightlifting) were also present. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/lyallpur-khalsa-college-jalandhar-student-akanksha-nayyar-ist-in-mtm-275748
