30-06-2021||Students of BCom Hons (Sem V) of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya brought laurels to the institution by securing various positions in the university. Radhika Verma||B.Com Hons semester V result out||International Series organisedKanya Maha Vidyalaya organised the KMV International Series (English Chapter) in which stalwarts of English language and literature from globally renowned international universities have been delivering lectures for students and faculty. KMV’s international series is running at full swing and witnessing the attendance of over 100 participants who joined virtually through Zoom and Facebook. Continuing the same, the most recent lecture of the series was delivered by Prof Roger Charles Nunn, Prof and Head of the Department of English, American University of Sharjah, UAE, who profusely admired KMV’s heritage of women empowerment and high academic standards.Online photography competitionTo explore their talents student of DIPS Urban Estate participated in the photography competition on National Camera Day. Students captured beautiful pictures of nature, children playing in and around parks in neighbourhood, mountains and plants. Vanshika of Class IX secured the first position, Karamjeet of Class XII bagged the second position, Deepanksha of class X bagged the third position. Winners were awarded trophy and certificate by Principal Neelu Bawa and Jashan Singh. MD Tarwindar Singh remarked that the camera captures special moments and make them the lifelong memories.FDP on future of tourismThe Faculty of Hospitality (FOH) under the flagship of Human Resource Development Centre, GNA University, organised a virtual Faculty Development Programme (FDP) on the theme of ‘Planning for the future of Tourism and Hospitality’. The key objective behind organising this FDP was to increase the footfall of reputed faculty, experts and researchers to learn, share knowledge and skills in cutting edge areas, create avenues for possible collaborative research work etc. The two-day FDP was focused to guide faculty members to comprehend and get prepared for the situation that may be present in the coming days.Science Olympiad AwardIVY World School under the aegis of Vasal Educational Society nailed it again and following the league receives the National Astronomy and Science Olympiad Award 2020. The excellence of the school has been appreciated even with the achievement of its students, Amanat and Samarth, for their exemplary performance in Level-2 Round of NASO conducted by NAVRAS EDUTECH in 13 countries for the year 2020. This accolade for the school marks its contribution towards raising the students’ standards of education in contemporary times.Webinar on Applications of IOTsMechanical Engineering department of DAV University organised a webinar on “Applications of IOTs in Mechanical Engineering”. Dr Kapil Kumar Goyal, Assistant Professor, Department of Industrial and Production Engineering NIT, was the main speaker of the webinar. Dr RK Seth, Dean Academics, introduced the speaker Dr Kapil Kumar Goyal. Dr Goyal emphasised the importance of Internet of Things, machine learning in current manufacturing scenario. He said that, to cope up with the market demands, students have to be competent in these technologies. The webinar was attended by more than 100 participants including students and faculties from various disciplines and academicians from different educational institutions.Virtual Farewell partyThe Cosmetology Department of Kamla Nehru College for Women organised a virtual farewell. Party was graced by principal, Faculty of Cosmetology Department, and students of B.Voc sem VI, PG Diploma, and B.Voc sem IV as host. Party was begun with a welcome address by HOD, Geeta Sharma. Principal Dr Savinder Pal conveyed her best wishes and gave her words of wisdom for their upcoming life. The event was hosted by Jasmeen and Gagan of B.Voc Sem IV students under the guidance of Sumita. Students organised various performances including songs, dances, poems and games. Seniors enjoyed excitedly every part of the function. A photoshoot round was also played. Principal selected students for the first three positions based on a photoshoot. Rashneet selected first, Simran second and Kajal third. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/b-com-hons-semester-v-result-out-276210
30-06-2021||Our Correspondent||60-year-old man ends life in Garhshankar||Garhshankar, June 29Ajit Singh (60), a resident of Badesaron village here, committed suicide by hanging himself in his house on Tuesday. Getting information, the Garhshankar police reached the spot and started investigation. Sub-Inspector Rakesh Kumar of the Garhshankar police station said family members of the deceased informed about the incident to police over phone at around 6 am on Tuesday.The police said that a suicide note was found from the pocket of the deceased in which he had held no one responsible for his death. The victim’s family members informed the police that Ajit Singh was under depression for some time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/60-year-old-man-ends-life-in-garhshankar-276209
30-06-2021||---||Villages near Adampur Air Force station to step up vigil||Jalandhar, June 29In the wake of the recent drone attack at the Jammu Air Force (AF) station, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori on Tuesday directed the panchayats surrounding the Adampur Air Force station to keep a close watch on outsiders seeking to enter their villages.He asked police officials to launch a special verification drive of tenants and PGs in nearby villages to ensure foolproof security at the station.Presiding over the meeting of the Airfield Environment Management Committee which takes place after every six months, a variety of issues ranging from construction near the Air Force station to proper implementation of solid waste management rules were discussed at length.Thori, who was accompanied by Air Commodore GVK Reddy and Wing Commander Dr Wassane, briefed about the progress achieved on the issue discussed in the last meeting. The DC asked the local bodies officials to ensure proper functioning of the solid waste management plant at Sham Chaurassi while implementing door-to-door garbage collections in areas of Sham Chaurasi and Alawalpur.He also ordered to do away with the open garbage dumping near the Air Force station site while issuing instructions to put an end to any kind of construction within the prohibited area. The DC also directed the forest and municipal authorities to initiate pruning of trees nearby the Air Force station to avoid any kind of bird-hit instances.He asked the municipal council to further direct the owners of chicken shops and butchers not to throw waste in the open where a flock of birds tended to gather and would pose a threat to aircraft while taking off and landing. On the occasion, officials of the local administration and police personnel were also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/villages-near-adampur-air-force-station-to-step-up-vigil-276208
30-06-2021||---||Manish Tewari inaugurates oxygen plant in Nawanshahr||Nawanshahr, June 29Manish Tewari, MP, inaugurated the newly constructed PSA oxygen plant in Nawanshahr on Monday. Established in association with Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd, Toansa, the plant has the capacity to produce up to 30 cylinders of oxygen per day.This pressure swing absorption plant will generate oxygen from the air and deliver it directly at patients’ beds through pipes.Tewari said such oxygen plants were being set up all over the state so that there would be no shortage of oxygen in case of any emergency in the coming days. He said during the second wave of Covid, when there was a severe shortage of oxygen everywhere in the country, no shortage of oxygen was there in Punjab.“In addition to the provision of essential medicines and L-3 beds, timely recruitment of doctors and other health personnel also provided better health services to the people,” he said.With the setting up of the oxygen plant, the Nawanshahr Civil Hospital has now become self-reliant in the field of oxygen whereas earlier it had to import oxygen. The MP lauded the efforts made by the district administration to effectively cope with the second wave of Covid epidemic and to meet the oxygen requirement during this time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/manish-tewari-inaugurates-oxygen-plant-in-nawanshahr-276207
30-06-2021||---||Assembly poll: Congress SC wing steps up activity in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, June 29After the BJP announced the CM post for a Dalit leader and SAD declared the Deputy CM post for a leader of the same community, ruling Congress too seems to have started to follow the suit.National coordinator of the SC Department of AICC Suresh Kumar and national convener of Leader Development Mission in Reserved Constituencies (LDMRC) SC Department of AICC Kshitij Adyalkar on Tuesday visited Jalandhar and appointed coordinators for all 34 reserved Assembly constituencies in Punjab. “We had won 22 out of 34 Assembly seats in 2017. We intend to perform even better this time”, said Suresh Kumar adding that the coordinators will visit all the houses of the SC community in their respective constituencies, will take data of their caste and religion details and discuss their problems.On the issue of unrest within the party for not giving due representation to the Dalit leaders in the state, Suresh Kumar said the matter was being discussed by the high command and some positive results would be seen within few weeks Kumar said on the basis of this feedback given by the coordinators, the candidates of Congress on the reserved seats will be guided and given key points leading them to victory. “Since Punjab has the highest 34 per cent of Dalit population, we intend to focus well on this programme here”, he said.On the issue of unrest within the party for not giving due representation to the Dalit leaders in the state, Kumar said the matter was being discussed by the high command and some positive results would be seen within few weeks. Over the issue of problems faced by the SC students with regard to Post Matric Scholarship Scheme, he said that the state government had stepped up its share from 10 per cent to 40 per cent and it was always the Union government which had been causing delay in disbursement of the amount and hence problems for the students.Regarding the issue of jobs to the Dalits, Kumar said, “We have taken up this issue, the backlog of jobs that got created and various other commitments which people feel have not been honoured by the government with the leadership and will get them all sorted out in due course of time”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/assembly-poll-congress-sc-wing-steps-up-activity-in-jalandhar-276206
30-06-2021||Jalandhar||COVID-19 Pandemic: Just 1 death in Jalanshar district||The district on Tuesday reported only 19 fresh cases, lowest since the outbreak of second wave of Covid-19. Besides, only one death was reported. With this the district tally of total positive cases and total deaths has reached 62,704 and 1,477, respectively. Moreover, the active cases have also dropped to 263, lowest in the last four months.Nawanshahr reports 1 caseNawanshahr district’s Muzaffarpur block reported just one new case of Covid on Tuesday and no death. At present there are 23 active cases, while 13 are under home isolation. The district tally is 11,387 (4.55 per cent) while the recovery rate is 96.68 per cent. The number of deaths now stands at 356 (3.12 per cent). At present, four persons are seeking treatment in Level-II Covid care facility and two at Level-III Covid care facility.2 die in HoshiarpurThe district reported two more Covid-19 fatalities on Tuesday, taking the toll to 964, while 14 new cases pushed the infection tally to 30,435. The health authorities said the number of active cases is 165, while the number of patients who have recovered stands at 29,306. On Tuesday, 12 positive patients belonged to Hoshiarpur district, while two were from other districts.Kapurthala logs 2 new casesOfficials of the district Health Department recorded only two positive cases of Covid-19 here on Tuesday. The positivity rate in the district has fallen to an all-time low of 0.1 per cent. Nearly 14 patients were discharged leaving only 91 active cases in the district. So far, the district has reported 17,577 corona positive cases and 536 deaths. The only micro-containment area in the district is Street No. 10 of Rattanpura area of Phagwara. The district has five cases of black fungus still under treatment. TNS/OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/covid-19-pandemic-just-1-death-in-jalanshar-district-276205
30-06-2021||Hoshiarpur||Man duped of Rs 4.80L in Hoshiarpur, 3 booked||5 arrested with narcotics, liquorHoshiarpur: The district police arrested five persons from different places during the last 24 hours and seized a huge quantity of narcotics from them. The Model Town police seized 21 gm of heroin during the search of two bike riders at Singriwala bypass. The accused have been identified as Prabhjot Singh, alias Prabhu, and Jagpreet Singh Ravi, both residents of Piplanwala. The Sadar police station arrested Vinod Kumar, a resident of Bhawani Nagar and seized 11 bottles of liquor from him. The city police seized 9,750 ml of liquor from Ravidas Nagar resident Charanjit Singh, alias Channi, while the Mukerian police stopped a canter and during search 15.5 kg of poppy husk was found from it. The accused canter driver, Nachhatar Singh, a resident of Darali, SAS Nagar, had been arrested. OCF&CC meeting on July 2 at MC officeJalandhar: The Finance and Contract Committee (F&CC) meeting of the Municipal Corporation (MC) will be held on July 2 at its office. The meeting will be attended by Senior Deputy Mayor Surinder Kaur, Deputy Mayor Harsimranjit Singh Bunty and members of the committee councillors Gian Chand and Gurwinderpal Singh Bunty Nilkanth. One of the agendas that will be tabled is repair and maintenance of fire brigade building, renovation of park at Rajinder Nagar, etc. TNSWoman booked for cheatingHoshiarpur: The Model Town police registered a case of cheating against a woman on the pretext of selling the house. According to information, in his complaint to the police, Dinesh Gupta, a resident of Prahladh Nagar, said that Pushpa Rani, a resident of Kakkon, had allegedly cheated him in the name of buying a house of six marla. The complainant alleged that she entered into an agreement to sell the house but did not comply the conditions. The police have registered a case under Section 420 of the IPC. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/man-duped-of-rs-4-80l-in-hoshiarpur-3-booked-276203
30-06-2021||---||Jalandhar resident fined Rs 1.5 lakh for electricity theft||Jalandhar, June 29The Enforcement Wing of Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) issued a penalty of Rs 1.5 lakh to a city resident in a power theft case. The enforcement team, led by senior XEN enforcement number three, Jalandhar, detected a case of electricity theft in the Vivek Nagar area here.The guilty consumer had installed a concealed electronic device in the kitchen of his residence and used to stop his meter by switching on the device. Enforcement officials found the installed device at his home and booked the consumer under the Indian Electricity Act, 2003.The installed load of consumer was found to be 5 kilowatt. Subsequently the officials imposed a penalty of Rs 1.5 lakh on the consumer apart from registering an FIR. More such surprise raids will be conducted in coming days to book unscrupulous elements who indulge in stealing electricity, told Rajit Sharma, Deputy Chief Engineer, Enforcement Wing, Jalandhar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-resident-fined-rs-1-5-lakh-for-electricity-theft-276200
30-06-2021||---||Davinder Bambiha group owns up Sukhmeet  Singh’s murder in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, June 29While the city police have been quizzing dreaded criminals for the murder of Sukhmeet Singh, alias Sukhmeet deputy, the Davinder Bambiha group on Tuesday, through a Facebook post, took responsibility for the murder of Deputy, who was gunned down in broad daylight on June 21 near Workshop Chowk of Gopal Nagar in Jalandhar. This has brought a different turn in the case.The Bambiha’s group claimed that their group member named Puneet had killed Deputy over ‘personal rivalry’. Through their post, they claimed that Puneet had warned Deputy several times to mind his own business and not to work against him by colluding with anti-party.“Sukhmeet Deputy never paid heed to our advice and kept on working against us and even used to share secret information of our group with anti-parties, therefore, we were left with no option but to kill him,” they said.They even left a warning for others and said “those who are working against us ( Davinder Bambiha group) or are associated with our rivals, please take care of yourselves.”Meanwhile, city police officials claimed that it was fake a confession to divert the investigating team’s attention.Sukhmeet Singh Deputy (43) was released recently from jail after serving a life sentence in a kidnapping and extortion case that dated back to 2008. He was involved in kidnapping the son of a real estate developer of Jalandhar and had collected a ransom of Rs 1 crore for his safe release. Police had cracked the case and he was sentenced to life in prison in 2011, along with five others.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/davinder-bambiha-group-owns-up-sukhmeet-singhs-murder-in-jalandhar-276197
30-06-2021||Aakanksha N Bhardwaj||Jalandhar: Auto-rickshaw driver’s daughter aims big||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, June 29There were times when the family would sleep without having a meal. Sarwan Singh, an auto-rickshaw driver, would think of how to come out of miserable existence. Then one day her youngest daughter Veerpal Kaur (20) shared her wish to play.Many thoughts crossed Sarwan’s mind like how he would provide a proper diet, arrange money for her practice, training, etc. But he did not want the problems to stand in the way of his daughter’s success, so he took loans and ensured that his daughter got it all. He has still to return the borrowed money to the lenders.And now, Veerpal, who won a silver medal in the Junior National Wrestling Championship (held in 2018 and 2021), is going to give trials for the World Wrestling Championship on July 4 that will be held in New Delhi. The 2018 championship had taken place in Jaipur, while in 2021, it was held in Karnataka.Veerpal, originally from Tarn Taran, started training in Jalandhar’s Jagjit Wrestling Academy after getting selected through Khelo India Games. She shares her story. “From my house, the training centre was 10 km away in Tarn Taran. I would cycle to the centre everyday and in the evening, my father would land there to take me along with my cycle tied atop the auto-rickshaw. This continued for long without any break. He would not allow me to come alone in the evening because of the area not safe for girls, especially at night,” the young wrestler said.She goes on to add that she faced a lot of difficulties in having a proper diet and there were times when she would not even eat anything after returning from the practice and sleep empty stomach.“But my father has sacrificed a lot. And I have done this hard work just for him. He suffered a lot and took great pains so that I could succeed. So, it gave me more strength to do more hard work to make him proud,” Veerpal Kaur said.These days, she is practising at her home, but without any mat. Because of the pandemic, the hostels in the academies are not open, that is why she has no choice but to do practice on the concrete floor. “There will be players from all over the country, I really wish that my little efforts pay me off and I am selected in the World Championship,” she hoped.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-auto-rickshaw-drivers-daughter-aims-big-276192
30-06-2021||---||Farmers block National Highway in Phagwara over unannounced power cuts||Jalandhar, June 29Furious over power outage amid the paddy season, farmers from the region came out on roads to protest against Punjab State Power Corporation Limited here on Tuesday.Following a call given by the Kirti Kisan Union, scores of farmers staged a sit-in near the Phagwara sugar mill chowk and blocked the national highway for nearly three hours, leaving commuters stranded on the road. They also raised slogans against the government and held a protest against frequent breakdowns of electricity.Surinder Singh Bains, one of the agitators, said many villagers had to use alternative ways to get electricity supply, but costly diesel had increased the input costs of irrigating fields.“The government has failed to ensure an eight-hour power supply to farmers during the paddy season. Power has not been available for a week. Despite complaints, farmers are getting electricity for only five to six hours, which is not sufficient to irrigate our fields,” said Pala Singh, another farmer.Meanwhile, on behalf of the administration, senior police officers reached the spot and tried to convince the farmers to lift the protest, but to no avail. An attempt was made on behalf of the administration to talk to the farmers, but they stuck to their demands.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmers-block-national-highway-in-phagwara-over-unannounced-power-cuts-276191
30-06-2021||---||24X7 responsive policing in Kapurthala, Phagwara now||Kapurthala, June 29To ensure round-the-clock monitoring and effective responsive policing, the Kapurthala Police today launched the first phase of the Safe City Project with upgraded PCR motorcycles and rapid rural response police (RRRP) vehicles.Flagging off the 24 PCR vehicles and three RRR police vehicles, Senior Superintendent of Police Harkamalpreet Singh Khakh said these upgraded PCR motorcycles and vehicles would move in every corner of Kapurthala and Phagwara cities by performing duty round-the-clock. He said these teams would respond to any call of crime promptly or law and order situation within 20 minutes of it being reported.After the launch of the first phase of the Safe City Kapurthala project, the SSP said the move would ensure a safe city for the general public and the main objective of the project is to increase surveillance and visibility among people.He said these would also help improve traffic management, monitor suspicious people, supervise vital installations, public places for keeping an eye on regular activities and disaster management support.The SSP said the entire city would be covered through the deployment of dedicated police patrol motorcycles and an effective emergency rural response system equipped with technology and immediate availability of professionally equipped police personnel.He also said that three squads have also been formed to manage the traffic problem in Phagwara city. Earlier, traffic police personnel were deployed at specific points for duty, but now traffic sleuths would do mobile duty and control the traffic snarls where they would be informed about it.The SSP said in the first phase, 12 PCR motorcycles would work for 24 hours duty in the Phagwara subdivision and three mobile squads are also deployed for traffic management in the city. These squads will be engaged in controlling the traffic and will also remove the encroachments along the roads so that the traffic moves smoothly, he added.Khakh said officers of Kapurthala police are holding meetings with council officials as well as shopkeepers’ unions and other associations in the city to make encroachment-free passage for free flow of traffic in the city and markets. He said yellow line marking would also be done in congested areas and no encroachment will be allowed beyond this line in the city.“In this phase, 12 PCR motorcycles have also started functioning in Kapurthala city and soon in the next phase, we would be covering Sultanpur Lodhi and Bholath subdivisions under this project,” he added.The SSP said three rural rapid response vehicles have started functioning in Phagwara sub-division, in which the first vehicle would move on the highway patrolling and villages falling on Chehru to Chachoki highway under Satnampura police station, the second vehicle from Konika Resort flyover to Mehli under Sadar police station and the third vehicle would cover the villages from Hoshiarpur Chowk to Rehana Jatna area.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/24x7-responsive-policing-in-kapurthala-phagwara-now-276188
30-06-2021||---||Of 200 Punbus fleet, only 10 hit road in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, June 29On the second day of their stir, the contractual workers’ union on Tuesday continued with their protest against the state Transport Department against its regularisation policy. On the other hand, the Punjab Roadways incurred heavy losses with most of its buses grounded in depots.While there are 200 buses in both Punbus depots in the district, only 10 buses operated today due to the protest by the workers. The roadways authorities roped in permanent workers to drive the buses. Demanding regularisation, hundreds of contractual and outsourced employees of the state-owned Pepsu Road Transport Corporation (PRTC) and Punjab Roadways (Punbus) held a sit-in protest in Patiala. Around 1,500 roadways buses and 1000 PRTC remained off roads due to protest.Following the chakka jam protest by the contractual workers union, the roadways buses, including Volvo service, remained suspended for the second day and would tomorrow also. As a result, the Transport Department suffered losses of 2-3 lakh per day, said Navraj Batish, General Manager, Punjab Roadways, Jalandhar Depot-1. Sources in the roadways department said due to the negligent attitude of the government, the department was suffering loss of nearly five lakh in the district.For the past several months, the contractual workers had been protesting against the regularisation policy and low wages, but the government did not pay heed to it. There were 50 permanent workers each and 150 contractual workers each in depot-1 and depot-2 of the district. While the contractual workers across the state intensified their protest and went to Patiala, Batish said the authorities were hopeful that the protest would be lifted tomorrow.“As per the law, a contractual worker has to be made permanent within 240 days of his/her job, however, I have not been regularised even after four years of my services,” said, Vikaramjit Singh, a contractual worker. The workers under the banner of the contractual workers’ union said they had been working on meagre salaries, but the government was not taking any action in their favour.Their main demands are: implementation of the Supreme Court’s guidelines of equal wages for equal work and the Punjab and Haryana High Court’s orders regarding the cancellation of driving permit of private buses and regularisation of contractual workers.Besides, Gurpreet Singh, district secretary of the union, said demands were also made for bringing workers under the Punjab Pension Scheme, loan waiver for Punbus and DA to be given to all drivers and conductors.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/of-200-punbus-fleet-only-10-hit-road-in-jalandhar-276185
