01-09-2020||Calcutta||Kite string slashes biker on Parama flyover||A motorcyclist was left bleeding from a slashed chin by a kite string on the Parama flyover on Sunday evening, police said. Rohit Sau, 30, who runs a business of supplying building material, said he was moving at medium speed when the string struck his face. He got the time to catch the string with one hand and protect his throat, Sau said. “I was purely lucky that I could react on time and remove the string and change its angle; otherwise it would have slashed my throat straightaway and not my chin,” Sau said. The string cut through the face mask he was wearing and slashed his chin. The Picnic Gardens resident is the eldest of four siblings. He had taken the flyover to reach a construction site behind Spring Club where he has been supplying building materials, he said. An injured Sau reached the Beleghata traffic guard on his motorcycle where he received first aid. He then went to Topsia police station to report the matter. “If the police cannot people from flying kites in the area, it is better to completely restrict the movement of two-wheelers on flyovers. This could have been fatal,” Sau said. Sau is among the many two-wheeler riders injured on the Parama and AJC Bose Road flyovers by kite strings. The police have been keeping a watch with binoculars from highrises. Cops have distributed leaflets to make people aware of the dangers of flying kites near flyovers. Many people have been arrested for manufacturing and selling kite strings and spools to discourage the flying of kites in the Beniapukur, Topsia, Tiljala and Park Circus area. “We have been trying to tackle this problem but it has remained unsolved… practically it is not possible to detect the place from where a kite is being flown… it could be kilometres away,” a traffic police officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-324
01-09-2020||Calcutta||New Town looks to fill Metro gap||The New Town authorities are exploring the most environment-friendly mode of public transport for a 7.5km stretch that will not be connected by the New Garia-Airport Metro, a Hidco official said on Monday. The Metro network will not cover the 7.5km stretch between the Biswa Bangla gate and the last point of Action Area III to the east of Sukhobrishti. The residential area on this stretch has been growing by the day. In a few more years, the area will be teeming with people. Plots of IT companies such as Wipro and Infosys, multiple educational institutions and mini townships like Sukhobrishti, which has 10,000 homes, are part of this area. Depending on buses, autos and e-rickshaws to transport the large number of people living in the area or going there for work will make snarls an everyday affair, according to the township authorities. It will be a repeat of what Calcutta goes through and the authorities do not want that to happen in a new and upcoming township, the Hidco official said. Neither do they want people to use their cars as a more comfortable transport option while avoiding overcrowded buses. “If we allow autos and totos to mushroom to cover this 7.5km distance, it will lead to traffic congestion when more people start living and working here. More buses, too, will eat up the available road space,” Debashis Sen, the chairman and managing director of Hidco, said. “So, we are looking for a mode of transport that will carry a large number of people without reducing the available road space and will be environment-friendly, too. It can be monorail, or other kinds of light rail, ropeways or even pods.” In India, Gurgaon has such a light rail network to connect places that are not connected by the Delhi Metro network. “The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation runs the Metro till the border of Delhi and Gurgaon. There is something called Rapid Metro, rakes with two coaches that take people from the border to the interiors of Gurgaon,” Alekhya Datta, a fellow with The Energy and Resources Institute, said. Hidco had considered introducing monorail in this part of the township about three years ago. But KPMG, which was the consultant then, had told the authorities that the returns from monorail would be inadequate for an investor to run the services. Also, the initial investment will be huge, the agency had said. Hidco has invited bids to select a consultant. The consultant will be asked to keep in mind the economic viability of the mode of transport they suggest, Sen said. “It must yield returns for the investor. Only then an investor will be interested.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-324
01-09-2020||Calcutta||Traffic rule reminder for Calcutta cyclists||Cyclists will have to follow traffic rules, especially the one-way rule, police said on Monday while extending the permission for free movement of cycles on all roads barring main arterial roads till September 30. The city police had on June 9 given cyclists this permission based on a decision taken by the state cabinet. The order was in force till August 31. Anuj Sharma, the city police commissioner, on Monday issued a fresh notification extending the relaxation till September 30 with a reminder to cyclists to follow the one-way and other traffic rules. Cyclists, according to traffic cops, tend to break the one-way rule. They are often spotted moving in the opposite direction of the traffic flow. The purpose of allowing cycles on roads barring the arterial ones was for the convenience of hundreds of people who either do not have access to public transport or want to travel alone as a precautionary measure during the pandemic, an officer said. “We are not prosecuting cyclists for violating traffic rules for the time being. But we always encourage them to use the lanes,” the officer said. Several Calcuttans have chosen cycles as their mode of transport during the lockdown. There are some who have stopped using cars and opted for cycles as part of the “new normal”. “Cycling has been my passion. I took this opportunity to shift to a cycle instead of taking out my four-wheeler during the lockdown. I avoid the main roads and take the parallel lanes to reach my office,” Sudipto Roy, an official at Exide Industries Ltd, said. He covers around 4km from his south Calcutta home to reach his office. The city police had on February 13, 2014, issued a notification listing 62 roads where cycles are restricted at stipulated times. The list hasn’t been changed; which means the restrictions are still there, a traffic police officer said. The list can be accessed on www.kolkatatrafficpolice.net under Traffic Restrictions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-324
01-09-2020||Calcutta||Arrested for Vishwakarma Puja ‘extortion’ ||A man, who claimed to be part of a truck and tempo association in Posta, has been arrested on the charge of extorting a truck driver. Arijit Singh forced the driver to pay Rs 200 as subscription for Vishwakarma Puja, police said. “The truck driver from Andhra Pradesh reported the matter to the owner of the godown where he had brought a consignment of onions. Based on their complaint, an extortion case has been started against Singh,” an officer of Posta police station said. Hundreds of clubs and associations collect subscriptions for various festivals; but no one can be forced to pay subscriptions, the police said. Officers of Posta police station have seized a bill book from Singh. More than 50 money receipts are missing, suggesting he had collected money from at least 50 people as puja subscription, an officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-324
01-09-2020||Calcutta||Aged Parnasree couple abused for speaking up against drunkards||An elderly couple in Parnasree have alleged that a few drunks hurled abuses at them when they protested against the men drinking outside their home and creating a ruckus on Sunday night. They have also accused police of inaction when they had dialed the police helpline, 100. Getting no help, the woman accompanied her son to Parnasree police station after midnight to report the matter. Later on Monday, when senior officers got to know of it, they apologised to the family and sent a team to meet the elderly couple at their home assuring them of help and support, the couple’s son said on Monday evening. “It was quarter to midnight on Sunday when we heard two men talking in an objectionable way. They were sitting outside our home, drinking. I was in my room on the first floor while my parents were downstairs when they started talking loudly,” Prabalkanti Sarkar said. His father Pralay Kanti Sarkar, 86, who has various physical ailments, had requested the men from his window to move away from their house as the loud noise was disturbing them. “Instead of going away, the men started hurling abuses at my father and banging our grille gate. I rushed downstairs. But by the time I could open the lock and step out they had fled on a motorcycle,” Sarkar said. The family tried calling up the police station on its landline. But there was no response. They then dialled 100 and got connected to the police. The family was told the landline at the police station went dead in the aftermath of Cyclone Amphan. After 15 minutes two cops came, one in uniform, Sarkar said. “When we tried to tell them what had happened, the one in uniform said I was drunk and not the men against whom we were complaining. He said ours was a ‘low-class family’ and that we were in for trouble.” Sarkar said his parents felt so humiliated that his mother Ela, 80, accompanied him to the police station. At the station, an assistant sub-inspector asked his mother why she was there so late in the night, he said. “The ASI kept asking why my mother was at the police station. He kept us waiting for the duty officer for the next 40minutes. When the duty officer, a sub-inspector, came, he was surprised that we had been made to wait. Things started moving after that.” On Monday morning, the officer-in-charge of the police station, Manoj Jha, contacted the family on the phone. “The OC was extremely cooperative. He sent a team of officers  to speak to us,” he said. Jha said the police had not received any written complaint against the cops. “We have registered a general diary based on the family’s complaint of social nuisance. We are looking into the allegations against the police.” Deputy commissioner, south west, Nilanjan Biswas and joint commissioner, headquarters, Subhankar Sinha Sarkar did not respond to Metro’s text messages regarding the allegations against the police.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-324
01-09-2020||Calcutta||Covid patient occupancy runs thin at Calcutta satellite units ||Many private hospitals in Calcutta said on Monday the number of Covid-19 patients in their satellite units was going down because of several reasons, including reluctance of some insurance companies to foot the entire bill. Among other reasons are patients’ concern about medical facilities at satellite units and guidance offered by physicians on what to do when a Covid-19 patient is in home isolation. Belle Vue Clinic has set up a 25-room satellite fac-ility at a hotel in Beckbagan. On Monday, the unit had only one occupant. Medica Superspecialty Hospital has a satellite unit that can accommodate 52 Covid-19 patients, asymptomatic or with mild symptoms. On Monday, there was only one patient. The RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences has tied up with two hotels to accommodate 52 patients. There were only five on Monday. “The number of occupants started dropping sharply over the last couple of weeks. We were having about 35 patients on an average daily earlier,” said R. Venkatesh, regional director, east, Narayana Health, which runs the RN Tagore hospital. Belle Vue officials said their satellite unit would have 20 occupants till a couple of weeks back. Medica would have 40 patients staying at its facilities. “We are spending about Rs 25 lakh a month to run the facilities, which include paying rent to the hotels and our overhead costs. We are keeping a watch on the situation and if the numbers don't increase, then we have to take a decision,” Medica chairman Alok Roy said. The state government had on June 15 said private hospitals could set up “satellite facilities” for Covid-19 patients with no or mild symptoms to free up beds reserved for such cases. The health department had said in a guideline that private hospitals could set up “satellite facilities” or observation wards at hotels or guest houses in the vicinity of their campuses. Initially, the number of occupants was less because the insurance companies were not paying for the stay. Later, the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority allowed insurance coverage for patients staying in the units and the occupancy started rising, said hospital officials. Sources said doctors individually or in groups had tied up with hotels and started satellite units hoping there would be a good number of patients. But after a few weeks of good occupancy, the numbers started falling again. “The insurance companies are paying but only 60 to 70 per cent on an average of each bill. Sometimes, they are rejecting cashless claims saying these patients could have stayed in home isolation,” the CEO of a private hospital that runs a satellite unit said. A 10-day stay for a Covid patient at a satellite unit costs between Rs 30,000 and Rs 1.5 lakh, depending on the type of hotel. “Now, after several months into the pandemic, awareness has grown and people are feeling safer in home isolation. They don’t want to be at such units. Besides, often doctors are not willing to leave hospital duty and go to these facilities,” said the CEO. Homecare providers are advising asymptomatic patients or those with mild symptoms, boosting their confidence to stay in home isolation. Apollo Homecare used to have 100-odd patients to look after every day about a month back. “The number is now 200. We are providing clinical as well as psychological counselling for people in home isolation. People feel assured,” said Souvik Bhattacharya, regional head of Apollo Healthcare, eastern India. Doctors said technology was enabling people to prefer home isolation over the satellite facilities. “Our team of doctors is doing video calls with the patients and they feel assured. They know that if their condition turns serious, we would advise them hospitalisation,” said physician Rahul Jain. “Besides, at many residential complexes, people are no longer objecting to their neighbours who are Covid-19 positive to stay home.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-324
01-09-2020||Calcutta||Six-city air link to resume with 36 flights||The air link between Calcutta and six other Indian cities, including Delhi and Mumbai, will resume on Tuesday with 36 flights on each day, officials of the airport and airlines said. Flights from these cities were suspended on July 6 as a precaution against Covid-19. The state government had a few days ago informed the civil aviation ministry that flights could operate from Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Pune, Ahmedabad and Nagpur to Calcutta three days a week from September 1. Calcutta airport sources said 14 flights would operate from Delhi, eight from Mumbai, six from Chennai, four from Pune, three from Ahmedabad and one from Nagpur. “We have almost full occupancy for the first few days,” said an official of a private airline. Initially, the state government had wanted to ban flights from eight cities, including Surat. SpiceJet was operating the lone flight between Calcutta and Surat. Though Surat was not finally included on the list, SpiceJet stopped the flight. Airport sources said SpiceJet would resume the Surat flight. Metro has reported that flights from the six cities to Calcutta will operate on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Sundays from September 1 to 13. From September 14, they will operate on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays. The dates have been fixed keeping in mind the three lockdown days chief minister Mamata Banerjee has announced — September 7 (Monday), 11 (Friday) and 12 (Saturday). Before the ban, 25-odd flights would operate from these six cities to Calcutta every day. Many passengers were taking flights through other cities such as Guwahati and Lucknow from Delhi and Mumbai to reach Calcutta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-324
01-09-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta weather update: Heat and humidity up ||The heat and humidity have been on the rise in the city since a wet spell ended last week. The maximum temperature on Monday was 35.5 degrees, three notches above normal. The heat and humidity might lead to the formation of clouds and trigger a spell or two of thunderstorms but the relief will be temporary. “The temperature will be on the higher side in the coming days,” said a Met official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-324
01-09-2020||Calcutta||Bars can open from today with conditions in Calcutta||The Bengal government has allowed serving of liquor at bars and restaurants starting Tuesday. The Union home ministry’s guidelines had allowed resumption of hospitality services from June 8 but prohibited consumption of liquor at public places. So, restaurants and bars were unable to serve liquor, which constitutes around 60 per cent of their daily business. The ministry’s Unlock 4 guidelines, issued on Saturday, did not include “bar” on the list of prohibited services. An order issued by the Bengal excise department on Monday allows serving of liquor for consumption in the licensed area of an “on” premises (where one can sit and drink). Besides restaurants and bars, establishments such as theatres, clubs, canteens, dak-bunglows, railway refreshment rooms, dining cars, steamers, airport, or public resorts with attached bars shall also be allowed to serve liquor from Tuesday. But there are certain caveats: The excise department’s order also states that considering the pandemic situation, serving liquor will not be mandatory, leaving the choice to the restaurants and bars. “It surely is a positive step forward. The reality is that the past few months have been unique in every way. Going to a restaurant is an overall experience. There is the ambience, food and beverage are all part of that experience. If even one element is missing, then the experience loses its value. But the fact is we need to be responsible about how we go ahead,” said Gaurav Singh, general manager, JW Mariott, Calcutta. “This was much awaited and will be a great help for the revival of the hospitality industry, especially bars and restaurants. Most importantly lakhs of people will be employed again…. Typically, liquor constitutes 60 per cent of the entire sales on a daily basis at restaurants. A person who was not coming for drinks is affecting food sales as well,” said Sudesh Poddar, honorary secretary, Hotel and Restaurant Association of Eastern India. “Based on the order, we will issue the requisite advisory from tomorrow. We will not allow more than 50 per cent at any point,” said Pranav Singh, senior partner for Opium, Sector V, Salt Lake.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-324
01-09-2020||Calcutta||Covid: Belur Math will not allow visitors during Durga Puja ||The Covid-19 pandemic has prompted Belur Math to decide against allowing visitors during Durga Puja this year, breaking with a tradition for the first time since Swami Vivekananda started the festival at the headquarters of Ramakrishna Math and Mission 119 years ago. Senior monks steering the Belur Math administration decided at a recent meeting that this year the Puja would be held inside the Ramakrishna temple, and not in a pandal on the ground to the east of the temple like in previous years. This is the first time since 2000 that Durga Puja will be held inside the temple, monks said. “All rituals of Durga Puja, including the Kumari Puja, will be held as usual. But considering the pandemic, we will not allow visitors inside the Math,” Swami Suvirananda, the general secretary of Ramakrishna Math and Mission, said. Every year, lakhs of devotees and visitors would turn up during Durga Puja at Belur Math and gather in the huge pandal that would be erected for the occasion. Belur Math had shut its gates to visitors on March 15 as a precaution against the coronavirus. The gates were reopened on June 15 and visitors were required to undergo a series of checks before they were let in. But soon thereafter, several monks and employees at the Math tested positive for Covid-19. The administrators again decided to shut the gates to visitors on August 2. “After remaining open for 45 days, we realised that the arrival of visitors was a principal reason for the spread of the virus” on the Math premises, Swami Suvirananda said. “We have carried out a series of tests since and have taken several precautionary measures. The transmission of the virus at the Math appears to have been contained for now.” Close to 300 monks and 250 employees live on the campus of Belur Math, which is spread over 40 acres on the Hooghly’s western bank. Senior monks said over 25 monks and at least five employees had contracted the coronavirus over the last few weeks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-324
01-09-2020||Calcutta||Covid scare shadow on turnout for JEE (Main)||A number of examinees will stay away from JEE (Main), which start on Tuesday and will continue till the end of the week, because of the fear of contracting Covid-19. A student who lives in Deshapriya Park has been assigned an examination centre in Belghoria, 20km away, and his parents have decided that he will skip the exam on Wednesday and appear next year instead. But most students, and their parents, are not ready to sit the test out and try their luck next year. Most engineering colleges across the country admit students through JEE (Main). The government has said public transport will be available but many parents are scrambling to arrange for private transport because they fear their children would be exposed to the coronavirus if they travel in public vehicles. Anurag Chatterjee, 18, of Serampore in Hooghly district, will have to travel more than 30km on Thursday to write the test. He and a friend will hire a vehicle. “If the exam is held, one has to go. Or else, a year will be lost,” said Anurag’s father Rabindranath Chatterjee. Parents fear distancing norms, key to keep the virus at bay, would not be followed when students enter or leave an exam venue. “The entry and exit are bound to be crowded because each examinee is usually accompanied by at least one parent,” said Chandrima Ghosh, from Deshapriya Park. She and her husband have decided that their son will not appear in the test this year. Son Prithvish Shankar Ghosh has to appear in the exam in the second shift and report one hour and 10 minutes before it starts. “I have to wait for him for three hours till the exam is done. We will expose ourselves and also my mother, who is 75, to the risk of catching the virus,” his mother said. Students are also bothered about whether distancing norms would be followed outside the centre, too. “My exam is in the first shift and I anticipate there will be a crowd outside for the second shift. But if I wait till next year, there will be more candidates and more competition,” said New Town resident Tejesh Jain, whose test centre is in Belghoria. The government has asked the transport department to ensure usual services of buses, taxis and autos. More government buses will be on the roads. All transport options will be available from 7am to 7.30pm in the city. In parts of North and South 24-Parganas and Howrah, gover-nment buses will be available from 6am. Students stranded on the roads can get in touch with a control room set up by the transport department through 18003455192 (toll-free number) and 8902017191 (WhatsApp). Students will carry face shields, masks and sanitisers. They have been provided with a self-declaration form, which they have to submit at the test centre. They will have to declare whether they have flu-like symptoms like fever, cough, breathlessness, sore throat/runny nose and/or body ache in the last 14 days. They also have to state whether they came in close contact (less than one metre for more than 15 minutes) with a Covid patient in the last 14 days and whether they are under “mandatory quarantine”. Candidates are advised to carry a 50ml hand sanitiser bottle and a transparent water bottle, and maintain a distance of 6ft from each other. Each candidate will be given a three-ply mask, which he or she is expected to wear at the centre.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-325
01-09-2020||Calcutta||College exams from October 1 to 18||The state-aided universities will have to conduct the final-year undergraduate and postgraduate exams between October 1 and 18 and the results will have to be declared by October 31, the Bengal government has said. Each university has to decide whether the exams will be held in the pen-and-paper or online mode or a mix of the two. The decisions were taken at a virtual meeting education minister Partha Chatterjee held with the vice-chancellors of all state-aided universities on Monday. “The minister said that if a test is held online, the university concerned has to ensure that not a single student fails to write a paper because of lack of infrastructure or a smart device,” a vice-chancellor who attended the meeting said. Almost all universities were of the opinion that the students should not be asked to write the papers on the campuses in the middle of the Covid-19 pandemic, the VC said. The colleges will have to identify the students who do not have the facilities at home for taking an online test and make alternative arrangements for them. One possible option is to send the question papers to those students so they can write the answers following the open-book examination system, which the UGC guidelines allow. The Supreme Court had on Friday upheld the University Grants Commission’s (UGC) directive to the universities to hold final-year undergraduate and postgraduate exams by September 30. But the apex court also left it to the state governments to decide whether they would postpone the exams because of the Covid-related situation. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had said after the Supreme Court gave its directive that she would ask the education minister to discuss the matter with the VCs and take a decision on when to conduct the exams. Bengal was among the states that had opposed holding final-year undergraduate and postgraduate exams out of fear that the students, and through them their families, would be exposed to the Covid-19 infection. The state higher education department had on June 27 advised the universities that final-year undergraduate and postgraduate students should be assessed by giving 80 per cent weightage to the best performance in the previous semester/year and 20 per cent to the marks in the internal exams of the current semester/year. The advisory was issued in line with the UGC’s April 29 guideline that had given the universities the flexibility to decide on the mode of examination. On July 6, the UGC issued fresh guidelines saying the terminal semester/annual exams of the graduating students would have to be held by September 30, through pen-and-paper or online or a combination of the two. The education minister told the VCs on Monday that the state government would not issue any fresh advisory regarding exams for the final-year students. Several universities had already assessed the final-year students on the basis of their performance in the previous university exams and declared the results. These universities too will have to conduct the exams, as directed by the Supreme Court. The third-year BA and BSc exams under the 1+1+1 system and the final (sixth) semester exams in BCom were scheduled for April but got deferred because of Covid-19. The final-year (fourth) semester postgraduate exams also got deferred because of the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-325
01-09-2020||Business||SC grants 10 years to telecoms to clear AGR-related dues||The Supreme Court on Tuesday granted 10 years to telecom firms such as Vodafone Idea, Bharti Airtel and Tata Teleservices for paying the Adjusted Gross Revenue (AGR)-related dues to the Department of Telecommunications (DoT) with certain conditions. The apex court asked telcos to pay 10 per cent of the AGR-related dues by March 31, 2021. A bench headed by Justice Arun Mishra held that the demand made by the DoT and the verdict delivered by the top court in the matter are final. The bench asked the Managing Directors (MDs) or Chief Executive Officer (CEOs) of the telcos concerned to furnish undertaking or personal guarantee within four weeks for payment of dues. Failure to pay the instalments of the dues would incur penalty, interest and contempt of court, the bench cautioned the telecom firms. The top court said that issue of sale of spectrum by telcos facing insolvency proceedings shall be decided by the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT). The bench delivered its verdict on the issues, including the time line for staggered payment of AGR-related dues amounting to about Rs 1.6 lakh crore. While pronouncing the verdict, the bench said that till the last instalment is paid by the telcos, their bank guarantees furnished to the DoT would be kept alive. During an earlier hearing, the bench had also heard arguments on the point as to whether spectrum can be sold by telecom companies facing proceedings under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC) and how the AGR-related dues can be recovered from them. The top court had in October 2019 delivered verdict on the AGR issue, primarily its definition for calculating government dues of telecom companies such as licence fee and spectrum usage charges. The DoT in March this year moved a plea seeking permission for allowing staggered payment of the dues by telcos over a period of 20 years. The bench reserved the verdict on July 20 on staggered payments, saying that it will not hear "even for a second" the arguments on reassessment or re-calculation of the AGR-related dues. Prior to this, it had asked the telecom companies to file their books of accounts for last ten year and give a reasonable time frame for clearing the dues. It had said that the period of 15-20 years sought by some of the telecom companies was not reasonable and had asked the Centre as to how it would secure the payment of dues by them. The DoT had earlier said that no demand has been raised against Reliance Jio and Airtel for part dues of Reliance Communications (RCom) and Videocon respectively. On August 21, the top court directed the DoT to apprise it of spectrum sharing done by telecom companies and how much is the liability of the sharers. It asked the DoT secretary to file a specific affidavit apprising it about who was using the spectrum from the date of grant of licence and from which date the respective sharing of spectrum has taken place. It had asked the DoT what was the amount paid by Reliance Jio for using 23 per cent of Reliance Communication (RCom's) spectrum. On August 20, the top court had expressed concern over non-payment of AGR-related dues by telecom companies which are under insolvency saying "without paying for the horse, telcos are taking a ride". On August 14, the top court had sought the details of spectrum sharing pact between RCom and Reliance Jio and said as to why the company using the spectrum of the other firm cannot be asked to pay the AGR related dues to the government. The Centre had earlier told the top court there was a difference of opinion between two of its ministers (DoT and the Ministry of Corporate Affairs) on the issue of sale of spectrum during insolvency proceedings.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-301
01-09-2020||Business||Vedanta turns to SBI for syndicated loan||Vedanta on Monday said it has tied up with the State Bank of India for a long-term syndicated loan facility worth Rs 10,000 crore. A syndicated loan is offered by a group of lenders that work together to provide credit to a large borrower. “Vedanta Ltd has tied up a long-term syndicated loan facility for Rs 10,000 crore with the State Bank of India as facility agent and SBICAP Trustee Company as the security trustee with door to door tenor of seven years,” Hindustan Zinc, a subsidiary of Vedanta, said in a filing to the BSE. SBI has given a commitment of Rs 5,000 crore as a lender, it said. The facility end use stipulates refinancing of near-term debt maturities of Vedanta and for capital expenditure of the metals and mining giant, it said. “This extends the maturity profile, improves liquidity ratio and reinforces the commitment of lenders in the growth story of Vedanta Ltd,” it said. NTPC will seek shareholders’ nod to raise up to Rs 15,000 crore through issuance of bonds in the annual general meeting scheduled for  for September 24. The funds are proposed to be raised on a private placement basis in one or more tranches not exceeding 30. The special resolution for AGM proposes to make offers or invitations to subscribe to the secured/unsecured, redeemable, taxable/tax-free, cumulative/non-cumulative, non-convertible debentures up to Rs 15,000 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-301
01-09-2020||Business||Broadband from Jio for Rs 399||Reliance Jio on Monday announced new plans for JioFiber broadband starting at monthly price of Rs 399 with no limit on data usage. According to the new plans, entertainment app Netflix is added to the bouquet of bundled apps for customers subscribing mid-range plans. The plans will be rolled out from September 1 onwards, Reliance Jio said in a statement. “We want to take Fiber to each and every home and empower every member of the family. “After making India the largest and the fastest growing country in mobile connectivity with Jio, JioFiber will propel India into global broadband leadership, thereby providing broadband to over 1,600 cities and towns,” Jio director Akash Ambani said. The low-end plan of Rs 399 will offer download and upload speed of 30 megabit per second (mbps), according to the statement. “JioFiber Home tariff plans will now offer truly unlimited internet,” the statement said. The old plans of JioFiber have a limit of data usage per month at promised high speed after which the speed drops to 1 mbps. Jio has announced a free 30-day trial of 150 mbps plans with subscription to 10 over-the-top apps. The new plans announced for Rs 999 will offer access to 11 OTT apps including Amazon Prime Video, Disney Hotstar, Zee5, Sony Liv and the plan priced at Rs 1,499 will come bundled with Netflix. Jio said the subscription to the top paid 12 bundled apps will be made available to customers “at no extra cost”. “Plans of all existing JioFiber customers will be upgraded to match the benefits of the new tariff plans,” the statement said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-301
01-09-2020||Business||States ready with GST counter offer||States may propose a counter offer to the Centre to meet the shortfall in collection of cess meant for paying GST compensation to the states. Under the broad contours of the offer, which was discussed on Monday during an informal meeting of several non-BJP state finance ministers, the Centre would have to borrow to make up the shortfall and the payment of the principal and interest of the loan could be met by the extension of the cess mechanism. The Centre has so far presented two options where the states will have to borrow from the Reserve Bank of India or the market. Under the first option, where the shortfall has been pegged at Rs 97,000 crore, both the principal and the interest will be borne by extending the collection of cess of certain items such as tobacco. Under the second option, where states will have to hit the bond market to borrow Rs 2,35,000 crore, only the principal part would come from the cess pool but the interest would have to be borne by the states. Several states, including Bengal, have rejected the options, calling it a move to crush federalism and reneging on constitutional commitment. “I had proposed, even during the last meeting of the GST council, that the Centre borrows the money to meet the shortfall but they do not have to bear the repayment cost. The Council can recommend extension of the cess collection period and the interest and principal would come from there,” Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra said this evening. Mitra participated in the informal meeting attended by several state finance ministers from non-BJP states, a day before the Union revenue secretary formally meets finance secretaries of all the states via a video conference on Tuesday. “If the Centre agrees to the suggestion, there will be clarity in the financial world. The repayment mechanism will be transparent. The cess is collected by the states but it goes to the Consolidated Fund of India. So there is no issue accessing the fund, because it is with the Centre only,” Mitra said. However, the Centre did not agree to the suggestion, pointing out that it needed to keep a headroom to borrow for other measures such as national security. “We have discussed some options but it would not be prudent to talk about it right now,” Mitra said when asked to comment on the outcome of the informal session.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-301
01-09-2020||Business||Foreign travel ban till September 30||The suspension of scheduled international commercial flights has been extended till September 30, sector regulator DGCA said. However, scheduled flights under the travel bubbles India has started with several countries such as the US, the UK, Germany and France will be allowed and people eligible under government norms can fly to and from India in these flights. “The competent authority has decided to extend (suspension of scheduled international passenger flights to/from India) till 11.59 pm of September 30, 2020. This restriction shall not apply to international all cargo operations and flights specifically approved by the directorate general of civil aviation,” the DGCA said in a statement. “However, international scheduled flights may be allowed on selected routes by the competent authority on a case-to-case basis,” the regulator added. India has so far created air bubbles with the USA, UK, France, Germany, UAE, Qatar and Maldives. India is in talks with many more countries to create air bubbles like Australia, Italy, Japan, New Zealand, Nigeria, Bahrain, Israel, Kenya, Philippines, Russia, Singapore, South Korea, Thailand, Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, Afghanistan, Nepal and Bhutan. The idea of these bubbles is to ensure continuity of travel between India and these countries by eligible categories of people till normal scheduled flights resumes. Scheduled international passenger services continue to remain suspended in India since March 23 due to the coronavirus pandemic. The special international flights have been operating under the Vande Bharat Mission since May and under bilateral air bubble arrangements with other countries since July. The regulator said the suspension does not affect the operation of international all-cargo operations and flights specifically approved by the DGCA. Rating agency ICRA said in a research report that the domestic aviation industry operated at a passenger load factor of 55 percent in July as against 86.3 percent in the same month last year, when demand had remained poor. “ICRA maintains that H2 FY21 will witness some recovery, with Q4 FY21 witnessing year-on-year de-growth of just 3-14 percent in domestic passenger traffic with improved PLFs (passenger load factor), and overall FY21 witnessing 41-46 percent de-growth in domestic passenger traffic,” it said. The International Air Transport Association (IATA) has said that 2020 is the worst year in aviation history, and airlines in the Asia-Pacific region alone are expected to report losses to the tune of $29 billion. Indian carriers are estimated to lose revenues of $11.61 billion during 2020 compared with 2019, and this is expected to impact 3.06 million jobs. “On average, every day of this year will add $230 million to industry losses. In total that’s a loss of $84.3 billion,” Alexandre de Juniac, IATA’s director general and CEO, said in a statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-301
01-09-2020||Business||Vijay Mallya told to appear before Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Monday directed fugitive businessman Vijay Mallya to appear before it on October 5 while dismissing his plea seeking a review of the 2017 verdict which held him guilty of contempt for transferring $40 million to his children in violation of court orders. The top court also directed the ministry of home affairs to facilitate and ensure the presence of Mallya before it in October. Mallya, an accused in a bank loan default case of over Rs 9,000 crore involving his defunct Kingfisher Airlines, is in the United Kingdom. A bench of Justices U. U. Lalit and Ashok Bhushan, while dismissing his review petitions against the May 9, 2017 verdict, said: “The attempt on the part of the respondent (Mallya) to have re- hearing in the matter cannot be permitted nor do the submissions make out any ‘error apparent on record’ to justify interference in review jurisdiction”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-301
01-09-2020||Business||Adanis acquire GVK’s stake in Mumbai airport||The Adani group is acquiring GVK’s stake in Mumbai airport in a deal that will make it the country’s largest private airport operator. Adani Airport Holdings Ltd (AAHL), the flagship holding company of the Adani group for its airports business, has entered into an agreement to acquire the debt of GVK Airport Developers Ltd (GVK ADL). GVK ADL is the holding company through which GVK Group holds a 50.50 per cent equity stake in Mumbai International Airport Ltd (MIAL), which in turn holds a 74 per cent equity stake in Navi Mumbai International Airport Ltd (NMIAL). While Adani Airport Holdings will acquire the debt of GVK ADL from its airport lenders and convert it into equity, the Adani group will also take steps to acquire a 23.5 per cent equity stake from the minority partners in MIAL — Airports Company South Africa (ACSA, which holds 10 per cent), and Bidvest (13.5 per cent) for which it has obtained the CCI’s approval. It remains to be seen if the two foreign investors will also choose to part with their holding. If they do, Gautam Adani will have a 74 per cent stake in MIAL with the rest being held by the Airports Authority of India (AAI). With the six non-metro airports and MIAL, Adani Group will become the largest operator of airports other than state-run AAI, which runs most of the airports. The Central Bureau of Investigation had in June charged the GVK Group with siphoning off funds totaling Rs 705 crore. It is charged with causing a loss of Rs 310 crore to the exchequer by entering into fake work contracts on the land given by the government to MIAL. In July, the agency had conducted raids at the premises of the GVK group. In July, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) had filed a money laundering case against the GVK group, MIAL and others to probe the alleged irregularities in the operations of the Mumbai airport, Adani Group had in March 2019 agreed to acquire a 13.5 per cent stake of South African company Bidvest for Rs 1,248 crore. However, GVK Group blocked the deal claiming the first right of refusal. GVK, however, could not bring the money to the table to buy Bidvest’s stake and the matter went to court. The aviation sector has been one of the worst hit because of the Covid-19 pandemic. According to a Crisil note on August 19, MIAL had rupee term loans of Rs 8,646.74 crore. Cash balance at MIAL had reduced from Rs 1,270 crore as on March 31, 2018, to Rs 260 crore, as on September 30, 2019. This reduction was on account of higher upfront investments in the Navi Mumbai airport of Rs 905 crore in 2018-19, higher capex, delay in real estate monetisation from earlier committed timelines, and delay in refinancing. The Adani Enterprises stock fell 3.33 per cent to close at Rs 278.65 against Friday’s close of Rs 288.25. The rating agency added that liquidity at MIAL has also been stretched as it has cash balance of around Rs 150 crore and unutilised working capital of Rs 110 crore as of August 1, 2020. Further, given the current state of operations, the ability to generate accruals over near term is curtailed. Additionally, MIAL is not able to draw cash balance in escrow account because of pending judgment of the Delhi high court regarding payment of annual fee to AAI. The GVK group said in a statement that the Adani group will acquire debt from various GVK lenders, including a Goldman Sachs led consortium and HDFC. It will release GVK of various obligations, securities and corporate guarantees given in respect of debt that will be acquired by the Adani group. The Adani group will then infuse funds into MIAL and also achieve financial closure of the Navi Mumbai International Airport project at the earliest in order to commence construction. In October last year, the GVK group entered into an agreement to sell 79 per cent of its stake in GVK Airport Holdings for Rs 7,614 crore to the Abu Dhabi Investment Authority (ADIA), Canada's Public Sector Pension (PSP) Investments, and state-owned National Investment and Infrastructure Fund (NIIF). The group today said taht it has notified these investors that the transaction documents stand terminated. Proceeds from this transaction were to be used by GVK to primarily retire the debt obligations of its holding companies. ``The aviation industry has been severely impacted by COVID-19, setting it back by many years and has impacted the financials of MIAL. It was therefore important, that we bring in a financially strong investor in the shortest possible time to improve the financial position of MIAL, as well as to help achieve financial closure of the Navi Mumbai International Airport project It is under these circumstances that we agreed to cooperate with Adani so as to achieve these twin objectives’’, Dr. GVK Reddy, Founder & Chairman, GVK said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-301
01-09-2020||Business||RBI terminates loan moratorium scheme ||The EMI clock will start ticking from Tuesday — as the loan moratorium has officially ended amid a lack of clarity on the new debt recast scheme. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman is due to hold talks with bankers on Thursday and the RBI is scheduled to come out with a notification on September 6. But before that the K.V. Kamath committee will have to submit its report to enable the RBI to finalise its views before coming out with its notifications for corporate borrowers. RBI governor Shaktikanta Das had said the banks could kick start the process of picking the borrowers who would qualify for the debt recast without waiting for the RBI notification. However, they will have to pass board-level resolutions on their debt recast scheme before they do so. No one has called for such a board meeting and the PSU banks presumably will do so after the interaction with Sitharaman. The six month loan moratorium had expired on Monday with no statement coming from the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on whether it will be extended further at the time of going to press. While this would indicate that the central bank has not extended the scheme, it is also in line with statements made by the RBI governor recently that the moratorium was only a temporary measure and that the debt restructuring scheme will provide more durable relief to borrowers affected by the pandemic. The RBI had in March announced a three month EMI holiday (from March 1 till May 31) which was later extended by another three months to August 31. Ahead of the deadline, there have been calls for the moratorium to be extended. Last Friday, the Supreme Court  decided to hear a fresh plea seeking extension till December last the scheme to provide the facility of deferred payments of installments of term loans. The lawyer told the bench that the adverse impact of the pandemic was still there and the scheme needed to be extended till the year end. While there are concerns that banks could start to see a rise in their bad loans once the moratorium ends and asset recognition starts, a comforting factor is that various lenders have reported lower number of customers opting for the loan holiday after May. According to rating agency Crisil, most companies that availed loan moratoriums have sub-investment grade ratings and were facing challenges before the onset of the pandemic itself due to slowing economic growth. The agency which analysed 2,300 non-financial sector companies which have taken recourse to non-payment of loans, found that three-fourths of entities are sub-investment grade. It added that the moratorium has provided much-needed liquidity support to mid-sized sub-investment grade companies rated 'BB+' or lower and has also prevented a sharp weakening in their credit profiles. Only one out of four companies that availed the moratorium is rated in the investment grade, the agency said, adding that they took recourse to the dispensation to build a liquidity cushion for exigencies in the near term. The central bank had also announced the constitution of a committee under the chairmanship of K V Kamath to make recommendations on the required financial parameters to be factored in the resolution plans, with sector specific benchmark ranges for such parameters. This is expected to be implemented by September 6. Incidentally one member of the panel-Diwakar Gupta will join only on September 1 after completion of his term at Asian Development Bank. However, the RBI Governor has clarified that the panel’s recommendations will only apply to corporate loans and that it will decide on financial parameters like the acceptable debt-equity ratio relating to a resolution. He had also said that banks can being to restructure stressed accounts (due to the pandemic) while disclosing that various bank boards will decide by the August end their eligibility criteria to decide which borrowers — retail and business —  will qualify for resolution. However, so far no bank has formally announced such a criteria.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-302
01-09-2020||Business||Core factory output shrinks 9.6%||The core factory output contracted 9.6 per cent in July, for the fifth consecutive month, because of a decline in the production of steel, cement and refinery products. The production of eight core sectors had expanded 2.6 per cent in July 2019, data released by the commerce and industry ministry on Monday showed. Barring fertiliser, all seven sectors — coal, crude oil, natural gas, refinery products, steel, cement and electricity — recorded a decline in growth in July. “The core sector growth is showing a V-shaped recovery since the unlocking of the economy as the contraction has reduced from 38 per cent in April to 9.6 per cent July,” said chief economic adviser Krishnamurthy Subramanian. “The mild improvement in the pace of contraction in the eight core sectors in July 2020 trailed our expectations, adding to the view that the momentum of the recovery stalled in that month, partly on account of the localised lockdowns,” Aditi Nayar, principal economist at Icra, said. “The performance of refinery products and cement worsened in July 2020 compared with the previous month, highlighting the unevenness in the sectoral recovery patterns,” she added. The output of steel declined 16.5 per cent, while that of refinery products was down 13.9 per cent over the year-ago period. Production of cement fell 13.5 per cent and natural gas by 10.2 per cent. Coal output declined 5.7 per cent. Production of crude oil and electricity fell 4.9 per cent and 2.3 per cent, respectively. Fertiliser output grew 6.9 per cent during the month under review as against 1.5 per cent in July 2019. During April-July 2020-21, the sector's output dipped by 20.5 per cent as compared to a growth of 3.2 per cent in the same period previous year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-302
01-09-2020||Business||Stocks succumb to India-China border tensions||The six-session rally of equity benchmarks came to a juddering halt on Monday as a flare-up in India-China border tensions hammered investor sentiment. Profit-booking after the recent rally and a depreciating rupee further weighed on the bourses, traders said. The BSE Sensex, which made a strong start and touched the 40000-mark in the morning session, surrendered all gains and plummeted over 1600 points from the day’s high. It ended at 38628.29, down 839.02 points, or 2.13 per cent. The NSE Nifty tanked 260.10 points, or 2.23 per cent, to end at 11387.50. Sun Pharma was the top loser in the Sensex pack, plunging 7.34 per cent, followed by SBI, Bajaj Finserv, Bajaj Finance, NTPC, ICICI Bank, Kotak Bank, M&M and Maruti. RIL closed 1.75 per cent lower following its deal to acquire Future Group’s retail, wholesale, logistics and warehousing businesses for Rs 24,713 crore. Investors were also cautious ahead of the release of GDP data, traders said. Only ONGC and TCS ended in the green, rising up to 1.74 per cent. Indian markets opened on a positive note, but the sentiment failed to sustain in the afternoon session following reports of the border tensions with China, said Narendra Solanki, head-equity research (fundamental), Anand Rathi. “Also the Sebi’s new margining system starts from Tuesday which also likely impacted mid- and small-cap stocks where aggressive profit booking was seen,” he added. All sectoral indices ended in the red with BSE realty, healthcare, basic materials, utilities, power, capital goods, industrials, metal and auto skidding up to 4.70 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-302
01-09-2020||Business||Fiscal deficit overshoots budgeted target due to impact of lockdown||The country’s fiscal deficit overshot the budgeted target for the current financial year within four months (April-July), mainly on account of the impact of lockdown on revenue collections. According to the data released by the Controller General of Accounts, fiscal deficit during April-July was at Rs 8,21,349 crore, or 103.1 per cent of the annual target. It stood at 77.8 per cent of the annual target during the corresponding period of the last fiscal. Fiscal deficit, which refers to the difference between expenditure and revenue, had overshot the annual target in October last year. “The shortfall of 30 per cent in collections will be hard to recover and could increase as it will take long for the economy to come back on the rails. Of the targeted Rs 16.35 lakh crore of tax revenue, there could be a shortfall of around Rs 2.9-3 lakh crore this year which will pressurise the deficit,” said Madan Sabnavis, chief economist at Care Ratings. The government had pegged the fiscal deficit for 2020-21 at Rs 7.96 lakh crore or 3.5 per cent of the GDP in the budget presented by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman in February. These figures, however, have to be revised significantly in view of the economic disruptions created by the outbreak of coronavirus. The government had imposed a nationwide lockdown from March 25 to prevent the spread of COVID-19 pandemic. The economy was opened up gradually after the lockdown. Fiscal deficit had soared to a seven-year high of 4.6 per cent of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) in 2019-20, mainly on account of poor revenue realisation, which dipped further towards the end of March because of lockdown. As per the CGA data, government''s revenue receipts stood at Rs 2,27,402 crore or 11.3 per cent of the Budget Estimates (BE). During the same period of last fiscal, the realisation was at 19.5 per cent of the BE. Tax revenue stood at Rs 2,02,788 crore or 12.4 per cent of BE during the first four months of the fiscal. During the corresponding period of the last fiscal, the tax revenue was at 20.5 per cent of BE. The government's total receipts were at 10.4 per cent of BE or Rs 2,32,860 crore. In the Budget, the government had estimated the total receipts for the fiscal at Rs 22.45 lakh crore. The government's total expenditure stood at Rs 10,54,209 crore or 34.7 per cent of BE at the end of July. During the same period of last fiscal, the total expenditure was at 34 per cent of BE. Aditi Nayar, principal economist, ICRA said “we expect the net tax revenues of the Centre, non-tax revenues and disinvestment proceeds to together trail the budgeted level by a sharp Rs. 6.0 trillion in FY2021. Taking into account the fiscal support announced by the GoI under the “Aatma Nirbhar Bharat Abhiyan”, and assuming moderate savings from the expenditure management measures that have been put in place, our baseline estimate is that the GoI's fiscal deficit will surge to Rs. 13.5 trillion in FY2021 (6.8% of GDP based on a nominal GDP contraction of 7.5%) from the budgeted level of Rs. 8.0 trillion, and the Rs. 9.4 trillion recorded in FY2020 (Prov.).”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-302
01-09-2020||Business||RBI's new measures to 'foster orderly market conditions'||The RBI on Monday announced a bunch of measures that will loosen the liquidity tap and tamp down on interest rates amid concerns over inflation and higher government borrowing. The apex bank, thus, is left to carry the can as the economy shrank by  23.9 per cent in the first half with no sign of an additional stimulus. The central bank raised the held to maturity (HTM) limit by 2.5 per cent, announced another simultaneous purchase and sale of government bonds (Operation Twist) of Rs 20,000 crore and term repo operations of Rs 1 lakh crore. Simultaneously, the RBI  comforted market fears over rising inflation and prospects of an extended rate pause with indications of food and fuel prices stabilising and the moderations in the prices of inputs. The measures to “foster orderly market conditions” come after yields on the benchmark 10-year security breached the 6 per cent mark. Last week, the central bank had announced a special open market operation involving the simultaneous purchase and sale of government securities to the tune of Rs 20,000 crore. The second tranche of this auction will be conducted on September 3. Among the measures, the most “potent” related to HTM investments of banks. These are investments held till maturity. Since they are not marked to market (MTM), banks are not exposed to the possibility of treasury losses on these investments if bond yields move. Banks are required to maintain 18 per cent of their deposits in SLR securities or government bonds with the investment in the HTM category limited to 25 per cent of the 18-per-cent limit. Banks can exceed this limit provided the extra sum is parked  in SLR securities within an overall limit of 19.5 per cent of NDTL (net demand and time liabilities). “It has been decided to allow banks to hold fresh acquisitions of SLR securities acquired from September 1, 2020 under HTM up to an overall limit of 22 per cent of NDTL up to March 31, 2021 which shall be reviewed thereafter,” the RBI said. Suyash Choudhary, head fixed income, of IDFC AMC, said this would give banks room to invest another Rs 3.6 lakh crore in the concerned SLR securities. The RBI further said it will conduct term repo operations of Rs 100,000 crore at floating rates in mid-September to mitigate pressures on the market on account of advance tax outflows. Besides banks may refinance their borrowings they had availed under long-term repo operations (LTROs). Choudhary said banks can reduce cost of their earlier long term repos taken at 5.15 per cent with the current rate of 4 per cent. The RBI will also conduct  special open market operations involving the simultaneous purchase and sale of government securities (Opeartion Twist) worth Rs 20,000 crore in two tranches of Rs 10,000 crore each. The auctions would be conducted on September 10 and September 17. The RBI further reiterated that it remains committed to use all instruments at its command to revive the economy by maintaining congenial financial conditions, mitigate the impact of COVID-19 and restore the economy to a path of sustainable growth while preserving macroeconomic and financial stability. Its measures to `foster orderly market conditions’ comes after yields on the benchmark 10 year security breached the 6 per cent mark. Last week, the central bank had announced a special open market operation involving the simultaneous purchase and sale of Government securities to the tune of Rs 20,000 crore. The second tranche of this auction will be conducted on September 3. The central bank today admitted that market sentiment has recently been impacted by concerns relating to the inflation outlook and the fiscal situation amid global developments that have firmed up yields abroad. Among the three measures that it announced today, the most 'potent’ related to HTM investments of banks. These are investments that are held till maturity. Since they are not marked to market (MTM), banks are not exposed to the possibility of treasury losses on these investments if bond yields move. Currently, banks are required to maintain 18 per cent of their deposits in SLR securities or Government bonds. The present limit for investments that can be held in HTM category is 25 per cent of this total investment. Banks are however, allowed to exceed this limit provided the excess is invested in SLR securities within an overall limit of 19.5 per cent of NDTL. "It has been decided to allow banks to hold fresh acquisitions of SLR securities acquired from September 1, 2020 under HTM up to an overall limit of 22 per cent of NDTL up to March 31, 2021 which shall be reviewed thereafter’’, the RBI said today. According to Suyash Choudhary, Head – Fixed Income, IDFC AMC, with the RBI allowing an additional 2.5 per cent of deposits for banks as HTM for the second half of the current financial year, allows an additional purchase capacity of approximately Rs 3.6 lakh crore for banks without worrying about fluctuation risks over this period. RBI further said that it will conduct term repo operations of Rs 100,000 crore at floating rates in the mid-September to assuage pressures on the market on account of advance tax outflows. More importantly, it said that in order to reduce the cost of funds, banks may exercise this option to re-finance the funds that they had availed under long-term repo operations (LTROs). Choudhary here added that banks have thus been allowed to reduce cost of their earlier long term repos (taken at 5.15 per cent) with the current rate (four per cent) through these operations. The central bank added that it will conduct additional special open market operation involving the simultaneous purchase and sale of Government securities for an aggregate amount of Rs 20,000 crore in two tranches of Rs 10,000 crore each. These auctions would be conducted on September 10 and September 17. To soothe the market concerns about elevated inflation, the RBI said that while the monetary policy committee (MPC) had earlier this month decided to pause and remain watchful and use the available space judiciously to support the revival of the economy, there are indications that food and fuel prices are stabilising and cost push factors are moderating. "In addition, the recent appreciation of the rupee is working towards containing imported inflationary pressures. The RBI remains vigilant about these developments. In support of the accommodative stance of monetary policy, the RBI is committed to ensuring comfortable liquidity and financing conditions in the economy," it noted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-302
01-09-2020||India||Allahabad HC quashes Kafeel Khan's detention, orders immediate release||The Allahabad High Court on Tuesday quashed the detention of Dr. Kafeel Khan under the National Security Act and ordered his immediate release, saying his speech at the AMU didn't promote hatred or violence and gave a call for national integrity. The bench comprising Chief Justice Govind Mathur and Justice Saumitra Dayal Singh said the Aligarh district magistrate, who passed the order for Khan's detention, did a "selective reading" of his speech, "ignoring its true intent". The court allowed the writ petition filed by Khan's mother Nuzhat Parveen and said the detention order by the district magistrate is illegal. The petition argued that Khan was granted bail in February by a competent court and he was supposed to be released on bail. However, he was not released for four days and the National Security Act (NSA) was subsequently invoked against him. Hence, his detention was illegal. Khan has been in jail since January after he delivered the allegedly provocative speech at the Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) during the anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) protests in December last year. He is lodged in Mathura jail. Parveen, who left for Mathura soon after the court pronounced its order, said she is very happy that her son is coming out of jail and she will be able to see him after long. Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra also hailed the court's decision and hoped the Uttar Pradesh government will immediately release Khan "without any malice". Quashing Khan's detention order, the court said, "A complete reading of the speech primafacie does not disclose any effort to promote hatred or violence. It also no where threatens peace and tranquility of the city of Aligarh. The address gives a call for national integrity and unity among the citizens. The speech also deprecates any kind of violence. "It appears that the District Magistrate had selective reading and selective mention for few phrases from the speech ignoring its true intent." The court further said in the instant case, the "causal link is found to be missing or completely broken". "In absence of any material indicating that the detainee continued to act in a manner prejudicial to public order from December 12, 2019 up to February 13, 2020, or that he committed any such other or further act as may have had that effect, the preventive detention order cannot be sustained," it said. "In fact, the grounds of detention are silent as to public order at Aligarh being at risk of any prejudice in February 2020 on account of the offending act attributed to the detainee on the date December 12, 2019," the court said in its order. "What remains is a mere apprehension expressed by the detaining authority without supporting material on which such apprehension may be founded," it said. The court said it had also tested the legality of the detention "on the count of giving effective opportunity to the detainee to represent at earliest". "The grounds for detention along with material were supplied to the detainee in light of clause (5) of Article 22 of the Constitution of India enabling him to submit representation to the competent authorities at earliest," it said. "The material so given was a compact disk of the speech delivered by Dr. Kafeel Khan on 12th December, 2019, at Bab-e-Syed gate of Aligarh Muslim University," it said. "On asking, it is conveyed to us that no transcript of the speech was supplied to the detainee. The non-supply of transcript would have been of no consequence, if a device would have been supplied to the detainee to play the compact disk. It is the position admitted that no such device was made available to the detainee," it added. One more important aspect of the matter is that the orders of extension of detention were never served upon the detainee, the court said. "The record shown to us and the pleadings of the petition also refer that only radiograms relating to decision of the State Government for extension of the term of detention were supplied to the detainee," it said. "The radiograms mention that the actual order shall be sent through speed post but in fact nothing except the radiograms were given to the detainee. In light of the discussion above, we are having no hesitation in concluding that neither detention of Dr. Kafeel Khan under National Security Act, 1980 nor extension of the detention are sustainable in the eye of law," it said. Under the NSA, a person can be detained without a charge for up to 12 months if authorities are satisfied that he or she is a threat to national security or law and order. Khan has already spent over six months in jail under the NSA. In its order, the court said, "The writ petition for the reasons above is allowed. The order of detention dated 13th February, 2020 passed by District Magistrate, Aligarh and confirmed by the State of Uttar Pradesh is set aside. The extension of the period of detention of detenue Dr. Kafeel Khan is also declared illegal." "A writ in the nature of habeas corpus is hereby issued to release Dr. Kafeel Khan, the detenue, from State custody forthwith," it said. The Uttar Pradesh government had extended Khan's detention under the NSA by three months twice -- in May and August. In an order dated August 4, the Home Department had said the NSA was invoked against Khan on February 13, 2020, on the orders of the Aligarh district magistrate. After this, the matter was sent to the advisory council, which, in its report, said there were "enough reasons" to keep Khan in jail. On her way to Mathura, Khan's mother Parveen told PTI on phone, "I am very happy that my son is coming out of jail. I will be able to see him after a long time." "My son is a good person and he was never against the country or the society. It is also my daughter-in-law's birthday today, and we are taking a cake with us as she is in Mathura," she said. Khan, who worked as a paediatrician at Gorakhpur's BRD Medical College, first hit headlines in 2017 after several children died at the hospital due to the lack of oxygen cylinders. Initially, he was hailed as a saviour for the children for arranging emergency oxygen cylinders. However, later, he faced action along with nine other doctors and staff members of the hospital, all of whom were released on bail. A state government probe cleared Khan of all major charges, prompting him to seek an apology from the Yogi Adityanath government. Khan had alleged that an institutional failure had led to the deaths of the children. Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi welcomed the court order. "The Allahabad High Court today ordered the removal of NSA and immediate release of Dr. Kafeel Khan. It is expected that the UP government will release Dr. Kafeel Khan without any malice," she said in a tweet in Hindi. She also congratulated all "justice-loving people" and party workers in the state who had been making efforts for Khan's release.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-695
01-09-2020||India||Amarinder Singh orders probe into attack on Suresh Raina’s relatives||Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh said on Tuesday a special investigation team of the state police will probe the attack on India cricketer Suresh Raina’s relatives in Pathankot, in which his uncle and cousin were killed. Raina, who pulled out of the IPL citing personal reasons, on Tuesday demanded a thorough probe into the violent attack on his aunt's family in Punjab, revealing that after his uncle, his cousin has also died. The 33-year-old returned to the country last week from the UAE, where the league will begin on September 19. In his first statement since landing in the country, Raina, however, did not say that the attack, allegedly a case of robbery, was the reason why he came back. "What happened to my family is (sic) Punjab was beyond horrible. My uncle was slaughtered to death, my bua & both my cousins had sever (sic) injuries. Unfortunately my cousin also passed away last night after battling for life for days. My bua (aunt) is still very very critical & is on life support," he said. Raina's relatives were attacked on the night intervening August 19 and 20 in Thariyal village in Punjab's Pathankot district. Raina's uncle Ashok Kumar, 58, suffered head injuries in the attack and died on the same night. Four other members of the family were also injured in the attack. Kaushal Kumar, 32, the elder son of Ashok, died on Monday night at a private hospital. Police said Ashok's wife and Raina's aunt Asha Devi is still critical, while his second son, Apin, 28, is out of danger. "The second son has undergone surgery for an injury to his jaw," Khurana said.  Ashok's mother Satya Devi, 80, has already been discharged from hospital. Raina retired from international cricket on August 15, alongside former India captain and close friend Mahendra Singh Dhoni. His departure from the IPL triggered intense speculation on the possible reasons behind it. Franchise owner and former BCCI President N Srinivasan, who seemed to be upset with the batsman in his early statements, later said that the team will stand by the all-rounder.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-695
01-09-2020||India||Parliament readies itself for monsoon session amid the pandemic||Massive arrangements are being made for the 18-day Parliament session from September 14 that would be held under the shadow of a pandemic for the first time ever. Among these are thousands of masks and gloves, hundreds of sanitiser bottles and face shields, touch-free operation of doors, and Covid-19 tests for an estimated 4,000 people including MPs and staff members. Frequent sanitisation of the entire parliament complex will also be carried out, while arrangements have been made to sanitise various parliamentary papers as well as footwear and cars of MPs, officials said. Frisking of people will also make way for touch-less security scanning, while thermal scanning will also be totally touch-free. The first-of-its-kind monsoon session will see Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha sitting in two different shifts, while special seating arrangements have been made for MPs in adherence to social distancing guidelines. For making the entire Parliament complex a safe zone in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla and Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu have held extensive discussions with officials of the Home Ministry, Health Ministry, ICMR and the DRDO. As per the standing operating procedures finalised for holding the session from September 14 till October 1, MPs and staff of secretariats of both houses, as also the media personnel covering the proceedings, will be asked to undergo Covid-19 test at least 72 hours before the start of the session. Officials said arrangements have been made for tests of close to 4,000 people, including the MPs, staff members and journalists. Only MPs and ministers will be allowed inside the main building, while necessary seating arrangements will be made for separate seating of their personal staff in the complex. A new seating arrangement following social distancing guidelines has been prepared by both houses for their respective members. MPs will also be allowed to address the Chair while seated and wearing their masks so that the risk of infection might be minimised. It has also been decided that air of air conditioners will be exchanged six times every day to avoid any possible infection. The DRDO will also provide multi-utility Covid-19 kits to all MPs. Each kit will contain 40 disposable masks, five N-95 masks, 20 bottles of sanitisers of 50 ml each, face shields, 40 pairs of gloves, a touch-free hook to open and close doors without touching them, herbal sanitation wipes and tea bags to enhance immunity. The two houses together have more than 780 members at present. The Health Ministry has also suggested that the movement of Members of Parliament in chambers of both the houses can be made unidirectional to avoid face-to-face interactions. The Ministry will make available short video clips to all MPs on awareness about Covid-19 infections and the benefits of wearing masks, etc. Touchless sanitisers will be kept at 40 different places within the Parliament House complex, and emergency medical teams and ambulances will also be stationed. All guidelines related to Covid-19 prevention will be strictly followed, presiding officers of both houses said. The provision of ultraviolet boxes has also been made to sanitise various parliamentary papers handled by the presiding officers and members. Arrangements are also being made for sanitisation of footwear and cars used by the members and those provided by the Secretariat by providing mats of required dimensions soaked in Hypochloride gel placed in troughs. Marshals will also wear masks and face shields.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-695
01-09-2020||India||Pranab Mukherjee cremated with full state honours||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-695
01-09-2020||India||Pranab Mukherjee: He got along with everyone||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-695
01-09-2020||India||SC rejects Bhushan's argument about 'bona fide' statements||The Supreme Court on Monday rejected lawyer Prashant Bhushan’s arguments that truth was a defence against contempt and that what he had stated was his bona fide beliefs made in public interest. “We are of the view that, in the circumstances, the defence taken cannot be said to be either in the public interest or bona fide one. On the contrary, it is more derogatory to the reputation of this court and would amount to further scandalising and bringing administration of justice in disrepute, in which the common citizen of this country has faith and approaches this court as a last resort for getting justice,” the three-judge bench headed by Justice Arun Mishra said. “He has also referred to various matters pending adjudication before this court and also adversely commented on the functioning of this court. He has raised eyebrows on the Ayodhya verdict and blamed this court. After going through the various averments made in the affidavit in reply for supporting truth as defence, we are of the considered view that the defence taken is neither in the public interest nor bona fide one.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-696
01-09-2020||India||Kerala gold smuggling case: Customs official demoted||A senior customs official who had supervised the investigation into the Kerala gold smuggling case has been transferred to a post considered less important after “leaked” statements attributed to a key accused landed the BJP in the middle of the scandal. N.S. Dev, an assistant commissioner who had been at the helm of the probe into the customs’ seizure of 30kg smuggled gold from the UAE at Thiruvananthapuram International Airport in July, was transferred to a more sedentary job in the legal department on Saturday. The customs department reports to the Union finance ministry. No reason has been cited for the transfer. The customs department had conducted an internal inquiry immediately after the media reported about the “leaked” statement of key accused Swapna Suresh. As the head of the customs commissionerate (preventive) headquarters in Kochi, Dev had also recorded Swapna’s statement. Dev, whose rank is that of a superintendent, had dug out a lot of information related to Swapna’s political links, a source said. It was not clear how the handwritten statement, purportedly given by Swapna to the investigating agency, got leaked as several officials had handled the case. In the “leaked” statement, it has been claimed that Anil Nambiar, the coordinating editor of the pro-BJP Janam TV, had “requested the help” of the UAE consulate in the state capital to support the party in 2018. Dev is the second customs officer in Kerala to be transferred in a month after joint commissioner Aneesh Rajan, who had played a key role in busting the high-profile smuggling racket, was transferred to Nagpur from Thiruvananthapuram in end-July. Rajan, asked repeatedly by reporters, had denied that he had received any calls from the chief minister’s office after the gold consignment was detained. The BJP had then been putting pressure on the Left government by alleging that someone from the CMO had called the airport customs to get the baggage released.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-696
01-09-2020||India||Rahul sees corporate takeover design in lockdown ||Rahul Gandhi on Monday suggested that the BJP government was “destroying” the informal sector of the economy to facilitate a takeover by the big corporate and counted the lockdown as part of that scheme, alleging an attempt to push people into “slavery”. While the former Congress president listed demonetisation and the imposition of a flawed Goods and Services Tax (GST) as the two major assaults, he made a grave accusation against Prime Minister Narendra Modi by saying that the harsh lockdown during the pandemic was also a part of the design to destroy the informal sector, which makes up the overwhelming majority of the Indian economy. Although Rahul has often accused Modi of deliberately harming the informal sector, claiming that the lockdown, which not only destroyed the small industries and traders but also subjected millions to extreme hardship, was intended to help the big corporate is bound to trigger a political confrontation. In a video released on Monday morning, Rahul said: “The BJP government has been attacking the informal sector over the past six years. I can give you three big examples right now — demonetisation, wrong GST and lockdown. Don’t presume that there was no thinking behind the lockdown. Don’t think it was done at the last minute. The aim of these three decisions was to destroy our informal sector.” Modi announced the lockdown on March 24 and the restrictions kicked in within just four hours. The Congress has repeatedly attacked the Prime Minister for the “unplanned” lockdown but the allegation that it was enforced to devastate the informal sector gives an entirely new dimension to the campaign that the government mismanaged the pandemic. Rahul said on Monday: “The Prime Minister needs the media and marketing to run the government. This media management and marketing is done by 15-20 people. The informal sector has a lot of money, lakhs of crores, which the government can’t touch. They want to break this sector and take away this money. The effects of this attack on the informal sector will be seen soon. The results will be that India won’t be able to produce jobs. Because the informal sector produces 90 per cent of the jobs. Once the informal sector is destroyed, India won’t be able to produce jobs.” The Congress parliamentarian added: “You (the common people) are the ones who run this country, you take us forward and there is a conspiracy being hatched against you. Aapko thaga ja raha hai aur aapko ghulam banane ki koshish ki ja rahi hai (You are being cheated and there is an attempt to turn you into slaves). We have to understand this attack and the entire country has to unite to fight against this.” Explaining how the Indian economy had survived the 2008 global meltdown but had got wrecked under Modi, Rahul said on Monday: “In 2008, the world was hit by an economic storm. It affected the entire world: US, Japan, China, everywhere. In the US, banks fell, corporations fell and companies shut down. In Europe also, banks fell, but India was unaffected. India had a UPA government at that time. “I went to the Prime Minister and asked him, Manmohan Singh ji, what is the reason the entire world suffered an economic crisis but India remained unaffected? Manmohan Singh ji replied, ‘Rahul if you want to understand India’s economy, you will have to understand that India has two economic structures. One is the formal economy and the other is the informal economy.’” Rahul added: “You know the big companies which constitute the formal sector. The informal sector comprises farmers, labourers, small and medium industries, small traders. Till the time India’s informal sector is strong, no economic storm can touch India.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-696
01-09-2020||India||Supreme Court says Freedom of Speech not absolute||The Supreme Court said though there is Freedom of Speech under Article 19(1)(a), it is never absolute because the makers of the Constitution have imposed certain restrictions on it. When such freedom is sought to be abused and has the effect of scandalising the institution and the persons who are part of it and cannot defend themselves publicly, the same cannot be permitted in law, it said. “Though a fair criticism of judgment is permissible in law, a person cannot exceed the right under Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution to scandalise the institution,” the court said, arguing that sitting judges cannot go to the press and retired judges are not supposed to answer every allegation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-696
01-09-2020||India||After Mann Ki Baat address, Modi fails youth test ||A blizzard of “dislikes” continued to dog the BJP’s video upload of Narendra Modi’s Mann Ki Baat radio address on YouTube, with users tearing into the Prime Minister over burning issues such as rising unemployment and the government’s decision to go ahead with competitive exams amid the pandemic. By 8pm on Monday, over 24 hours after the video had been uploaded on the BJP’s YouTube channel, it had garnered 7.07 lakh “dislikes”, compared to 1.14 lakh “likes”. Rarely has official social media uploads related to the Prime Minister attracted such a negative response. On Monday, another dimension was added to the newest form of social media protest when many users alleged that their comments critical of the Prime Minister had been removed and the number of “dislikes” reduced. On Sunday, Modi spent the better part of his Mann Ki Baat address extolling the virtues of swadeshi dog breeds and urging people to rear them, and also speaking at length on the potential of the Indian toy and online gaming industry. As soon as the video was uploaded on YouTube, people began venting their anger. YouTube user Rishu Ranjan Verma wrote: “Discussion on unemployment is the matter of contemplation, when will you do it?” Prateek Thappa averred: “Let us do kaam ki baat, we need employment.” Rahul Soni commented: “Why is the govt not postponing exams?” Kundan Kumar suggested: “Bahut ho gaya Maan Ki Baat. Aab students ki job ki baat honi chahiye (enough of Mann Ki Baat, let there now be talk on jobs for students.)” The JEE Main exams are to be held from September 1 to 6. The  NEET is scheduled for September 13. Nearly 8.5 lakh students are slated to take the JEE. Around 16 lakh students are to sit for the NEET. YouTube user Abdul Qadir said: “They are removing dislikes. This is the real face of our beloved government.” Sekar Pandia wrote: “12.59am 1.9 lakh dislikes and 1.08am it came to 1.7 lakh dislikes. How can this happen. Manipulation cannot change the mood of people.” Wrote Suprava Dutta: “...How many comments will they delete? I’m against this inhumanity. It’s time to show the power of the young generation.” Gouminlal, a research scholar at the Tata Institute of Social Sciences, Mumbai, told The Telegraph: “The unemployment rate was 6.1 in 2018, the highest in the last four decades. Before the lockdown itself, the unemployment rate was very high and the economy was sluggish. After the lockdown, the unemployment situation has deteriorated significantly. The government should tell what is being done on this.” Many said the floods in Odisha, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Bihar would also pose hurdles for JEE aspirants.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-696
01-09-2020||India||Report suggests Facebook gave fillip to Modi's election campaign||The Wall Street Journal on Monday published what the American newspaper said were excerpts from internal communications of Facebook officials that suggest that the social media company had helped the BJP in the 2014 Lok Sabha elections by lighting “a fire to his (Narendra Modi’s) social media campaign and the rest is of course history”. Also on Monday, a Delhi Assembly panel probing Facebook’s alleged role in the February 2020 riots that killed 53 people said the company should be made a co-accused in the police investigation, after hearing deposition that alleged that the social media network had “sheltered hate against minority communities”. The Journal, a New York-based financial daily, reported in an article titled “Facebook Executive Draws Scrutiny on Political Stance” that the social media behemoth’s public policy chief for South and Central Asia, Ankhi Das, had in messages to colleagues in a Facebook group said a day before the BJP was elected to power in 2014 that they had helped Modi become Prime Minister. The Journal reported: “In one of the messages, Ankhi Das, head of public policy in the country, posted the day before Narendra Modi swept to victory in India’s 2014 national elections: ‘We lit a fire to his social media campaign and the rest is of course history. ‘It’s taken thirty years of grassroots work to rid India of state socialism finally,’ Ms Das wrote in a separate post on the defeat of the Indian National Congress party, praising Mr Modi as the ‘strongman’ who had broken the former ruling party’s hold. Ms Das called Facebook’s top global elections official, Katie Harbath, her ‘longest fellow traveler’ in the company’s work with his campaign.” The Journal continued: ‘“Success in our Gujarat Campaign,’ Ms Das wrote of the training of Mr Modi’s Bharatiya Janata Party team in October of 2012, noting the campaign was close to reaching a million fans on Facebook…. “Ms Das made her sentiments on the race clear. When a fellow staffer noted in response to one of her internal posts that the BJP’s primary opponent, the Indian National Congress, had a larger following on Facebook than Mr Modi’s individual page, Ms Das responded: ‘Don’t diminish him by comparing him with INC. Ah well — let my bias not show!!!’” Contacted by The Telegraph, a Facebook spokesperson in the US echoed what the company has said in the Journal report on Monday: “These (Das’s) posts are taken out of context and don’t represent the full scope of Facebook’s efforts to support the use of our platform by parties across the Indian political spectrum in 2014. Facebook’s public policy team operates with integrity and any suggestion that their efforts are motivated by partisanship discounts their hard work every day.” On Monday, the Delhi Assembly’s Committee on Peace and Harmony said, after hearing several journalists and Internet experts who have deposed before it, that “Facebook should be impleaded as co-accused in the Delhi riots investigation”. The committee said in a statement: “Sh. Awesh Tiwari (a journalist) has deposed that the complicity of Facebook is not only limited to aggravation in Delhi riots but (the company also) has been consistently sheltering hate against minority communities since a very long time. He has further asserted before the committee that Facebook essentially refuses to take down the hateful and divisive content off its platform….”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-696
01-09-2020||India||Supreme Court hopes  4-judge news meet was 'first and last'||The Supreme Court said on Monday it hoped the unprecedented news conference held by four sitting judges on January 12, 2018, to voice concerns about the judiciary was the “first and last” one. “We hope it was the first and last occasion that the judges have gone to press, and God gives wisdom to protect its dignity by internal mechanism, particularly, when allegations made, if any, publicly cannot be met by sufferer judges. It would cause suffering to them till eternity. “Truth can be the defence to the judges also, but they are bound by their judicial norms, ethics, and code of conduct,” the three-judge bench of Justices Arun Mishra, B.R. Gavai and Krishna Murari said. Four senior judges of the Supreme Court had held the news conference to voice concern about the opaque manner in which politically sensitive cases were being assigned by the then Chief Justice, Dipak Misra. One of the cases concerned the mysterious death of special CBI Judge B.H. Loya. The CJI had marked it to Justice Arun Mishra. Heading the bench that convicted Prashant Bhushan for criminal contempt and handed the sentence on Monday, Justice Mishra said: “The contemnor has tried to justify the averments made on the basis of the Press Conference dated 12.01.2018 of the four seniormost judges of this court. Concept of equality before law (is) what is permissible not as to what is impermissible. “It is settled that negative equality cannot be claimed as there is no concept of negative equality.” The court said it was not concerned with any criticism or statements made by former judges in the present contempt case against Bhushan, and that it was required to decide the cases on the basis of the law. “The court cannot abdicate its duty and has to be uninfluenced by the statements published in various articles published in the media and opinions expressed therein.,” the bench said. “Dr Dhavan, learned senior counsel (for Bhushan), has submitted that this court will be criticised in case it inflicts any punishment upon Shri Prashant Bhushan. We are unmoved by this submission. While exercising our judicial functions, we cannot take into consideration whether we will be praised or criticised for the judgment which we render. “We are required to decide the cases on the basis of the law as it correctly stands, in our perception and understanding. We are not expected to decide the matter on the basis as to whether there will be criticism of the judgment or not. We have to be always ready for its fair criticism,” the court said. It then handed Bhushan a fine of Re 1, which he has to pay by September 15.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-696
01-09-2020||India||Bhushan: Hope for truth has strengthened ||Lawyer Prashant Bhushan on Monday said he would pay the Re 1 fine imposed on him for criminal contempt, while reserving his right to file a review petition against the August 14 judgment convicting him for his two tweets and the nominal sentence. At a press conference, Bhushan thanked his legal team of senior advocates Rajeev Dhavan and Dushyant Dave for defending him. The following is the statement issued by Bhushan: “The Supreme Court of India has announced its verdict on the contempt case against me. It holds me guilty of contempt of court and has decided to impose a fine of Re 1 and, failing that, imprisonment of three months and debarring me from practising for three years. “I had already said in my first statement to the court: ‘I am here to cheerfully submit to any penalty that can lawfully be inflicted upon me for what the court has determined to be an offence, and what appears to me to be the highest duty of a citizen’. “Therefore, while I reserve the right to seek a review of the conviction and sentencing, by way of an appropriate legal remedy, I propose to submit myself to this order and will respectfully pay the fine, just as I would have submitted to any other lawful punishment. “I have had the greatest respect for the institution of the Supreme Court. I have always believed it to be the last bastion of hope, particularly for the weak and the oppressed who knock at its door for the protection of their rights, often against a powerful executive. “My tweets were not intended in any way to disrespect the Supreme Court or the judiciary as a whole, but were merely meant to express my anguish at what I felt was a deviation from its sterling past record. “This issue was never about me versus the Hon’ble Judges, much less about me versus the Supreme Court. When the Supreme Court of India wins, every Indian wins. Every Indian wants a strong and independent judiciary. Obviously if the courts get weakened, it weakens the republic and harms every citizen. “I am extremely grateful and humbled by the solidarity and support expressed by countless persons, ex-judges, lawyers, activists and fellow citizens who encouraged me to remain firm and true to my beliefs and conscience. “They strengthen my hope that this trial may draw the country’s attention to the cause of freedom of speech and judicial accountability and reform.  What is very heartening is that this case has become a watershed moment for freedom of speech and seems to have encouraged many people to stand up and speak out against the injustices in our society. “I would be failing in my duty if I do not thank my legal team, especially senior advocates Dr Rajeev Dhavan and Shri Dushyant Dave. “I am more confident now than ever before that truth shall prevail. Long live democracy! Satyameva Jayate!”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-696
01-09-2020||India||A pragmatist within the paradigm that happened to be in place||Former President Pranab Mukherjee, who died on Monday in an army hospital in New Delhi, was cremated on Tuesday. President Ram Nath Kovind, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu and Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chiefs of three defence services were among the dignitaries who paid their last respects to him on Tuesday morning when the mortal remains of the 84-year-old leader were brought to his residence, 10, Rajaji Marg, earlier in the day. The Union government has announced a seven-day State mourning across the country from August 31 to September 6, both days included.  During the State mourning, the national flag will fly at half-mast and there will be no official entertainment. Mukherjee's son, Abhijit, announced his death on twitter. “With a Heavy Heart, this is to inform you that my father Shri Pranab Mukherjee has just passed away in spite of the best efforts of Doctors of RR Hospital and prayers, duas and prarthanas from people throughout India! I thank all of You,” he said. Pranab Kumar Mukherjee served as a minister in the central government for much of his political life, holding a number of portfolios; but it is with the finance ministry that one tends most commonly to associate him though he was finance minister of the country only twice, from 1982 to 1984 and again from 2009 to 2012. This was perhaps because each of these stints was associated with an event that left an indelible imprint on public memory. His first stint, under Indira Gandhi after she had returned to power following the collapse of the Janata Party government that had supplanted her in the post-Emergency elections, saw India approaching the International Monetary Fund for a $5.8 billion loan under the Extended Facility that had been set up in the wake of the second oil shock in 1979-80. India had been extremely chary of borrowing from the IMF throughout the period of dirigiste economic policies, so this move was as unprecedented as it was controversial. The controversy was stoked in particular when the “conditionalities” associated with the loan, which were quite strict with rigid timeframes for fulfilling specific fiscal targets, were revealed by The Hindu newspaper through a “leak” in Washington DC. It has remained a mystery why India went in for the loan at all, since the balance-of-payments situation did not really warrant it; this was also evident from the fact that India did not even take the full amount of the loan eventually. It would not be fair, however, to blame Pranab Mukherjee for this exercise, since he was not the moving spirit behind it and was not even in charge of the finance ministry when the loan was being negotiated, though he was when the controversy erupted. His second stint as finance minister was marked by his effort to close the “Mauritius route”. Strange though it may seem, Mauritius was the country from which the maximum amount of foreign direct investment used to come to India. The reason was simple: multinational companies from the advanced countries used to route their investment to India via Mauritius, because Mauritius, which hardly taxed these companies at all, had at the same time a double-taxation-avoidance treaty with India. The companies therefore got away virtually without paying any taxes, since they would claim to pay taxes in Mauritius and not in India, while hardly paying anything in Mauritius. Pranab Mukherjee, to his credit, tried to stop this, by stipulating that whether a company could claim tax avoidance in India should be determined by whether it paid any taxes on its Indian profits in the country where its headquarters were located, rather than in Mauritius through which its investment was routed. This move, not surprisingly, caused a big uproar in corporate circles and eventually the Manmohan Singh government had to abandon the step. The two events associated with the two stints of Pranab Mukherjee as finance minister sum up between them the nature of his stewardship of the finance ministry. Not a person of strong ideological predilections, he was more in the nature of a pragmatist within the broad policy paradigm that happened to be in place during his stint as finance minister. If the first move we mentioned above brought forth strong opposition from the Left and Nehruvian circles, the second move aroused stiff opposition from the Right and from the neo-liberal world, especially the world of the corporate houses and multinationals. He was neither a committed Nehruvian, struggling behind the scenes to prevent the imposition of neo-liberal economic policies on the country, as many in the Congress and the government were; nor was he a committed neo-liberal trying behind the scenes to introduce such policies before they actually got introduced. He would, however, have carried out either set of policies if given the responsibility to do so. His stewardship of the Planning Commission as its deputy chairman in the early nineties, when neo-liberal policies were being introduced and the Planning Commission’s role was being devalued, must have confronted him with serious challenges; but he was pragmatic and accommodative enough to ride over these challenges. His pragmatism was, however, marked by a degree of personal efficiency. In the finance ministry, dominated by techno-savvy officials and “professionals” returned from Washington DC, from the stables of the World Bank and the IMF, he commanded respect for his mastery over details, his knowledge of the intricacies of finance, and his avoidance of over-reliance on the bureaucracy. It was typical of Pranab Mukherjee that he tried to maintain cordial relations across the political spectrum, from the Left to the Right. This sometimes earned him brickbats, but it was part of his mental make-up that contributed as much to his durability as to his success. Prabhat Patnaik is Professor Emeritus, the Centre for Economic Studies, Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-696
01-09-2020||India||LAC: China violates military consensus to change status quo||Tension is running high on the Ladakh border after India said it had pre-empted China’s “provocative military movements to change the status quo” and Beijing responded by asking New Delhi to withdraw troops that had “illegally crossed” the Line of Actual Control (LAC). On Saturday night, Indian soldiers noticed Chinese troop movements and mobilised to deter further encroachment, the Indian Army said. The confrontation did not escalate into a clash, sources said. “On the night of 29/30 August 2020, PLA (Chinese People’s Liberation Army) troops violated the previous consensus arrived at during military and diplomatic engagements during the ongoing standoff in Eastern Ladakh and carried out provocative military movements to change the status quo,” the Indian Army said in a statement on Monday afternoon. “Indian troops pre-empted this PLA activity on the southern bank of Pangong Tso Lake, undertook measures to strengthen our positions and thwart Chinese intentions to unilaterally change facts on ground. The Indian Army is committed to maintaining peace and tranquillity through dialogue, but is also equally determined to protect its territorial integrity,” the statement added. The southern bank of the Pangong Lake — known as the Chushul sector — has been an area of concern since the standoff began in early May. PLA troops have reportedly dug themselves 8km inside India-claimed lines at Finger 4 and have refused to disengage despite a series of military and diplomatic talks. Although no physical clash was reported on Saturday night, the incident appeared to be the most serious development confirmed by the two sides after 20 Indian soldiers were killed and China suffered unspecified casualties in hand-to-hand combat at the Galwan Valley on the night of June 14. On Monday evening, China accused India of upsetting the fragile peace that has held since the June carnage. The spokesman for the PLA (Western Theatre Command), Senior Colonel Zhang Shuili, was quoted by state-controlled broadcaster CGTN as stating that the Indian Army had illegally crossed the LAC on Monday. Zhang was quoted as describing it as a provocative move that violated the previous consensus and urged the Indian side to withdraw its forces. On the Galwan incident, too, China has repeatedly claimed that it was India that had violated the agreements on boundary management and breached the LAC. Earlier in the day, asked about the Indian Army’s statement on pre-empted PLA activity in eastern Ladakh, Chinese foreign ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian had said: “The Chinese border troops have been strictly observing the Line of Actual Control and never crossed the line. The Chinese and Indian border troops are in contact with each other regarding the issue on the ground.” The BJP cut a brave front, saying: “Territorial integrity is intact; the army has courage; our Prime Minister and the government are full of self-confidence.” Although the narrative of going across the LAC is something that would otherwise fit into the Right-wing narrative of a muscular dispensation at the Centre, the Narendra Modi government has continuously maintained that Indian troops did not breach the contentious and non-demarcated line. Sources in the security establishment said the situation along multiple friction points in eastern Ladakh was “exceedingly” tense after Saturday night.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-696
01-09-2020||India||Economy: steepest GDP decline on record||The Indian economy shrank by 23.9 per cent in the first quarter ended June 30, signalling that the road to recovery would be more arduous than most economists have projected. It marks the steepest decline since the National Statistical Office (NSO) started quarterly measurement of gross domestic product (GDP) in 1996. The slide in real GDP — which is measured on the basis of prices in 2011-12 — had been expected after the Narendra Modi government clamped the world’s severest lockdown in March to stop the spread of the coronavirus pandemic, triggering a slump in consumer spending, private investment and exports. But the fall has been steeper than forecast. The contraction in India’s economic growth during April-June has been amongst the severest so far globally. Only Peru (-30.2 per cent) and Macau (-67.8 per cent) have reported lower GDP growth numbers for the period, Care Ratings said in a research report. Real GDP is widely expected to contract this year with estimates ranging from the IMF’s 4.9 per cent slide to the OECD’s worst-case estimate of a 7.3 per cent fall in the eventuality of a second outbreak of the pandemic in October-November. Other economists have come out with more depressing forecasts. Most credit rating agencies have already spooked the market with forecasts of a real GDP contraction ranging from 15 to 25 per cent. The last time that India faced a full-year contraction in its real GDP was in 1980. But the more worrying fact is that nominal GDP has also contracted by 22.6 per cent and presages the possibility that the overall size of the Indian economy could shrink this fiscal — a frightening prospect that the country has never had to deal with. The main difference between nominal GDP and real GDP is the adjustment for inflation. Since nominal GDP is calculated using current prices, it does not require any adjustments for inflation. Former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh had articulated these fears a few weeks ago when he said that a growing consensus had started to emerge among economists that nominal GDP could also contract this year. “If it happens, it will be the first time in independent India. I hope the consensus is wrong,” Singh had said. Last year, real GDP had grown by 5.2 per cent in the first quarter and the nominal GDP by 8.1 per cent. A contraction in the nominal GDP will have big implications for tax collections this year, deepen job losses, spark wage cuts, depress demand, trammel production processes and lead to a ballooning fiscal deficit that will then need to be papered over by greater borrowings. In May, the Centre had jacked up its gross borrowing programme by 53 per cent to Rs 12 lakh crore from a budgeted Rs 7.8 lakh crore. Data show that of the 54 countries that have reported their GDP figures for the April-June quarter, only China and Vietnam have recorded a positive growth over the same period last year. China’s economy grew by 3.2 per cent in April-June after recording a decline of 6.8 per cent in January-March 2020. Manufacturing — which accounts for 13.8 per cent of the gross value added (GVA) at basic prices in the first quarter and serves as a nerve centre for job creation — contracted by a sharp 39.3 per cent. The construction sector shrank by 50.3 per cent while mining output fell by 23.3 per cent. Agriculture was the sole bright spot and grew 3.4 per cent. The NSO note said: “The quarterly GVA at Constant (2011-12) prices for the first quarter of 2020-21 is estimated at Rs 25.53 lakh crore, as against Rs 33.08 lakh crore in Q1 of 2019-20, showing a contraction of 22.8 per cent.” The GVA is a key metric to measure economic activity that strips out the impact of taxes and subsidies on the value of output. Congress leader and former finance minister P. Chidambaram said: “The only sector that has grown is agriculture, forestry and fishing at 3.4 per cent. The finance minister (Nirmala Sitharaman), who blamed an ‘Act of God’ for the economic decline, should be grateful to the farmers and the gods who blessed the farmers.” Sitharaman has been castigated after she termed the Covid-19 pandemic an act of God — and refused to compensate states for any loss of revenues on account of falling goods and services tax (GST) collections and a virtually empty compensation cess corpus. Krishnamurthy Subramanian, chief economist at the finance ministry, said the Indian economy was set for a “V-shaped” recovery and should perform better in the coming quarters as indicated by a pickup in rail freight, power consumption and tax collections. Very few economists support that view and even the Reserve Bank of India has indicated that the economy will contract this year while refusing to put out a numerical estimate. Consumer spending — the main driver of the economy — dropped by 24.5 per cent at current prices while capital investments were down by 47.9 per cent. Exports were down by 17.1 per cent in the first quarter at Rs 7,68,037 crore while imports shrank by 38.5 per cent to Rs 6,89,734 crore at current prices. M. Govinda Rao, a member of the 14th finance commission and currently chief economic adviser at Brickwork Ratings, said: “The economy has certainly entered a recession phase as the second quarter GDP number is also most likely going to be negative. However, the pace of contraction may be slower in Q2 than in Q1 due to the lower base, which will wane to some extent, and the gradual lifting of the lockdown in areas and sectors, which is likely to improve economic activity.” D.K. Srivastava, chief policy adviser at EY India, said: “The first-quarter numbers highlight an extremely challenging outlook for the Indian economy with only one sector — agriculture — showing positive growth. Signals are strong that FY21 is likely to end in a net contraction. With nominal GDP also showing a negative growth of about (-)23 per cent in 1QFY21, tax revenues are also likely to contract sharply in the year as a whole. The Indian economy has clearly landed in a severe vicious cycle with the need to stimulate demand becoming paramount while the capacity to support demand by the government is at its weakest. Without stimulating private consumption and investment demand, it may be difficult to arrest this downward momentum.” The NSO said its data collection mechanism had been badly hampered by the lockdown restrictions and the severity of the resultant impact on economic activity. “In these circumstances, the usual data sources were substituted by alternatives like GST, interactions with professional bodies, etc. and which were clearly limited,” it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-697
01-09-2020||India||Ladakh highway closed to civilian traffic||Chaos gripped the Srinagar-Ladakh highway on Monday following the suspension of civilian traffic, which coincided with a fresh stand-off between Indian and Chinese troops in the Pangong Tso lake area in eastern Ladakh. Hundreds of vehicles, many carrying essential supplies to Ladakh from Manigam to Sonamarg in Ganderbal adjoining Kargil, remained stuck. Some media reports claimed the road was closed to civilians owing to provocative military movement by the Chinese troops and would be exclusively used for military purposes. Ganderbal police chief Khalil Poswal denied that the road was closed to civilian traffic because of Ladakh developments. “Traffic was suspended because of rain, but later was cleared and the vehicles are now on way (to Kargil). There is absolutely no government order (suspending civilian traffic),” Poswal told this paper. The government has in recent months issued several controversial orders, but refused to link them to the developments in Ladakh. In June, weeks after the Ladakh crisis erupted, the government directed stocking up of LPG cylinders for two months and vacating school buildings in Ganderbal for the deployment of security forces. In Ladakh, former Chushul councillor Sonam Tsering said mobile connections were suspended afresh in border areas on Sunday following fresh provocation by the Chinese army. Chushul is the nearest human habitation from the site of fresh confrontation, but still a long distance away. “Mobile connectivity remained suspended in these areas for months but was restored some 15-20 days back. Yesterday, connectivity was again suspended,” Tsering said. “The site of fresh trouble is a long distance from our village and no civilians live in a vast area near the place. Reports reaching us in Leh (town) is that there is no panic in the area.” Tsering said more troops could be seen heading towards Pangong Tso area from Leh on Monday. Kargil politician Sajjad Hussain said the fresh confrontation and reports of suspension of civilian traffic on Srinagar-Kargil road had triggered panic in the district. “We are in a lockdown from many months and are running short of essentials. Earlier too, during the pandemic, going to Kashmir was like going to another country as only a few people with permissions could travel because of Covid-19 restrictions,” he said. “If the road is closed, people, mostly poor, will suffer more hardships,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-697
01-09-2020||India||States can offer quota to in-service doctors: SC||A five-judge constitution bench of the Supreme Court on Monday ruled that states had the legislative competence to frame laws setting aside postgraduate medical seats for in-service doctors from their own merit quota. The court said this would not collide with the Centre’s MCI Regulations, 2000, with regard to admissions to medical colleges. The constitution bench upheld the rules framed by several states, including Bengal, providing for reservation in postgraduate courses for those in-service doctors who have served in rural and far-flung areas. The bench of Justices Arun Mishra, Indira Banerjee, Vineet Saran, M.R. Shah and Aniruddha Bose was hearing a batch of petitions, appeals and cross-appeals filed by Bengal, and also several doctors, challenging the conflicting judgments passed by various courts, including different three-judge benches of the Supreme Court. Calcutta High Court had last year taken the view that the state did not have the legislative competence to frame quota rules, observing that such provisions could be made only in keeping with the MCI Regulations. The Supreme Court said on Monday: “If the state authorities provide reservation for in-service doctors from within the state’s own merit list, our view is that such an exercise would be relatable to the admission process and the same would not be in breach of any prohibition flowing from the 2000 Regulations. This would entail some form of variation of the merit list of the state, but we do not find any prohibition under the 2000 Regulations against a state undertaking that exercise. “Such step undertaken by the state would be relatable to the state’s legislative power derived from Entry 25 of the Concurrent List and not covered by the 2000 Regulations. We do not find any repugnancy with the 2000 Regulations if the state authorities create such a distinct channel of entry.” Justice Shah, who authored the judgment, laid down that there was no bar in the Postgraduate Medical Education Regulations, 2000, and its amendment in 2018 on individual states reserving seats for in-service doctors. The court, however, made it clear that such doctors would have to have the minimum marks in the NEET medical entrance exam as prescribed in the MCI Regulations, 2000. The court also said the states should fix a minimum service period for doctors in rural or remote areas for them to be eligible for the quota.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-697
01-09-2020||India||Supreme Court slaps Re 1 fine, Bhushan to pay||The Supreme Court on Monday fined lawyer Prashant Bhushan Re 1 for “criminal contempt” while declaring it was “not afraid” to send him to jail or debar him from practice. The three-judge bench of Justices Arun Mishra, B.R. Gavai and Krishna Murari, whose decision on the eve of Independence Day to convict the lawyer for two tweets had triggered outrage and prompted many to repost the tweets, said if Bhushan failed to pay the fine, he would have to serve three months’ simple imprisonment and be debarred from legal practice for three years. Bhushan, who had refused the court’s repeated calls to submit an apology and said he would accept any punishment, held a news conference later in the day to announce that he would pay the fine. “While I reserve the right to seek a review of the conviction and sentencing, by way of an appropriate legal remedy, I propose to submit myself to this order and will respectfully pay the fine, just as I would have submitted to any other lawful punishment,” he said. Justice Mishra, who retires on Wednesday, authored and pronounced the judgment. “The court, from the very beginning, was desirous of giving quietus to this matter,” it said. The contempt proceedings against Bhushan were initiated suo motu by the Supreme Court, which objected to a tweet the senior lawyer had put out about the Chief Justice of India posing on a Harley-Davidson and another about the destruction of democracy in the past six years. Justice Mishra said: “If we do not take cognisance of such conduct, it will give a wrong message to the lawyers and litigants throughout the country. However, by showing magnanimity, instead of imposing any severe punishment, we are sentencing the contemnor with a nominal fine of Re 1.” The bench said it was going by attorney-general K.K. Venugopal’s advice in an earlier contempt case that the court’s shoulders were broad enough to take criticism. “No doubt about it, our approach has to be like the one stated by the learned attorney-general,” it said. During the hearing on the sentence, Venugopal had urged the court to show “statesmanship” and Bhushan’s lawyer Rajeev Dhavan had argued that its shoulders were broad enough to take criticism. But the judges had said they could be lenient only if Bhushan withdrew his comments. Bhushan refused, saying the tweets were his bona fide views and to withdraw them would be a contempt of his conscience. In refusing to apologise, he had invoked Mahatma Gandhi and said he was not seeking “mercy” or “magnanimity” and would submit cheerfully to any punishment. “Directly or indirectly, the contemnor was persuaded to end this matter by tendering an apology and save the grace of the institution as well as the individual, who is an officer of the court,” the bench said. “However, for reasons best known to him he has neither shown regret in spite of our persuasion or the advice of the learned attorney-general. Thus, we have to consider imposing an appropriate sentence upon him,” it continued. The Re 1 fine will have to be paid by September 15, the court said. The maximum punishment for criminal contempt is six months in jail or a fine or both. “We are not afraid of sentencing the contemnor either with imprisonment or from debarring him from the practice. His conduct reflects adamance and ego, which has no place to exist in the system of administration of justice and in noble profession, and no remorse is shown for the harm done to the institution to which he belongs. “At the same time, we cannot retaliate merely because the contemnor has made a statement that he is neither invoking the magnanimity or the mercy of this court and he is ready to submit to the penalty that can be lawfully inflicted upon him for what the court has determined to be an offence,” Justice Mishra said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-697
01-09-2020||India||Call to refrain from unbridled Covid test scale-up||Three public health bodies on Monday called on government authorities to refrain from unbridled scaling up of tests for the new coronavirus and introduce pragmatic and targeted testing to conserve resources and save lives of coronavirus disease patients. The three health bodies have also advocated a “public health approach” that seeks to achieve the maximum possible good for the largest possible numbers of people and recognises the epidemic as a public health challenge and not a law-and-order issue. They have also said the vaccines against Covid-19 have no role in the current ongoing pandemic and “we must avoid the false sense of hope that this panacea is just around the corner.” “The ongoing pandemic is a public health problem that is fast worsening existing health inequities,” the Indian Public Health Association, the Indian Association of Epidemiologists, and the Indian Association of Social and Preventive Medicine said in their statement. “It is not a law-and-order problem and should be dealt with empathy and meaningful community engagement,” the three associations said. They have asked authorities to “discontinue” lockdowns as a strategy to control the epidemic, saying geographically limited restrictions may be imposed for short periods within epidemiologically defined clusters and only where there is no widespread or community transmission. The associations have also advocated the opening of schools and educational institutions in a “graded and pragmatic manner” in areas where the substantial proportions of the population are infected with SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19. The statement comes amid surveys in cities such as Ahmedabad, Delhi, Mumbai, and Pune that have found from 17 to 51 per cent of sampled populations exposed to the infection. In Delhi, this infection prevalence rate has increased from 23 per cent in June to 29 per cent in July. The associations have said scaling up testing amid such widespread transmission would only “divert attention and resources from control measures”. Testing should focus on high-risk individuals such as persons with underlying health disorders, healthcare workers, or the elderly. All patients showing symptoms of Covid-19 should be treated either at home or in hospital depending on their clinical needs, the association said, even without testing. All such patients should be monitored whether at home or in hospitals and provided all required care if they develop severe disease. The associations have called for prioritising resources to monitor patients and shifting them to hospitals, if needed, to reduce mortality. They have also asked authorities to establish a “reliable and accountable” dashboard to provide information about vacancies in hospitals and ambulance services. “The time has come to change our testing strategy,” Sanjay Rai, professor of community medicine at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, who is also the president of the Indian Public Health Association. “The surveys show that tests are detecting only a fraction of the infected people.” India has dramatically scaled up testing from a few thousand samples tested daily in March to over 900,000 daily tests in August. As tests have increased, so has the number of lab-confirmed infections. In Delhi, for instance, with an estimated population of 20 million, the 6 per cent rise over a period of a month, Rai said, would mean about 1.2 million new infections over 30 days. “This means, 40,000 people became infected every day – but testing detected 2,000 to 4,000 every day.” Rai said the associations’ recommendation to open schools, albeit in a graded manner, takes into account the developmental and mental health needs of children. The associations said while awaiting for vaccines with optimism, the response to the pandemic must assume that an effective vaccine would not be available in the near future.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-697
01-09-2020||India||Pranab Mukherjee: perpetual PM-in-waiting & master of ironies ||Driven all his life by the desire to be the Prime Minister, the executive head of the government, he became the President of India, the ceremonial head who barely has any power. Pranab Mukherjee was a unique character in Indian politics who had to contend with countless little ironies all his life. A crafty politician who understood the intricacies of mass politics better than anybody else but wasn’t a mass leader. A loyalist who couldn’t bridge the supreme leader’s trust deficit. A quintessential Congressman who was conferred Bharat Ratna, the highest civilian award, by a government that has vowed to finish the Congress. A Union minister often alleged to have helped Dhirubhai Ambani build his financial empire but who remained largely spotless throughout his long political stint. A wise man whose patience and perseverance sustained a rising political career for six decades but who could fly into a blind fury without a reason. A team man and a consensus-builder who defied the Congress wish and addressed an RSS congregation. A hardcore traditionalist who yearned for political relevance even after retirement from the top constitutional post. Ironies don’t end here. Mukherjee’s long political career has no parallel in Indian politics. He wielded more power than the contemporary mass leaders of his time, signifying how political clout isn’t synonymous with electoral appeal in Indian politics. Mukherjee remained in Parliament from 1969 through Rajya Sabha nominations and got elected to the Lok Sabha only in 2004. He was also an integral part of the Congress high command structure — in its working committee for 23 years — despite the trust deficit generated by his exit from the party in 1986 when he fell out with Rajiv Gandhi. Although the general belief is that the differences with Rajiv occurred because he expressed his desire to be the interim Prime Minister after Indira Gandhi’s tragic assassination in 1984, it is very unlike Mukherjee to come upfront with his desires as he always chose to manoeuvre his way quietly. Mukherjee wrote in his book The Turbulent Years: 1980-1996 that he along with some other leaders suggested to Rajiv that he take over even though by convention the senior-most minister should have been sworn in. Mukherjee, however, did object to the haste as some people wanted the swearing-in to be done by Vice-President in the absence of President Zail Singh. This allowed many of his rivals to influence Rajiv against him. Mukherjee wrote that he enjoyed Rajiv’s trust for months after that incident but was suddenly dropped from the ministry after the election victory. This led to differences and he formed his own Bengal-based party but returned in 1989. The story about his prime ministerial ambition refused to die and this was used to create suspicions in the mind of Sonia Gandhi about the veteran leader who failed to win her full confidence despite working closely as her key aide. He invariably headed the committees formed for the Congress plenary and acted as chief strategist when the party was struggling in the Opposition between 1998 and 2004. When Sonia chose Manmohan Singh as the Prime Minister in 2004, ignoring Mukherjee’s seniority and political stature, he was deeply disappointed but demonstrated the maturity to work under his junior without any grudge. Many cabinet ministers felt Mukherjee was Singh’s main strength in the government. Mukherjee suffered another jolt in 2009 when the UPA returned to power for the second term and Singh was retained as Prime Minister. He saw 2009 as the last opportunity to fulfil his dreams. Though some Congressmen believed Manmohan would be replaced midway through his second term, Mukherjee knew Sonia’s mind better than others and decided to focus on the President’s post that was to fall vacant in July 2012. He had confided in some of his aides that prime ministerial possibilities were over and occupying Rashtrapati Bhavan could be the consolation prize. He knew it would not be easy but started working on every possible ally to bolster his prospects. Mukherjee, a hardcore traditionalist, was not only ready to bear the burden and heat of the day for his party — he often gave appointments to people after 11pm after finishing his work — but also commanded respect cutting across party lines. Famous for his sharp memory, rattling out dates and political events with amazing ease, he nurtured a serious interest in the economy, drafting political documents and external affairs. Congress veterans respected him for understanding the system better than anybody else, having handled commerce, finance and foreign affairs in various Congress governments for decades. He was also the deputy chairman of Planning Commission and served on the board of World Bank, IMF and other international financial institutions. Even as President, his political activism manifested in subtler forms as he spoke his mind on every subject of contemporary politics. He gave most insightful and political speeches that some of his predecessors either avoided or were incapable of. Even after retiring from Rashtrapati Bhavan, he remained active, meeting people from all walks of life almost daily. He continued to have strong views on the Congress, often expressing his displeasure at the functioning of the party that he felt should regain its strength to protect India’s democracy. Such was his involvement in politics that many Congress leaders speculated that he could be the party’s candidate for Prime Minister in the 2019 general election. His relationship with Prime Minister Narendra Modi was surprisingly cordial, causing heartburn and suspicion in the Congress. Modi, too, made the most of it, showering effusive praises on him while ruthlessly criticising members of the Gandhi family — from Jawaharlal Nehru to Rahul Gandhi. The Modi government conferred the Bharat Ratna on Mukherjee in 2019, further deepening the distrust that many Congress leaders always nurtured about his intentions. What gave credence to the views of his critics is his extraordinary decision to accept the invitation extended by RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat to address the pracharaks at its Nagpur headquarters. While the Congress openly opposed this idea because a former President and a Congress veteran visiting the RSS headquarters would legitimise the divisive ideology that was held responsible for the assassination of Mahatma Gandhi, Mukherjee thought the country was already engaging with them as the ruling party. He felt the need for a debate as the RSS was no longer a fringe organisation after the people of India voted for the BJP across the country, making it the biggest party that shaped India’s destiny. Although he asserted the vitality of constitutional principles and secular values in his speech, the Congress leadership could not forgive him for the gifting the RSS the advantage of a symbolic victory. Even during Modi’s prime ministership, despite friendly relations with the government, Mukherjee espoused the value of tolerance and social harmony in his speeches. In 2016, he said in a speech that democracy was not about numbers alone and that the rule of law should be the sole basis for dealing with any challenging situation. He said: “The diversity of our country is a fact. This cannot be turned into fiction due to the whims and caprices of a few individuals. We derive our strength from tolerance. It has been part of our collective consciousness for centuries. It has worked well for us and it is the only way it will work for us.” This was yet another irony of his life — a leader committed to secularism who faced criticism for legitimising the communal forces by his tactics. India grieves the passing away of Bharat Ratna Shri Pranab Mukherjee. He has left an indelible mark on the development trajectory of our nation. A scholar par excellence, a towering statesman, he was admired across the political spectrum....Narendra Modi ...In his death, our country has lost one of its greatest leaders of Independent India. He and I worked very closely in the Government of India and I depended on him a great deal for his wisdom, vast knowledge and experience of public affairs. Manmohan Singh Pranabda had been such an integral and prominent part of national life, the Congress party and the central government over five decades, it is hard to imagine how we can do without his wisdom, experience, sage advice and deep understanding of so many subjects....The Congress party deeply mourns his loss and will always honour his memory.Sonia Gandhi It is with deep sorrow I write this. Bharat Ratna Pranab Mukherjee has left us. An era has ended. For decades he was a father figure. From my first win as MP, to being my senior Cabinet colleague, to his becoming President while I was CM.... So many memories. A visit to Delhi without Pranabda is unimaginable....Mamata Banerjee||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-697
01-09-2020||West Bengal||Mirati mourns its tallest son, Pranab Mukherjee||Hundreds of villagers in Mirati village started gathering in the courtyard of Durga temple of the Mukherjee Bhavan on Monday evening after they learnt that their Kakababu, Mamababu or Poltuda was no more. Former President Pranab Mukherjee, a Bharat Ratna, was among the tallest political leaders in the country for decades. But he was an ordinary village boy for the people of Mirati, his ancestral village, around 220km from Calcutta. “This courtyard is the place where people used to come during Durga Puja and meet him.... Today, this same courtyard is full of people but they have come to bid him goodbye,” said Goutam Sarkar, a caretaker at Mukherjee Bhavan for over two decades. “I never saw him miss a single Durga Puja in Mirati during my stint here.... He rose so high in public life, but never forgot his roots. That’s why people love him,” said Sarkar. Like other years, the Mukherjee household had started preparations for the autumnal festival that pulled the famous son back to the village. Villagers that this correspondent spoke to on Monday evening recalled Mukherjee’s Chandipath session, the main draw of the Durga Puja festivities at Mukherjee Bhavan. Some villagers recounted stories of how Mukherjee would reach Mirati despite flooded roads or pressing political engagements and hold fort at the Puja from the evening of Saptami to Vijaya Dashami. “He was a strict disciplinarian, he fasted on Puja days...This year will be the first when he will not be present during Durga Puja,” said Rabi Chattaraj, a close aide of the Mukherjee family. These last three weeks, nerves were taut in Mirati as Mukherjee was fighting for his life. Chattaraj said that he and at least 100 other people organised pujas and yajnas for his speedy recovery. “We organised a seven-day yajna in Jubutia Shiva temple for our Mamababu,” sighed Jayanta Chakraborty, a priest in the temple. “I have such fond memories of him. When he became the President, several security curbs had to be in place, but he told the police that no one should be stopped from visiting his house.” “I have been attached with Pranabda since 1978 as a doctor and and party colleague. It is difficult to believe that he has left us,” said Sushovan Banerjee, a doctor in Bolpur and Padma Shri awardee. Apart from Durga Puja, Mukherjee visited the district on several occasions, including twice when he came to Visva-Bharati as President and a visitor of the central university. He also attended the convocation of the varsity in 2013. Prabhakar Bandopadhyay, a teacher and son of Mukherjee’s classmate, recalled his sharp memory. “After he became the President, his alma mater Kirnahar Shibchandra High School organised a felicitation. There, he asked me about my father’s health. He never forgot his classmates. I heard from my father that he was a very bright student and a born leader,” said Bandopadhyay, now a Bengali teacher at the same school where Mukherjee studied. Mukherjee had studied in Suri Vidyasagar College, which he visited in 2012 to attend a felicitation. “I met him in 1952 as an undergraduate student in Suri Vidyasagar College. I remember the days of student protests,” said Sasthi Kinkar Das, a classmate of Mukherjee who lives in Suri.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-392
01-09-2020||West Bengal||North Bengal starts plasma therapy for Covid-19 patients||North Bengal Medical College and Hospital (NBMCH) started its first plasma collection drive on Monday in Siliguri. With this, north Bengal started the process of plasma therapy to treat Covid-19 patients. “There are 15 donors on the first day of plasma collection. I am glad that so many people came forward for plasma donation,” said S. Punnambalam, the district magistrate of Darjeeling district. In Malda Medical College and Hospital (MMCH), too, officials along with employees of its blood bank will start awareness camps in villages of the district to get blood from people who have recently recovered from Covid-19. The move comes in the wake of assistant superintendent of the MMCH Dr Mohammed Ismail, who recovered from Covid-19 five weeks ago, donating blood in presence of hospital superintendent Dr Amit Dan on Monday. “There is a myth that a person would fall ill again if he donates blood after recovering from Covid. We have to junk such baseless beliefs. If a cured person donates blood, that plasma helps in treating other Covid patients,” Dr Dan said. To this end, MMCH will hold camps from Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-392
01-09-2020||West Bengal||BJP MP Raju Bista backs GTA workers’ union pen-down||The United Employees’ Union of Gorkhaland Territorial Administration’s pen-down strike from Tuesday to demand permanency of over 4,000 casual employees has received the support of Raju Bista, the BJP MP of Darjeeling. “I stand in solidarity and support with the thousands of GTA pay band and asthayi karmacharis, who are seeking permanency of their post. Nowhere else in West Bengal or rest of India, I have heard of a government body being run by temporary employees for over 30 years, other than in the Darjeeling and Kalimpong hills and Terai region,” Bista said in an official release on Monday. These employees, who form over 90 per cent of the GTA workforce, will continue their pen-down till September 10. Anil Rai, president of UEU (GTA), promised another round of agitation if the pen-down did not work out. The Darjeeling MP in his release pointed out the non-permanency of staff working for a government body since 1988. He also alleged that by not establishing subordinate and other selection boards since 2012, the TMC government ensured that “GTA remains non-functional” and educated youths were denied job opportunities. The state government needs to ensure that GTA workers are absorbed in the local administration with due seniority, full pay-scale and associated facilities at the earliest, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-392
01-09-2020||West Bengal||Kolaghat TMC youth leaders accuse area president of selling party office||Trinamul youth leaders in East Midnapore’s Kolaghat have accused an area committee president of the ruling party of selling off a party office, allegedly built on irrigation department land, at the tourist town’s Ganga More area. The youth leaders filed a formal complaint with the party’s block president Asit Bandopadhyay against area committee president Manab Kumar Samanta in connection with the alleged sale of the party office last week. Samanta, who is also a former panchayat samiti chief, countered that the office had been his “personal property”. Trinamul youth workers from Gokulnagar said that on Friday evening they found all party banners gone from the 1,000sqft one-storey office. On asking why, they were told that the building had been purchased by trader Sheikh Raja for Rs 8.3 lakh. “This office was built on irrigation department land two years ago. It was the party’s election office during the 2019 Lok Sabha elections and 2018 panchayat polls. Now, Samanta has sold it off as if it had been his personal property,” said youth leader Sayyad Aslam. Explaining that the office had been built with “contributions by party members”, Aslam added: “Samanta merely had the keys to the building. He has betrayed our trust.” Aslam said that several youth leaders had urged Bandopadhyay to take action against Samanta. Asked about the allegations, Samanta presented his version. “I have constructed this building. I may have allowed the party to use it, but it was always my property,” Samanta said, adding that he had transferred the property to Raja through a notarised agreement. Samanta said that “several private homes” had been constructed on irrigation department land in the past as well and that he was unaware “if rules against such constructions had changed recently”. Asked why the irrigation department did not take action against the Trinamul Congress for building a party office on land owned by them, executive engineer of the department Anirban Bhattacharya said he would inquire into the issue. Trinamul block president Bandopadhyay said on Monday that he had received the complaint from the party’s youth workers and an “inquiry committee” would look into the allegations. “A meeting will be convened next week on the issue. We are looking into the legal details regarding the property,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-393
01-09-2020||West Bengal||Rental cars too expensive for district JEE aspirants ||Hundreds of students from Bengal districts will be forced to skip the JEE Main exam scheduled from Tuesday, amid the fear of contracting the novel coronavirus coupled with lack of affordable transport options to respective exam centres. The Centre has fixed dates for JEE-Main from September 1 to 6 and the NEET (National Entrance-cum-Eligibility Test) on September 13 amid objections from many state governments, including Bengal, when state education minister Partha Chatterjee asked his Union counterpart Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank why he wanted to “jeopardise” the future of students by forcing them to write the JEE-Main and NEET exams during the pandemic. Sources said that around 1.5 lakh students from Bengal are set to sit for the JEE Main and NEET exams this year. But many students in districts are wary of sitting for the JEE Main exam. Asif Haque, an engineering aspirant who completed his higher secondary examination from Birbhum Zilla School, said on Monday that he and at least 12 of his friends had decided to skip the JEE Main exam as it was tough to arrange a private car for “hygienic transport” to the exam centre amid the pandemic. “We are afraid...Our exam centre is in Durgapur. Right now, it is tough to arrange a private car from Birbhum to Durgapur. I will try to sit for NEET on September 13,” Haque added. His father Riyajul Haque, a primary schoolteacher and resident of Birbhum’s Suri, said: “The government had to think about the future of our children. We had no communication on how the exam would be held till it was too late.” Dolon Mondal, a girl from Bajitpur village of Mayureswar, whose father is an oil mill worker, said she could not take the test as it was beyond her father’s means to hire a private car to take her to the exam centre in Asansol. “We don’t have money to hire a private car to reach Asansol, my examination centre. But I will try to sit for NEET as I have managed to contact a few more friends and we would all pool in the money to pay for the car,” said Dolon. Several students in remote parts of central and south Bengal districts complained that private car owners were asking exorbitant fares to take them to JEE Main examination centres in Calcutta, Burdwan or Durgapur. Sushnat Chapadar, an engineering aspirant of Mathurapur in South 24-Parganas, said he knew that his father’s earnings had dipped drastically during the lockdown. “I know what my father is going through. I can’t force him to pay Rs 15,000 as car fare to Calcutta so that I can answer my JEE Main,” he said. Chandan Maity, the headmaster of Sushnat’s school, the Krishnachandrapur High School, said that at least two dozen students from his school would not be able to take the test as the centres in Calcutta are at least 150km away. “It is tough to hire a car to take these youngsters to exam centres for two reasons. One, the pandemic has left many families afraid at a time most parents are facing economic constraints. That’s why a large number of students from the districts are skipping the JEE Main exam,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-393
01-09-2020||West Bengal||Bengal sticks to September lockdown schedule||The Bengal government on Monday issued a notification to clarify that complete lockdown would be observed in the state on September 7,11 and 12 as announced earlier. The notification, a source said, was issued to clear the confusion created after the Centre’s Unlock 4 guidelines — to come into effect from September 1 — that bar any state from announcing a lockdown outside its containment zones without consulting the Centre. Sources in Nabanna said top government officials discussed Bengal’s proposed lockdown days in September with the ministry of home affairs on Monday morning after an approval from chief minister Mamata Banerjee. Top bureaucrats convinced the Centre that complete lockdown on certain days across Bengal helped the state in containing the spread of Covid 19 to some extent. It was also pointed out that three complete lockdown dates in September would help the state arrest the spread, sources said. “We followed the protocol,” a senior state government official told The Telegraph. The state government, sources said, presented a set of numbers to establish this claim of occasional lockdown days arresting the spread of Covid-19 in Bengal. The sources said that the state compared figures of daily positive cases between the last week of July, from when the state started observing complete lockdown on certain dates, with the last week of August to establish that complete lockdown on certain days in the past month helped the state contain the spread of Covid-19. On 23 July, the daily positive case in Calcutta was 795 and the total number for the state was 2,436. On August 30, the daily positive case in Calcutta came down to 428 and the total positive cases for the entire state on that day was 3,019. “While the number of daily positive cases have come down significantly in Calcutta, the daily positive cases did not jump out of proportion despite the fact that the number of tests witnessed a three-fold jump by this period (from 14,558 to 43,436 per day). The Centre agreed to give a go-ahead with the announced complete lockdown days in September,” said a source. The state government also mentioned in its notification that on the complete lockdown days in September, no passenger flight and train would be allowed to operate. The state’s notification on Monday also said that schools, colleges, educational and coaching institutions would remain closed till September 30. In addition, cinema halls, swimming pools, entertainment parks and theatres would also remain closed till September 30. The state has announced that open-air theatres would reopen from September 21 and Metro Railway services in a graded manner from September 8.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-393
01-09-2020||West Bengal||August ends with dip in active cases in state||Bengal on Monday recorded a fall its total active Covid-19 cases, across an unprecedented eight-day stretch, as 3,318 recoveries in 24 hours once again outweighed the 2,993 new cases. Bengal’s recovery rate went up to 82.49 per cent, far ahead of the national rate of 76.93 per cent. Fifty-two deaths were also reported on Monday, of which 10 were from Calcutta. With this, Bengal now has over 1.34 lakh recoveries of the 1.62 lakh total cases since the onset of the pandemic, besides 3,228 deaths in all. In August, by far the most eventful month for Bengal since the first Covid-19 case was reported on March 17, the state logged over 92,000 cases and 1,647 deaths, besides 86,000 recoveries and over 9.94 lakh tests. In the month, the state saw a rise by 14 per cent in recovery rate. Bengal’s overall mortality rate dipped further to 1.98 per cent, though the national rate is still lower at 1.77 per cent. Of the 3,228 deaths, 2,803 (or 86.8 per cent) were reported comorbid by the government. “In a month, we reduced our active ratio (percentage of total active cases to total cases) from 29 to 15. At the end of July, we were somewhere in the top 10 among states or Union territories with the highest active ratio. On Monday, we are 30th,” said a minister. “After August 9, the 67,224 cases were matched by a remarkable total of 67,150 recoveries. There were also 7.8 lakh tests in that period,” he added. Over the past eight days, he pointed out, the state’s total active cases fell from 28,069 to 25,280, as the five most high-incidence states of Bengal — Calcutta, North and South 24-Parganas, Howrah and Hooghly — collectively kept recording a fall in their total of active cases. The state on Monday reported 42,239 tests, taking the total past 18.87 lakh, at 20,974 tests per million people. “The World Health Organisation’s advisory specifies a daily minimum of 140 tests per million. Bengal was at 211 a month ago. Now, we are around 485, getting past 500 in a matter of days,” said the minister. Because of the turnaround, positive confirmation rate improved in 10 days from 8.9 per cent to 8.62 per cent. Bengal also reported 32.14 per cent occupancy of 12,045 Covid-19 beds in 87 hospitals, besides 15.46 in the 11,507 beds in the 200 safe homes. Telemedicine services have been provided to over 1.49 lakh, 4,237 of them in the past 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-393
01-09-2020||West Bengal||140kg of smuggled Hilsa seized by BSF in Murshidabad||A patrolling team of the BSF’s 117 battalion seized 140kg hilsa, worth Rs 2.35 lakh, from smugglers in Murshidabad’s Bamnabad on Monday morning, said a BSF official. According to the forces guarding the border with Bangladesh, they have, over the past two months, thwarted repeated attempts of hilsa being smuggled to Bengal, seizing some 1,000kg fish from various places under its South Bengal Frontier. On Monday’s attempt, DIG (G) of BSF’s South Bengal Frontier S.S. Guleria said: “Our troops spotted an Indian farmer while examining his mechanised boat. They found fish hidden in the boat under jute plants.” Market sources said attempts to smuggle hilsa into Bengal from Bangladesh increased on two counts — low yield of the fish in Bengal and embargo on the supply of the delicacy from the neighbouring country since 2012. Earlier this month, around 800 trawlers had set out to catch hilsa in coastal Bengal in August but almost all returned empty. The gross amount of the catch has so far been around 25 per cent of the projected catch estimated during August. This has created a huge demand in markets and come as an opportunity for smugglers desperate to exploit the shortfall. On August 5, the BSF had seized 126kg hilsa from Petrapole. On August 21, BSF seized 600kg of hilsa when smugglers were trying to push the consignment into Indian waters by packing them in polythene concealed inside bundles of jute. Sources said the Bangladesh government in 2012 had banned the export of hilsa to India owing to “low availability” and for “price control” measures demanded by business associations in the neighbouring country. Last year, an exception was made to the ban by the Sheikh Hasina government as a one-time Durga Puja gift. The Bangladesh government allowed an export of 500 tonne of the hilsa to India last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-393
01-09-2020||West Bengal||TMC attack on CPM leader in Nandigram||An area committee secretary of the CPM East Midnapore’s Mohammedpur unit was beaten up on Monday by alleged Trinamul activists during a event to observe the martyrdom of those killed by the police during the 1959 Food Movement in Bengal. The CPM’s Nandigram unit had organised 12 events in the region to mark the 1959 Food Movement on Monday. CPM sources said that on Monday afternoon, CPM’s Mohammedpur area committee secretary Mahadeb Bhunia was addressing a gathering of 20 persons at a private space after offering tribute at a martyrs’ column when a group of 50 party workers allegedly from Trinamul stormed the venue. The attack with sticks left Bhunia’s left arm fractured, sources said. “A group of 50 Trinamul goons stormed the area and began beating us with sticks,” Bhunia said later. Trinamul block president Meghnad Pal denied the allegations, saying: “Villagers had protested against them for violating the Monday’s statewide lockdown imposed to curb the spike in Covid-19 cases.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-393
01-09-2020||North East||Baghjan blowout-hit at NGT door for cash||A four-member delegation from Baghjan in Assam has met Justice (retired) B.P. Katakey, who heads the National Green Tribunal committee examining issues related to the gas well blowout, to ensure early release of the financial compensation to the affected people. Satyajit Moran and Hemanta Moran of Baghjan Gaon Milanjyoti Yuba Sangha, a local NGO which has been representing the affected people in talks with Oil India Limited and Tinsukia district administration, said they had no option but to undertake the eight-hour journey from Baghjan to Guwahati after their pleas and protests to secure financial compensation, among others, failed to make the desired headway.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-47
01-09-2020||Opinion||Out of control: Wildfires in California||Sir — As wildfires ravaged California in the United States of America, people were forced to check into hotels as most could not be accommodated in evacuation centres while adhering to social distancing norms. In spite of precautionary measures, the state expects a spike in Covid-19 infections. With over 7,00,000 confirmed cases, California’s healthcare resources are already stretched thin. Unless there is substantial aid from the federal government and help from other states, it will be difficult to control the crisis.  Paramita Sarkar, Calcutta About time Sir — It is heartening that seven chief ministers of Opposition-ruled states have demonstrated a keenness to put up a united fight against the Bharatiya Janata Party government at the Centre in a virtual meeting with the Congress interim chief, Sonia Gandhi (“Common vision”, Aug 28). The long list of complaints against the BJP include the unprecedented strain on the federal structure of the country, the toppling of elected governments in several states, the misuse of investigative agencies and the mishandling of the Covid-19 pandemic among others. Thus, a united and strong Opposition is the need of the hour. In January 2019, prior to the Lok Sabha elections, several key leaders of the Opposition, including Sharad Pawar, H.D. Deve Gowda, N. Chandrababu Naidu and Farooq Abdullah had come together for a massive rally in Calcutta organized by the chief minister of West Bengal, Mamata Banerjee. While they are all strong leaders, it must also be remembered that they, too, have consistently failed to uphold the rule of law in their own states. In this hour of need, the Opposition parties must rise to the occasion. They should prepare a common vision document, take a clear and unequivocal position against archaic draconian laws, uphold the autonomy of the Central Bureau of Investigation and the Reserve Bank of India and initiate police reforms. These leaders must rise above their individual political aspirations and place the interests of the people at the forefront. It is only then that the country can hope to come out of this predicament. Jahar Saha,Calcutta Sir — The editorial, “Common vision” (Aug 28), rightly points out that the leaders of the parties in Opposition should have deliberated much earlier on the failures of the BJP-led government at the Centre. But it is better late than never. The meeting among the seven chief ministers along with Sonia Gandhi has provided the common people with a glimmer of hope that the BJP might finally be held accountable for its actions. The lack of a strong oppositional voice in countering the Centre’s claims that Chinese troops have not infringed upon the territorial sovereignty of the nation in Ladakh is a cause for concern. This meeting has led to the belief that the Opposition parties will finally discharge their duties to the best of their abilities and uphold the democratic ideals enshrined in the Constitution. Sumit Kumar Das,Hooghly||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-155
01-09-2020||Opinion||Fine balance: Prioritizing education||Inequalities must not become the new normal. Restrictions to check the pandemic have led to the closure of schools and colleges, kindling the demand for education to go online. This, in turn, has given rise to numerous concerns about accessibility, with vast sections of the population, especially underprivileged students, getting left behind since they are either unable to afford the technology or live beyond its reach. A recent survey by Unicef shows that these concerns are not unique to India. Nearly 463 million children worldwide have been deprived of education since schools closed owing to Covid-19, says the report. It also found that even when children had access to the necessary platforms, learning remotely was not always possible owing to such factors as the pressure to do domestic chores, the need to earn wages, a poor environment for learning and so on. Exclusion is not the only problem. Another recent study in West Bengal has reported that child labour among school-going children has increased by a shocking 105 per cent in the state during the lockdown, with girls, unsurprisingly, faring worse than boys. Poor access to learning seems to be having a domino effect, aggravating  other social ills like malnutrition, child marriage and gender equality. Prioritizing education in the budget as well as investments in digital literacy and infrastructure would be the first steps to bridge these gaps. But to imagine that the radical shift to online education is the way forward would be simplistic. Classrooms are diverse, vibrant learning spaces; clubbing them into a homogenous online model would destroy the ideal of inclusive pedagogy. Online education must thus complement formal systems of schooling — the opening of schools as early as possible is one of the suggestions of the Unicef report. The pandemic has exposed the shortcomings of both traditional and online modes of teaching. The former suffers from stagnation — the same method of one-way dissemination of information has killed the spirit of learning. Yet, online education — even if it became accessible to each student — would put many students at a disadvantage owing to the absence of the right learning environment. Take, for instance, the fact that in India, 71 per cent households with three or more members have dwellings with two or less rooms. The role of online resources should be that of a facilitator, opening up a world of opportunities and information for all students, be it at home or in school.  The problem lies in thinking that new technologies can replace tried and tested models of learning without dangerous consequences.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-155
01-09-2020||Opinion||Locked up: Minority trials and convictions||Can life behind bars hold a mirror up to the world outside? This is, by no means, a rhetorical query. The latest data released by the National Crime Records Bureau on the disproportionate share of India’s minorities — Dalits, Muslims and tribal people — among undertrials and convicts in prisons for the year, 2019, raise some uncomfortable queries. The numbers and the relevant anomalies are staggering. Muslims, with a population share of 14.2 per cent, form 16.6 per cent of all convicts and 18.7 per cent of India’s undertrials. For the tribal constituency — it comprises 8.6 per cent of India’s population — the figures are 13.6 per cent and 10.5 per cent, respectively. The Dalits, consisting of 16.6 per cent of the population in 2011, made up 21.7 per cent of convicts and around 21 per cent of undertrials. The corresponding figures for segments that are not on the margins — upper caste Hindus, for instance — are revealing. It is estimated that this group forms 19.6 per cent of the total population but their share among undertrials and convicts stands at 16 per cent and 13 per cent. The representation of other backward classes in these two categories in terms of their ratio to their total population is not that bleak either. Taken together the data are far from reassuring. There is reason to believe that India’s investigative apparatus harbours biases. This, again, is a reflection of deeper societal prejudices that seem to have contaminated institutions that are integral to the law-and-order ecosystem. What is worrying is that legal redressal continues to elude citizens on the periphery of not only the economy but also the national imagination. The slow wheels of justice play a role too. The consequences are obvious. The criminal justice system remains exclusionary, in favour of the privileged while the poor have minimal chances of affording quality lawyers or attaining bail. One way out would be fairer representation from these targeted communities in the police and the courts. But their dismal socio-economic capital implies that the creation of representative agencies would take time. The onus, therefore, would be on the legal fraternity to take the law to the poor. Expanding the scope of free legal aid should be pursued. However, not much is likely to change unless political will coalesces with public pressure to bring justice to those who have been deprived of it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-155
01-09-2020||Opinion||The horror returns: US troops' Afghan departure||Every political actor, from the Taliban to the United States of America, is in trouble in Afghanistan, whose descent into hell begins with the April 2021 US troops’ withdrawal. The US’s February peace deal with the Taliban merely prolongs the agony of a Kabul government with an attrited military steadily losing territory to the Taliban and its proxies, which control 20 per cent of the mountainous landlocked state and contest another 50 per cent with US-led occupation forces. Should the US leave behind a 5,000-man counter-terrorism force as debated or even delay the pull-out going against the campaign promises of the presidential candidates, Donald Trump and Joe Biden, it could provoke a defection of Taliban hard-liners to the Islamic State-Khorasan, upsetting the fragile balance of power in Afghanistan. The IS-K and its mother organization, the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant, want a caliphate everywhere where Muslims are settled while the Taliban’s ambitions are restricted to Afghanistan. Between the IS-K and the Taliban, states with Afghan interests — the US, China, Russia, Iran, Pakistan, Turkey, the Arab nations, India — consider the Taliban less odious. Nevertheless, the Taliban’s problem is that they cannot abjure violence because of the IS-K threat: regular bloodletting also keeps the pressure on Kabul and the US. Since the peace deal is threatened by proven Taliban violence, this is outsourced, ironically, to the IS-K, which masterminded a recent Jalalabad jail-break to the benefit of mostly Taliban inmates. The anti-India, pro-Pakistan, semi-autonomous Taliban outfit headed by Sirajuddin Haqqani tasks the IS-K for the proxy violence on behalf of the Taliban. Significantly, separate US-Kabul and Taliban military operations ahead of the peace deal had depleted the IS-K’s power without eliminating it. The IS-K is biding time for the Taliban to mess up.Shifting sands Preparing for the US pull-out in 2021, state actors with Afghan interests are aligning relations. The bloc comprising Russia, China, Iran, Turkey and Pakistan seems to be ahead. Problems with both Pakistan and China leave India out of this. Pakistan’s deep ties with the Taliban, especially the Haqqani Taliban with its history of violence against Indian assets in Afghanistan, cannot be ignored. It is hard to forgive the Taliban for its role in the IC-814 hijacking. Security agencies have working relations with the Taliban but they are not political. Iran helped out with the Taliban, but the ties have soured over Kashmir, the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and so on. Preoccupied with racism and the Covid-19 crises in an election year, the US has nothing of substance to offer to New Delhi. India’s predicament may be somewhat worse but it is not isolated. While grudgingly accepting the Taliban insurgency, the US cannot countenance the global terrorism of the IS-K or the Taliban’s ally, al-Qaida, in Afghanistan. Russia, China and Iran want the US out of Afghanistan but share its terrorism fears without knowing what to do. And while Pakistan may see the Taliban in power as vindication of its efforts and sacrifices and an opportunity to get even with India, a relapse of violence and terrorism to the advantage of the IS-K or al-Qaida could spark existential problems. The IS-K, after all, is constituted in the main of Pakistan Taliban veterans persecuted by the Pakistan army. Afghanistan is a country of rivalrous tribes and warlords that even Islam and xenophobia cannot unite and insulate from neighbourhood interference and terrorism and spur nation-building. With all its faults, the American occupation brought hopes of change and modernization and an escape for Afghan women from medievalism. The nightmare returns. Plus ça change.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-155
01-09-2020||Opinion||A plan is not in place for Dhaka||The Indian foreign secretary, Harsh Vardhan Shringla, was in Dhaka on August 18 and 19 with a message of peace and friendship. Before leaving the Bangladesh capital, he said his visit was “short but very satisfactory”. The seasoned diplomat, who had a successful stint as the Indian high commissioner in Bangladesh, didn’t elaborate on the reasons for calling the visit, which was planned barely 36 hours before the special Indian air force flight landed in Dhaka, satisfactory. However, a scrutiny of his engagements in Dhaka reveals that the career diplomat had several reasons to call the visit satisfactory. The most important of them was his one-on-one meeting with the prime minister, Sheikh Hasina Wajed, that went on for over an hour on Day One of his visit. Although no senior official from the government came to receive or see him off at the Hazrat Shahjalal International Airport and the Bangladesh foreign minister, A.K. Abdul Momen, was conspicuous by his absence in Dhaka during his stay in the capital, the fact that Shringla met Hasina, who hasn’t even met her party’s secretary, Obaidul Quader, for over five months was no mean feat. The visit drew all the attention in Dhaka and was undoubtedly the headline news. The who’s who of Dhaka, including businessmen and senior media personalities, were literally queuing up outside Pan Pacific Sonargaon to call on Shringla, the boy from Darjeeling who, later, went to Mayo College, Ajmer, and St Stephen’s College, Delhi. Shringla also held a bilateral meeting with his Bangladeshi counterpart, Masud Bin Momen, and they discussed an entire gamut of issues, ranging from collaboration for developing a coronavirus vaccine to the creation of an air bubble for travel between the two countries. The moot question, however, is whether the foreign secretary was able to deliver on the mandate of communicating the message of peace and friendship from India. For South Block, Bangladesh under Hasina has been a trusted friend and an ally. Even though the Chinese footprint has been expanding in the country and Pakistan has been trying to woo Dhaka aggressively, a significant majority in the foreign policy establishment in India has always been confident that Dhaka, despite the steady rise in anti-India sentiments in the country, cannot afford to look beyond New Delhi. Shringla’s sudden visit, which was made public barely 12 hours before he landed in Dhaka, was probably planned based on this hypothesis. The second important question about the visit is whether Dhaka responded according to Delhi’s expectations. Finding the answer to the first question is not that difficult if one analyses the coverage of the visit in mainstream media and the comments in social media. The Bangladeshi press, often accused of toeing the government line more diligently than is expected of them, produced some matter-of-fact reports on Shringla’s visit without getting into the details. Social media, however, was flush with Bangladeshi nationalistic pride that India — scared of advances by China and Pakistan — was desperately trying to reach out to Dhaka and that became the predominant narrative. If the visit of the senior-most diplomat of a big neighbour is seen as an act of desperation, there is little doubt that the message of peace and friendship didn’t trickle down. Now, if the response of the host country — the second question — is analysed, the pay-off seems to be dismal as the Bangladesh government was silent about the high point of Shringla’s visit. There was no official briefing on what transpired between the two at Gono Bhaban, the official residence of Hasina. The moment was not even captured on camera by the official photographer at the Prime Minister’s Office. The answers to the two important questions about the visit highlight certain deficiencies, which India, as the bigger neighbour, needs to address so that Bangladesh doesn’t become another Nepal. First, there is a major public relation failure by the Indian establishment in Bangladesh. The present approach — no point making much effort as Bangladeshis will always criticize India — smacks of hubris. Second, adhocracy can’t replace deft diplomacy if South Block is serious about its immediate neighbourhood. Instead of a sudden trip, New Delhi should have planned it better so that it yielded the desired outcome.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-155
01-09-2020||Opinion||Different ideas||Urjit Patel’s virtual dismissal and Viral Acharya’s resignation from the Reserve Bank of India are old news. Its capture by the Delhi government is extreme even by Indian standards; but no word of explanation came from North Block. Now, both have given their own accounts. Of the two, Patel’s Overdraft is more scholarly and impenetrable. Let me try and explain what it says. It is common for Indian businessmen to borrow from banks and then default on repayment and interest. Suing them to recover the money takes years; so banks routinely take security in the form of mortgage on the borrower’s assets, which they can get hold of and sell if the borrower reneges. That does not help them much; the borrower usually goes to court, and the bank cannot realize the security while the case travels up through the courts. The government has made laws from time to time to help banks collect bad debts. Manmohan Singh initiated The Recovery of Debts Due to Banks and Financial Institutions Act in 1993; 33 debt recovery tribunals were set up under it. They were supposed to decide a case within six months, but they took four years on an average. Then the defaulter would appeal against their judgment to one of the five debt recovery appellate tribunals, where he could count on delays of some more years. Then came the high courts, which could be persuaded to intervene although the Supreme Court had told them not to. So the RDBFI Act proved pretty useless to banks. The Securitization and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act was passed in 2002 to enable banks to collect debts without recourse to courts. They could take over assets pledged as security by borrowers and recover their loans by selling them. But that too led defaulters to go to court against banks; it made little difference to the length of the legal process. So in 2016, Arun Jaitley introduced the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, which provides for liquidation of a business that cannot service its debts, provided its creditors can act together. It aims to create an entire industry specializing in liquidating businesses that cannot repay their debts. Their creditors can approach a new Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India, which would register and regulate insolvency-professional agencies. They would take over a defaulting business and either revive it or liquidate it and distribute its net assets amongst creditors. The industry is still to emerge. Banks’ bad debts are one theme; Patel’s other theme is the way government forces the banks it owns to buy its debt and finance its fiscal deficit. As a result, bank money which should have financed productive private investment and contributed to economic growth is wasted in government consumption; Patel calls this banking sector fiscalization. Banks recover some of their losses on bad debts by charging good borrowers higher interest; this raises the cost of investments. On banks’ bad debts, the RBI followed what Patel calls the “9R” strategy: Recognize the bad debts; make a Record of them; start Reporting any changes in them; Recover them; Resolve (liquidate) the businesses that cannot repay their debts; Reinforce the regulation; Recapitalize the banks whose capital had been wiped out by bad debts; Reset the controls and Ring-fence the banks that could not make provisions against bad debts; and Reform — introduce controls that would prevent the recurrence of bad debts. Jaitley went along with the strategy. He got the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code through Parliament in 2016; and Patel and he agreed that it should be the principal way of resolving the bad debts — namely, liquidate or sell off borrowers who could not repay, pay off their creditors, including banks, and write off any resulting losses. Then, the RBI issued a notification on February 12, 2019. It said that if banks could agree with their borrowers on a plan to resolve the debt, it had to be implemented within six months; and if no agreement had been reached, the borrower had to be liquidated under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code. After that, the finance minister got cold feet; he started talking about relaxing or postponing the action for particular sectors and borrowers. Five banks with high bad debts, which were under Preventive and Corrective Action (that is, were not allowed to give fresh loans), were exempted from its application. The RBI was asked to give more time to borrowers. A press campaign ensued. Rather than succumb to the pressure, Patel resigned in November 2018. Borrowers went to the Supreme Court. The RBI’s advocate dropped out of the case the night before he was to appear before the Supreme Court. In April 2019, the Supreme Court declared the February notification ultra vires. Its judgment is extremely scholarly, referring to cases of no clear relevance from other countries. It ruled that the RBI could not ask any bank to take a borrower into bankruptcy without the command or agreement of the finance ministry; in other words, it disempowered the RBI in the crucial matter of dealing with bad debtors. I read the judgment, but I could make no sense of its reasoning. Acharya, who teaches in New York, was taken into the RBI as deputy-governor in January 2017. He is a Bombay boy; he stayed with his parents in Vile Parle instead of taking an official bungalow. He quotes one of his school teachers, who said, “My life is just a little matchstick, but it lit all the earthen lamps and inaugurated Diwali (the festival of lights).” As he flew down from New York to Bombay, he decided to concentrate on two things: repairing government banks, and developing financial markets as an alternative to banks. He did not get far on either; why, I have explained above. His book consists mostly of speeches he gave while in the RBI; it is a good introduction to the monetary situation as it developed in his two and a half years in India. He looks around the world and has broad interests; he educates, and often surprises. This is how he describes a central bank’s function in his book, Quest for Restoring Financial Stability in India: “A central bank can take the same stance as that of Rahul Dravid — first and foremost, protect the wicket, know where the off-stump is, leave the tempting balls outside the wicket, wait for the rank-bad ball to hit a cover drive or a pull rather than swing for fences on the first ball, especially on tricky wickets or in difficult weather conditions, and overall play the game of endurance, not of excitement — try to win the test match, not just a T20!” He would have made a good governor. That will not happen; the government will find its own homegrown henchmen, who would help it borrow and spend at our expense. Our material fate does not look bright. But we can cheer ourselves up in the meanwhile by reading people like Acharya. Let us hope he sticks to writing and speaking for our entertainment, and does not get dragged into rescuing India. Not everyone can have a well-run economy to live and thrive in; but we can generally find a good economist to read.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-156
01-09-2020||Jharkhand||Elephants on rampage in Bokaro's Gomia block||A rampaging herd of elephants is giving residents of more than a dozen villages near Jhumra Hill in Gomia block sleepless nights. On Monday, the herd raided Baltharwa village and damaged two homes, forcing residents to spend the night with their children on the roof of their homes. A team of experts from Bakura in Bengal had to be called in to ward off the elephants. The residents beat drums and lit fires at a few spots but failed to chase away the animals. The elephants wandered the streets for about four hours and then entered the fields of maize. The herd, which comprised 22 elephants, including four calves, later left for a nearby forest. “The maize crop in a few acres was destroyed by the herd,” said Moti Mahto, a villager. Most villagers, especially women and children, are fear-stricken. Residents of Simrabeda, Suarkatwa and other villages in the Pachmo panchayat are constantly on alert for the elephants. Manoj Pahariya, another villager, said: “Those who live in huts are the most worried. When the elephants came, we ran to take shelter on the roof of the pucca houses or in schools and community halls. The elephants mostly enter the villages at night in search of foodgrain. They demolish the walls of the huts to eat stocked foodgrain.” The herd had come from Bagodar area of Giridih. It entered Upperghat areas of Nawadih block, crossing the jungle on August 24. In Nawadih, the animals damaged four houses and destroyed maize crops. The villagers later chased away the herd into the jungle, through which it entered Gomia block. “The elephants were last spotted at Ghor-Ghowa Nala,” said a villager. The area residents have pleaded with the forest department for compensation. “We are keeping a note of the herd’s movement. Meanwhile, we are also assessing the damage,” said Arun Kumar Singh, divisional forest officer. Singh said compensation will be provided to the affected villagers. The villages are situated close to the elephant corridor.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-315
01-09-2020||Jharkhand||Dilapidated APMC market now a gambling & liquor den||The single-storey market complex of agriculture produce market committee (APMC) at Dhanbad is lying in shambles. Established in 2006 less than 200 meters away from the district headquarters with about 85 shops, the market was aimed at providing livelihood to physically challenged people. Only a dozen of shops are functional, while the majority lie in ruins from either being unoccupied or due to poor upkeep. Unauthorised possession is another major issue as many physically challenged allottees have sublet their shops to others. Many of the damaged and vacant shops have turned into gambling and liquor dens, causing nuisance for customers and adjoining shop keepers. Several attempts to renovate damaged shops and make fresh allotments have been made, including the APMC board sending a proposal to the state government in 2018. But nothing has happened ever since. A shopkeeper in Binod Market, Hirapur, situated a few yards away from the APMC market complex said, “When the market complex was launched in 2006, we were happy about the prospect of increased customer flow. Now, as most shops are dilapidated, with some rightful allottees abandoning their shops, the situation is worse than ever. Frequent brawls break out in the market and the premises are inhospitable for customers.” Another shopkeeper at the Zila Parishad Market situated in front of APMC market complex said, “Miscreants usually haunt the marketplace to consume liquor bought from the store nearby and create an atmosphere of total anarchy, including harassment of women.” Shivji Tiwari, secretary of the Agriculture Produce Market Complex, said, “We have sent a detailed proposal to the state government for renovation of existing shops and also making fresh allotments. The government is yet to take action; if needed we will send a fresh proposal again.” Dhanbad, Sub Divisional Officer, Raj Maheshwaram, said, “We will look into the issue and after checking details, take steps to revive the market as per norms.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-315
01-09-2020||Jharkhand|| Strict precautions, many absentees on Day One of JEE Mains||Day one of JEE Mains exams, for admission in engineering colleges across India, passed off peacefully on Tuesday amid strict restrictions and special precautionary measures taken at all the centres across five cities – Ranchi, Jamshedpur, Dhanbad, Bokaro and Hazaribagh. Loudspeakers were installed at an examination centre in Ranchi’s Tupudana locality to remind students about maintaining social distancing. Besides, circles were also marked at the entry to ensure that students do not come close to each other. The examinees were asked to remove masks that they were wearing and asked to wear special triple layer masks provided at the examination centre in Tupudana. The body temperature of all the examinees was checked using a thermal thermometer before entering the exam hall. A separate isolation room was also set up for those students who showed symptoms of Covid-19 infection, the examinees said. Despite all the precautionary measures, around 190 students missed the first sitting of the exam at the Tupudana centre. “Around 190 of the 410 students were absent during the first sitting of the exam at Tupudana centre,” said city coordinator of JEE Main Ram Singh. Singh, however, said that many students, who are satisfied with their performance in the first round of JEE Mains, do not appear for the second round, which is why the 190 students may have missed the exam on Tuesday. The first round of JEE Mains was held earlier this year, he added. Around 23,000 students are supposed to appear for the JEE Mains exams at eight centres spread across five cities in Jharkhand till September 6. The exams will be conducted in two shifts in most of the centres, sources said. Students at the Tupudana centre in Ranchi were mostly satisfied with the papers. However, some of them said that the mathematics paper was a difficult. “I was very nervous initially, but everything went smoothly after the exams began,” said Puja Mahto, an examinee from Gumla, who travelled to Ranchi by a private car on Tuesday to appear for the exam. In Dhanbad, 156 students appeared for two papers of JEE main in two batches at ION Digital zone on Barwaddah Road, where one of two centres have been set up. The other centre is at Perth Digital Zone, Kolakusma. Sub divisional officer Raj Maheshwaram said students were not inconvenienced in any way. “We arranged sufficient vehicles for transporting them to examination centres. Hotels have also been told to cooperate with examinees coming from other districts,” he said, referring to those from Giridih, Jamtara and Deoghar. At ION Digital Zone, a student of Madhupur in Deoghar said, “The BArch paper comprising mathematics, general aptitude and drawing was average. The aptitude and drawing section was easy.” Jyoti Kumari, a student of Moonidih, said the mathematic section was slightly lengthier in the B Arch paper. “The overall the experience was good as no questions came from outside class XI and XII syllabus,” she said, adding that arrangements were exemplary and all precautions were taken.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-315
01-09-2020||Jharkhand||On Day One, too few buses on the road; very few passengers too||If Day One of resumption of intra-state bus services in the state saw few buses hitting the road, the number of passengers were even less. After being grounded for the last five months, barely 10 per cent of Ranchi’s 2,000 buses were on the road on Tuesday. At Jamshedpur’s Sitaramdera bus terminus, 30 per cent of 400 buses rolled out for duty. Officials of Ranchi Bus Owners Association said they did not expect passenger counts to be so low when they agreed to resume services, even with 50 per cent occupancy, in accordance with the state government’s directive issued for the JEE-NEET tests that began on Tuesday. “We did not expect this kind of a response. It was very bad on Day One. We don’t know what to do if the trend continues. People aren’t coming out of their homes it seems,” said association president Krishna Mohan Singh. Patrons-in-chief, Jamshedpur Bus Owners' Welfare Association, Upendra Sharma said the first day of the resumption of inter-district bus services was not encouraging at all. "Very few passengers turned up. Maybe not everybody is aware about the resumption of bus services. But if passengers do not turn up in good numbers, then the condition of bus operators will deteriorate," he told The Telegraph Online. Ranchi’s transport hub Birsa Munda Bus Terminus remained sleepy through the day. Shops at the terminal were open, but there were no customers. Busses lined up the platforms while a few cleaning staff went about their job. Raju of Chanchal buses plying between Ranchi-Hazaribagh said they got two passengers till 10am. “In two hours, only two passengers came to go to Hazaribagh. Two others who came preferred to go on bikes as they did not want to wait for long,” he said, adding that most probably he would cancel the trip. Md Shakeel, a driver of a bus going to Simdega, said only short-route buses managed to ply with daily wagers. “A handful of buses to Bundu, Khunti and Simdega managed to get passengers in form of the labourers who usually go to these places from Ranchi. But buses to Jamshedpur, Chaibasa, Dhanbad and Hazaribagh could not run because of poor response,” he said. At Sitaramdera bus terminus, operator Vijay Kumar, who wanted to ply his vehicles on the Ranchi-jamshedpur route, expressed his disappointment at the way things unfolded. "In my bus there are 38 seats and I can take only 19 passengers.  But despite waiting for over hours together only 10 passengers boarded the bus. This number of passengers will not even generate enough revenue for the fuel cost. I hope people start to travel by bus gradually," he said. Bus owners have decided to double fares to make up for losses, accrued over the months of lockdown and in view of the 50 per cent occupancy directive. But Ranchi Bus Owners Association chief Singh ruled out any further reduction in fairs. “How can we reduce fares? In the wake of Covid, we are now incurring more expenses in the form of procuring sanitisers, masks and other safety gear for staff and passengers. Let alone the hike in fuel prices,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-315
01-09-2020||Jharkhand||August downpours not enough to wipe out rain deficit    ||August, the third month of the monsoon season, did see frequent downpours, but the rainfall was not enough to make up the deficit that stood at 8 per cent at the end of the month. According to data from IMD's Ranchi Meteorological Centre, Jharkhand received 754.4 mm rainfall against a normal of 820 mm in August. Thus, the cumulative rainfall of Jharkhand during the first three monsoon months, ie, June to August, was eight per cent below normal of long period average (LPA). However, September is likely to see a good spell of rain, experts have said. Statistics revealed that last year (2019), August had ended with 28 per cent rain deficit while in 2018 the deficit was 25 per cent. In 2017, the overall rainfall in Jharkhand stood at 1 per cent surplus at the end of August, while in 2016, August ended with a rain deficit of 6 per cent. According to Met statistics, Latehar district recorded the highest cumulative rainfall (June to August) with 1,029.7 mm against a normal of 813.2 mm, which is a surplus of 27 per cent. This was followed closely by East Singhbhum district which recorded 21 per cent surplus rain at the end of August. According to Met data, East Singhbhum district recorded actual rainfall of 1,040.4 mm against a normal of 859.5 mm. The other districts in the rain-surplus list are Palamau, Dumka, Ramgarh, Latehar and Lohardaga. Rainfall in Koderma was normal. Against a normal of 657.1 mm, Koderma at the end of August recorded 656 mm rain. Districts like Bokaro, Chatra Deoghar, Dhanbad, Garhwa Giridih, Godda, Gumla, Hazaribagh, Jamtara, Pakur, Sahebganj, Simdega, West Singhbhum, Seraikela-Kharsawan and Ranchi recorded deficit rain. Weathermen said on Tuesday that the southwest monsoon was weak over Jharkhand during the past 24 hours. Dry weather prevailed in most of the districts. Only two IMD observatories _ Arki in Khunti and Hunterganj in Chatra district _ recorded rain in the past 24 hours, ie, between 8.30 am on Monday to 8.30 am on Tuesday. But the good news is that experts aren’t alarmed at the deficit figures. "Rainfall deficit in several districts is in the normal range. Rainfall distribution till August was up to the mark. Hence, there is no threat of drought,” said A Wadood, a weather scientist and agriculture expert of Birsa Agriculture University, Kanke. “As per IMD's long range forecast, we are expecting a good shower show in September, the last monsoon month," he said. On Tuesday, most parts of Jharkhand, including Jamshedpur, Ranchi, Daltonganj, Dhanbad, Bokaro and Hazaribagh, woke up to a gloomy and overcast conditions. As the day progressed, Jamshedpur, Ranchi, Ramgarh, Bokaro, Dhanbad, Seraikela and Chaibasa experienced light to moderate rain. The forecast issued by IMD's Ranchi Met Centre indicated thunderstorm accompanied by lightning and heavy rain over southern Jharkhand in the next 24 hours. Isolated pockets of southern and central Jharkhand could experience lightning and thunder too in the next 48 hours. "The monsoon trough has moved close to the foothills of Himalayas in the north. But several districts of Jharkhand will continue to get rain due to the impact of a cyclonic circulation over southern Assam. The cyclonic circulation was extending 3.6 km above mean sea level," said S.D Kotal, director of Ranchi Metrological Centre.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-315
01-09-2020||Jharkhand||Airport sees demand, asks state to allow more flights ||Airport authorities in Ranchi have requested the state government to provide at least five more flights, citing an increase in the passenger density owing to relaxations in the lockdown curbs. “We have requested the government to provide us more flights as the count of passengers is increasing. They are considering our request,” said airport director Vinod Sharma, explaining that the increase would mean 15 daily flights from now on. Birsa Munda Airport has been operating at a flight frequency of less than half of the usual number since resumption of services in May-end. “We will now require at least five more flights to meet the demand of passengers,” Sharma said on Tuesday, Birsa Munda Airport here operated at least 30 flights connecting the state to almost all major cities across India before a nationwide lockdown was imposed on March 24. However, once flight services resumed on May 25, the Ranchi airport was permitted to operate only seven flights, airport officials said. While the count of flights gradually increased to 10 by August end, the number was still less than half of the number of flights that took off from Ranchi before the lockdown. “Many migrants who had returned during the lockdown are returning to work. Some frequent flyers have also started travelling again for work. It will be helpful if we get at least half of our flights,” said Sharma. Currently, Ranchi is only connected to New Delhi, Bangalore, Hyderabad and Mumbai by air. Prior to the lockdown, Ranchi had flights to Calcutta and Patna as well. Some private players, airport sources said, have shown interest in starting flights from Ranchi to Chennai in the near future. The airport also has an international bay, but it is yet to get any international flights. Ranchi MP Sanjay Seth, a member of the Airport Advisory Committee (AAC), admitted that the passenger density had increased and Ranchi was in need of more flights to meet the demand. He said that the committee would  hold a meeting this week and take a call on the requirement of flights in Ranchi. “I will personally speak to the civil aviation minister, and ask him to increase flights from Ranchi,” said Seth, who was in New Delhi on Tuesday. A majority of passengers travelling from Ranchi by air were migrants, who had returned home during the lockdown, said Seth, adding that most of the migrants were flying to New Delhi from Ranchi. “We still have a rule of quarantining visitors for 14 days in Jharkhand, which is why the density of businessmen travelling from other cities has reduced. The passenger density will increase when the 14-day-quarantine norm is done away with,” the local MP said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-315
01-09-2020||Jharkhand||Pranab Mukherjee's aura went beyond politics, says Hemant ||Chief Minister Hemant Soren said the passing of former President Pranab Mukherjee on Monday after a prolonged illness was the end of an era in Indian politics as "Pranab da's" charm went beyond party lines. Hemant recalled how JMM, despite being an NDA ally in Jharkhand in 2012, had voted for Mukherjee, who was in fray in the presidential election as a UPA candidate. “I was the deputy CM in the Jharkhand government which was formed in alliance with BJP. The late P.A. Sangma was the NDA’s candidate. One day, Guruji (JMM supremo Shibu Soren) asked me why Pranab da had not come to the state to seek our support when Sangma was touring the country, including Jharkhand, to secure votes. I replied that since he was a UPA candidate and we are in NDA, he isn’t expecting our support. Guruji then directed me to send him a message of our support.” “Humbled, Pranab da personally phoned me to express his gratitude, promising to come and meet Guruji in person. That’s how his persona and charm was... it went beyond political boundaries,” recalled Hemant. BJP veteran and former chief minister Raghubar Das recalled the time when Mukherjee came to Ranchi as President to lay the foundation stone for the construction of Rabindra Bhavan, asserting that the time spent with him remains one of the best in his political career. Other leaders, including those of Congress and AJSU-Party, also offered their condolences to the former president, who had visited Jharkhand a few times, twice to Santhal Parganas when he was First Citizen of the country. State Congress president Rameshwar Oraon said, “Not just the entire Congress party but the nation is shocked by his demise. He was an astute politician, a great economist and a humble human being. He was an encyclopedia of parliamentary history.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-315
01-09-2020||Jharkhand||Four MLAs among 3,218 new cases, the highest in a day so far||As many as four MLAs tested Covid positive, the state health department noted in a bulletin issued on Monday night that saw 3,218 new cases, the highest single-day addition so far, and seven deaths. Notably, in the last 24 hours, 1,54,667 samples were tested, of which 3,218 were found positive after which state’s total caseload stood at 41,656. With the steady rise in Covid-19 cases, Jharkhand’s seven-day growth rate of cases touched 4.25 per cent, double the national average of 2.21 per cent. As of Monday night, the total number of active cases in Jharkhand is 14,096. As many as 27,143 people have recovered while 417 have died. The four MLAs who tested positive are Neelkant Singh Munda (BJP, Khunti), Sashi Bhushan Mehta (BJP, Panki), Amba Prasad (Congress, Barkagaon) and Vinod Singh (CPI-ML, Bagodar). They are all on home isolation, officials said. In all, nine MLAs of the state have tested positive. East Singhbhum continued to report the highest number of cases with 630 on Monday night, followed by Koderma with 254, Ranchi and Seraikela with 227 each, West Singbhum 210, Hazaribagh 170, Ramgarh 162, Dhanbad 153, Gumla 147, Palamu 127, Sahebganj 127 and Chatra 103. Health officials apprehend a further rise in the number cases with special testing drives underway across the state. On Tuesday, Ranchi is scheduled to hold a special testing camp across 20 locations from 10am to 6pm. The aim is to test at least over 10,000 people in a single day, officials said. On August 18, Ranchi held a similar drive in which over 300 Covid cases were recorded. As per government records, Ranchi has the highest number of active cases, while East Singhbhum has the second highest number of patients who are yet to recover from the infection. As many as 2,566 people were undergoing treatment for the viral infection in East Singhbhum at the time of filing this report, while 2,789 patients were yet to recover from the virus in Ranchi. At least 695 people recovered from the infection on Monday and were subsequently discharged from hospital, taking the number of Covid recoveries in Jharkhand to 27,143, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. As per the NHM bulletin released on Monday late night, Jharkhand’s Covid recovery rate was 65.15 per cent against the national average of 75.27 per cent. The fatality rate in the state was 1 percent, which the lower than the national Covid fatality rate of 1.85 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-315
01-09-2020||Jharkhand||Fire at Bokaro power plant||A 30-year-old transformer caught fire at the Bokaro Power Supply Company Private Limited (BPSCL) situated inside Bokaro Steel Plant (BSL) on Monday. There were no casualties in the incident. It took about two hours for firefighters to douse the flames. The incident led to loss of power production for a few hours but did not affect BSL's production. The 338 MW-capacity-BPSCL plant is a joint venture of DVC and SAIL. A.K.Singh, chief executive officer of BPSCL said,“reason behind eruption of fire in transformer is yet to be ascertained. We are inquiring about the matter. It is an 80 MVA transformer. The incident affected production as it went down to 80-85 MW, but although our effort is on to restore the power generation back to 130 MW by 11 pm night”. A special administrative team on Monday seized two buses travelling to Bihar violating Covid regulations. The team, led by sub-divisional officer Shashi Prakash Singh was conducting surprise checks. The buses were going to Sasaram and Siwan from Nayamoad Bus Stand. The SDO said, “we have seized the buses and FIR under various sections of Epidemic Act is in process to be lodged with the City police station. There is no permission to ferry passengers outside the state in Covid-19 lockdown. The statement of passengers is being recorded”. Passengers were charged double abd triple the normal fares. Two months ago, the district administration came to know that buses plying to Bihar secretly had dug trenches using earthmovers at both entry and exit of private bus stand. But again such practise was on. Ferrying passengers to Bihar and bringing people here without notice of administration has made the situation vulnerable to the spread of the virus. Three children drowned in a pond in Doman Bagicha area of Chatra town on Monday afternoon. The trio-all aged 10- went to take a bath in Jaipur talab and drowned in the deep water. The children were identified as Mohammad Jaid, Mohammad Anash and Mohammad Anish. Locals fished out the dead bodies from the pond. Police sent the bodies to Chatra Sadar hospital for postmortem. The children were buried in Rashid Nagar Kabrishtan. A trailor truck collided with two SUVs causing the truck and one of the SUVs to overturn near Ganke Mor on Chutupallu ghati in Ramgarh on Monday. The second SUV jumped the divider on the highway damaging the car. Ramgarh police rushed three injured to Sadar Hospital. Barkagaon Congress MLA Amba Prasad on Monday tested positive for Covid.She is in home isolation. Prasad posted the news on on social media and asked all those who came in contact with her to go for a test. A DAV school teacher's sons' body was found hanging from the ceiling fan of his room. A Sindri police sent the dead body for post mortem at PMCH. Family members of the deceased, Rohit Kumar Singh, informed police that his pregnant wife went to her parents place at Nalanda during pregnancy about a month ago. Rohit was unhappy about the fact and wanted the child birth to take place at Sindri which led to a dispute and he might have commited suicide due to frustration. Congress ljhar Ahmad on Monday protested the steep hike in Vegetables by wearing a garland of vegetables. Ahmad blamed the central government's flawed policy for the price rise in  the state. He demanded a CBI probe for the prevailing situation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-315
