02-09-2020||Calcutta||Covid fear shows in JEE (Main) turnout||As many as 70 per cent of the students did not turn up on the first day of the Joint Entrance Examination (Main) in the two centres in Calcutta. Of the 2,623 students who were to appear for the exam on Tuesday at the two centres, only 771 turned up, said officials associated with the exams. The centres are TCS Gitobitan in Salt Lake and the Institute of Instrumentation & Metrology in Belghoria. The centre in Salt Lake had exams in two shifts and the one in Belghoria, about 15km north from the heart of Calcutta, had only one shift. In one of the shifts at the Salt Lake centre, more than 1,000 students did not turn up. Tuesday’s tests were for B.Planning and B.Arch. The JEE (Main), through which most engineering colleges admit students, will continue till the end of the week. Some students felt the exams should have been conducted in April, when there were far fewer Covid-19 patients. “There are so many cases around now. Hence, chances of contracting the virus are also more,” said Diya Mukherjee, who travelled from New Alipore to Salt Lake. “It is uncomfortable writing a test for three hours wearing a mask and gloves. The hands became greasy and there was the constant fear of infection at the back of my mind.” Diya, who was a student of Delhi Public School Ruby Park, appeared for the B.Arch exam on Tuesday but will not write Wednesday’s exam. “While I was coming out I saw many students waiting outside. I decided not to come back on Wednesday because there will be more candidates and greater risk,” she said. Some examinees complained about the quality of masks given at the exam centres. “What I usually wear is better than the one I was given at the centre,” an examinee said. Candidates arrived from across the city as well as several districts. Many had to shell out a substantial amount to reach the venue by hiring vehicles, while others had no option but to travel in crowded public vehicles. Candidate Rahul Kundu and his father started at dawn from Midnapore, took a bus to Howrah and then an app cab to Salt Lake. The Telegraph reported on Monday that some examinees had decided to stay away from JEE (Main) because of the fear of contracting Covid-19. Those who decided to appear in the exam were scrambling to hire vehicles so they could travel without exposing themselves to the risk of catching the coronavirus. But not everyone can stretch their limits, especially in the midst of a pandemic, and hire a vehicle. Vivekananda Kundu, who accompanied son Rahul to the Salt Lake exam centre, said the bus was crowded and they were exposed to the risk of infection. “No social distancing norms were being maintained on the bus. But we had no other option. It took us about four hours to reach Howrah,” said Vivekananda. The Kundus will spend Tuesday night at a hotel in Esplanade because Rahul has another exam on Wednesday. “He has been preparing for this exam and we did not want him to lose a year,” the father said. At the Salt Lake centre, announcements were being made to not crowd at the gate, maintain distance from one another and wear masks. The body temperature of every candidate was measured with a thermal scanner. “Fewer students came today compared to last year. More rooms have been allotted this time to maintain social distancing,” said an official at the centre. Students coming out of the centre said they were assigned alternate computers so a safe distance between two was maintained.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-323
02-09-2020||Calcutta||Metro to meet government over resumption||A meeting between the state government and Metro officials on the resumption of commercial services is likely in the next two days following a prod from the railway ministry, railway officials said. The Bengal home secretary had written to the chairman of the railway board, seeking resumption of Metro and suburban train services in the state. “The board has asked Metro, Eastern and South-Eastern Railway officials to sit with the state government for possible resumption of services,” said a railway official. “The meeting is likely in one or two days.” Before meeting the Bengal administration, senior officials of Metro Railway on Tuesday held an “internal meeting” to discuss the modalities of possible resumption of services. A curtailed fleet and timing (a late start and early closure), access for only existing smart card users, the frequency between trains are some of the steps that Metro officials are likely to pitch at the meeting with state officials. An app for online recharge of smart cards has been in the works. Sources said 8am-to-8pm service, a 12-minute interval between trains and suspension of services on Sunday were some of the proposals discussed at Tuesday’s meeting. Indrani Banerjee, the Metro spokesperson, said: “No decision has been taken regarding the train timings or intervals. We plan to do away with tokens for now. Only existing smart card users can avail themselves of Metro services. When we meet the state government officials, the main focus areas would be social distancing and crowd control.” Metro officials have said more than once that the trains, stations and tunnels were ready for commercial services but crowd control and social distancing were the “real challenges”. The state machinery’s help is the key to meeting the challenges, they have said. Deploying RPF guards in coaches and seeking police help outside and inside the stations were some of the steps being considered by the authorities. The carrier used to run 288 trains before the services were stopped on March 23. Over six lakh people used to travel by Metro every day. “The number of trains in service will be reduced drastically,” said an official. The Union housing and urban affairs ministry is likely to come up with a set of guidelines for the resumption of Metro services across the country. The ministry has, in turn, asked for a set of standard operating procedures from all Metros in the country. Calcutta Metro, which is not a corporation, is still under the railways. But the carrier has sent a list of SOPs to the urban affairs ministry, said an official. “We are exploring many possibilities before resumption of services. Crowd control and maintaining social distance will take a lot of homework in coordination with the state government,” said Metro general manager Manoj Joshi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-323
02-09-2020||Calcutta||Chaos as 6-city flights resume||Many passengers missed flights and many flights were delayed on Tuesday as chaos prevailed at the Calcutta airport on the first day of resumption of flights to and from six cities, including Delhi and Mumbai. Airport and airlines sources said there were huge queues in the morning and afternoon and passengers had to wait for even more than an hour at the gates to enter the terminal. Similar queues were seen at the security check-in counters, too. An IndiGo official said about 100 passengers missed their flights because they showed up at boarding gates late. Other airlines, too, said many passengers were unable to make it on time. “Most passengers will be accommodated on next day’s flight, scheduled for Thursday,” said an official of a private airline. He alleged that the airport authorities had failed to make enough arrangements despite knowing that the number of flights would go up on Tuesday. “There were no sanitisers at most points because refilling was not done at regular intervals,” the official said. On the first day of resumption of flights to Calcutta from Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Ahmedabad, Pune and Nagpur, 32 additional flights took off and an equal number arrived. Till Monday, 60 flights were taking off from Calcutta. On Tuesday, the count went up to 92. Asked about the long queues, airport director Kaushik Bhattacharya said: “The problem was that 60 per cent of the passengers did not do web check-in and so they had to be redirected to the airline counters. Also, they did not have smartphones and so lacked the Aragya Setu app. They had to go to the airline counters and fill in self-declaration forms. Also, there was congestion at the security check-in because many passengers were unable to place the boarding pass properly in front of the camera for scanning.” The Covid-19 pandemic has prompted the authorities to implement a minimum touch policy, which requires every passenger to place his or her boarding pass before the camera for security personnel to check it from a distance. Flights to Calcutta from the six cities were suspended on July 6, following a request from the state government, because of high Covid prevalence there. For now, the flights on the routes will be operating three days a week. From September 1 to 13, they will operate on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Sundays. From September 14, they will operate on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-323
02-09-2020||Calcutta||ISC, ICSE improvement test plan in November||The Council for Indian School Certificate Examinations wants to hold improvement examinations for the ICSE and ISC candidates of the 2020 batch in November if the Covid-19 situation permits, a circular issued by council to the school heads said. If the pandemic does not allow the tests to be held in November, they will be held along with next year’s ICSE and ISC exams. For the compartmental exams, too, the council has taken a similar decision — they will be held in November, if possible, or with next year’s regular exams. “The improvement examinations (for the ICSE/ISC 2020 candidates awarded imputed marks) may be held in November 2020, along with the Compartmental Examinations, subject to the condition being conducive or may otherwise be held along with the regular examinations for the Year 2021,” a circular issued to the heads of all schools by the council said. The council this year had conducted the ICSE and ISC exams till March 18 and cancelled the remaining papers as a preventive measure against the spread of Covid-19. The council had formulated a scheme for assessing the examinees in the papers for which exams could not be held. The council had also said that it would conduct a fresh examination two to three months after publishing the ICSE and ISC results for the students who wanted to improve their marks. The ICSE/ISC 2020 results were declared on July 15. A student’s average marks in the best three papers and their marks in internal assessment, project work and practical in the pending papers were taken into account during the final assessment. The council in its circular on Tuesday extended the last date for the schools to submit the list of the students who will appear in next year’s ICSE and ISC exams from August 31 to September 15. The last date of registration of students of Classes IX and XI for appearing in the 2022 ICSE and ISC exams have been extended from August 31 to September 15. The dates have been extended because many principals had been complaining to the council that the schools were closed and they had not been able to collect the necessary information from students. The schools are required to deposit fees to the council at the time of submitting the confirmation and registration forms. Many schools have complained that a large number of students have not paid the tuition and other fees for several months. “The Council has received several emails from heads of schools regarding the general difficulty being faced by them to collate information and make payments for the Confirmation and registration of candidates for the 2021 & 2022 ICSE/ISC Examinations due to unprecedented situation created by Covid 19 pandemic. In view of the present situation the council has decided to review its earlier stand and to extend the dates...” the council circular said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-323
02-09-2020||Calcutta||‘Nothing great’ but ‘it feels so good’ behind the bar||The bottle was uncorked in bars after more than five months on Tuesday. The first day was “nothing great” but owners hoped that serving alcohol would gradually improve footfall. Bars have to do with half the seating capacity and a much-reduced workforce. But the permission to serve liquor has brought a sense of relief and hope, several owners said. A veteran Park Street restaurateur was seen pouring whisky into four glasses around 3.30pm for patrons. A waiter had reached out for the bottle but was stopped by the owner. “This feels so good, so normal, so Park Street. I want to make many more drinks today,” said Pratap Daryani, the owner of Oasis. The reduced capacity meant space for 30 guests on the ground floor and 40 on the first floor. But only two tables were occupied — one on the first floor had two guests and one on the ground floor had one. Amishek Singh, a businessman from Tollygunge, was seated at a table on the ground floor with a drink. “I was waiting to have a drink and good lunch on Park Street. This is a shot at normal life, which has to go on,” Singh who had dropped in on his way back from meeting a client in Salt Lake said. Around 300m away, three tables were occupied in the sprawling dining area of Tung Fong. “This seems a lot… footfall was lean past month. There have been Saturdays and Sundays when only seven or eight tables were occupied throughout the day. We hope serving liquor improves footfall, at least marginally,” an employee said. Glass walls separating tables and alternate tables “reserved” —distancing steps that have been in place since restaurants reopened on June 8 — continued to be in place. Restaurants got the nod to reopen from June 8 but the lid on bottles had kept many establishments shut. A few watering holes were shut on Tuesday, too. But the owners said they were busy stocking up and would reopen soon. “The excise order came suddenly. We are stocking up and we will open tomorrow (Wednesday),” an official of Silver Grill, one of the places that were shut on Tuesday said. The price of alcohol remained unchanged at most of the places on Tuesday. Restaurateurs said they had to spend “30 per cent more” to procure stock from the West Bengal State Beverages Corporation but high prices at restaurants is fraught with risk of a further dip in footfall. A couple of bar owners said they had raised prices, but “marginally”.The dine-and-drink dens will not extend timings immediately. The usual closure time is 11pm. Some of the places wind up earlier as well. The resumption of bar services has instilled new hope in many employees who are on furlough or an unpaid leave. “I had called up my manager… he told me about the permission to serve liquor and said if things improve I might get back to work,” a resident of Uttarpara who used to work at a bar on Camac Street said. Some restaurant owners  said calling employees back to work right now was unlikely. “We were sinking. The nod to serve liquor has come as a much-needed lifeboat. The next few months will have to see a robust growth for us to plan anything,” a bar owner said. The extension of timings will help bring back some employees, another owner said. “It would mean multiple shifts and the need for more people. But in the current situation, no owner will be willing to pay extra to stay open late in the night,” he said. Gaurav Karnani, the owner of the Grid microbrewery in Topsia, said it was premature to comment on footfall on Day 1. “Evenings are the prime time for us. The next few days are very crucial and will help us gauge the mood of people,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-323
02-09-2020||Calcutta||Left overtake proves fatal||A man riding a scooter was killed when he crashed into a bus while trying to overtake it from the left on Cathedral Road near Rabindra Sadan on Tuesday, police said. Aftab Siddiqui, 32, was wearing a helmet when he collided with the bus on the Santragachhi-Dharmatala route and skidded on the road while trying to overtake the bus from the left, the police said. “The accident occurred around 5.20pm. The bus driver did not realise someone had banged against the vehicle and he kept driving… the man came under the rear wheels of the bus,” a traffic police officer said. Siddiqui, who hailed from Mathabhanga in Cooch Behar district, was declared dead at SSKM Hospital. Officers of Hastings police station have seized the bus and arrested the driver. He has been booked for rash and negligent driving and causing death by negligence. The number of two-wheelers has gone up during the lockdown, according to the traffic police. “Everyone knows one should never overtake a vehicle from the left but in this case the scooterist did exactly that. The driver of the bus has claimed he could not see the scooter because of a blind spot on the vehicle’s left,” an officer of the traffic police’s fatal squad said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-323
02-09-2020||Calcutta||Two-week survey on comorbidity||A survey to identify Calcuttans with comorbidities, which make them more vulnerable to Covid-19, will begin next week. The civic body has set a target of two weeks to finish the door-to-door survey, a Calcutta Municipal Corporation official said. Close to 3,000 workers will be deployed in the Calcutta municipal area’s 144 wards for the survey. One person will visit one household, unlike in the case of dengue where two or three-member teams do the survey. This has been done to ensure faster coverage of 1 million households in the wards, the official said. At least 20 health workers in every ward will carry forms with them to mark if a respondent has kidney disease, heart disease, liver disease, or is a diabetic, or suffers from chronic obstructive pulmonary disorder (COPD), or is hypertensive or has tuberculosis. The health workers will not record any other detail. Their job will be restricted to only noting down if the respondent has any of the diseases, the official said. The medical officers, who are in charge of health services in the wards, will be trained later this week. They will then train the health workers who will carry out the door-to-door survey. “We will start the survey next week in all likelihood,” the official said. Twenty health workers in a ward will visit 20 households simultaneously. “We decided to send only one person to a house as that would leaves more people to visit more houses at the same time,” another official said. According to the bulletin on Covid-19 issued by the state health department, 86.8 per cent of the 3,228 people who died of Covid-19 till Monday had comorbidities. The bulletin mentioned that hypertension, COPD and diabetes were the three most common comorbidities among the dead. The data generated by the door-to-door survey will be digitised and can be accessed by the state health department and CMC doctors. When information about someone testing positive for Covid-19 reaches the borough health officer or the ward medical officer — both of whom are doctors — they will check the database to see if the person has comorbidities, the official said. “When someone with comorbidity tests positive, the medical officer of the ward will be extra cautious. In case it is found that the person aged over 70 and has multiple comorbidities, the medical officer may advise against home isolation and suggest the person to get admitted to hospital,” a CMC doctor said. The reaction to someone in their 30s and without any comorbidity will be different from someone in their 70s with comorbidities, the doctor said. “This is why the survey is important. We will get to know who has comorbidity and react accordingly. We will request everyone to be true while answering the questions and allow health workers to conduct the survey.” If any family member is not at home when a surveyor reaches the house, he/she will ask the others present details about that member, a CMC official said. A large number of people of Baruipur and its nearby areas had been infected with coronavirus over the past several weeks. “So we decided to open an isolation centre for the people of the locality,” said Reverend Paritosh Canning, bishop of the Calcutta diocese. The St. Stephen’s Covid-19 Isolation Centre is the first such centre to be run by the CNI. It has been set up at a hostel for students of a vocational training centre run by the CNI. The church has tied up with Peerless Hospital to provide medical supervision of the patients who will be staying in the centre, the bishop said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-323
02-09-2020||Calcutta||Science City seeks Rs 7.5cr||Science City, Kolkata, has for the first time sought a special fund of Rs 7.5 crore from the Union culture ministry to pay members of its staff salaries and bear maintenance costs during the pandemic. All avenues of revenue generation have stopped for Science City since the Centre announced the lockdown on March 23. Of all the Science Centres in the country, Science City, Kolkata, is the only one that used to be to be completely self-reliant and did not receive any funds or grants from the government. A unit of the National Council of Science Museums (NCSM), an autonomous body of the Union culture ministry, Science City, Kolkata, is the largest science centre in the country. It was developed by the administrative ministry with a one-time capital grant. Science City somehow met its operational and maintenance costs from its own revenues. It earned about Rs 19-20 crore annually through ticket sales and rentals. The convention centre on the premises is given out on rent. The annual expenditure was around the same figure with not much left for savings, A.D. Choudhury, the director-general of the National Council of Science Museums, said. The lockdown has hit the science centre hard and it is the first time it has had to ask for money from the government. “The NCSM is with the culture ministry…. We have asked for a special grant from the ministry. We had a discussion at a meeting of our governing body and we decided to send a proposal to the ministry asking for Rs 7.5 crore,” Choudhury said. “This is mainly to meet salary expenses and maintenance costs. Employees of Science City are employees of NCSM… they are government employees and as such should receive their salaries from the government. It is only that till now Science City generated enough funds to pay its staff… the government did not have to spend money.” Choudhury said Science City “was 100 per cent self-reliant” and that he regretted not having saved some money for such a rainy day. Inaugurated on July 1, 1997, Science City consists of two facilities, the Science Centre and the Convention Centre. The Science Centre complex comprises Space Odyssey, Dynamotion, Science Exploration Hall, Maritime Centre, Earth Exploration Hall and a sprawling Science Park. It has recorded a footfall of more than 29.90 million to date. It was set up on a plot that was once used to dump garbage. The Convention Centre complex comprises the main auditorium with a seating capacity of 2,232, a mini auditorium (seating capacity 392), a seminar hall complex consisting of 11 halls (seating capacity ranges from 15 to 100), an indoor (270sq m) and an open air exhibition ground (20,000sq m). The centre is a major destination for conventions, conferences, AGMs, trade exhibitions and cultural programmes from which Science City has so far generated a sizeable income. Science City, Kolkata, is one of the foremost science centres built by NCSM and it has been instrumental in setting up 25 science centres, including those in the Northeast states and Raipur, Ranchi, Dharwad, Puducherry, and Kottayam among others.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-323
02-09-2020||Business||Supreme Court gives partial relief on AGR||The Supreme Court has given telecom players 10 years to pay their balance adjusted gross revenue (AGR) dues in a staggered manner, instead of in one go. The apex court also directed the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) to decide within two months whether operators such as Reliance Communications (R-Com) and Aircel can resort to insolvency proceedings to avoid the payment of their dues and whether their financial creditors can lay claim over the dues to the government. The top court, which held that the demand raised by the Department of Telecom (DoT) in respect of the AGR dues will be final, said there shall be no dispute raised by the operators and that there shall not be any re-assessment. It said the operators shall make the payment of 10 per cent of the total dues as demanded by the DoT by March 31, 2021 and the rest amount to be paid in yearly instalments commencing from April 1, 2021 to March 31, 2031. A bench headed by Justice Arun Mishra said that in the event of any default in making the payment of annual instalments, interest would become payable according to the licence agreement along with penalty and interest on  penalty automatically without reference to the court. Besides, it would be punishable for contempt of court, it said. The bench, also comprising Justices S. Abdul Nazeer and M. R. Shah said that various companies through managing director/chairman or other authorised officer, will furnish an undertaking within four weeks, to make payment of arrears as per the order. The apex court had earlier raised scepticism over the insolvency proceedings raised in the NCLT by some of the operators as a “subterfuge” to avoid the payment of AGR and spectrum dues to the government. Dealing with the spectrum sharing done by various operators and to the liability of the sharing operator, the bench said that spectrum sharing is permitted and approved by the Sharing Guidelines dated September 24, 2015 and Parliament has approved spectrum sharing as part of “National Telecom Policy, 2012”. The bench, also gave a breather to Mukesh Ambani-led Reliance Jio, which has been sharing spectrum of  R-Com on the payment of AGR dues saying such operators sharing the spectrum cannot be saddled with the liability of the payment of the past dues of the licensee. The apex court considered the plea of the operators to pay over 20 years as too long. “The arrears have accumulated for the last 20 years. It is also to be noted that some of the companies are under insolvency proceedings, validity of which is to be examined, and they were having huge arrears of AGR dues against them.  For protecting the telecom sector, a decision has been taken on various considerations mentioned above, which cannot be objected to,” the Supreme Court said. “However, we consider that the period of 20 years fixed for payment is excessive. We feel that it is a revenue sharing regime, and it is grant of sovereign right to the TSPs (operators). under the Telecom Policy. “We feel that some reasonable time is to be granted, considering   the financial stress and the banking sector's involvement. We deem it appropriate to grant facility of time to make payment of dues in equal yearly instalments.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-300
02-09-2020||Business||Bharti Infratel clears Indus deal||The long delayed merger of Bharti Infratel and Indus Towers is finally going ahead with the board of the Bharti Airtel arm clearing the amalgamation. The deal will see Vodafone Idea selling its entire 11.15 per cent shareholding in Indus Towers for Rs 4,000 crore. Separately Vodafone Group Plc (Vodafone) also announced that it has agreed with Bharti Airtel and Vodafone Idea Ltd (Vodafone Idea) to proceed with the merger. The timely completion of the transaction is crucial for Vodafone Idea as it would allow the telco to offload stake and raise funds, which could be used to pay a portion of its adjusted gross revenue dues. In a regulatory filing to the bourses, Bharti Infratel said that at a meeting on August 31, its board took note of the scheme of arrangement between the two tower companies and the related agreements. Incorporated in November 2007, Indus Towers is a joint venture among the entities of Bharti Group, Vodafone Group and Vodafone Idea. The private equity firm Providence Equity Partners (Providence) also holds less than 5 per cent in the company. Bharti Airtel holds 33.57 per cent in Bharti Infratel, while its subsidiary Nettle Infrastructure has a stake of 19.94 per cent with the rest being held by the public. “After deliberations the board has decided to authorise the chairman to proceed with the scheme and to comply with other procedural requirements for completion of the merger, including approaching National Company Law Tribunal to make the scheme effective,’’ Bharti Infratel said. A statement from Vodafone Plc said it is likely to be issued 76 crore new shares in the combined company in exchange for its 42 per cent shareholding in Indus Towers. Providence has also elected to receive shares in the combined company in respect of its 4.85 per cent shareholding in Indus Towers, while Vodafone Idea has decided to sell its entire 11.15 per cent shareholding in Indus Towers for cash. Vodafone said it will hold close to 28.2 per cent in the combined entity while Bharti Airtel’s shareholding in Bharti Infratel would be diluted from 53.5 per cent to 36.7 per cent. “Bharti Airtel and Vodafone will jointly control the combined company. At the current market valuation of Bharti Infratel, Vodafone's stake in the combined company would have a value of approximately Rs 15,100 crore (euro 1.7 billion) and Vodafone Idea would receive approximately Rs 4,000 crore (euro 464 million) in cash upon completion,’’ it added. Vodafone said the final number of shares issued to it and Providence, and the cash paid to Vodafone Idea, will be based on agreed closing adjustments. It further said that the parties have agreed to a security package for the benefit of the combined company.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-300
02-09-2020||Business||Seal on RIL tower plan||A bunch of investors, including GIC — the sovereign wealth fund of Singapore —  and Brookfield Infrastructure Partners, have acquired a 100 per cent stake in a telecom tower company from a subsidiary of Reliance Industries Ltd for $3.4 billion (around Rs 25,000 crore). Announcing the deal, GIC said the investment comprises a portfolio of around 135,000 communication towers which forms Reliance Jio Infocomm Ltd’s (Jio) telecommunication network. GIC said the investors planned to buy more towers, increasing the number of towers in the transaction to around 175,000. GIC further disclosed that Jio is the anchor tenant of the tower portfolio under a 30-year master services agreement, which will provide the tower company with a secure, long-term source of revenue. The investors bought the stake from Reliance Industrial Investments and Holdings Ltd (RIIHL), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Reliance Industries Limited (RIL).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-300
02-09-2020||Business||Concern over Vodafone future||The telecom sector is set to witness a significant churn, with mobile tariffs going up while the impact on cash flows could result in the “collapse of Vodafone Idea” and the market could move towards a “duopoly,” analysts said. Bharti Airtel will have to cough up some Rs 2,600 crore and Vodafone Idea Rs 5,000 crore by March which, in turn, require average revenue per user (ARPU) of Bharti to increase 10 per cent and Vodafone Idea 27 per cent, according to estimates by brokerage firm Jefferies. According to an assessment by Motilal Oswal Financial Services, assuming an 8 per cent interest rate, Vodafone Idea will have to pay annually Rs 7,500 crore compared with Rs 3,900 crore by Bharti Airtel. Nitin Soni of Fitch Ratings told a television channel that the verdict will gradually lead to the “collapse of Vodafone Idea” and hasten the telecom market’s move towards a “duopoly”. “For 10 years, they will have to make a payment of $700-800 million a year. Vodafone Idea needs to invest in its infrastructure and renew its expiring spectrum in the upcoming auction, Soni said, adding, “It can forget about 5G.” “Either the promoters (of Vodafone Idea) must invest more funds in the company or there has to be another round of tariff hikes to ease out their liquidity position as they still owe a substantial part of their AGR dues," said Vipula Sharma, director, ratings, Brickwork Ratings. Meanwhile, counsel for Airtel Abhishek Manu Singhvi said the company may  file a curative petition. Singhvi said there was no doubt that there would be a review and curative petition as the spectrum usage charge (SUC) did not constitute AGR and this was a jurisdictional question to be addressed. The elimination of SUC in the liability could reduce the liability by one third, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-300
02-09-2020||Business||GST kitty down||The gross GST collection in August stood at Rs 86,449 crore, down from Rs 87,422 crore collected in July, the finance ministry said on Tuesday. The revenues for August are 88 per cent of the GST collected in the same month last year. In August 2019, Rs 98,202 crore was mopped up as Goods and Services Tax (GST). Rajat Bose, partner, Shardul Amarchand Mangaldas & Co, said: “The collections in August, though at 88 per cent of collections in August 2019, are still pretty decent, especially when you compare the dip in collections from July to August in 2019. The numbers seem to be stabilising and are expected to be in this range at an average for the next six months atleast.” Of the gross collection, Central Goods and Services Tax (CGST) is at Rs 15,906 crore, State Goods and Services Tax (SGST) Rs 21,064 crore, Integrated Goods and Services Tax (IGST) Rs 42,264 crore (including Rs 19,179 crore collected on import of goods) and cess Rs 7,215 crore, the finance ministry said. M.S. Mani, partner, Deloitte India, said: “These figures indicate that the collections are on the recovery path. It is expected that the collections trajectory in the coming months would enable it to reach the earlier year’s levels in a month or two.” The income tax authorities can share information with scheduled commercial banks, a move that would ease the lenders’ hassle of deciding TDS deductibility on various payments to their customers. In a notification dated August 31, the CBDT included “scheduled commercial banks” under Section 138 of Income Tax Act for sharing of information.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-300
02-09-2020||Business||Govt against waivers||The Centre on Tuesday virtually ruled out in the Supreme Court any waiver of interests on various loans. At the last hearing on August 26, the apex court had pulled up the Centre for its intransigence to clear its position on the waiver of interests on loans during the present pandemic crisis saying it was “interested only “in business” and “hiding behind the RBI” by ignoring the interests of common citizens. The matter which came up for brief hearing on Tuesday was adjourned till Wednesday by the bench. The court was dealing with a PIL filed by a UP-based businessman Gajendra Sharma which questioned the decision of banks to collected interest on the loans after the moratorium. In the affidavit while opposing any waiver of interest, the Centre has now pleaded: “A waiver of the interest on interest during moratorium would also be against the basic canons of finance..” “Any moratorium is transient by its very nature and has to end one day. Thus, the best interest of the economic health of the country, as well as that of the respective borrowers would be best served by paving the way for a more durable long-term solution of debt restructuring,” the affidavit said. The revival of the stressed borrowers is contingent upon debt restructuring of their loans and dues rather than on moratorium. It has referred to the RBI’s two circulars dated August 6, 2020, facilitating the revival of real sector activities and mitigating the impact on the ultimate borrowers by enabling lenders to grant concessions to borrowers for Covid-19- related stress. “This would enable lenders to implement individual resolution plans in respect of the loans having stress on account of the pandemic.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-300
02-09-2020||Business||TikTok caught in tit-for-tat||On most days, companies such as ByteDance, Microsoft, Walmart and Oracle are considered kings within their fields. But over the weekend, it became increasingly clear that they can also be something else: a set of pawns. The industry titans have been caught in an escalating tit-for-tat between the United States and China over the sale of the US operations of TikTok, the viral social media app owned by the Chinese internet company ByteDance. The sale was ordered in early August by President Trump, who said TikTok posed a national security threat because of its Chinese ties. For weeks, China was critical of Trump’s order but stayed quiet on what it would do about it. That allowed ByteDance and TikTok to pursue sale talks with potential bidders like Microsoft, Walmart, Oracle and others. Then over the weekend, Beijing threw the whole process for a loop when it updated its export control rules to include some of TikTok’s key technologies — a sign that the Chinese government could exert its authority to delay or scuttle any deal at the last minute. Now a blockbuster deal that had been set to be completed soon has become far more complicated, according to three people close to the talks. The two groups vying to buy TikTok’s US business — one is an alliance between Microsoft and Walmart, and the other is an offer led by Oracle — are discussing how to interpret China’s new rules and how to move forward, said the people, who were not authorised to speak publicly. At the same time, the bidders are honing drafts of their offers and tweaking them as part of the negotiation process, the people said. “Certainly this deal and high tech in general is now inherently politicised, and there’s no escaping it,” said Scott Kennedy, a China expert at the Center for Strategic and International Studies. “As long as the US and China have such low trust of each other, the way TikTok is being treated, and the way American companies may be treated in China, may become the new normal.” New York Times News Service||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-300
02-09-2020||Business||Big fall in GDP feared||Real GDP in the current fiscal is likely to shrink 10.9 per cent, State Bank of India’s research report – Ecowrap — has calculated after the country’s economy contracted a record 23.9 per cent in the April-June quarter. It estimates second quarter real GDP will decline in the range of (-)12 per cent to (-)15 per cent, while third quarter GDP is seen between (-) 5 per cent and (-) 10 per cent. The fourth quarter is expected to be in (-) 2 per cent to (-) 5 per cent range. The report said the country’s GDP growth plunged to 23.9 per cent in the first quarter of 2020-21 because of the nationwide lockdown imposed on March 25, 2020, in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic and is much worse than market and its estimates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-301
02-09-2020||Business||August factory activity up||The manufacturing sector expanded in August after four months of contraction as Covid restrictions were relaxed even though firms continued to cut jobs, a monthly survey indicated. The headline seasonally adjusted IHS Markit India Manufacturing Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI) rose from 46 in July to 52 in August, signalling an improvement in operating conditions across the manufacturing sector. In April, the index had slipped into contraction mode after remaining in the growth territory for 32 consecutive months. In PMI parlance, a print above 50 means expansion, while a score below that denotes contraction. “The rise in August’s manufacturing PMI is cold comfort when set against the extremely weak GDP data released on Monday. And with new coronavirus cases showing no signs of abating, we think the post-lockdown recovery will run out of steam,” Shilan Shah, senior India economist, Capital Economics, said. “August data highlighted positive developments in the health of the Indian manufacturing sector, signalling moves towards a recovery from the second quarter downturn,” Shreeya Patel, an economist at IHS Markit, said. “However, not all was positive in August, delivery times lengthened amid ongoing Covid-19 disruptions,” Patel said. Despite an expansion in new orders, job cuts  continued in the manufacturing sector. The relocation of employees following Covid-19 pandemic was often linked to the reduction in staff numbers. “Employment continued to fall despite  as firms struggled to find suitable workers," Patel said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-301
02-09-2020||Business||RBI steps pull down bond yields||Bond yields fell sharply and the rupee rallied 73 paise to breach the 73-mark against the dollar on Tuesday after the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) announced liquidity-boosting measures. Yields on the benchmark 10-year security fell below the 6 per cent level to end at 5.94 per cent — a rise of around 18 basis points over the previous close. Bond yields are inversely related to prices. At the inter-bank forex market, the domestic currency opened at 73.18 against the dollar and moved between 72.75 and 73.19. It finally finished at 72.87, up 73 paise from its previous close of 73.60. A weak greenback overseas and a positive trend in the equity markets supported the local currency, forex traders said. The dollar index, which gauges the greenback’s strength against a basket of six currencies, was trading 0.25 per cent lower at 91.91. The BSE Sensex closed 272.51 points, or 0.71 per cent, higher at 38900.80. The NSE Nifty advanced 0.73 per cent to settle at 11470.25. Foreign portfolio investors made net investments of Rs 486 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-301
02-09-2020||India||Parliament Question Hour: 'Unstarred questions' and answers in writing||Folowing the uproar over scrapping Question Hour in parliament for the coming session, the government has said it would allow "unstarred questions" - meaning written questions that will receive written responses, reported NDTV. The modification came shortly after the government's claim that that Question Hour was dropped only after discussions with opposition leaders and at the time, no one but Trinamool Congress's Derek O' Brien had objected. Pralhad Joshi, Minister for Parliamentary Affairs, speaking with NDTV, said that TMC's leader in the Lok Sabha, Sudip Bandopadhyay, has agreed to the move. "It is not good that after agreeing, leaders start saying in public that they don't agree," Joshi was quoted saying. The plan to drop Question Hour in the short parliament session that would begin on September 14 after a five-month gap, triggered a huge row, with various leaders accusing the government of stifling the voice of the opposition. With session timings cut down to roughly four hours a day, the government had done away with Private Members' business, the hour set aside for bills put up by MPs. The Zero Hour -- slotted for members to raise matters of public importance -- was limited to 30 minutes. The opposition's contention is that such a schedule gives them no opportunity to raise and discuss matters they consider important. Among the most vocal is Derek O'Brien, who has accused the government of "murdering democracy" in the name of coronavirus. Joshi said, "We discussed the option to drop the Question Hour and issued notification only after everyone agreed except Derek O'Brien. All senior members requested that it should be wound up as early as possible. "Rajnath Singh and I spoke to all the senior leaders. We spoke to all major and minor parties. Except Derek O'Brien, no one objected. Everyone said there is a pandemic situation, so we agree. Sudip Bandhopadhyay agreed. He is the leader of Trinamool Congress in the Lok Sabha," Mr Joshi added. The minister also said other opposition leaders like Congress's Ghulam Nabi Azad, Janata dal Secular chief HD Devegowda and Nationalist Congress Party's Sharad Pawar have agreed. But shortly after, Congress's Anand Sharma tweeted his reservations, calling the decision "arbitrary, shocking and undemocratic". "Delayed monsoon session of Parliament is one of special significance after the lockdown and phased unlocking. proposal to exclude Question hour is arbitrary, shocking and undemocratic. It is Members privilege and the very life of a session," another tweet read. Mr Azad and Congress's Adhir Ranjan Choudhury said they have written to the Rajya Sabha Chairman and the Lok Sabha Speaker not agreeing with the curtailing of the Question Hour.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-694
02-09-2020||India||Six chief ministers write to Centre on GST stand-off||Chief ministers of six non-BJP-ruled states, including Mamata Banerjee,  Pinarayi Vijayan and Arvind Kejriwal, have written to the Centre to remind it of its "constitutional" responsibilities in the stand-off over the Rs 2.35 lakh crore shortfall in GST compensation and financial relief (from the pandemic) due to states. The six CMS rejected the re-payment options - that states borrow to offset dues - and reminded the Centre it had a legal duty to reimburse states' loss of revenue in the first five years of the GST regime, reported NDTV on Wednesday. They said if states were to borrow then repayment schedules would place an extra burden on their finances. The Centre, they said, could take up this burden and pay back the loan by carrying forward GST cess collection past 2022. Apart from the chief ministers of Bengal, Kerala and Delhi, the others who also wrote to the Centre are Edappadi K Palaniswami (Tamil Nadu), K Chandrasekhar Rao (Telangana) and Bhupesh Baghel (Chhattisgarh). Banerjee wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, saying that depriving states of GST compensation was an "attempt to undermine federalism". She urged him not to belie the trust between the states and the Centre on the issue, reported PTI. Attorney General K.K. Venugopal's opinion that it is not the responsibility of the Centre to compensate the states for Goods and Services Tax (GST) shortfall during a pandemic "appears to be an act of subterfuge", Banerjee said in the letter. In the 41st meeting of GST Council on August 27, Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said that the COVID-19 pandemic is an "act of God" which has hit GST collection and ruled out paying compensation to states from its coffers. "On behalf of Bengal and other states, I sincerely urge you not to belie the trust between the States and the Centre on matters of GST which has been hailed globally as the finest example of cooperative federalism," Banerjee said. Banerjee asked Modi not to allow "an insufferable blow to the federalist polity of the nation" by depriving the states of the GST compensation. "I am deeply anguished by the Goods and Services Tax (GST) imbroglio which tantamounts to a betrayal of the trust and moral responsibility of the Government of India towards the states, violating the very premise of federalism. "This is a travesty and an abrogation of the fundamental basis on which the states gave up 70 per cent of their taxing powers, including the entire VAT regime, to usher in the GST regime," Banerjee said in the four-page letter. The "agreed formula" for giving up taxing powers was the promise of full compensation of shortfall in GST collection for five years, she said adding that the Centre is duty-bound to give compensation to the states. She reminded Modi that as the chief minister of Gujarat, he had opposed implementation of GST and the late BJP leader Arun Jaitley had stated that the saffron party did not trust the Centre in honouring compensation of GST losses to the states. "His words are ringing in our ears as we are losing trust on the BJP Government in the Centre, in honouring its solemn, promise of fully compensating GST losses to the states," Banerjee said. The Kerala Chief Minister said transferring obligation of GST compensation to states through borrowing was not in accordance with the spirit of understanding between Centre and states on this issue. Referring to Sitharaman’s comments, he said: "it may be kindly (noted) that revenue loss and expenditure pressures have been greater for the states". Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal wrote spoke of “ extremely onerous burden on states reeling under financial crisis due to shortfall in revenue collections and increased commitment of expenditure from Covid-19 response". He also noted that assurance of compensation to meet shortfall in collections was one of the pillars on which the entire GST edifice rested. As per the Centre's calculations, the compensation requirement of states in current fiscal would be Rs 3 lakh crore, of which Rs 65,000 crore would come from levy of cess. Out of the shortfall of Rs 2.35 lakh crore, the shortfall due to GST implementation is Rs 97,000 crore and the remaining is due to Covid-19 impact. The Centre has given two options to states -- to either borrow the entire Rs 2.35 lakh crore or borrow only Rs 97,000 crore through a special window, which would be provided by the RBI, to meet the revenue shortfall.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-694
02-09-2020||India||P Chidambaram asks to name donors of PM CARES fund||The PM CARES Fund, set up in March to deal with emergency situations like the Covid-19 pandemic, received Rs 3,076.62 crore in just five days of its formation, as per an account statement made public by the fund on Wednesday. The 'receipt and payment account' showed nearly Rs 3,075.85 crore as 'voluntary contributions', while Rs 39.67 lakh came as foreign contributions. It put the fund's closing balance as on March 31, 2020 at Rs 3,076.62 crore, after including interest income and deducting service tax on forex conversion. The fund started with an initial corpus of Rs 2.25 lakh, as per the account statement posted on the fund's official website. It also referred to "accompanying notes to the financial statements", but those were not made public on the website. Reacting to the account statement of the fund, Congress leader P Chidambaram said the auditors of the fund have confirmed that the fund received Rs 3,076 crore in just five days, but the "names of these generous donors will not be revealed". "The donee is known. The trustees of the donee are known. Why are the trustees afraid to reveal the names of the donors?," Chidambaram said. According to details posted on the website of the 'Prime Minister's Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations Fund (PM CARES Fund)', the fund consists "entirely of voluntary contributions from individuals/organisations and does not get any budgetary support". "During 2019-20 (from March 27-31, 2020), an amount of Rs 3076.62 crore has been collected under PM CARES Fund," it said. It further said this fund has been set up as a public charitable trust "keeping in mind the need for having a dedicated national fund with the primary objective of dealing with any kind of emergency or distress situation, like posed by the COVID-19 pandemic, and to provide relief to the affected". The fund generated a lot of interest immediately after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced its formation of the fund in the last week of March after the Covid-19 outbreak and appealed for donations, prompting several private firms, government bodies and individuals, including celebrities, to donate money. The Fund's objectives include undertaking and supporting relief or assistance of any kind relating to a public health emergency or any other kind of emergency, calamity or distress, either man-made or natural, including the creation or upgradation of healthcare or pharmaceutical facilities, other necessary infrastructure, funding relevant research or any other type of support, according to its website. The government has used a part of the money to buy medical equipment, including ventilators, to boost the battle against the Covid-19 and has also provided relief to migrants. Opposition parties have, however, criticised the Fund, claiming that its contributions and expenses are not transparent, a charge denied by the government. Last month, the Supreme Court had refused to direct the transfer of contributions made to the PM CARES Fund to the National Disaster Response Fund (NDRF). The top court had also ruled that at this need of the hour no exception can be taken to the constitution of a public charitable trust PM CARES Fund to have necessary financial resources to meet the emergent situation, adding this fund and the NDRF were entirely different funds with separate object and purpose. While Prime Minister is the ex-officio Chairman of the PM CARES Fund, the Minister of Defence, Minister of Home Affairs and Minister of Finance are its ex-officio trustees. The chairperson (Prime Minister) has the power to nominate three trustees to the board of trustees, who can be eminent persons in the field of research, health, science, social work, law, public administration and philanthropy. Also, any person appointed a trustee will act in a pro bono capacity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-694
02-09-2020||India||Govt bans 118 more mobile apps, including PUBG||PUBG Mobile, a wildly popular game in India, is among 118 more Chinese apps blocked by the government amid fresh tension over China's provocation in Ladakh, PTI and NDTV reported. The move was in the interest of India's sovereignty and integrity, defence and security, the government said in a statement. There are close to 33 million active PUBG players in India, according to reports. The game clocks some 13 million daily users, the website said. The banned apps include Baidu, Baidu Express Edition, Tencent Watchlist, FaceU, WeChat Reading and Tencent Weiyun, besides PUBG Mobile and PUBG Mobile Lite, according to an official statement. All these banned apps have Chinese links, sources said. The Centre had earlier banned a number of Chinese apps, including TikTok and UC Browser. "Government blocks 118 mobile apps which are prejudicial to sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of India, security of state and public order," the statement said. This move, it said, would safeguard the interests of crores of Indian mobile and internet users. It said the IT Ministry had received complaints from various sources, including several reports about the misuse of some mobile apps available on Android and iOS platforms, for stealing and surreptitiously transmitting users' data to servers outside India. "The compilation of these data, its mining and profiling by elements hostile to national security and defence of India, which ultimately impinges upon the sovereignty and integrity of India is a matter of very deep and immediate concern which requires emergency measures," said the statement. The home ministry's cybercrime centre had also recommended blocking these "malicious apps", the government said. The statement referred to bipartisan concerns flagged by various public representatives both in parliament and outside, adding that there had been a strong chorus in the public space to take strict action against apps "that harm India's sovereignty as well as the privacy of our citizens", said NDTV.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-694
02-09-2020||India||The trauma Ravi Shankar went through as a child||Anoushka Shankar has spoken candidly about how her father, Ravi Shankar, was sexually abused as a child. Anoushka, who will be reinterpreting some of her father’s music when she performs at the Proms at the Royal Albert Hall on Friday, said she had discussed with her mother, Sukanya, the abuse her father had suffered, before deciding it was important not to brush the issue under the carpet. Anoushka was talking to The Times, London, which referred to Oliver Craske’s “biography of Ravi, Indian Sun, which uncovered for the first time the sexual abuse that he suffered during his Bengali childhood. Craske discloses that the seven-year-old Ravi was raped by an ‘uncle’, and that the abuse carried on until his teens — something Ravi only revealed to his second wife, Sukanya, when he was in his seventies”. Anoushka did not shy away from discussing what her father had gone through. “My mum and I did go back and forward over whether to talk about it,” she told The Times. “Ultimately, though, it felt like such an important part of his story. I think it’s important to lift the veil on this stuff a bit more. It’s hard enough for an Indian woman to speak about abuse and assault. An Indian man? That you never hear about.” The sitar maestro died, aged 92, on December 11, 2012. Since he was born on April 7, 1920, there were plans to mark the centenary of his birth with a gala ceremony this year but this has been postponed because of the pandemic until April 7, 2021. The newspaper suggested that the abuse he had suffered as a child perhaps “sheds new light on Ravi’s extraordinary need for affection in his adult life: his liaisons with hundreds of women”. Anoushka responded: “Absolutely, though I always felt my dad had an unfair rap with that stuff. I obviously wouldn’t name people, but I’ve seen many musicians who had children on the side of their marriages, or have children they don’t acknowledge, or who have treated their partners horribly by having women in every city they tour. My father did things consensually with his partners. They were honest and comfortable about it. I find it so frustrating and hypocritical that someone like him, who was so open about his life, got a bad press when there are all these jerks around who just keep quiet about what they do.” The paper pointed out that Anoushka, who is 39, “has been through the mill these past three years. Her marriage to the film-maker Joe Wright broke up in acrimony — something she more than hints at by opening Bright Eyes, the finest song on her latest EP, Love Letters, with the words: ‘Does she feel younger than me as you’re lying in your bed?’ Then last year she had a hysterectomy and, with characteristic bravery, revealed all her feelings about it in a long post on Twitter beginning: ‘Why I no longer have a uterus, and why I decided to tell you’.” During Friday’s performance, which will be done without an audience, she intends devoting the first half revisiting her father’s music “but in an entirely new musical context. She has reworked many of Ravi’s classic tracks in conjunction with the electronic music artist Gold Panda”. “Basically took things from across the spectrum,” Anoushka explained. “A couple of his concertos, some tracks from his 1970s album Shankar Family and Friends, loads of bits and pieces that we love. And then presented the material in a different, more modern light, while still showcasing the beauty of his music. “I play a lot of my dad’s stuff, but I’ve never taken it apart and reinterpreted it in this way. It felt a bit cheeky, but also fun.” That Ravi Shankar was abused as a child by an unidentified “uncle” came as a surprise even to the London-based music producer Jay Visvadeva, who told The Telegraph: “I didn’t know about it until I read Oliver Craske’s book — and I had known Raviji from September 1970 until he died.” That the musician had many affairs was not a secret, though. “He was a wonderful man with many positive things in his life.” “But there were negative things, too,” added Visvadeva, chief executive and artistic director of Sama, an arts organisation with a 50-year track record. “His (first) wife and son suffered as a result of his infidelity.” It was not a surprise to him that Anoushka had been so frank in her interview: “She is also an icon and outspoken in her views.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-694
02-09-2020||India||Landslide traps over 1,000 pilgrims in Munsiyari||Over 1,000 people who had returned to their villages in Munsiyari of Pithoragarh district in Uttarakhand for a yearly religious ritual have got stranded for the past six days because of rain-triggered landslides. The residents of 13 villages leave home and stay with relatives in the plains during the monsoon months because rain and landslides cut off these areas, earning them the name of “migration villages”. However, they return for two days during this period for Nandashtami, or the worship of the Nanda Devi mountains. This time, the residents of the 13 villages, including Tolalwa, Bilju, Rilkot, Martoli, Burfu, Chhirkani, Ralam, Milam, Panchhu and Ganghar, had returned on August 25 for the two-day rituals that began the next day. Some people who began leaving the villages on August 26 itself after completing the rituals early informed the authorities in Pithoragarh that over 1,000 people would no longer be able to return as landslides had started. The residents mostly belong to the Johari tribe and are predominantly farmers. Pankaj Brijlal, the panchayat chief of Dummar village 40km downhill, said: “I got the message from some people who had left the villages immediately after the first day of the puja on August 26 that over 1,000 people wouldn’t be able to return because all connecting roads had been damaged because of rain and landslides. I have informed the local authorities and they have promised to repair the roads by Wednesday.” “I am in touch with the people trapped there over cell phone, although the connectivity is very poor,” he added. Mahesh Ram, an engineer in the public works department, said: “Labourers have been sent to repair and clear the routes and we hope that it will be done within two days.” Located in Chamoli district of Uttarakhand, Nanda Devi is the second highest mountain in India after Kanchenjunga.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-694
02-09-2020||India||Centre to send Covid teams to 4 states||The Union health ministry plans to deploy central medical teams to Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Odisha and Uttar Pradesh to help with containment, surveillance, testing and clinical management of the coronavirus disease amid a sudden surge and high mortality in these states. The health ministry said on Monday that each “multi-sectoral” team would also work with the state authorities to achieve early diagnosis and adequate follow-up of cases. Each “multi-sectoral team” will include an epidemiologist and a public health expert. The 7-day average daily new cases in all four states, among others, have increased over the past two weeks — from 475 on August 16 to 1,311 on August 30 in Chhattisgarh, 702 to 1,578 in Jharkhand, 2,018 to 3,201 in Odisha and 4,544 to 5,407 in Uttar Pradesh. The Covid-19 mortality rates in the four states are lower than India’s average of 1.78 per cent on Monday. The cumulative mortality rates are 0.9 per cent in Chhattisgarh, 1.1 per cent in Jharkhand, 0.5 per cent in Odisha and 1.5 per cent in Uttar Pradesh. The health ministry did not specify on Monday what it meant by “high mortality” in the four states. But health officials have earlier told The Telegraph that the ministry keeps track of changes in mortality and “immediately” alerts states when there are any increases. The ministry has said all states should aim to reduce the case fatality rate to less than 1 per cent. Public health experts view Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Odisha and Uttar Pradesh as among states where the Covid-19 epidemic for weeks lagged behind others such as Delhi, Gujarat, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu, but are now experiencing a surge in cases. “India has multiple Covid-19 epidemics — different geographical areas are in different phases of the epidemic,” said D.C.S. Reddy, a community medicine specialist and member of a Covid-19 task force on epidemiology and surveillance set up by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). The central government has been deputing its teams from time to time to visit various states to interact with local authorities and “get a first-hand understanding” of the challenges faced by them, the ministry said. The Centre had earlier deployed similar teams to Bihar, Gujarat, Maharashtra and Bengal, among other states. India on Monday recorded 78,512 new Covid-19 cases, raising the country’s total number to over 3.62 million, of whom over 2.77 million have recovered, 781,975 patients are under medical supervision and 64,469 have died.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-694
02-09-2020||India||There’s a hole in FaceBucket… So fix it, Dear Ravi, Dear Ravi…||Plug the leak, Dear Mark. Union information technology minister Ravi Shankar Prasad has written a 900-plus-word letter to Mark Zuckerberg, extending best wishes to the Facebook CEO and his family and lecturing him on the perceived political beliefs of the company’s employees. After beating about the bush like a true commissar, Prasad comes to the point: “The spate of recent anonymous, source-based reports is nothing but an internal power struggle within your company for an ideological hegemony. “No other logic can explain how facts are being spun by the selective leaks from within your company to try to portray an alternate reality. This interference in India’s political process through gossip, whispers and innuendo is condemnable. This collusion of a group of Facebook employees with international media is giving a free run to malevolent vested interests to cast aspersions on the democratic process of our great democracy.” The Wall Street Journal and Time Magazine had recently published reports naming Ankhi Das, Facebook’s public policy head for South and Central Asia, while reporting on how the social media giant had condoned hateful speeches of BJP leaders and how it had supported Narendra Modi’s campaign. Prasad, who is also Union law minister and a former information and broadcasting minister, wades into HR issues usually handled by company officials — not elected representatives, unless the area of operation happens to be North Korea. “It seems from credible media reports that the Facebook India team, right from the India Managing Director to other senior officials, is dominated by people who belong to a particular political belief. People from this political predisposition have been overwhelmingly defeated by the people of India in successive free and fair elections. After having lost all democratic legitimacy, they are trying to discredit India’s democratic process by dominating the decision-making apparatus of important social media platforms. Facebook is the latest tool in their arsenal to stoke internal divisions and social disturbances,” the minister wrote. The minister has not identified the media that purportedly published the “credible reports” about the domination of Facebook India by employees of a particular ideological slant. Such comments on a company’s staff should normally elicit a reply that politely seeks to convey “it is none of your business who we hire” but Zuckerberg so far has shown scant evidence of spine while dealing with strongman regimes. The irony is unlikely to escape Zuckerberg: In the US, his company is accused of siding with the Right wing. In India, the Right wing is accusing him of siding with the Left and worse. Prasad also did not explain why his party’s MP Nishikant Dubey split procedural hair and objected to the decision by a parliamentary panel to call Facebook. Since Prasad’s government has so many grievances against Facebook employees, the BJP should have been eager to grill Facebook in front of the House panel. In the letter to Zuckerberg, Prasad comes up with another gripe: Facebook employees are “abusing the Prime Minister and senior cabinet ministers”. The BJP leader’s letter does not mention specific instances of such abuse but merely says: “It is problematic when Facebook employees are on record abusing the Prime Minister and senior Cabinet Ministers of India while still working in Facebook India and managing important positions.” It is not clear why Prasad is taking such a benevolent step of writing a letter instead of sending law-enforcement agencies after those who allegedly abused the Prime Minister. Several such instances have been reported across the country when lesser mortals take out their anger on the Prime Minister. Prasad also alleged unfair practices against the BJP during the last general election. “I have been informed that in the run up to the 2019 General Elections in India, there was a concerted effort by the Facebook India management to not just delete pages or substantially reduce their reach but also offer no recourse or right of appeal to affected people who are supportive of the right-of-centre ideology. I am also aware that dozens of emails written to the Facebook management received no response. The… cases of bias and inaction are seemingly a direct outcome of the dominant political beliefs of individuals in your Facebook India team,” the minister wrote in the letter. Prasad alleged that “there have also been multiple instances recently where Facebook has been used by anarchic & radical elements whose sole aim is to destroy social order, to recruit people and to assemble them for violence”. “However, we are yet to see any meaningful action against such elements. Is this action also held back by the same vested interest groups who have an incentive in stoking political violence and instability in India?” the BJP leader said. Prasad claimed that Facebook had outsourced fact-checking to “shady organisations with no credibility”. He alleged that the fact-checkers “harbour publicly expressed political biases”. The minister had advice for Facebook. “As a transnational digital platform, Facebook must not only be fair and neutral, but also visibly seen to be so, to users of diverse beliefs and ideologies. Individuals working in any organisation may have their individual likes or dislikes, but that must not have any bearing on the public policies and performance of the organisation,” he wrote. Prasad signed off thus: “Facebook has been a novel experiment in democratising the expression of people and giving a platform to millions of ordinary citizens to freely express their views, connect, build communities, associate and communicate. I hope that you are cognisant that this experiment should not be allowed to be hijacked by a vested lobby that abhors free speech and tries to enforce one world view and rejects diversity.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-694
02-09-2020||India||Two rounds of face-off on India-China border||The Indian Army is now controlling key ridges on the southern bank of the Pangong Lake and has fortified its positions after the Chinese army attempted to alter the status quo “unilaterally” on Saturday night, sources in the defence ministry said on Tuesday. It also emerged during the day that there were two rounds of confrontation, not one, since Saturday night. An official statement from the Indian external affairs ministry mentioned two sets of offensive from the Chinese side, putting to rest the discrepancy in the dates mentioned in the versions put out by the two armies on Monday. The Chinese troops tried to change the status quo on the south bank of Pangong Tso — first “in the late night of 29th and on 30th August” and again on Monday when the ground commanders of the two sides were in discussion to deescalate the situation, the Indian foreign ministry said. In both instances, the Indian side, according to the ministry, was able to prevent the attempts by the Chinese troops to unilaterally alter the status quo. Defence ministry officials said the latest army operation led to the occupation of multiple ridges above 14,000 feet, which is said to have upset the People’s Liberation Army troops who tried to open a new front on the south bank of the lake but was foiled by the Indian soldiers. “The Indian Army has now occupied some key ridges near the southern bank of the lake and are controlling the heights and keeping a close watch on the PLA troops’ movements. The army has also fortified its positions there, which has upset them,” a ministry official said. There are indications that the occupation of the key ridges was done with an eye to drive a hard bargain during negotiations. The official added that the ridges that had been occupied are well within the Indian perception of the Line of Actual Control. “Our action is purely defensive and not offensive. It has been done considering the massive Chinese build-up on their side of the LAC in this particular zone,” he said. Even off the record, official sources in India have been maintaining that Indian troops are only occupying key ridges within this side of the LAC. But the line is not demarcated and border management often runs on perceptions. Sources in the security establishment said tension was simmering at multiple friction points in the region as the armies of the two countries had deployed additional men and machines, including artillery and missile systems. “It is boiling,” said an Intelligence Bureau official, adding that the brigadier-level talks that took place on Tuesday remained inconclusive. Accusing China of violating the understanding arrived at through a series of meetings to deescalate and disengage, India said the Chinese side was in breach of every single agreement and protocol with its provocative actions. Earlier in the day, the Chinese embassy in New Delhi accused Indian troops of violating the consensus reached in previous multi-level engagements and negotiations “again at the southern bank of the Pangong Tso Lake and near the Reqin Pass in the western sector of the China-India border”. Accusing India of “flagrant provocations”, the embassy said India’s move had grossly violated China’s territorial sovereignty and seriously flouted relevant agreements and protocols for peace and tranquillity in the border areas. In Beijing, Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Hua Chunying said: “Since the founding of the People’s Republic of China more than 70 years ago, we have never initiated a war or conflict, and never taken an inch of land that is not ours. In fact, China’s border troops have been strictly abiding by the LAC and they’ve never trespassed. The Indian side should respect facts and take concrete actions with the good will of preserving China-India relations, so as to jointly preserve peace and tranquillity of the border areas.” Asked about the counter-allegations coming out of the two capitals, Hua said: “What India said may differ from ours, but there’s only one simple truth.” The border standoff had started on the northern bank of the Pangong Lake with hand-to-hand skirmishes between the two armies on May 5, before it snowballed into a violent face-off on June 15 at Patrolling Point 14 in the Galwan Valley that killed 20 Indian soldiers and caused an unspecified number of Chinese casualties. Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Tuesday chaired a high-level meeting and took a comprehensive review of the security situation along the LAC. The meeting was attended by external affairs minister S. Jaishankar, national security adviser Ajit Doval, chief of defence staff Bipin Rawat, the tri-services chiefs and the director-general of military operations. Rajnath is leaving for Russia on Wednesday to attend the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) defence ministers’ meet on September 3. The Chinese defence minister will also take part in the meet. Sources in the defence ministry said no bilateral meeting with the Chinese was scheduled. Last week, India had pulled out of a multi-nation military exercise in Russia that included the People’s Liberation Army.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-694
02-09-2020||India||Allahabad HC quashes Kafeel Khan's detention||Allahabad High Court on Tuesday quashed the detention of Dr Kafeel Khan under the National Security Act (NSA) and ordered his immediate release, saying the Uttar Pradesh government had done a “selective reading” of his anti-CAA speech at Aligarh Muslim University. The medical doctor had called for national integrity and not incited violence, the court observed. Khan, a critic of the BJP governments at the Centre and in Uttar Pradesh, has been in jail since January. Although he was granted bail in February, the Aligarh district magistrate invoked the stringent NSA against him with the ratification of the Uttar Pradesh government and continued to keep him in jail. On Tuesday, quashing Khan’s detention order, the bench of Chief Justice Govind Marhur and Justice Saumitra Dayal Singh said: “A complete reading of the speech prima facie does not disclose any effort to promote hatred or violence. It also nowhere threatens peace and tranquillity of the city of Aligarh. The address gives a call for national integrity and unity among the citizens. The speech also deprecates any kind of violence. It appears that the district magistrate had selective reading and selective mention for few phrases from the speech ignoring its true intent.” The court was hearing a writ petition filed by Khan’s mother Nuzhat Parveen challenging the doctor’s detention against the NSA. Parveen had initially moved the Supreme Court, which transferred the case to Allahabad High Court. Khan had addressed students at AMU on December 12 last year during a protest against the Citizenship Amendment Act. The court noted that he had been arrested on the charges of “provoking religious sentiments” and attempting to “incite hatred, enmity and disharmony” to cause an “adverse impact on the harmony between the communities” and disturb public peace. The high court said Khan’s detention under the NSA after being granted bail by a competent court in February was illegal. A person can be held without trial for 12 months under the NSA. Khan is lodged in Mathura jail. Allahabad High Court said that a “causal link is found to be missing or completely broken” in the case. “In the absence of any material indicating that the detainee continued to act in a manner prejudicial to public order from December 12, 2019, up to February 13, 2020 (when Khan was booked under the NSA), or that he committed any such… further act as may have had that effect, the preventive detention order cannot be sustained,” the court said. The court added: “In fact, the grounds of detention are silent as to public order at Aligarh being at risk of any prejudice in February 2020 on account of the offending act attributed to the detainee on the date December 12, 2019. “What remains is a mere apprehension expressed by the detaining authority without supporting material on which such apprehension may be founded.” The court noted that Khan had during the AMU speech said that “Mota Bhai” — elder brother in Gujarati and a term sometimes used to refer to Amit Shah and Narendra Modi — wanted to see people either as Hindu or Muslim, that crores would be spent to send people to detention centres and that the healthcare system had broken down. The court noted that Khan had said “they talk about shamshaan-kabristan, Ali-Bajrang Bali, your Kashmir, Ram Mandir, CAB, NRC. They don’t talk about the promise that they made for 2 crore jobs per year. They don’t talk about giving Rs 15 lakh to us as earlier said by them. The economy is doomed, small businessmen are ruined.” Explaining why Uttar Pradesh chief minister Adityanath had targeted him, Khan had said: “The talk about nationalism is actually pseudo-nationalism, on the basis of pseudo-Hinduism only.” The court said Khan was given a compact disk containing his speech at AMU for him to prepare his representation but no player was made available. “The grounds for detention along with material were supplied to the detainee in light of Clause (5) of Article 22 of the Constitution, enabling him to submit his representation to the competent authorities at the earliest. The material so given was a compact disk of the speech delivered by Dr Kafeel Khan on 12th December, 2019, at Bab-e-Syed gate of Aligarh Muslim University. On asking, it is conveyed to us that no transcript of the speech was supplied to the detainee. The non-supply of transcript would have been of no consequence if a device would have been supplied to the detainee to play the compact disk. It is the position admitted that no such device was made available to the detainee,” the court noted. The court observed that the orders extending Khan’s detention were never given to him. “The record shown to us and the pleadings of the petition also refer that only radiograms relating to the decision of the state government for extension of the term of detention were supplied to the detainee,” it said. “The radiograms mention that the actual order shall be sent through speed post but in fact nothing except the radiograms were given to the detainee.” The court added: “In light of the discussion above, we are having no hesitation in concluding that neither the detention of Dr Kafeel Khan under the National Security Act, 1980, nor the extension of the detention are sustainable in the eye of law,” it said. The Uttar Pradesh government had in August extended Khan’s detention under the NSA by three months, saying that an advisory council had noted in its report that there were “enough reasons” to keep him in jail. “The order of detention dated 13th February, 2020, passed by the district magistrate, Aligarh, and confirmed by the state of Uttar Pradesh is set aside. The extension of the period of detention of… Dr Kafeel Khan is also declared illegal. A writ in the nature of habeas corpus is hereby issued to release Dr Kafeel Khan… from State custody forthwith,” the court said on Tuesday. Khan had earlier been arrested in 2017 following the deaths of children at Gorakhpur’s Baba Raghav Das Medical College because of lack of oxygen cylinders. Khan had been the nodal officer of the 100-bed encephalitis ward of the medical college. It later emerged that the company that had been assigned to ensure uninterrupted supply of liquid oxygen had disrupted delivery because of non-payment of dues by the state government. Khan and nine other doctors and staff members of the hospital had been arrested and later granted bail. An Uttar Pradesh government committee had later absolved Khan of any wrongdoing. The doctor had then alleged that chief minister Adityanath did not like him because he had spoken the truth about the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-694
02-09-2020||India||Sangh overdrive on Pranab Mukherjee||Prime Minister Narendra Modi, home minister Amit Shah, BJP president J.P. Nadda and RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat showered rich tributes on Pranab Mukherjee, seeking to project his death as their loss, betraying an effort to appropriate the legacy of yet another Congress leader. Modi posted a series of tweets on Monday and Tuesday with the highlight being a photograph of him touching Pranab’s feet. Shah, back from hospital after an extended stay for post-Covid care, tweeted in Bengali and English and put out a video in Hindi. Bhagwat issued a statement in Hindi and English, in addition to a video message. He described Pranab’s death as an “irreparable loss to the Sangh (RSS)” and said the former President was “like a guide to the RSS”. The excessive showering of praise and the effort to appropriate his legacy is being seen in power corridors as aimed at the Bengal polls next year. Shah’s tweets in Bengali hailed Pranab as a “loved son of Bengal”. However, the calculated effort to appropriate Pranab had started while he was still in Rashtrapati Bhavan when Modi would flaunt his special bond with the President. Bhagwat, too, paid a number of visits to Rashtrapati Bhavan. The Modi government in 2019 conferred the highest civilian honour Bharat Ratna on Pranab and has now declared a weeklong mourning for the lifelong Congress leader. The BJP has in the past virtually appropriated the legacy of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, who worked closely with Jawaharlal Nehru, by accusing the Nehru-Gandhi family of sidelining Patel. Modi used the allegation to play on Gujarati pride and reap political dividend during his stint as Gujarat chief minister. That Patel as home minister had banned the RSS is quietly brushed under the carpet. On Monday, when Pranab passed away, and on Tuesday, when he was cremated, the BJP appeared to be in a rush to leave the Congress behind in paying tribute to the former President. “I was new to Delhi in 2014. From Day 1, I was blessed to have the guidance, support and blessings of Shri Pranab Mukherjee,” Modi tweeted, with a picture of himself touching Pranab’s feet and also holding his hand. The tweets by Modi and other BJP leaders repeatedly addressed him as “Bharat Ratna”. The Congress tweets did not. Shah on Tuesday posted a picture of himself standing to pay respect to Pranab during a cabinet meeting to express “profound sorrow”. “For decades, former President, Bharat Ratna Shri Pranab Mukherjee ji worked relentlessly towards strengthening the nation,” he tweeted. Nadda wrote: “He has served the country in many roles with diligence and determination.” Bhagwat said: “It will not be easy to fill the void in the politico-social life of Bharat. He was a guide for us because of his care & interest about the Sangh.” Modi and many of his ministers went to Pranab’s residence to pay their respects. The Congress was far quieter in its mourning. It posted videos of Pranab, spanning his life, and of senior party leaders remembering him. Party president Sonia Gandhi, in a letter to Pranab’s daughter Sharmistha, wrote: “Pranabda had been such an integral and prominent part of national life, the Congress party and the central government over five decades, it is hard to imagine how we can do without his wisdom, experience, sage advice and deep understanding of so many subjects.... The Congress party de-eply mourns his loss and will always honour his memory.” Former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh said in a statement: “I have learnt with profound sorrow about the passing away of Shri Pranab Mukherjee, former President of India. In his death, our country has lost one of its greatest leaders of Independent India. He and I worked very closely in the Government of India and I depended on him a great deal for his wisdom, vast knowledge and experience of public affairs.” Rahul’s tweet was less personal. “With great sadness, the nation receives the news of the unfortunate demise of our former President Shri Pranab Mukherjee. I join the country in paying homage to him,” he wrote. But before bowing in front of a portrait of the departed President to pay his last respect on Tuesday, Rahul took off his shoes. Modi did not.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-695
02-09-2020||India||Drug money use slur on BJP||Former Karnataka chief minister H.D. Kumaraswamy has triggered a war of words by alleging that drug money helped the BJP topple the coalition government he helmed until a year ago. Still smarting from the pain of the way 17 of the coalition MLAs quit and joined rival BJP to destabilise his government in July last year, Kumaraswamy on Monday said ill-gotten money from “cricket betting networks, dance bars and drug mafia funded the defections” since he had cracked down on them. “During my tenure some of them (main drug peddlers) had fled to Sri Lanka as they knew we would get them,” he said accusing the BJP government of not doing anything to follow up on his work. What triggered the comment was the busting of three hangouts of drug peddlers by the Narcotics Control Bureau on August 21. The bureau had unearthed evidence about some film actors being regular customers of the peddlers. This made film producer and journalist Indrajit Lankesh, brother of slain journalist Gauri Lankesh, to come up and record his statement before the central crime branch about the widespread use of drugs among actors and others in the Kannada film industry. He had even provided video evidence of a top actress under the influence of drugs misbehaving at a gathering. Home minister Basavaraj Bommai had then said the government would take Indrajit’s revelations very seriously. State medical education minister and one of the 17 turncoats, K. Sudhakar, challenged Kumaraswamy’s claim. “Now that he has made such a serious allegation, the former chief minister must produce evidence to support his claim. If he does, I will resign. Or else he must retire from politics,” Sudhakar told reporters on Tuesday. After defecting from the Congress in June last year, Sudhakar has gained in prominence with chief minister B.S. Yediyurappa putting him in charge of the Covid-19 operations since he is a doctor. State BJP president Nalin Kumar Kateel on Monday tweeted: “Central and state governments are working hard to dismantle the drug network. Our home minister has issued directives to the police department to dismantle the drug network.” Congress spokesman V.S. Ugrappa echoed Kumaraswamy’s allegations and said illegal casinos were running in the state. “It is a fact that the BJP brought down our coalition government using money power to buy our lawmakers, and that money was sourced from these illegal activities of anti-socials and criminals,” Ugrappa told The Telegraph. “On and off we hear some illegal gambling den being raided and crores of rupees seized. This only shows that the BJP government has turned a blind eye to the illegal activities,” he said. Ugrappa said illegal gambling dens usually run from licensed “recreation clubs”. “Many of them turn gambling dens for anti-socials,” he added. Soon after taking over as chief minister of the coalition government of the Janata Dal Secular-Congress alliance in 2018, Kumaraswamy had instructed the state police to crack down on the mafia involved in drugs, betting and illegal dance bars in the state. But nothing much came out of that investigation despite Kumaraswamy’s earnest efforts. When the BJP went poaching to get sufficient lawmakers to topple the coalition government, many who had rejected the party’s offers had released audio clips showing how Yediyurappa allegedly offered money and power to the turncoats.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-695
02-09-2020||India||Rahul slams Facebook ‘assault’ on democracy||Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday accused Facebook and WhatsApp of a “brazen assault” on India’s democracy and social harmony, asserting that no foreign company could be allowed to interfere in the nation’s affairs. A day after the Congress sought a criminal investigation against Facebook, claiming that expecting any corrective measure from its top global authorities was futile as the nexus with the BJP ran deep, Rahul tweeted: “International media have fully exposed Facebook’s & WhatsApp’s brazen assault on India’s democracy & social harmony. No one, let alone a foreign company, can be allowed to interfere in our nation’s affairs. They must be investigated immediately & when found guilty, punished.” The Wall Street Journal and Time magazine have been publishing reports on how Facebook had condoned hate posts of BJP leaders and pro-Hindutva Right-wingers, and how the American company had aided Narendra Modi’s electoral campaigns. Sharing a complaint letter law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad has written to Facebook CEO Zuckerberg, Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala tweeted: “If Modi Govt has an iota of credibility, why doesn’t it agree to a JPC (joint parliamentary committee) probe into the shameless collusion between Facebook India & BJP. Why are u running scared? Why are u giving cover fire to guilty? Why protect the colluders? Where is the 56’ chest? The Congress on Wednesday issued a statement saying: “The BJP has been on a mission to subvert India’s democracy and harmony from the time they came to power in 2014. Dismantling democratic institutions and undermining their authority is but second nature to them. Using all means available to them, a recent investigative article by reputed international media reveals, the BJP has gone above and beyond to propagate their agenda. The BJP is found to have availed the services of social media platforms to deceive the Indian public.” The statement added: “The aim of the BJP is ‘divide and rule’ and the social media giant Facebook is helping them achieve this. Casting aside democratic principles, the BJP is attempting to rule the nation by manipulating and coercing public opinion. The blasphemous nexus between the BJP and Facebook is for all to witness and must be investigated without delay.” Pointing to the WSJ and Time reports, the Congress said: “Facebook India and WhatsApp have been used to fire Modi and BJP’s social media campaign, spread hate and disharmony within India and more. From Facebook India’s head of public policy, Ankhi Das’s collusion with the BJP even before the 2014 Lok Sabha elections, to Facebook’s inaction to pull down pages, posts that fuel communal hatred and fake news, the link between the two seems stronger than ever. Moreover, Facebook’s global leadership has been aware of the biases and partisanship but remained willing participants, proving that the unholy nexus between BJP-FB has hit the nerve centre of our nation’s democratic functioning.” The statement has pointed to a news report alleging that Facebook had pulled down pages on the BJP’s complaints in the run-up to the 2019 Lok Sabha elections but refused to act on incendiary uploads by the RSS ecosystem. “The BJP had flagged 44 rival pages to Facebook and 14 were pulled down,” the Congress statement claimed. The pages flagged by the BJP are the official accounts of the Bhim Army, the satire site We Hate BJP and a page called The Truth of Gujarat that shares mostly Alt News fact checks. The Congress had on Monday sought a criminal investigation into the affairs of Facebook India. Earlier, the party had written twice to Zuckerberg warning of legal action and urging him to overhaul the company’s India leadership. Asserting that it was no more a political or partisan matter, the Congress on Monday broadened the scope of its demand by asking for an inquiry by a parliamentary standing committee on information technology into the activities of all heads of public policy teams of foreign technology companies operating in India and establish a code of conduct for them. The Congress feared that its letters to Zuckerberg might turn out to be an exercise in futility as the Facebook headquarters had not acted despite full knowledge of its India team’s biases against the Opposition party and alignment with the BJP. The Congress had said in a statement: “India is a sovereign republic and simply cannot tolerate interference in its domestic affairs by anyone, let alone a foreign company in pursuit of profits. The founders and leaders of the Congress party sacrificed their lives to win India her freedom and to establish India as a democratic republic. We will not allow this hard-won democracy to be manipulated and tarnished.” Apart from a criminal investigation, the Congress also demanded a joint parliamentary committee investigation immediately. “All pending approvals and licences for Facebook and WhatsApp to be put on hold until the investigations are completed. Suspension of Facebook India’s leadership team with immediate effect until the conclusion of the investigations,” the statement said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-695
02-09-2020||India||Konark Sun Temple opens for visitors||The 13th Century Sun Temple at Konark, which has been closed since March 15, reopened for tourists on Tuesday. However, tourists need to adhere to the Covid-19 guidelines like wearing masks and maintaining social distance while entering and moving around in the temple premises. Only 2,500 tourists will be allowed to enter the premises on any given day. ASI (Bhubaneswar circle) chief Arun Mallik said, “There has been a good response. Some tourists visited the temple after thermal screening. We are hopeful that more and more tourists visiting the temple in the coming days.” According to the guidelines, there will be designated routes for entry and exit and movement within the monument. “As per the guidelines, there are mandatory hand hygiene and thermal screening provisions to be followed at the time of entry. An entry ticket is issued by e-mode only,” Mallik said. Though the Sun Temple opened to tourists on Tuesday, the 12th century Shree Jagannath Temple in Puri is yet to allow devotees. All the religious institutions will remain closed in the state till September 30. Even the famous cremation ground, Swargadwara in Puri, will remain shut down for the outsiders till September end, according to the order of the district administration.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-695
02-09-2020||India||Orissa High Court nod for Cuttack’s oldest Durga Puja    ||The Orissa High Court has allowed Balu Bazaar Puja Committee, the oldest puja committee of the 1,000-year-old Cuttack city, to organise Durga Puja but without public participation and with strict adherence to Covid-19 guidelines. The committee has been organising the puja for more than 500 years now. Here the puja was started by one Banerjee family from Bengal who had come to the state along with saint Chaitanya Deb from Bengal in the 15th Century. Advocate Anirudha Sanganeria, who pleaded the case on behalf of the committee, told The Telegraph, “We had moved a PIL urging the court to allow us to organise the puja. We also cited how the Puri Rath Yatra was held peacefully without the participation of devotees. Considering our plea, the High Court bench headed by chief justice permitted us to hold the puja. However, they have directed us to organise the puja without any public participation.” Sanganeria said the high court also wanted to know where we will make idols. “When we informed the high court that the idols will be crafted inside the premises of a temple and there will be no congregation of people, the court no more objected to our plea. The immersion of idols will also be held without participation of devotees.” However, the high court asked the puja committee to follow all the guidelines pertaining to the Covid-19 issued by the state as well as the Centre from time to time. The Balu Bazaar Puja Committee has a rich history of Durga Puja. President of the Balu Bazar Puja Committee Suryakanta Sanganeria said, “The puja was first organised in 1509 by one Banerjee family which had come along with saint Chaitanya Deb from Nabadwip to Odisha in early 15th Century. During their sojourn here, the Durga Puja time came and the Banerjee family approached the people of Cuttack for their cooperation. People had overwhelmedly supported the move and the idol puja began. Even when famine gripped Odisha in 1865-66, the puja was not stopped. It was not stopped even during the Spanish flu of 1919.” The silver city Durga Puja is famous for its extravagance and the amount of silver and gold used to decorate the idols. This time Durga Puja is scheduled to be held from October 21. Nearly 169 pandals are erected every year in the city during the Durga Puja. Cuttack Peace Committee vice-president Nrusingha Charana Choudhury said: “We are aware of the corona pandemic. We have already a round discussion with the Cuttack district administration. They have agreed to allow us to conduct the puja. But the puja will be held without public participation. There will be no distribution of prasad and there will be no decoration.” Choudhury said, “Following the high court order, another meeting will be held by the state administration to issue fresh guidelines regarding the puja. Whatever guidelines the government will issue, we will follow them in letter and spirit.” Sources said the administration will insist upon puja committees not making idols higher than five feet. Police commissioner, (Bhubaneswar-Cuttack) Sudhansu Sarangi said, “There will be no decoration, music and other cultural programmes this year during durga puja.  We will allow only 10 people inside the mandap (pandal) during the puja. If we allow more people, there is a chance of contamination. We will not allow the congregation of people in the Puja mandap. We will issue fresh guidelines after detailed discussion with the various stakeholders including public representatives.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-695
02-09-2020||West Bengal||TMC MP writes to Mark Zuckerberg, alleges Facebook bias towards BJP||The Trinamool Congress has written to Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg to raise the issue of alleged bias of the social media giant towards the BJP, and claimed that there is enough evidence in the public domain to substantiate this charge.  Party MP Derek O'Brien, who has written the letter to Zuckerberg, also refers to an earlier meeting between the two, where some of these concerns were raised.  Sources in the party said that O'Brien met Zuckerberg in Delhi during October 2015.  "We, the All India Trinamool Congress (AITC), India's second-largest opposition party, have had serious concerns about Facebook's role during the 2014 and 2019 general elections in India," O'Brien wrote in the letter dated August 31, accessed by the PTI.  "With the elections in the Indian state of West Bengal just months away, your company's recent blocking of Facebook pages and accounts in Bengal also points to the link between Facebook and the BJP. There is enough material now in the public domain, including internal memos of senior Facebook management, to substantiate the bias," he wrote.  The Rajya Sabha MP also informed the CEO of Facebook that the matter was raised by the party in Parliament in June last year.  "This was done during the discussion on the Motion of Thanks to the President's Address. We are enclosing the relevant portion (video) of that Parliamentary speech, along with this letter.  "We were optimistic that the issues and concerns we raised on the floor of Parliament 14 months ago would empower other political parties and the media to also address this substantive issue, he said in the letter. "The recent series of articles that appeared in the BBC, Wall Street Journal, Reuters, Time Magazine and others, vindicate our stand,” he added.  O'Brien also states that he had met Zuckerberg a few years ago and expressed his concerns over some of these issues and urged him "in the interest of transparency, to investigate these serious charges against Facebook's senior management in India".  "Please do all it takes to urgently work towards maintaining the integrity of your platform in the Indian electoral process," the letter states.  Earlier, the Congress party had written to Zuckerberg, demanding a probe into the alleged bias and interference of the social media giant's India leadership team in the country's electoral democracy, even as the BJP had taken a swipe at the opposition party, saying any organisation that does not work to its liking is accused of acting under BJP-RSS pressure.  A massive political row broke out after a report by the Wall Street Journal (WSJ) last week alleged that senior Facebook executives had opposed applying hate speech rules to posts by certain BJP leaders.  Last month, a Facebook spokesperson had said, "We prohibit hate speech and content that incites violence and we enforce these policies globally without regard to anyone's political position or party affiliation.  "While we know there is more to do, we're making progress on enforcement and conduct regular audits of our process to ensure fairness and accuracy,” they said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-391
02-09-2020||West Bengal||Plywood unit shuts, owner blames trade union  ||The management of a plywood factory in Dhupguri block of Jalpaiguri announced suspension of work on Monday evening, alleging that some local trade union leaders of Inttuc, the workers’ front of Trinamul, were creating problems in the unit and asking money from them at regular intervals. This is the second time in the past three months that the factory has shut. The trade union leaders have denied the charges and said the management’s decision has left around 800 workers jobless. Sources said on Tuesday morning, when the workers arrived at the unit, they found the notice of suspension of work at the entrance. Sattar Ali, who owns the factory, said some Inttuc leaders of the area were trying to extort money from him. “In the name of trade union activities, they often ask us for money. We have paid them on some occasions but this trend has to stop. Also, these leaders resort to protests on flimsy grounds. This affects regular activities at the factory. That is why we are forced to take such a decision,” said the owner. Azizul Rehman, an Inttuc leader of the area, brushed aside the charges. “The management’s allegations are baseless. We have our trade union’s unit in the plywood factory and the workers are with us. But we have never asked for any money from the management,” Rehman said. “Basically, the management does not want to pay bonus to workers ahead of Durga Puja. That is why they have taken this decision,” the trade union leader added. Both the management and union leaders are, however, trying to resolve the issue and have sought the intervention of district Inttuc leaders of Jalpaiguri. “We want the factory to reopen at the earliest. There are certain differences among the management and the local trade union leaders that led to the situation. We will hold talks with them and hope to resolve the issues,” said a senior Inttuc leader in Jalpaiguri. A source said that in June this year, the management had shut the factory. It reopened on July 1 after talks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-391
02-09-2020||West Bengal||Ghani’s kin recall Pranab ||Members of Kotowali, the ancestral home of Congress stalwart A.B.A. Ghani Khan Choudhury’s family, offered prayers in memory of Pranab Mukherjee on Tuesday. As party supporters and family members turned up, the discussion veered towards the former President’s special bond with the first political family in the district. Mukherjee died on Monday, Khan Choudhury, who was a few years older, in 2006. In their heydays, Khan Choudhury and Mukherjee — both from Bengal and central ministers — had political rivalries and belonged to different camps, but Kotowali residents said they could not recall a single instance of public altercation between them. “I had always seen that Pranab Mukherjee, whom I addressed as Pranab Mama (maternal uncle), had respect for Barkat Mama (Khan Choudhury). They used to discuss politics and other national and state affairs whenever they got the chance to meet,” recalled Mausam Benazir Noor, Trinamul Rajya Sabha MP and resident of Kotowali House. Mukherjee did have bitter memories from Malda as in 1977, he lost Lok Sabha polls from the district. But the defeat didn’t come in the way of his intimate relationship with Malda and Khan Choudhury. “Even on a brief visit to the district, Pranab Mama used to visit Kotowali. He was equally keen to meet Barkat Mama and all his relatives, including my mother Rubi Noor. Pranab Mama used to consider my mother as his sister. The demise of my mother had made him extra protective of me, and after I became MLA and MP consecutively, he volunteered to teach me the norms of Parliament...His death is a personal loss,” Noor said. She added the family organised a small prayer in Mukherjee’s memory. Isha Khan Choudhury, a Congress MLA and nephew of Ghani Khan, said Mukherjee was accessible to Kotowali people even after becoming the President. “My uncles, my father and aunt, all were very dear to him.... People used to tell us about the rivalry between him and my uncle, but we never felt anything like that in his behaviour,” Isha said. He added that Hasem and Naser, Khan Choudhury’s brothers, were also shocked by Mukherjee’s demise. Like Malda, residents neighbouring Murshidabad district also recalled memories of Mukherjee, who was elected from Jangipur in the Lok Sabha elections. From 2004 to 2012, he managed to bring in institutions to the area, including the Murshidabad campus of Aligarh Muslim University, a management institute, a regional passport office, an army recruitment office, an office of the Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation and a number of branches of nationalised banks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-391
02-09-2020||West Bengal||School displays memorabilia||Pranab Mukherjee’s alma mater — Kirnahar Shibchandra High School — made an exception on Tuesday and kept its doors open for visitors to visit the museum inside the school with memorabilia giving a peep into the former President’s life. “Pranabbabu was our renowned alumnus and pride of our area. As many local people wanted to visit the museum, we decided to open it today (Tuesday),” said Amit Kumar Bhattacharya, president of the school managing committee. The school had remained closed ever since the lockdown in March. “The museum was closed since the lockdown. This is the first time we opened it today (Tuesday),” said Prabhakar Bandopadhyay, English teacher and alumnus of the school, who along with security guard Dhananjoy Ghosh took care of visitors. When miles away Mukherjee was being consigned to flames at the New Delhi’s Lodhi Road crematorium in New Delhi, people in Kirnahar, Parota and Nimre remembered their very own Poltuda, Kakababu or Mamababu as they saw exhibits at the museum. Hundreds turned up to pay floral tributes at the portrait kept at the Mukherjee ancestral home in Mirati. At the school museum, which Mukherjee had inaugurated in 2013, people looked at the photographs of the register with his name, his admission book and exam results. Apart from pictures of personal testimonials, Mukherjee had gifted the museum hundreds of mementos and certificates he had received in his political and administrative career spanning over four decades. The museum was set up at the request of the school authorities as they had wanted to preserve for posterity the memorabilia of their renowned alumnus, who had helmed many key Union ministries before becoming the President of India. Moving from one exhibit to another, Subhajit Das, a Class X student of the school, said: “I heard he (Mukherjee) was a student of our school. I came here with my two friends to revisit the museum and see his photographs and awards.” Parjanya Bandopadhyay, an alumnus and now a student of Visva-Bharati, said: “I was a student when I saw him inaugurating the museum in 2013.” Eighty-two-year-old Sitansu Ray, a year junior to the former President in his school and Suri Vidyasagar College, reflected on his association with “Pranabda”. “Pranabda’s talents were multifaceted. I saw him participate in debates on political history and the history and contribution of National Congress when he was a student of Class VIII. He never stood first in his class but there was no one who could defeat him in debate,” said Ray, a retired professor of Rabindra Sangeet in Visva-Bharati now settled in Santiniketan. It was the young Mukherjee’s duty to collect the newspaper from the railway station as no vendor supplied it at his home in Mirati, Ray said. “Pranabda used to read the newspaper while walking on the mud road. I used to tell him that his habit could lead to an accident, but his argument was that he also had an eye on the road,” said Ray. “I met Pranabda in 2012 for lunch in Uttarayan complex when he had come for the convocation (of Visva-Bharati). He used to call me Situ and that day he jocularly said — tumi to chul sab pakiye felle (you’ve turned all your hair grey).” In 2013, Ray learnt that the President (Mukherjee) had nominated him as a member of the selection committee of BHU. “I never imagined that he would nominate me,” Ray said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-391
02-09-2020||West Bengal||Delhi calls Saumitra after row with Dilip ||The news of Bengal BJP’s recent internal row over the selection of office-bearers for the party’s youth wing has reached Delhi. Saumitra Khan, the state chief of the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha, has received a call to the capital for a meeting with the party’s national leaders. Multiple sources in the state BJP confirmed that national leaders were unhappy with the row between Khan and Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh over the formation of the state committee of the youth wing. “I’ve been called to Delhi by Kailashji and Shivprakashji. They want to inquire about the new committee in detail,” Khan told The Telegraph. Kailash Vijayvargiya is the BJP’s national general secretary and in-charge for Bengal, while Shivprakash is the party’s national joint general secretary (organisation). Since June, when Khan assumed office as state president of the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha, he and Ghosh have been at loggerheads over forming the new state committee of the youth wing, with both pushing for candidates of their choice. “The bitterness peaked over the selection of two general secretaries of the youth wing... The candidate for the general secretary post for north Bengal was chosen by the RSS, which left both the leaders fighting over the general secretary South Bengal’s post,” a source close to Khan said. Then, last week, Khan was forced, after a prod from Ghosh, to remove a list of district presidents of the youth wing that he had circulated on social media. Ghosh had said publicly that the final call on the list was his prerogative as the state party president. “Saumitrada followed Dilipda’s instruction then, but it didn’t go down well with him. He is going to express his discontent in front of national leaders,” the source added. Ghosh said he was not aware of Khan’s trip to Delhi. “Meetings of the parliamentary standing committees are being held. Many of our MPs are in Delhi,” Ghosh added quickly. Party sources said that much should not be read into Khan’s Delhi visit as the central party leaders were firmly behind Ghosh. Khan, a Trinamul MP from the Bishnupur constituency in Bankura district, defected to the BJP in early 2019, and was re-elected. Bengal BJP insiders have said in the past too that Ghosh seems to have problems with Trinamul turncoats.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-391
02-09-2020||West Bengal||Red pandas await radio collars||Bengal forest department is waiting for an approval from the Centre to put radio collars on four Himalayan red pandas, which the department intends to release in the Singalila National Park of Darjeeling hills. The radio collars, fitted with transmitters accessed through iridium satellites, will enable foresters to know more about the species, their numbers and health of their habitat. Singalila, on the upper reaches of Darjeeling close to the India-Nepal border, is a habitat of pandas. The species is also found at the Neora Valley National Park in Kalimpong. To know the status of wild habitats of the Himalayan red pandas, the state forest department has received approval from the Union ministry of forests and environment on a five-year-long project. As part of a recent survey in both parks, the forest staff could collect the scat of around 65 pandas. The samples have been sent to a research institute to know the exact population of the species. “As a part of the project, it has been decided to release two male and two female pandas, in Singalila. These animals have been identified at the Padmaja Naidu Himalayan Zoological Park in Darjeeling. All four will be fitted with radio collars. To monitor them and collect data on their habitat, we need to use radio collars with sophisticated transmitters that can be tracked by iridium satellites. For this, we need approval from the Union ministry of science and technology,” said Rajendra Jakhar, chief conservator of forests (wildlife, north Bengal). The department will also fix trap cameras in both parks to gather data about the species and their habitat. “We plan to fix the cameras in March next year. Two watchtowers would be built in remote locations in Singalila to augment our vigilance,” Jakhar said. “As cellphone networks are not available (inside the forest), we will use high-frequency radio transmission networks to keep in contact with our men posted in watchtowers,” he added. Based on the data collected, the department will take steps to improve the habitat and food stock for pandas in these parks, the forester said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-391
02-09-2020||West Bengal||Courts to reopen on Sept 8||Calcutta High Court and 206 subordinate courts in Bengal are set to return to normal activities from September 8 after a gap of five months. Rai Chattopadhyay, the registrar general of the high court, on Tuesday issued the notification announcing resumption of normal activities following Chief Justice T.B.N Radhakrishnan’s approval of the proposal by judges’ committee. The committee had been tasked to recommend to the high court administration the actions required in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The judges’ committee had said in a recent recommendation that since the Covid-19 situation had been improving gradually, the courts should slowly return to normal functioning. The three-page notification stated that as the situation was apparently improving, every effort should be made to increase judicial activities in district courts as well as the high court. The notification states that the Chief Justice has directed the administration of district courts to start criminal trials which had been stalled following the outbreak of Covid-19. “In criminal trials, both the accused and the witnesses have to present themselves in the respective courts. But it had become impossible for the witnesses to present themselves before the courts. Even the jail authorities were not in position to produce the accused persons in the court. So, the system of criminal trials had been virtually stalled,” a senior officer of Calcutta High Court said. Since the last week of March, only very urgent matters were being heard by the high court through video-conferencing. Very few cases have been heard in recent times in the presence of both judges and lawyers. The notification, however, states that the Chief Justice has made it clear that overcrowding by people on court premises will not be allowed and norms set up by the government to combat the disease will be followed strictly. “Entry of the litigants will have to be restricted. Till normal train services resume, chance of crowding in courts is less,” said a court officer. Several lawyers have welcomed the decision by the high court administration. However, members of the High Court Bar Association said a large number of junior lawyers living outside the city would not be able to join the court till train services resumed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-391
02-09-2020||West Bengal||Stakeholders appeal for tourist inflow  ||Tourism industry stakeholders in north Bengal held “silent demonstrations” on Tuesday for tourist movement to resume immediately in the hills and plains. The Bagdogra airport, a Siliguri park and two national parks in the Dooars were some venues for these events where stakeholders also promised to adhere to safety protocols for tourists amid the pandemic. In north Bengal, other than the tea industry, tourism gives jobs to lakhs, but it has been badly hit amid the pandemic. Raj Basu, an advisor of the Himalayan Hospitality & Tourism Development Network (HHTDN), who came with some others at Baghajatin Park here, said that in the past five months, they had hardly seen  any tourist inflow. “Hoteliers and transporters are not in a position to pay installments (EMIs), taxes or other expenses to maintain their properties and vehicles,” he said. “We lost almost 70 per cent of our total annual business in the current year. That is why we felt it necessary to tell the state and Centre that we are ready to abide by all the SOPs and want them to encourage people to start paying visits.” Samrat Sanyal, general secretary of HHTDN, said they wanted the state to come up with a specific policy on tourist movement in this “new normal”. “Also, the state should waive transport taxes and other allied charges till December,” he said. Members of Eastern Himalaya Travel & Tour Operators Association (EHTTOA) held a similar event at Bagdogra airport, asking for a special financial package from the Centre for stakeholders. “In the hills, hotel and homestay owners could not open their properties as there is apprehension among some residents that inflow of tourists can increase the scale of the pandemic. We want to assure everyone that all such accommodations will follow health protocols,” said Debasish Maitra, president of the EHTTOA. Demand for a specific set of rules was also raised by the resort owners of Lataguri, a popular destination in the Dooars. “There are indications that forests would open up for visitors from September 16. We want the state to issue specific guidelines for resort owners, cab drivers, guides and others,” Dibyendu Deb, the president of Lataguri Resort Owners Association, said. In Madarihat of Alipurduar, resort owners said many of them send tourists to Bhutan, but right now there is a bar on non-Bhutanese people in the neighbouring country. “In such a situation, we want tourism activities to resume at least in the Dooars,” said Biswajit Saha, secretary, Jaldapara Lodge Owners’ Association. Additional inputs by our correspondents in Alipurduar & Jalpaiguri||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-391
02-09-2020||West Bengal||Toy Train trial run from Siliguri Junction to Tindharia||The Darjeeling Himalayan Railway (DHR) authorities held a trial run of its Toy Train from Siliguri Junction to Tindharia on Tuesday to check the condition of tracks. “We conducted the trial run as a part of our preparedness as the central government is coming up with relaxations in different sectors during these days (as a part of the gradual unlock process). If any decision is made over resumption of normal train services, we will have to resume our services,” said an official of the DHR. During Tuesday’s trial run, the Toy Train covered around 35km, which is almost half the total length of the tracks from New Jalpaiguri (NJP) to Darjeeling. On August 24, a similar trial run was conducted, but on a shorter route, from Siliguri Junction to Rongtong. Asked about the tracks, the DHR officials said the entire stretch appeared fine. However, on June 29, there was a landslide on NH55 that runs parallel to the tracks, near Paglajhora (between Tindharia and Kurseong). “The tracks narrowly escaped the slide but the adjacent stretch of the road caved in. It is risky to run the train through this stretch. Once the road is repaired, we will conduct the trial run from Tindharia to Kurseong and beyond,” said an official. Because of the nationwide lockdown in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic and suspension of regular trains — only some special trains are running in these days across the country — the services of the DHR have been held up for over five months now. In the hills, tourist arrivals have halted since March, too. “We hope tourists start coming during the upcoming Durga Puja holidays. There is a chance that our services would open by then. We will obviously follow all the SOPs (standard operating protocols) to ensure the health and safety of the passengers. The trial run was needed to ensure that once we get a go-ahead to resume our services, there is no delay for any technical reasons,” the official added. The heritage railway service is one of the main attractions for visitors to Darjeeling. Over the past few years, the number of passengers has only increased. In the immediate past fiscal, for the first time in its history, over one lakh passengers had boarded the Toy Train. More passengers had also prompted the railways to come up with new services and introduce vista dome coaches — with transparent plexi-glass roofs and wide picture windows — as well as air-conditioned coaches to make the services more popular among tourists.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-391
02-09-2020||West Bengal||New high in daily Covid tests and recoveries||Bengal on Tuesday recorded a 24-hour high in Covid-19 tests at 43,738 as the state went past 19 lakh total tests and 21,000 tests per million people. In one month, the state logged over 10 lakh tests. Bengal, which had 9.13 lakh tests on August 1, reported more than 19.31 lakh tests on September 1. For the ninth consecutive day, Bengal on Tuesday reported a fall in the total number of active patients with more recoveries than new cases being reported in 24 hours. The total active cases on August 23 were 28,069 and on Tuesday, the figure was 24,822. Bengal also recorded a new 24-hour high in recoveries at 3,346 as 1.37 lakh out of the total 1.65 lakh patients were cured of the disease. The recovery rate surged further to 83.04, far ahead of the national rate of 76.96 per cent. In the 24-hour period ending at 9am on Tuesday, the state reported 2,943 new cases. Yet again, the five most high-incidence districts of Bengal — Calcutta, North 24-Parganas, South 24-Parganas, Howrah and Hooghly — collectively recorded a fall of 205 in the total number of active cases. Since the 7,041 active cases of August 9, Calcutta improved to 4,690 on Tuesday. Of the 55 deaths reported on Tuesday, 11 were from the city. Bengal began testing in early February and took over three-and-a-half months to complete 1 lakh tests on May 19. On Tuesday, 105 days later, the number of tests crossed 19 lakh. The latest lakh was achieved in three days. “We covered 13-16 lakh in three days each. Then, we covered 17 and 18 lakh in just two days each. Getting past 19 lakh took us three days, yes, but 20 lakh will again take only two days,” said a Bengal minister. In the past seven days, Bengal conducted over 2.97 lakh tests. “We are also looking to cross the 50,000 mark in daily testing in a matter of days,” he added. The positive confirmation rate improved from 8.9 to 8.58 with the surge in testing and the relatively less new cases found over the past nine days. Of the 3,283 deaths in total, 2,847 (86.7 per cent) were reported as comorbid by the government. The overall mortality rate stayed at 1.98, while the national rate is 1.76 per cent. Bengal reported 33.08 per cent occupancy on 12,045 Covid-19 beds at 87 hospitals, besides 15.29 on 11,507 beds at 200 safe homes. Telemedicine services have been provided to nearly 1.54 lakh people, of whom 4,279 availed themselves of the facility in the past 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-391
02-09-2020||West Bengal||Hint at focus on small Bengal projects||The Mamata Banerjee government has posted Arup Roy Choudhury, former MD of NTPC Ltd, as the state’s new principal adviser (infrastructure) with the appointment in a position that was vacant for more than a year bearing hints that the ruling establishment plans to lay special emphasis on infrastructure creation ahead of the 2021 Assembly polls. “The position had been lying vacant for over the past one year or so. The state government brought in Roy Choudhury in the position in the midst of a pandemic even though he was serving as the chief commissioner of Public Services Act. There is a definite plan behind the move,” a senior state government official told The Telegraph. Sources aware of the development said the chief minister was laying stress on taking up “small infrastructure” projects in her recent meetings with top government officials and district authorities and appointing a new principal adviser (infrastructure) appeared to be a step forward to implement the idea. The state had identified several small projects in addition to some large infrastructure projects way back in 2017 and planned to invest Rs 18,000 crore to complete them, but dearth of funds had pressed a pause button on the initiative. “Now it seems the government is ready to revive the initiative by taking up small projects with only a few months to go before the 2021 Assembly polls,” said a bureaucrat. The state government, sources said, is aiming to develop several small projects like linking of small roads by constructing culverts and small bridges to improve connectivity in the rural areas, beside setting up irrigation facilities by taking up minor irrigation projects in the dry zones like the Jungle Mahal. “The prime focus would be Jungle Mahal districts and north Bengal, where the ruling party had put up a poor show during the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. By improving connectivity and irrigation facilities, the chief minister wants to ensure visible development,” said an official. As a majority of the projects are very small in nature, these could come up in the next four-five months if proper monitoring is done. “The principal adviser (infrastructure) can do the job while making it sure that funds are released by departments concerned on time by taking up the issue with top officials. The projects might be small in nature but these would have a big impact in the backward areas,” added the official. Although the state government is ready to take up the projects without a delay, arranging funds would be easier said than done. “It would require at least Rs 3,000 crore immediately to kick off the projects. I am not sure whether the state can arrange it at a time when its own revenue generation has dried up significantly because of the pandemic,” said a source. While admitting that arranging funds would be a headache for the state government, sources in the finance department said they were trying to release funds for important and small projects by cutting down unnecessary expenditures.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-392
02-09-2020||West Bengal||Cost to reach JEE centre: Rs 25,000||Anup Roy Mahapatra had to spend Rs 25,000 to travel from Malda so that his son Ayan could appear for the JEE Main in Salt Lake on Tuesday. The Roy Mahapatras were among several families that had to shell out steep amounts so that their children could appear for the exam that the Centre insisted should begin on Tuesday in spite of reservations by several state governments because of Covid-19. Father and son had to start out a day in advance than would have been usual as vehicles were not ready to move on Monday because of the complete lockdown in Bengal. Roy Mahapatra and his son left Malda on Sunday morning by a hired car, stayed at a hotel in Kestopur in Calcutta and will return by the same vehicle on Wednesday. Although Ayan’s exam was in the second half, Roy Mahapatra did not want to take the chance of travelling on the day of the exam. “It’s a distance of more than 300km and it takes eight to nine hours of travel. What if the car had broken down on the way or there was heavy traffic?” asked Roy Mahapatra. Several parents chose to hire private vehicles even at the cost of a pinch in their pocket because of the fear of the coronavirus and to maintain social distance. “Rs 25,000 is what I had to spend for one public exam,” said Roy Mahapatra, who stood with his son outside the examination centre while it kept drizzling. “This is what we have spent on transport alone. I am not taking into account the hotel bookings or what we spend on food because that expense we would have had to make in any case,” said Roy Mahapatra. They will have to come back again to the city on September 13 for the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET). “Don’t know how much we will have to spend again,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-392
02-09-2020||West Bengal||Cops help victims of erosion save items||A group of policemen posted at the Baishnabnagar police station in Malda district observed the Police Day in a different manner on Tuesday and dedicated their services to people who were affected by the recent erosion by the Ganga on its left bank in Kaliachak 3 block of the district. The policemen, along with civic volunteers, went beyond the call of their duty and helped the residents shift their belongings and whatever they could salvage from their huts to safer places. The homes of these people are standing precariously on land, chunks of which have been regularly gobbled by the raging river in the past few days. The philanthropy of the policemen that provided the affected people with a sense of assurance has come at such a time of distress. Since the morning of August 30, the Ganga has been eroding vast areas in the Kaliachak 3 block. It has so far swallowed over a kilometre long land where hundreds had their homes. In total, over 100 families have lost their land and houses so far. The erosion, sources said, has turned acute at some villages under Birnagar 2 panchayat, particularly at China Bazar and Sarkarpara. As the erosion started, the residents realised that it was just a matter of time before their huts would be guzzled by the river. This made them dismantle the structures and carry away whatever they could — bricks, tiles, bamboos, piles of straw — along with their other belongings. With the residents trying to shift such items to safer places in panic, the policemen turned up in the area and extended their help. “As we found people moving away with different items, we stood by them and helped them shift those to safer places. We are concerned about maintenance of law and order on a day-to-day basis. But how can we stand mute when so many people are in trouble?” asked Tridip Pramanik, the inspector-in-charge of Baishnabnagar police station. The cooperation from the police brought some solace to the erosion victims. “We have been fighting against the Covid-19 pandemic for the past six months. Regular earnings of many of these families have become uncertain. Now the curse of the erosion has made life harder. The compassionate touch of the police made us feel better at least,” said Manik Mandal, a local panchayat member and also a victim of the erosion. Such an initiative by the police team has also earned appreciation from senior cops. “The humanitarian act by our men at Baishnabnagar made us proud. In Malda, we have been trying to build a bond with citizens. The way Baishnabnagar police have served the people in distress is significant on the occasion of the Police Day,” said Alok Rajoria, the superintendent of police, Malda.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-392
02-09-2020||West Bengal||Lightning kills 4,  rain floods hospital||A sudden thunderstorm in parts of East Midnapore and West Midnapore early on Tuesday morning claimed four lives, all agricultural workers, as they were struck by lightning. At Dubda village in East Midnapore’s Egra, farmer Aurobindo Bera, 40, was killed on the spot when lightning struck him, while his wife Mira was seriously injured. The couple were working at their agricultural plot when the accident happened. Mira was rushed to Egra Super Speciality hospital for treatment. “The incident occurred when a group of farmers was running for cover at the onset of the sudden storm,” said an eyewitness. At Kanpur village in Potashpur station area, Ramkrishna Paikhara, 38, was killed under similar circumstances when farmers were working in an open field. While Paikhara was killed on the spot, his companions suffered injuries and were rushed to the block health centre for treatment. In West Midnapore’s Debra station area, two women were killed by lightning strikes while working in the fields. Mithu Singh, 31, was killed at Hathiberia village whereas Ruma Bera, 23, died at Sundarnagar. The storm also caused severe waterlogging in parts of Tamluk town, with the town’s district hospital being the worst hit. All the wards, including the pharmacy, on the ground floor of the Tamluk district hospital were flooded waist-high. The rainfall also led to Tamluk and its surrounding areas remaining without power till noon. Disruption at the Tamluk district hospital lasted for several hours owing to waist-high flood waters on the ground floor level. Sources said an operation theatre, the male surgical ward, and the isolation ward all got flooded leaving several patients and their kin without medical attention. “We have told the health department repeatedly to clean the hospital’s choked drains. But neither they nor the municipality paid any heed,” said West Bengal State Workers’ Federation (health) district secretary Nilkanta Nayak. Asked, hospital superintendent Gopal Das declined comment, whereas municipality administrator Rabindranath Sen blamed the hospital. “We have told them repeatedly to monitor hazardous waste from the medical college premises. But they have not cooperated,” he said, referring to the college campus located on the hospital grounds. Sources said strong winds led to over 100 coconut trees getting uprooted in the area and several high-tension wires snapped. WBSEDCL regional manager Shyamal Hazra said the damage was “minor” and repairs would be completed soon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-392
02-09-2020||West Bengal||Web aid to apply for government doles ||The realisation that poor people miss out on several government schemes for “sheer lack of awareness” has prompted a group of social activists belonging to diverse professions, who are led by a professor at a university in Canada, to launch a web portal and mobile application to help them avail themselves of the same. The group consisting of teachers, government employees, authors, journalists and social activists launched a Bengal-specific, web-based community information service to educate people about schemes commissioned by the central and state governments that they could be entitled to. The group has developed a mobile application, titled “Sachetonata”, and a web site with the same name (https://sachetonata.org.in/) containing information about all social and welfare programmes, in particular the direct benefit transfer (DBT) schemes of the state and the central governments, and details on eligibility and application procedures. People behind the Sachetonata initiative claimed that since no individual or organisation could be a substitute for welfare programmes of the governments, it was “important” to ensure that government-sponsored benefits found their way to the “targeted” people. “But the coveted  objective often fails for lack of awareness among people,” said a source in the organisation. Sachetonata president and founder Kanchan Sarker is a professor of sociology at the University of British Columbia-Okanagan in Canada. Asked about his motivation, the Krishnagar native said: “It is an effort to empower people with their rights through awareness. Lack of awareness caused helplessness. People in rural areas in particular suffer from such helplessness during crises and face exploitation. Our aim is to sensitise people to their rights.” “Recently, we were shocked to know from a block development officer that relatives of snakebite victims or those who die from lightning strikes seldom appeal for compensation whereas the Bengal Government has a provision to pay Rs 5 lakh each to them within 24 hours. But people are not aware of the scheme and the funds largely remain unutilised,” Sarker said. Members of Sachetonata claimed that they were “surprised” by the extent of lack of awareness when they went on a research campaign and distribution effort in the areas struck by Cyclone Amphan earlier this year. The vice-president of Sachetonata, Basu Acharya, who is also an author and social activist, said: “Our experience during the post-Amphan period and the subsequent Covid-19 situation were instrumental in taking up this initiative. While delivering relief to people, we noticed that they are mostly not aware of the existing social welfare schemes. So, we discussed it with our friends and eventually decided to offer a voluntary initiative for them.” “It is not an easy job and we know just a website or mobile application is not enough to bridge the gap, considering the barriers of communication, illiteracy and other factors,” Acharya added. “Earlier, rural libraries used to work for the dissemination of government programmes. But such libraries are now defunct owing to the absence of staff. So, we have planned to rope in social organisations, NGOs, clubs and interested individuals who can bridge the gap and help poor people use the web site and mobile application. At the same time, we will also launch a physical drive of awareness across the state,” Acharya added. Asked how to handle a programme that had the “potential” of “creating controversy from differing claims between central and state bodies, a member of the team said: “For obvious reasons, we will advise people to appeal for state-sponsored schemes.” The Android-based bi-lingual mobile application will be made available on Google Play in English and Bengali and team members will offer voluntary interpretative services to people to explain “eligibility” in addition to conducting awareness programs on the ground.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-392
02-09-2020||West Bengal||Varsity exam parleys||The Visva-Bharati authorities on Tuesday asked all departments to hold discussions to find a way out to conduct terminal examination as soon as possible as the varsity has to complete the process by September 30 following a Supreme Court order. The vice-chancellor, Bidyut Chakrabarty, conducted a meeting with the heads and principals of different departments where it was decided to give the responsibility of the examinations to the principals of different Bhavanas. Varsity officials said most of the departments would prefer to take the exams online as it was impossible for the students to visit the campus as the public transportation system was yet to be normalised.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-392
02-09-2020||West Bengal||CPM launches clinic for consultation at Rs 50||The CPM on Tuesday launched a public health centre in south Calcutta to offer doctor consultation at Rs 50 and plans similar clinics across the state as part of a outreach attempt ahead of the 2021 Assembly polls. “The Covid-19 pandemic has led to an unforeseen situation. Health facilities have been seriously disrupted. These centres will be set up with the motive of providing relief to the people in these trying times,” said Dr Fuad Halim, a CPM member. According to him, several such clinics — the number would depend on availability of doctors — will be opened in different districts in the next few months as the party is keen on taking healthcare closer to the people. “We have a pool of doctors... Besides, we will request local doctors to help us at these clinics, which will operate twice a week,” said Halim. Halim, who had recently recovered from Covid-19, had gained popularity for providing dialysis at Rs 50 to the poor and the deprived before he fell ill. He inaugurated the new centre in the presence of another doctor and filmmaker, Kamaleswar Mukherjee. Halim, who is also the general secretary of the CPM’s People’s Relief Committee (PRC), explained that the centres — such as the one inaugurated on Rasbehari Avenue in Calcutta on Tuesday — would work in a hub-and-spoke model. “For instance, patients who might be prescribed for an X-Ray at this centre can avail themselves of the service from a PRC unit at a low cost,” he said. The PRC itself runs nine health centres across Bengal, including one at Calcutta’s Park Circus, where the cost of consulting a doctor is Rs 5. It also offers X-Ray and Ultrasound diagnosis at affordable rates. During the lockdown, the CPM had also started community canteens to provide food to the underprivileged. At present, more than 100 such canteens are being operated across the state. While many of these canteens provide food for free, some charge a token amount. Party sources said the canteens had helped in establishing a better connection with the electorate and had encouraged similar initiatives. “We’ve been mocked by the BJP and the Trinamul Congress for securing only 7 per cent votes in the 2019 elections. But these canteens and the health centres are proof that only we care about the people’s problems,” said a source in the CPM. “Hundreds of families have taken food from these canteens. We believe such initiatives will help us bring more people towards us,” the source added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-392
02-09-2020||North East||Assam wants fresh scan on a part of NRC||The Assam government has said that it is “strongly in favour” of re-verification of 20 per cent names included in the updated National Register of Citizens (NRC) from districts bordering Bangladesh and 10 per cent from the remaining districts. Senior cabinet minister Chandra Mohan Patowary made this assertion in response to a query by Congress MLA Sherman Ali Ahmed on the first day of the four-day Assembly session which began on Monday. The final NRC, a list of Indian citizens, was published on August 31 last year and included names of 31,121,004 applicants out of the 33,027,661 who had applied in 2015. The 1951 NRC is being updated in Assam, which has had a longstanding influx issue. Assam is the only state to have the 1951 NRC. The cut-off mark for inclusion was March 24, 1971, as fixed in the 1985 Assam Accord, an outcome of the six-year-long Assam Movement against influx. Issues related to the 1985 Accord and the NRC update dominated the House proceedings on Monday. Ahmed had asked, among others, whether rejection slips are being issued by NRC authorities and if there is any timeframe for completing the entire process. Patowary, replying on behalf chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal, said no rejection slip has been issued till now. The process has been kept on hold due to the Covid-19 pandemic and the flood situation in the state, he said. The senior minister then said the state government had moved the Supreme Court, which is monitoring the update, in July 2019 seeking a direction for 20 per cent sample re-verification of names included in the draft NRC in districts bordering Bangladesh and a 10 per cent sample re-verification of names in the remaining districts. Patowary then revealed that the “state government continues to remain strongly in favour of such re-verification”. The Supreme Court had, however, rejected the re-verification pleas of both the state and the central governments. The districts bordering Bangladesh are Karimkanj and Cachar in Barak Valley and Dhubri and South Salmara-Mankachar in lower Assam. The length of the Indo-Bangladesh border in Assam is 267km. Assam has 33 districts. Applicants who did not make the updated NRC list can challenge their exclusion in the foreigners tribunals after getting the rejection slips which would mention the reason for their non-inclusion. The excluded were directed to move the tribunals within 120 days of the publication of the final list but till date, according to the government, no rejection slips have been issued. Patowary also said there was “no specific timeframe for completion” of the whole process yet. He also said 100 foreigners tribunals are functioning in the state. Patowary also said no genuine citizens would be left out of the NRC and no illegal migrants included in the list. He also said despite opposition to the Citizenship Amendment Act, not a single Bangladeshi citizen had entered any of the state’s 26,000 villages. Like the state government, Assam Public Works, an NGO, whose petition in the apex court led to the update of the 1951 NRC, too reiterated on Monday its demand for re-verification of the updated list. Congress MLA Rupjyoti Kurmi targeted the government over the implementation of the 1985 Assam Accord and coronavirus. He had to be suspended for sometime after he did not heed the Speaker’s request not to disrupt proceedings. Outside the Assembly, Kurmi said he was expelled because he was “raising” the voice of the people of Assam. All Assam Students’ Union general secretary Lurinjyoti Gogoi told The Telegraph they were and are still firm on an “error-free NRC” where “no Indian is left out and no foreigner included”. Krishak Mukti Sangram Samiti president Bhasco De Saikia said Dispur should display its sincerity by involving all stakeholders and publish the NRC in a time-bound manner instead of using the “NRC as a political tool” because the exercise was initiated to rid Assam of illegal foreigners. The Asom Jatiyatabadi Yuba Chatra Parishad (AJYCP), a youth organisation at the forefront of the anti-CAA movement along with the AASU, said the state government should now initiate steps to complete the NRC process in a time-bound manner.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-47
02-09-2020||Opinion||Empty words: Modi and his Mann Ki Baat||Sir — In his monthly radio address, Mann ki Baat, the prime minister, Narendra Modi, has exhorted his compatriots to rear swadeshi breeds of dog in larger numbers and manufacture more swadeshi toys for domestic and global markets. But is the country not facing far more serious problems? The prime minister can surely take credit for the novel way in which he linked the rearing of Indian dogs and the manufacturing of Indian toys to his pet project of Atmanirbhar Bharat. But neither of the two endeavours will alleviate the distress caused to the people by Covid-19, revive the economy or halt the rising unemployment in any significant way. The other day, the prime minister was feeding peacocks on the lawns of his residence. But most of his countrymen are not in a position to emulate him and enjoy themselves. Given his carefully cultivated image as a nationalist of the first order, Modi escapes being evaluated objectively for the kind of leadership he is providing to the nation when it is in the middle of multiple crises. Unlike with most other leaders, the support for Modi that borders on worship has not dwindled in spite of his many failures — his public appeal is sustained by populist and religious rhetorics rather than any significant, demonstrable public service. One reason for this could be that he represents the right wing and is concerned with the interests of the elite. At the moment, education and awareness are considered to be the only weapons to fight the spread of Covid-19. But these are also the weapons that could help fight the scourge of blind allegiance towards a political figure. G. David Milton,Maruthancode, Tamil Nadu Sir — At a time when the economy is suffering, a deadly virus is taking lives, lakhs of aspirants for the Joint Entrance Examination and National Eligibility cum Entrance Test are left in a quandary and Chinese troops are threatening our national territory, it was quite odd that the prime minister chose to champion the cause of swadeshi dog breeds in his monthly radio address. Narendra Modi seemed equally unmindful of the global record recently set by India of the highest single-day rise in the number of Covid-19 cases, with over 60,000 deaths so far. Instead of coming out with a road map for addressing the crumbling healthcare infrastructure — reports suggest that hospitals are still turning patients away — the prime minister exhorted the domestic industries to be “vocal about local toys”. Is it really a surprise, then, that the video of this episode on his party’s YouTube channel was greeted by an overwhelming number of negative responses? Modi’s monologues are not only uninspiring, but such gimmicks are also becoming increasingly monotonous. S.K. Choudhury,Bangalore Time to stop Sir — Once again, a black man has been victimized in the United States of America allegedly on account of racial hatred (“US cop shoots black man”, Aug 25). The 29-year-old, Jacob Blake, was shot several times from point-blank range by a white police officer in Kenosha, Wisconsin as he approached his car. The city soon turned violent with protests against the attack, and the slogan, “My Son Matters”, found place alongside “Black Lives Matter”, a slogan raised by people seeking justice for George Floyd, who was murdered in May in Minneapolis by another white police officer. It is disappointing that even in a nation as advanced as the US, primaeval hatred against people of colour is still nurtured by many white people. Human beings continue to be oppressed on the basis of the colour of skin. This is surely not a sign of civilization. In what new way can people be taught that all human beings, regardless of their complexion, have the same colour of blood? The amount of melanin in one’s body cannot be used to discriminate against them. It is time for white people to reject racism, and turn their imagined enmity toward black people into amity. Rabindranath Sarkar,Calcutta Sir — The attack on Jacob Blake in front of his family comes on the heels of the murder of George Floyd. The US police has for long been known to discriminate against people of colour, and this attack might as well be just another instance of that. While condemning this incident in the harshest terms, Indians should introspect about their own inherent racism and casteism. The only way forward for mankind is to rid itself of such prejudices once and for all. Bani Sengupta,Howrah New trend Sir — Office etiquette has changed drastically ever since the lockdown began. As work-from-home systems have been deployed by many organizations, the demand for formal clothes has seen a setback (“WFH snips demand for formalwear”, Aug 30). Yet some corporate offices still fail to see that attire has little to do with an employee’s performance. Every time there is a virtual meeting, employees are expected to put on formal clothes. As a result, many people now pair up formal shirts with pyjamas, as only the upper half of the body is visible on screen. No wonder trouser sales have gone down. Priyanka Mitra,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-155
02-09-2020||Opinion||Strange list: Annual sports awards||There is cause for concern when the numbers do not add up. The recent list for the annual sports awards approved by the Union sports ministry has, unfortunately, led to the aggravation of such concern. On the face of it, the list — the longest ever produced by the ministry — sings paeans to India’s sporting talents: on it are five Khel Ratnas and 27 Arjuna awardees. Matters get curious, though, when the possible motives that led to the creation of the list are put under scrutiny. For one, it would seem as though India has, rather miraculously, become a sporting giant in the international arena in a year when there has hardly been any sporting activity on account of a global pandemic. The assessment is thus peculiar. The men’s national basketball team captain, Vishesh Bhriguvanshi, has bagged an Arjuna even though in the last-recorded performance, the men’s team finished at the 14th place among 16 nations in the Asian Championship in Beirut. The omissions have been glaring too. Neeraj Chopra — arguably India’s only world-class track-and-field athlete — has not been considered for the Khel Ratna. The inferences are worrying. The composition of the list seems to indicate that factors other than merit and fairness may have been given precedence by the powers that be. Such speculation is bound to have a detrimental effect on the nation’s sporting ecosystem, which already suffers from the deadly combination of the ineptitude of sports officials and the apathy of politicians. This has led to India’s performances remaining below par in the international arena. This only makes the political propensity to exaggerate India’s sporting achievements and future risible. The sports minister, Kiren Rijiju, has stated that he aspires to see India among the top 10 at the 2028 Olympics in Los Angeles. Mr Rijiju’s ambitions are honourable. But such an achievement can only come to pass if officials identify core sporting expertise and then implement long-term, targeted plans towards the modernization of sports that India excels in traditionally: hockey, wrestling, badminton come readily to mind. Granting autonomy to national sporting federations holds the key; the government must only be the facilitator of funds and infrastructure. A nudge to industry to make greater investments to nurture sporting talents is also an imperative. These steps could brighten the future of Indian sports, which, in turn, could make it easier to match merit with performance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-155
02-09-2020||Opinion||Cut up: Sub-categorizing reservation quotas||The purpose of reservations is the just distribution of benefits to scheduled castes, scheduled tribes and socially and educationally backward classes. This principle appears to lie at the basis of the ruling by a five-judge bench of the Supreme Court last Thursday that states could create sub-categories within the legally mandated reservations limit in order to ensure that dominant groups did not seize the lion’s share of quota benefits, depriving the weakest sections. The final decision on the subject, however, would come from a seven-judge bench, since the latest ruling goes against a 2005 one by another five-judge bench that would not allow sub-categories within quotas. This issue has remained a troubled one even apart from its constitutional and legal aspects, because reservations have been increasingly used by politicians for vote-bank politics. Hence a form of positive discrimination has become tainted by political vested interests. The wary response to the court’s recent ruling is a telling example of this. The Centre had asked for the states’ views on the matter, and 17 states have rejected the idea of ‘quotas within quotas’. Evidently, there are problems in disturbing the status quo, although from the point of view of justice and ethics, reservation benefits should be targeted at the most underprivileged groups instead of being used to consolidate political parties’ support bases. Those agreeable are five states that had undertaken the sub-categorization exercise earlier. The imminent assembly elections in Bihar have made commitment to either side of the question somewhat delicate. The Bharatiya Janata Party is rather quiet. Perhaps it does not want to upset equations among Dalits and other backward classes when it seems to be doing well. Its alliance partner, the Janata Dal (United), however, seems more excited, touting Nitish Kumar’s schemes for Mahadalits, no doubt hoping it might help the party in the elections. The Rashtriya Janata Dal is more circumspect, declaring that it is not against sub-categorization, but without data from the socio-economic caste census, this would just be a tool to divide Bahujans. The party, however, has been trying to dilute the impression of being Yadav-dominated by courting Dalits and extremely backward classes. Whatever the seven-judge bench decides, it is unlikely to change the approach of politicians: reservations are all about votes, not about social justice and progress.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-155
02-09-2020||Opinion||Dealing with the deluge: Floods in India||The last few months have been the most challenging for India as it has faced a multitude of challenges such as Covid-19, earthquakes, cyclones, a locust attack, heat wave, lightning deaths and floods. The Covid-19 outbreak has crippled the economy. Massive floods have also put additional fiscal pressure. According to the ministry of home affairs, around 1,153 people were killed due to floods and landslides in 14 Indian states till August 27, 2020. The highest fatalities have been reported in West Bengal (258), followed by Gujarat (175), Assam (139), Madhya Pradesh (136), Kerala (116), Karnataka (104), Maharashtra (62), Jammu and Kashmir (45), Chhattisgarh (36) and Bihar (27). Moreover, around 17.3 million people have been adversely affected on account of upheavals that took place after floods. Assam and Bihar are the worst-affected states. In Assam, around 5.7 million people have been affected in 30 districts until August 27 and large swathes of cropland have got submerged. The moving visuals of the submersion of large areas in the Kaziranga National Park and the Pobitora Wildlife Sanctuary reflected the devastation caused by the floods. According to the Bihar State Disaster Management Authority, around 8.4 million people were affected by floods in 16 districts as per the data compiled till August 27. Bihar has borne the brunt of frequent floods in the last few decades mainly because it has one of the highest flood-prone areas (73.1 per cent of the total state area) among all the states. The breaching of river embankments in different parts of Bihar along with deforestation in the catchment area of the Kosi river has aggravated the silt content of the river flow. Floods are the most lethal of natural disasters in India. They account for over 40 per cent of the deaths out of all natural disasters. They are also the costliest among disasters, accounting for around 68 per cent of economic losses caused by all disasters (Emergency Events Database). Between 1980 and 2017, India experienced 235 floods, which led to 126,286 deaths and affected 1.93 billion people. The economic losses due to floods stood at a humongous $58.7 billion (EM-DAT). Moreover, around 45.35 million hectares of land are vulnerable to floods. The figure accounts for 14 per cent of India’s total geographical area. There are considerable variations in the geo-spatial distribution of rainfall, making some states more vulnerable to flooding than the rest. Our analysis shows that as per the variable of ‘liable to flood-prone area as a percentage of state geographical area’, Punjab is most prone to floods (80.4 per cent), followed by Bihar (73 per cent), Haryana (53 per cent) and Assam (48.7 per cent). Madhya Pradesh (1.1 per cent) and Maharashtra (1.1 per cent) are at the other end of the spectrum (XI Plan Working Group, Planning Commission). The population fatality by floods is the highest in Uttar Pradesh, followed by Bihar and Gujarat, with Manipur witnessing the lowest number. Also, the average total damage as a percentage of gross state domestic product is the highest in Himachal Pradesh (2.35 per cent), followed by Andhra Pradesh (1.62 per cent), Odisha (0.9 per cent) and Bihar (0.85 per cent). Maharashtra incurs the lowest damages at 0.03 per cent of GSDP. Himachal Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Manipur and Uttar Pradesh witness higher crop losses than other states (Central Water Commission). Empirical studies have also shown that flood damage has a negative impact on economic growth in the long run and considerably reduces female employment opportunities in the agricultural sector. To mitigate the impact of floods in Indian states, we suggest that the government should devise long-term disaster management policies. As a first step in this direction, it is crucial to improve flood-forecasting systems and instal flood-warning systems in low-lying areas. Second, the government should spend more on flood prevention, preparedness and mitigation measures. Third, river connectivity and construction of multipurpose cyclones and flood shelters in low-lying areas that help mitigate the loss of lives from floods should be undertaken on a mission-mode scale. Finally, the governments of Assam and Bihar should emulate the disaster management plan adopted by Odisha which is marked by regular cabinet meetings to evaluate disaster preparedness, construction of multipurpose cyclones and flood shelters, and the undertaking of district-wise Flood Inundation Mapping. These measures will go a long way in mitigating and preventing the damage caused by floods in Indian states.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-155
02-09-2020||Opinion||Compliant and complicit||We are living a future that we are not recognizing as our present; it is taking us in, layer upon layer, in ways that we probably need to recognize if we are to be able to combat its consequences. Else we run the peril of leaving ourselves irredeemably diminished. We are living a repetition of lies — malevolent lies, constructed lies, deliberate lies; blatant, unembarrassed lies. Nothing happened in seventy years. But now we’ve arrived in achchhe din. The leader can do no wrong. Besides, there’s none other than him. Corruption has been wiped out. Women are safe, and the RSS is a cultural organization. Varanasi is galloping towards becoming Kyoto and India towards becoming Vishwaguru. We shall be tagged a five trillion dollar economy, an act of god has probably delayed things a bit, but we shall soon arrive there. A hundred smart cities are prepping in the mixer, about to spill out. All homes have been lit. There is no open defecation anymore. That is one of the reasons we have done better than most others in our fight against the coronavirus. Such lies. Or lies like the lie on the losses to the Chinese in eastern Ladakh: no one came, there’s nobody there, those that tried to come, we stared at and repelled. Passive lies too, passive as pronouns; the sudden annulment of “China” from the prime minister’s vocabulary is akin to the annulment of truth. We are living such annulment. But such are the truths handed to us by the establishment as fundamental articles of faith. We are living the wantonly piled weight of deficits upon us — the surging double-helix of unemployment and consumer prices, the bleakness of an economy wilfully mismanaged, the inspired erosion of social security, the onward-upward march of the coronavirus. We are living ridden lives — with hunger and scarcity, with joblessness, homelessness, dislocation, with uncertainties over today and cascading angst over tomorrow. What’s there to assure us that once the perils of this deathly epidemic have been contained and put away — some day, surely, though nobody yet knows — the clamour and chaos over what preceded its arrival will not again descend upon us — the flaming demagoguery and disquiet over who is Indian who is not, and how one shall be sorted from the other like rotten chaff from grain, our plurality tortured into homogeneity. We are living in the lee of such anxieties. We are living the frequent ridiculing and scorning of ourselves. In this marooning of ourselves by tough tides, we are invited to gawk at a tableau of medieval majesty, and applaud — the emperor strolling his bespoke estate, peacocks prancing and preening; the emperor cutting his path through the loops of the spectacle as if it were all so quotidian and dreary he could not be bothered to notice the splendour of peacocks at untrammelled dance; the emperor then taking a break to feed his favoured bird, a piece shot in two sequences, once seated on a sofa, once squatting on the ground; the emperor then resorting to a spell of reading, or so it appears, his favoured bird looking askance at his feet. All through this, the emperor having changed his clothes five times, probably six, it’s often tough to keep count. The visual treat is followed by an audio repast. An engaging vocal-for-local menu of dogs and the virtues of native breeds and pedigrees, and toymaking; the imperial proclamation of a nationwide meme competition staged by the official portal of the sarkar, teamed with multiple quizzing opportunities on food and nutrition. Shades of Haile Selassie feeding lions and other favoured pets in the menagerie of Addis Ababa’s Jubilee Palace while Ethiopia lay famished in her ruins. However, ours seems not to reason why, we are happy audiences to such sublime stuff of distraction from all that should really bother and concern us. We also want to live the indulgence of our delusions; we see an ascetic where there is only calculated pomp and callous extravaganza, from that cave retreat in Kedarnath to the private lawns of 7, Lok Kalyan Marg. We are a living parade of the compliant and the complicit. We clap when we are asked to clap. We turn off the lights when we are commanded to. We willingly sacrifice and suffer and believe it to be a necessary virtue because sacrifice and suffering have been so decreed. We have stopped to ask what for? Or who for? We have stopped to think for ourselves. We listen to the most absurd mumbo-jumbo with rapture and invest in ludicrous wisdoms against our good sense and knowledge. We wantonly ignore the disfiguring of our history and heritage. We seem to have forsaken our collective intelligence to embrace pure baloney, or at least we don’t seem to mind it. The prime minister spins a tale of extracting gas from the gutter and giving it flame. The education minister tells us that astrology is the highest of all sciences known to man. The aspiring finance minister reveals the magical innovation of using footwear sales to turn the economy. His boss once proffered the alternative of pakodas. Papad and gau mutra have been hawked as effective antidotes to the pandemic. It will not do to ignore such claptrap, or merely laugh and mock and move on. That is to miss the meaning of why such claptrap is being showered down upon us. Or why sacrifice is being demanded. Or why compliance is being assumed. Or why lies are being told and festered. Or why the prime minister devotes time and resources — public resources we must presume — to having himself shot among peacocks, or why he begins a discourse, with no reference or relevance, on native dogs and the benefits of breeding them. The truth may be this, and it is for us to grasp: we have been systematically turned into a laboratory of diminution, we are willing material for dipstick trials. Each time idiocy or affront is inflicted on us is a test of how much we can be reduced; each time we are ordered to swing and dance in unison is a test of how much we will obey; each time we are goaded under the burdens of cynically imposed adversity — remember demonetization? — in the name of national interest and the larger good, it is a test of how much we can be heckled; each time a miscarriage is enacted, each mindful mutilation — political, social, economic, administrative, judicial — is a test of what we will witness and let pass. Indians have never before been persuaded to hate fellow Indians so radio-actively as today, nor to celebrate the pillaging and plight of fellow countrymen. Indians have also never been so robbed and poorly across aspects of their lives and not thought of complaining. We are living the funereal carnival of our dispossession. And we probably do not know. Successor generations might turn to ask: What were you applauding? sankarshan.thakur@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-155
02-09-2020||Jharkhand||Parents protest against Bokaro school for demanding fees||Police were called in on Wednesday to disband a three-hour demonstration of parents protesting against the management of St Xavier’s School for not allowing their children to join online classes for not paying tuition fees. The parents were demanding that the school not charge fees for the duration of the lockdown, something the school principal said was simply not possible for reasons of viability as 40 per cent of students had not paid for the last five months. Principal P.J. James said, “There are 2,925 students studying in St Xavier’s. Of them, 1,138 students have not paid their tuition fees for the past five months. How will we run the school?” After the intervention of Chas circle officer Dwarika Prasad Dwivedi, an understanding was reached with the agitating parents and the school management. By the end of the day, 200 parents had paid the fees. “After the talks, it was decided that children of those who submit at least one month’s tuition fee now would be allowed to take part in online classes,” Dwivedi said. St Xavier’s is the only ISCE school in Bokaro town. Father James explained that the school employed about 100 teachers and 160 administrative and support staff including drivers, attendants and gardeners and others. “The salaries paid to them are from the amount that the school collects charging fees from the students. The fees have remained unchanged since last year,” he said, adding that St Xavier’s was the first school in Bokaro to begin online classes. The principal explained that the accounting software automatically disabled names of students who have not paid fees for five months. “Names of many students got removed from the system automatically. Their names will get restored as soon as they pay the fees. There is no human intervention involved,” he explained. District president of Jharkhand Parents Association (JPA) Mahendera Kumar Ray, who was leading the agitation claimed they were being “harassed in the name of online education”, adding that the quality of classes weren’t up to the mark. “Practically, it is parents who are teaching their children at their homes not the school,” he claimed. Other parents indicated they were not happy with the outcome of their agitation, which began at 10am and was wound up by 1pm after the meeting with the school management and Chas circle officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-314
02-09-2020||Jharkhand||Transport helpline for JEE, NEET aspirants||The district administration on Wednesday floated four dedicated helpline numbers for students who are appearing for the JEE, NEET and NDA exams, to assist their transportation needs by dropping them to the exam centres. Deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan said that dedicated officials have been assigned to man these phone lines to immediately provide assistance. “The numbers will help any student facing any kind of transportation woes while reaching the exam centres. Officials manning the helpline will coordinate with concerned people to arrange the required transport,” he said. One of the officials manning the centre, however, said that the initiative isn’t a free-transport service. “We won’t be providing any free cabs or autos for ferrying students to and back to the exam centre, but we will act as a bridge to sort out issues concerning their transport. For example, if anyone isn’t getting any bus, auto or cab, we shall facilitate it. Or if there are any attempts to fleece students, we shall act by coordinating with the local police station,” he said. JEE exams began on Monday across five districts in the state. In Ranchi, students are appearing at two centres set up in Tupudana and Tatisilwai. NEET is slated for September 13 across 23 centres in the state capital while the NDA (National Defence Academy) exam is on September 6 across around 20 centres. The helpline numbers are — 8210026802, 7903289235, 6203812020 and 9110960249.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-314
02-09-2020||Jharkhand||Women's cricket team member collects firewood to keep family afloat||The Covid pandemic may have kept Rashmi Gudia off cricket, but the 22-year-old is using her time to help her elderly father by collecting wood from a forest in Odisha, which the family uses for the purpose of cooking and selling. Gudia, who led the Jharkhand under-23 women’s cricket team in the BCCI tournaments last season, lives with her family in Bolani town in Keonjhar district of Odisha. “Watching my father walk alone to collect wood from the forest pains me a lot, so I decided to join him. We walk 20 km to and fro for the wood early in the morning as we don’t have any vehicle,” the wicketkeeper-batswoman said, adding that she also finds time to shadow practice and do fitness drills at home. Speaking to The Telegraph Online on phone from Bolani, she said collecting wood was a tough job but she feels proud helping her father. “Finding and collecting wood is a tiresome job. Moreover, we have to bear the load of logs while bringing them home. In a way, walking 20km also somewhat helps me in maintaining my fitness. I cover some distance to the forest by jogging. I do shadow practice and use a borrowed Thera band for stretching exercises. Cricket will start once the Covid-related situation improves,” the tribal woman said. Gudia turned to Jharkhand when she was not selected in the Odisha under-19 team in 2013. “My coach advised me to try my luck in Jharkhand. I was lucky to get selected in the Jharkhand colt side. I also went on to captain the state under-19 side and the under-23 outfit. I want to make a career out of cricket,” she added. Gudia’s family faces hardship in making ends meet. Her elder brother Sunil has recently found a job, providing some economic relief. Gudia’s father Niran is an elderly man while her mother Khushmaro is a homemaker. Gudia, who studied up to class VIII from a government school in Bolani, said her brother asked her not to collect wood anymore since he has now found a job. “But I cannot stop helping my father. I think it is my responsibility as a daughter to lend a helping hand. In fact, it makes me feel proud,” she added. Guria said she has saved some money, which she earned as match fees for representing Jharkhand in BCCI tournaments. “But most of my savings are exhausted now. I am eagerly waiting for the new season to start,” said the talented cricketer, with good reflexes and swift body movement, a key feature for a stumper.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-314
02-09-2020||Jharkhand||Covid: Govt caps charges for storage, transportation of bodies||The state health department on Wednesday framed rules and specified charges for the storage and transportation of bodies of Covid patients in the wake of reports that several private hospitals were slapping exorbitant fees. As per a special directive issued on Wednesday, hospitals will have to provide free storage of a Covid patient’s body for four days, after which it could charge day rates fixed by the state health department. State health secretary Nitin Kulkarni said the directive was issued after the government was informed of recent instances when private hospitals and transport services deployed for Covid dead body management charged exorbitant amounts for transportation. “It is causing distress to patient families. I also amounted to disrespecting the dead,” he said. According to the directive, the maximum that can be levied for transportation of a body is Rs 500 as a fixed service charge, Rs 700 as cost of driver’s PPE (if family of the deceased isn’t providing a new kit), Rs 200 for vehicle sanitisation. Also, the fixed charge of Rs 500 is for the first 10km after which Rs 9/km can be charged. The distance calculated will be based on the to-and-for journey, the order said. “All these charges will come into play in case the family of the deceased is not able to arrange for transportation of the body and is not willing to avail of the government-run Moksha Vahan. The hospital administration will help the family find suitable transport, except emergency ambulances, and charge the specified rates,” Kulkarni said. He said government-sponsored Moksha Vahan was available in all 24 districts and those in need may contact the district civil surgeon or medical superintendent of the concerned medical college. “Every district is mandated to provide Moksha Vahan for transportation within or outside the district,” said Kulkarni. Wednesday’s order also makes it mandatory for private hospitals to store a Covid patient’s body free of charges for up to four days from the time of death. “After four days, the hospital may charge Rs 500/day till the time the family arranges for transportation of the body,” Kulkarni said. And in case of an unclaimed body, Kulkarni said it was the district administration’s responsibility to cremate it as per Covid-19 guidelines within 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-314
02-09-2020||Jharkhand||Decorators apprehensive about low-key Durga Puja||Decorators, tent house owners and caterers, who are in the red because of lockdown restrictions, are now seriously concerned at the very likely prospect of low-key Durga Puja this year. So far, not one of them has received a booking from any puja committee. Notably, more than 300 community pujas are held every year and usually, work on pandals begin by late August. “As Puja is likely to be low-key with the majority of committees giving orders for small, 4feet by 5feet pandals, we don’t see much of a demand this year,” said Pradeep Singh, president of Dhanbad Decorators’ Association. Singh admitted that after suffering huge losses during the last six months due to the lockdown, they were pinning their hopes on Durga Puja. “But our hopes are dashed as we expect less than 20 per cent income this year. That’s because 100 of the total 300 pujas will have budgets less than Rs 1 lakh. “Majority of puja committees will not erect any pandal and hold the puja within their own residential or club premises,” he added. General secretary of Dhanbad Zila Decorators’ Association Purushottam Kumar agreed. “The income of a number of professionals like florists, painters and suppliers of children’s rides for fairs will be drastically hit,” he said. The only silver lining, he said, was that the number of guests allowed for weddings had been increased to 100 from the earlier 50 existing 50 after September 21. “But not many marriages are likely to be held in this lagan as people are themselves apprehensive about safety,” said Kumar. Shyamal Sen, founder member of Navyuvak Sangharsh Samiti, which organises one of the best pujas at Manaitand locality of Dhanbad, said, “Though a final decision with regard to puja will be taken during a meeting of all puja committees with the district administration on September 6, there is no doubt that Puja will be a low-key affair.” Sen, a retired office superintendent of SSLNT Women’s College and a renowned artist, said that a number of his students who used to make good money during this time, were already in despair at the thought of a low-key Puja.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-314
02-09-2020||Jharkhand||Furrowed and accident-prone, finest Dhanbad road turns into worst||The Kako Math Gol Building road, one of the finest in Dhanbad, connecting the town with places like Katras and Baghmara, has turned into one of the most dangerous roads within two months, due to the suspension of ongoing roadwork along a 19km stretch. The construction of the road by the State Highway Authority of Jharkhand began in 2019, following which work and was suspended due to the coronavirus pandemic induced lockdown. It resumed after the relaxation allowed by the central government on April 20, but the work was suspended again by June 19 in the name of a departmental probe in its construction. “I regularly use the road for visiting Katras for business purposes and for over two months, I pray to God for my safety every time before using the road. Digging being carried on for road broadening, and the existing concrete road and suspension of work midway has rendered it completely unsafe,” said Rajesh Kumar Gupta, a book shop owner of the Purana Bazar locality of Dhanbad, while talking to The Telegraph Online on Wednesday. “One may feel the risk of falling into the dug-out part when a truck comes from the other side at high speed. The area is five to six feet lower than the road surface,” said Gupta and added that the road was once the finest in the district. It was known for its greenery, and people would choose this road to travel to Baghmara, as other roads like the Kendua-Karkend were not popular due to pollution and other causes. “We will meet the district administration authorities soon demanding either the resumption of construction work or putting safety measures like levelling the furrowed road to avoid accidents,” said Gupta. Echoing sentiments with Gupta, another trader of Bartand area of Dhanbad, Madhurendra Singh, said the safety of the people should be of paramount importance to any government. “With people falling into a large number of ditches all around the road, the area has turned into a virtual death zone,” he said. “A large number of heavy vehicles passing through the road, which also serves as a by-pass for the town, further increases the possibility of accidents” said Singh. Sandbags are placed in at some places to demarcate the barrier between the existing concrete road and the adjoining dug-out areas. Singh said these are far too inadequate to ensure any safety against vehicles falling into the low-lying areas. State Highway Authority of Jharkhand, in two parts, is carrying out the construction of a new eight-lane road having the provisions of a two-lane service road and a cycle track on both sides. The project includes the 11.70km stretch from Kako Math in Katras to Binod Bihari Mahto Chowk in Dhanbad, being constructed through Tribeni Construction Ltd of Guwahati in Assam. Shivalaya Construction Pvt Ltd. is constructing the remaining 8.30km stretch from Binod Bihari Chowk to Gol Building in Dhanbad. Repeated efforts to contact, MK Verma the project-in-charge of Kako Math Gol Building road of State Highway Authority of Jharkhand failed, as he didn’t answer calls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-314
02-09-2020||Jharkhand||Incab liquidator calls meet in Calcutta||The first meeting of the stakeholders’ consultation committee of Incab Industries will take place in Calcutta on Thursday. The meeting was called by Shashi Agarwal, who has been appointed liquidator of Incab Industries by the Calcutta bench of National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT). The committee which was constituted under the provisions of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 comprises creditors and other stakeholders of the company. As per a notification issued by the liquidator the meeting will take place at Aastha Business Centre at Kiron Shankar Roy Road. Company sources revealed that R.B. Singh, a member of the interim management committee of Incab, will represent the committee from Jamshedpur. However, Incab Employees Association, a recognised union of the company based at the head office in Calcutta, has opposed the meeting. "How can the liquidator convene such a meeting when National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) has imposed restrictions on Incab's liquidation," said Aloke Sen, assistant secretary of Incab Employees Association. Notably, last week NCLAT took note of an appeal by a section of employees challenging the liquidation order passed by NCLT in February this year. The next hearing of NCLAT is scheduled on September 28. Employees of the company are not getting salaries for the last two decades ever since the company was referred to the BIFR in 1999. The employees were optimistic and were looking forward to a positive outcome when on last Thursday NCLAT admitted the petition of workers. The current strength of Incab employees is around 850 at the Jamshedpur plant. Incab also has a plant in Pune which too is non-operational. As it was suffering losses Incab was referred to the BIFR in 1999, a year before Jharkhand was carved out of Bihar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-314
02-09-2020||Jharkhand||Deer run over by train in tiger park in Jharkhand ||Four deer and a newborn fawn were killed after a goods train ran over them near Ketchki railway station in a tiger reserve in Jharkhand on Monday morning. “The accident happened about half-a-kilometre away from Ketchki station sometime between 5.30am and 6.30am this morning,” said Kumar Ashish, deputy director of Palamau Tiger Reserve in Latehar district. He said the area falls under the tiger reserve and witnesses frequent movement of wildlife. There were one male and three female deer, he said. He said one doe was pregnant and delivered a fawn from the impact of the accident, taking the number of casualties to five. “We conducted an on the spot inquiry and also spoke to the railway authorities at divisional level,” Ashish said, adding that they also demanded the names of the driver and guard of the trains that passed the area at that time. The station falls under Dhanbad division of East Central Railway and the trains are expected to run at a low speed of 25km per hour while crossing the area under the reserve. “We have to initiate legal action against the offenders under the wildlife act,” Ashish said, adding the railway provided them names of the drivers and guards of five trains that passed through the area around that time. Asked how they could fix responsibility, he said it is a matter of further investigation to ascertain which particular train hit the deer. “The area being a part of PTR, the movement of wildlife is natural and the trains are run at limited speed to avoid any such accident,” he said, adding that elephants also move freely in the area. There are two railway tracks running through the area and the laying of a third track was also taken up, causing worry among wildlife enthusiasts that it would facilitate increased train moment affecting free movement of wildlife. Asked about it, Ashish said they have proposed a meeting with the senior divisional level officer of the railways to discuss the matter. The 9-km track between Chhipadohar and Hehegara stations is the most vulnerable stretch for wildlife as it runs through the core area of PTR, he said. “It would be best if that stretch is shifted to the fringes of PTR,” Ashish said, adding that it would help all concerned. While the railways can run trains at higher speed, the wildlife should also be able to move about without any risk of getting hit, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-314
02-09-2020||Jharkhand||Team to visit Jharkhand to review Covid spike ||The Union health ministry will send a three-member expert team to three districts of Jharkhand which have witnessed sudden spike in Covid-19 cases. “The team will assist state health departments for review of public health measures for Covid-19. They will be deputed for a period of 10 days at Ranchi, Dhanbad and Jamshedpur (in East Singhbhum district) as these three districts have witnessed maximum number of Covid-positive cases and also large number of fatalities,” said Jharkhand principal secretary health Nitin Madan Kulkarni. Jharkhand had on August 31, a growth rate of 4.25 per cent almost double of the national average at 2.21 per cent while the doubling rate stood at 16.64 days (national average 31.67 days). According to sources in the Union health ministry’s directorate general of health services (DGHS) emergency medical relief (EMR) division, the team would be led by Dr Tapas Ray, a senior professor in  Preventive and Social Medicine (PSM) at Lady Hardinge Medical College (New Delhi).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-314
02-09-2020||Jharkhand||Active cases over 15,000, as nearly 1000 test positive in Ranchi||The number of active cases of Covid-19 infection on Tuesday crossed the 15,000 mark in Jharkhand for the first time, after more than 2000 people were found infected in 24 hours. As per figures with the health department, nearly 1000 cases of infection surfaced in Ranchi alone on Tuesday, taking the Covid tally in the state's worst-affected district to 8,754. The number of active cases in the district also drew close to 4000, as only 60 patients recovered and 951 tested positive for the virus. East Singhbhum, the second worst-affected district in the state, reported 244 cases of infection on Tuesday, taking the tally in the district to 7,342, a bulletin from the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. It further stated that East Singhbhum reported three of the five Covid deaths in state on Tuesday, taking the Covid toll in the district to 192, which is over 40 per cent of the total Covid casualties reported in Jharkhand so far. Besides Ranchi and East Singhbhum, Bokaro reported an unprecedented rise in the number of Covid cases as 203 people in the district tested positive for the virus on Tuesday. Giridih reported 155 Covid cases. However, Bokaro, Dhanbad and Giridih have not even reported half as many cases as Ranchi and East Singhbhum. Meanwhile, state health minister Banna Gupta, who was found Covid infected on August 18, tested negative for the virus on Tuesday after undergoing treatment for 14 days. The minister announced his recovery from the viral infection from his official Twitter handle on Tuesday, and lauded the efforts of health workers, who were putting their own wellbeing at risk to treat the infected people. “I will donate my blood plasma for treatment of Covid patients now. I would like to thank the RIMS (Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences) administration for doing such a commendable job in treating Covid patients,” he said. The government has so far collected swab samples of 9.61 lakh people and tested 9.50 lakh of them. On Tuesday, health workers tested swab samples of 28,304 people and 2064 of them came positive, the NHM bulletin stated. As per government figures, the Covid mortality rate in Jharkhand was 0.97 per cent against the national average of 1.85 per cent. The Covid recovery rate in Jharkhand was 64.21 per cent, which is lower than the national recovery rate of 75.27 per cent. As many as 969 people recovered from the viral infection in Jharkhand on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-314
