03-09-2020||Calcutta||JU teachers want autonomy to conduct final semester exams ||A teachers' body at Jadavpur University has urged Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee to ensure that the institution is given the required autonomy to conduct the final semester examinations. The Jadavpur University Teachers' Association (JUTA), in a recent letter to Banerjee, also said the state government-stipulated date of October 31 for declaring results is not feasible as it falls just after the Durga Puja festivities. JUTA general secretary Partha Pratim Roy said that the university should be given the autonomy to decide the dates of assessment and declaration of results. The JUTA, the largest teachers' body in JU, wants a quick completion of the entire evaluation process but it should be decided by the university itself, he said. The advisory issued by the University Grants Commission (UGC) to mandatorily conduct final semester examinations by September 30 has put the students under stress, the teachers' body said. The recent follow-up action of the state Higher Education Department, asking the universities to conduct the final semester examinations between October 1 and 18 and declare results by October 31, is further inconveniencing the students, it said. "If the universities, as advised by the state government, fix the assessment in October, they will have to take the permission of the UGC, as per the Supreme Court order on August 28. "Given the present scenario, where the UGC seems to be taking decisions in an arbitrary and unscientific manner, this may give rise to another set of uncertainties regarding the granting of permission to hold examinations in October which will increase the pressure on the students," Roy said in the letter. Pointing out that Durga Puja will be celebrated across the state from October 22, the JUTA said, "If the assessment process commences at the beginning of October and is completed by October 18, as advised by the Higher Education Department, many students will miss the opportunity to join other higher educational institutions or take up jobs." The JUTA reminded the chief minister that the JU had initially prepared a protocol for assessment based on the Higher Education Department's advisory issued in April, which allowed the universities to prepare their own procedure for assessment. "However, after most of the assessments were completed at JU, the department had issued a fresh advisory on June 27 proposing an 80-20 formula, wherein 20 per cent of the score for a paper would be awarded based on the student's performance during the final semester and 80 per cent would be given on the basis of his/her results in the previous semester examinations," it said. As a result, JU was forced to change the whole assessment procedure and "prepare results of the terminal semester/final year based on the June 27 advisory and the results prepared on the basis of the said advisory have now become redundant", the teachers' body said. The JUTA said the Higher Education Department's previous advisory to the state universities to conduct examinations in October "seemed to have been taken in haste without taking into consideration the specific issues and problems faced by different universities".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-321
03-09-2020||Calcutta||Open-book exams at Calcutta University||Calcutta University will conduct open-book examinations for final-year undergraduate and postgraduate students where they will have 24 hours to upload answers. The university will email the questions to the undergraduate colleges. The individual colleges will send the questions through email or over WhatApp to examinees at the start of the examination. Students will have to upload the answers in PDF format and send them via email or WhatsApp to their colleges within 24 hours, vice-chancellor Sonali Chakravarti Banerjee said. In case any student is not able to manage a smart device or unable to upload the answers because of poor connectivity, he or she will have to write the answers on paper and submit the hardcopy in sealed envelope to his or her college within 24 hours, the vice-chancellor said. The individual undergraduate colleges will evaluate the answers of their own students. The teachers of the respective colleges will be engaged for evaluating the answers of the students. The undergraduate examinations will start on October 1 and continue till October 8, the vice-chancellor told Metro. All the 68 postgraduate departments of the university have been advised to complete the examinations within October 8, she said. The time-table of both the exams will be announced within a few days, the vice-chancellor said. The marks of all the undergraduate and postgraduate examinations will have to be sent to the controller of examination department of the university by every college within October 18. The results of the examinations of all the streams will be declared within October 31. This is the first time the university has adopted the open-book examination for all undergraduate and postgraduate courses. It was not heard of in the 163-year old history of the university. It has been adopted as an alternative measure only for the current year in view of the pandemic, a professor of the university said. There will be no change in the pattern of the undergraduate questions to be provided to the students. But the postgraduate departments will be advised to change the question pattern and incorporate more “analytical” questions since the examination will be on open-book mode, an official said. The university may consider bringing in some changes in the marking pattern of the undergraduate examinations because students will be given 24 hours for uploading the answers, an official of the university said. “Students can take the help of private tutors or friends for writing the answers.. We need to ensure that the evaluation of the answers is held in a fair manner,” the official said. Postgraduate students will be examined the same way and they too will have to upload the answers within 24 hours. The departments will evaluate the answers and have to send the marks to the controller of examinations department within October 18. More than 1.10 lakh examinees will appear for the undergraduate and post graduate examinations, an official said. The decisions were taken at a meeting of the university’s faculty council on Wednesday. The time-table and the other instructions for the colleges, teachers and students will be announced after discussing the faculty council decisions at the university’s syndicate body. The meeting of the syndicate will be held soon, the vice-chancellor said. The examinations in each subject will be held on 100 percent marks allotted in the papers. “Our target is to declare the results within October 31. But we can declare the results of a particular course a few days before the targeted date if all the marks reach us before October 18,” she said. The third-year BA and BSc exams under the 1+1+1 system and the final (sixth) semester examinations in BCom were slated in April but they got deferred because of Covid-19. The final year (fourth) semester postgraduate examinations also got deferred. Education minister Partha Chatterjee had said on Monday that the final year undergraduate and postgraduate examinations will have to be  conducted by the universities within October 1 and 18 and the results will have to be declared within October 31.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-322
03-09-2020||Calcutta||CMC for fire law changes to facilitate construction||The Calcutta Municipal Corporation and the fire department will approach the government to amend sections of the fire services act that come in the way of construction of five or six-storey buildings, Firhad Hakim said on Wednesday. Hakim, the chairperson of the CMC’s board of administrators, held a meeting with fire officers and CMC officials where the proposal to amend the act was discussed. The CMC’s building rules allow certain relaxations for new constructions coming up in place of old, crumbling structures. The relaxations are related to leaving mandatory open space on the plot and the building’s height vis-a-vis the road width in the front. “The building rules allow lesser open space in case of buildings in place of old, crumbling structures and if the old buildings have multiple tenants,” a CMC official said. This relaxation is given to ensure the new structure has adequate space to rehabilitate all tenants. “We have to give some incentive to builders.” In allowing the additional space, the height of the building increased. In the building rules, the height of a building depends on the road width in the front. “In case of buildings with tenants, the height is more than what is allowed for other buildings with a road of similar width in the front,” the official said. The relaxations are given to five or six-storey buildings, he said. “We will jointly send a proposal to amend portions of the fire services act. A lot of building plans are not getting approved because of this,” Hakim said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-322
03-09-2020||Calcutta||Plan to end ‘chaos’ at airport||Airlines and airport authorities will deploy more people to handle the chaos at Calcutta airport on the days when flights to six cities, including Delhi and Mumbai, will operate, officials said on Wednesday. Airport and Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) officials and representatives of airlines conducted a survey of the terminal building to find out how the chaos can be prevented. On Tuesday, many passengers missed their flights and several flights were delayed because of long queues on the first day of resumption of flights between Calcutta and Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Ahmedabad, Pune and Nagpur. “Most of the passengers are first-time fliers and many do not have smartphones to comply with the travel requirements as part of the new Covid-19 guidelines. This is the most significant challenge faced by the airport and airlines and it is slowing down the process of check-in. Airline personnel are helping these people but we will allocate more people to make the process faster from Thursday,” Captain Sarvesh Gupta, advisor to the airline operators’ committee at Calcutta airport, said. Airline officials said they would deploy employees outside the terminal building where passengers have been standing in long queues to enter the building. “They will ask passengers if they have the Arogya Setu app and have done the web check-in, which are mandatory. If some passengers don’t have that, they will be taken out of the queue and helped by airline employees to fill up self-declaration forms stating they do not have symptoms of Covid-19 and get the web check-in done,” an official of an airline said. Metro had on Wednesday reported how passengers were stuck at the entrance to the terminal and in the security hold area and that airlines had alleged lack of preparedness on part of the airport authorities. One of the issues was first-time fliers not having the required documents on their smartphones while some did not have smartphones. “We have to assist these passengers,” Gupta said. Airport officials said they would deploy more CISF personnel at various points. “Additional CISF personnel would be deployed at the gates so that those who have all the necessary documents can be cleared by them,” airport director Kaushik Bhattacharya said. He said the automatic tray retrieval system at the security check counters where passengers put their belongings for X-ray scanning have been made fully operational on Wednesday. “This should reduce the congestion in the security hold area to some extent,” Bhattacharya said. Airport officials said another plan was to deploy airline and CISF personnel to ensure all security check counters were utilised to the optimum. “Many first-time fliers are standing in one long queue while the other counters for security check are not that congested. These personnel would redirect the passengers to counters that are less congested,” an airport official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-322
03-09-2020||Calcutta||Covid stalls Bengal wild animal study||The pandemic has put the brakes on a study to assess the habitat and distribution of hyenas, wolves and some other wild animals said to be found in the forests of the western districts of Bengal. These animals do not hog the limelight and are not the centre of conservation efforts like their illustrious peers — tiger and elephant. Outside reserve forests areas, their population is undocumented and the extent of their distribution largely anecdotal, said forest officials. The study is the first step to plug that gap. The study, commissioned two years ago and being done by the Zoological Survey of India, is under the West Bengal Forest and Biodiversity Conservation Project, funded by Japan International Cooperation Agency (Jica). It covers hyenas, wolves, golden jackals, leopard cats and wild boars. A team of ZSI researchers had spent months in the forests of Purulia, Jhargram, West Midnapore and Bankura. Phase one of the study involved direct sightings, taking pictures, studying scat samples, pugmarks and kills of carnivores. Based on the direct and indirect evidence, the researchers have zeroed in on multiple “frequent encounter sites”. The second stage involves laying trap cameras at these places. Around 30 cameras were placed at a patch of forest surrounding the Ayodhya hills in Purulia. But they had to be taken off because of risk of damages by human interference. “A park or a sanctuary is a protected forest area with minimal human interference. But these are open forests, frequently accessed by people living in the villages on the fringes,” said Lalit Kumar Sharma, scientist and officer in charge of the wildlife division of the ZSI, who is coordinating the project. The researchers had requested the forest department to ensure security of the equipment. Following an assurance, a fresh lot of cameras was supposed to have been placed from this March. The images captured from the camera traps would be used to analyse the population density of a species. But the Covid-19 curbs have delayed the process by at least a few months, said a ZSI official. “Our team has had hyena sightings at a forest near the Ayodhya hills in Purulia. We have not seen wolves but indirect evidence — scat and other samples used for DNA analysis — suggest there are multiple wolves in these forests,” said Sharma. The forests of Purulia, Jhargram, West Midnapore and Bankura are interspersed with human settlements. A senior wildlife official, instrumental in starting the project, explained its significance. “The smaller animals in a tiger habitat, like the Sunderbans, are studied in detail as part of the tiger census. They form the prey base and are treated like important subjects. But the forests of south Bengal (other than the Sunderbans) are not tiger habitats. Neither are they protected forests. The smaller animals in these areas have so far remained outside the ambit of documentation,” the official told Metro. The ZSI study also aims to provide insights into the human-wildlife conflict involving these animals and suggest ways of mitigation. Human-wildlife conflict in these parts mostly involve marauding herds of elephants. But it is not limited to pachyderms only. A hyena was allegedly killed, beheaded and chopped into pieces by some residents of a village in Purulia in the third week of July. Forest officials suspected it to have been a retaliatory killing because the hyena had strayed into the village and lifted some livestock. In February 2019, a wolf was captured by residents of a Jhargram village after the animal allegedly attacked a number of locals. The researchers have surveyed villagers living on the fringes of the forests. They interviewed individual villagers and interacted with communities to assess the “damages” caused by wild animals. The villagers were asked about “encounters” with wild animals. “We have identified a few conflict hotspots and have shared the details with the forest department,” said Sharma of ZSI.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-322
03-09-2020||Calcutta||Sky set to clear, heat & humidity to rise: Met||A cyclonic circulation triggered moderate rainfall in the city on Tuesday and Wednesday. It brought temporary relief from the rising heat and humidity in the city since last weekend. But sweaty conditions are likely to gradually be back in the city, said a Met official. “A cyclonic circulation over Gangetic Bengal led to the rainfall. The system now lies over Gangetic West Bengal and adjoining Jharkhand and extends up to 0.9km above mean seal level,” said a Met update on Wednesday evening. “The monsoon trough now passes through Bahraich, Gaya, Shantiniketan and eastwards to Manipur across Bangladesh and south Assam,” the update said. “Another cyclonic circulation is brewing over the Bay of Bengal off the Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu coasts. It is too far from Bengal to have an impact here,” said the Met official. From Friday to Monday, the maximum temperature hovered around 35 degrees. The high moisture content in the air, typical of August, had made it more sweltering. The maximum temperature on Monday was 35.4 degrees Celsius, three notches above normal. Around 2.30pm, the RealFeel — calculated by weather portal AccuWeather.com — was 43 degrees. The hot and sultry spell was broken by sharp thundershowers that started from early Tuesday. From Tuesday morning to Wednesday night, the city got multiple spells of rain. The sky was overcast for most of the two days. Roads were deserted on Monday because of the lockdown in the state. But on Tuesday and Wednesday, traffic was slow at several busy intersections because of the rain. The first few days of a month see a sizeable queue outside government banks — mostly senior citizens waiting to draw their persons. Around 11am on Wednesday, over 20 elderly people were jostling for space under a sunshade outside a nationalised bank in Behala. They were trying to take shelter from the train. Only a few were being allowed inside the bank at a time to maintain social distancing. The Met office recorded around 40mm of rain on Tuesday and Wednesday combined. The volume was not much but the overcast and windy conditions led to a dip in the temperature. Tuesday’s maximum temperature was 27.1 degrees, five notches below normal. On Wednesday, it had climbed to around 30 degrees, still two notches below normal. “The sky is expected to clear from Thursday afternoon. There could be occasional showers but it is likely to get hotter from Thursday,” the Met official said. “There is usually a lot of moisture in the air during the monsoon. At times like this, when the rain dries up and there are no clouds, allowing the sun to beat down hard, the temperature rises and the moisture in the air makes the weather sweaty and uncomfortable,” the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-322
03-09-2020||Calcutta||IIT Kharagpur snaps Net in hostels to ‘evict’ boarders||The IIT Kharagpur authorities have disconnected the Internet in hostels, fuelling charges that it was intended at forcing students to vacate the rooms. The director had asked all students to leave the campus by August 30. The Net connection in all five hostels was snapped on Tuesday evening, an official said. The decision was taken three days after 65 research scholars had written to director V.K. Tewary that they were unable to leave the campus by Sunday and had sought permission to stay in the hostels till the situation became normal. Apart from the research scholars, a few BTech and MTech students are on the campus as they cannot return home in the absence of trains and some of their family members have comorbidities. A boarder of the Nivedita hall of residence said the Wi-Fi and LAN services had been stopped and that they were unable to attend online classes or access journals on their laptops in the hostels. The online classes for the autumn semester have started from September 1 and live classes are being held on Microsoft Teams. “As the Internet facilities have been withdrawn, we could not attend the live classes. Some of the students have to buy expensive data packs to attend classes on their smartphones. But one cannot keep buying high-speed packs for the entire semester,” a boarder said. A research scholar said for the purpose of reference one had to consult various international journals. “As long as we had Net connectivity in the hostels, we could access the journals free of cost. Now, we have to subscribe against a steep payment to access the journals on smartphones,” she said. Any institute of higher learning, through its research grant, subscribes to journals and students can access  them from hostels with Net connectivity, a teacher said. Another research scholar said they had to step outside the hostels and stand or sit in the open to access the institute’s network facility. “But we are allowed to step out only for an hour for lunch. Besides, one cannot concentrate on studies or research in the open,” he said. The dean of students’ affairs, Somesh Kumar, said: “The Internet facilities have been withdrawn following the decision of higher authorities.” A BTech student said the institute which had sent its officials, along with security men, to evict the boarders from one of the halls on August 24, has now adopted a different ploy so that students leave the hostels on their own. A video had emerged that purportedly showed an official of IIT Kharagpur, accompanied by guards, telling students at Madan Mohan Malviya hall of residence to vacate the campus, failing which their belongings would be taken away. “Now they are withdrawing the Net service to throw us out,” a student said. The IIT authorities had on August 19 asked the 300-odd students still on the campus to move out by August 23 after a student had tested positive for Covid-19. Now the number has risen to 12, five of them being students. “The institute is asking the students to leave the campus for their own safety. The director has requested them repeatedly. The bulk of the students have left, only a handful refuse to understand,” an official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-322
03-09-2020||Calcutta||13-year-old set for online class found hanging||A 13-year-old student of Class VIII was found hanging from the ceiling of his room at their Bansdroni home on Tuesday morning, police said. Jason Ronal’s father, a railway contractor, and mother, who is attached with a dental store in south Calcutta, were at their workplaces and Jason was alone at home. He was supposed to have his online classes, the police said. Jason’s father Julies Oberne, a resident of Kalitala Park in South Bansdroni in the Regent Park police station area, and mother Jyoti told cops that they had left early in the morning leaving Jason at home like other days. Oberne returned around 10.30am to find the door locked from inside. Repeated knocks went unanswered, he told the police. After breaking open the door, Oberne found his son hanging from a bamboo pole in his room, the police said. Jason was declared dead at Baghajatin State General Hospital. Officers of Regent Park police station said they got to know of it only when the hospital reported the matter to Netaji Nagar police station later in the day. “According to the statement of the parents of the student, he had his online classes in the morning,” an officer of Regent Park police station said. The police have started a case of unnatural death. The body has been sent for post-mortem. The officer said cops would check Jason’s phone for any possible clue. Jason was a student of St Clare School on Bandipur Road in the Regent Park area. “We will talk to his teachers and friends to find out if they had noticed anything unusual in his behaviour in the past few days,” an officer in Lalbazar said. Several parents Metro spoke to have expressed concern over their children getting restless because of the prolonged confinement at home during the pandemic. “My son has become irritable. We cannot allow him to go out and play football with his friends even though our home is right in front of a huge ground. For young boys it is difficult to stay indoors for such a long time,” Pallabi Mukherjee, a resident of Garia, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-322
03-09-2020||Calcutta||Fleecing allegations dog home collection of Covid samples||A family in Kasba, who underwent Covid tests last week, alleged the private hospital, which had sent its personnel to collect swab samples from their homes, charged each of the four persons Rs 2,800. When they got the receipt from the hospital, the amount mentioned was Rs 2,250, as stipulated by the state government. Another family in Behala, who had taken the service of the same private hospital to get their swab samples collected from home last week, alleged the person who came to collect the samples asked them to pay Rs 3,200 for each sample. The family in Kasba got in touch with the hospital and officials told them the collection had been outsourced to an agency and it was their people who had collected the samples. “The hospital then sent the agency representative to our home who returned the balance amount but kept Rs 150 as transport cost,” the Kasba resident, a retired central government employee, said. “Initially when we had called the hospital, the person who received the call said they would send someone to our home. At no point were we told that someone from an outsourced agency would collect the samples. So, we thought the hospital was overcharging us.” If a hospital is outsourcing the home collection of swab samples then it has to ensure such agencies maintain hygiene and use proper equipment to collect samples, according to public health experts. The state government has capped the price of Covid-19 tests to a maximum of Rs 2,250. But for collection of samples from home, the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission has issued an advisory that a maximum of Rs 15 can be charged for every kilometre as transport cost over and above the fixed amount of Rs 2,250. An official of the private hospital off the Bypass said it had 35 such outsourced agencies, which collect samples from homes across Calcutta and North and South 24-Parganas. The hospital collects about 200 samples from homes every day, the official said. “We have trained them on how to collect samples. But it’s not possible to keep a watch on every agency at the micro level. If we get complaints, we immediately address them,” the official said. The chairman of the hospital group said it was not possible to conduct tests at homes for Rs 2,250. “We have told the commission that Rs 15 for every kilometre as transport cost is not viable. They should allow at least an additional Rs 300 for the PPE cost,” he said. The chairman said the outsourced agencies might be overcharging people because of the low margin. Officials of several private hospitals and diagnostic centres said they had not outsourced the swab collection from homes because of such issues. But they agreed that home collection was in high demand because many people were scared to visit hospitals for tests. “Collecting a swab sample for Covid test is a highly specialised job and the technique and equipment should be as per the standards set by the Indian Council of Medical Research,” Somnath Chatterjee, director of Suraksha Diagnostics Pvt Ltd, said. The centre has been doing home collection of swab samples. “We have not outsourced to any agency because of quality control and other issues. The virus transport media, the equipment that is used to collect the sample, should be approved by the ICMR. We are not sure if the outsourced agency would be following the rules. Also, we cannot control the amount they charge people.” The diagnostic centre has been collecting close to 40 samples every day through its own employees, Chatterjee said. The CEO of a private hospital said the hospital had started home swab collections but had brought down the numbers because too many samples could compromise the quality. “We send doctors to collect samples. I am not sure whether the quality can be maintained if any technician who has not undergone proper training is sent,” he said. The samples collected need to be stored in temperature-controlled boxes before being brought to hospital, he said. “It is difficult to ensure an outsourced agency maintains such standards.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-322
03-09-2020||Calcutta||Air India direct to London from Calcutta||Air India on Wednesday announced evacuation flights directly between Calcutta and London from September 16. The flights will operate twice a week till October 24, the airline said. “The flights are under the Vande Bharat scheme and will operate on Thursdays and Sundays from Calcutta and Wednesdays and Saturdays from London,” an Air India spokesperson said. He said bookings had already started for the flights. According to the airline, the flight will leave Calcutta at 5am on Thursdays and Sundays and reach Heathrow at 11am (London time). While returning, it will leave Heathrow at noon (London time) on Wednesdays and Saturdays and reach Calcutta at 2.20am. The Bengal government has stopped evacuation flights from international destinations unless it issues a no objection certificate for a particular flight. The decision was taken after several evacuees, many of them medical students, had refused to go for paid quarantine after landing in Calcutta. The government is now allowing chartered flights from other countries to bring evacuees after the ministry of civil aviation revised the SOP and said passengers with negative reports of Covid-19 tests would be allowed to board a flight. “But the rule that an NOC is required for airlines operating evacuation flights is still in place. We have not received any communication from the state government on this,” a Calcutta airport official said. The Air India spokesperson said the civil aviation ministry had asked them to operate the direct flights between Calcutta and London. “We are following all the SOPs issued by the government.” Although not a regular commercial flight, but the direct link to London came after several years. Air India had started a direct flight between Calcutta and London in 2006 but had stopped it after a couple of years. The reason was poor load factor. “We have started getting bookings for the flight. There are many people from the UK who are stuck here, among them are students. Also, there are people from London who want to return home,” Anil Punjabi, chairman, east, Travel Agents Federation of India, said. “People who want to go to other parts of Europe can take the flight.” There are many people who could not book seats in evacuation flights from London to Delhi or Mumbai because the flights to Calcutta from these six cities were stalled by the state government because of the high number of Covid patients in these cities, according to tour operators.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-322
03-09-2020||Calcutta||JEE: 400km in pursuit of the goal of government job||A farmer’s son, who lives with his parents in a thatched hut in Balapur village,15km from Balurghat in South Dinajpur, hopes to get into an engineering college and secure “a government job”. Banking on this hope Subhankar Burman risked his and his father Malin Burman’s safety in the middle of the pandemic to travel overnight on a bus to Calcutta from Balurghat to take the JEE (Main) exam. “I want to get a government job… that would enable me to help my father financially,” Subhankar said after stepping out of the exam centre at TCS Gitobitan in Salt Lake. Subhankar’s father waited outside for more than three hours in heat and rain while his son took the exam. But waiting that long is not a tough call for the farmer who works for eight to 12 hours on the field, at times without a break. “I have never seen him complain. But I can see the hard work he puts in for me day after day,” Subhankar said. “When there is work we have to be on the field from dawn to afternoon. That has been my life for many years; but my son wants a different life and I want to support him,” Burman, a graduate, said. Subhankar hopes to secure a “government job” as that will mean “more certainty”. Chasing a life that will be more certain than the one he is leading now, the boy has never complained, even if it meant travelling during lockdown. “We are thankful that we got a bus and it was not crowded. But yes, all seats were occupied and we had masks to keep ourselves safe,” he said. Subhankar and his father started from Balurghat at 8pm on Aug-ust 31 and reached Dunlop on the city’s northern outskirt the next morning. The two are staying at a relative’s place in Dunlop, an option that helped them travel over 400km “in pursuit of a better life”. They will stay at Dunlop for a few more days because Subhankar will take the National Defence Academy exam, scheduled for Sunday. “I could opt for both the exams… and it helped because we had a relative with whom we could stay in Calcutta,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-322
03-09-2020||Calcutta||Father and son cycle 100km to reach JEE exam centre||A father and son from Gosaba in South 24-Parganas cycled for more than 100km before travelling 20 km on buses to reach a JEE (Main) exam centre in Salt Lake on Wednesday. Rabindranath Mondal and his son Diganta started their journey at 5.30am on Tuesday for the exam that was scheduled for 3pm the next day. In the first leg of the journey, Mondal, a carpenter by profession, and his son cycled for five hours from their village in Bijoynagar in Gosaba to reach Piyali, around 60 km away, and then crossed a river on a small boat. After a night’s rest at Piyali, they started again at 8am on Wednesday — this time only Mondal cycled with his son on the pillion — to reach Sonarpur, almost 50km away. “He had his exam; so, I did not want him to get tired by cycling,” Mondal said. The cycle was kept at a relative’s place in Sonarpur from where they took a bus to Science City and then another bus to Sector V in Salt Lake. A day in advance Mondal had checked out the bus options but did not risk travelling on them because they were overcrowded. “On other occasions we travel by bus but I was scared because so many people have been infected with Covid-19,” Mondal said. Not appearing for the exam was not an option for the family because an engineering degree can be a ticket to a job and better life. “I had to give up studies after Madhyamik…. I had to start doing odd jobs because of the financial need of my family. If my son gets admission to an engineering college it will be difficult for me to fund his education but I will still try because it might open up various opportunities,” Mondal said. “Not appearing for the exam would have meant going out of the competition and an end of hope.” Earnings have dropped considerably and life has became “more difficult” because of the pandemic, he said. “I try to give my best and I hope to get admission to an engineering college,” Diganta who scored 80 per cent in the Higher Secondary exams said. The day for Diganta did not end with the exam at 6pm. Both father and son will cycle back to Piyali, even if it is late in the night. Many came in private cars to the exam centre wearing masks and carrying bottles of sanitisers but the father-son duo had a torch with them. The torch that will light up their path as they cycle back to Piyali and then to Gosaba.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-323
03-09-2020||Calcutta||JEE: 75% absent, Mamata asks Centre: Why so obstinate? ||Day 1: 771 out of 2,623 students Day 2: 1,883 out of 3,495 students These are the number of students who appeared for the JEE(Main) exam in Calcutta in the past two days. On Wednesday, 46 per cent of students remained absent for the BE/BTech entrance examinations in the two centres in Calcutta. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee told a news conference that as many as 75 per cent students in Bengal could not appear for the JEE (Main) exam. “I found out that in our state for the JEE exam yesterday, there were 4,652 candidates, out of which only 1,167 candidates appeared, meaning 25 per cent attendance. Around 75 per cent students could not attend in Bengal itself,” the chief minister said, quoting Tuesday’s numbers. Metro had reported on Wednesday that around 70 per cent students had not taken the tests in Calcutta’s two centres in TCS Gitobitan in Salt Lake and the Institute of Instrumentation & Metrology in Belghoria on Day 1. There are 15 centres in Bengal, three of which are in Howrah. The chief minister said students were in “great trouble”. “So many students are being totally deprived. They are not able to attend the JEE exam also. That is why we requested the central government so many times to review the matter again so that students are not deprived,” Mamata said. The chief minister said the state had made arrangements in line with the guidelines but yet 75 per cent students could not appear and were “deprived”. “Why is there so much obstinacy, why is there so much pride, why be a egoist? Who gave them the right to destroy the future of students?” Mamata asked. “The students did not say they will not take the examination. They only asked the exam to be deferred. In the midst of Covid-19 when there is a question about health... to pursue a career, what if life is put at risk? The students only wanted the exam to be deferred and needed some time,” she said. “So, what we had said — was it wrong? We do not conduct the exams, the central government does.… I am feeling sad for the students. I will again ask the central government to review how many students could appear for the exam in different states. They should think about students who could not attend,” Mamata said. At TCS Gitobitan, the JEE (Main) centre at Salt Lake, on Wednesday, 3,376 students had been registered to appear for the exam in the two shifts -- 1688 in each. In the first half, 709 students were absent and 858 in the second half, said officials associated with the exams. In Belghoria, out of the 119 students in two shifts,  74 were present. Some of those who turned up had come from hundreds of kilometres away.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-323
03-09-2020||Business||Tata Motors launches new Nexon variant||Tata Motors on Wednesday rolled a new variant of its compact SUV Nexon, with premium features, at a starting price of Rs 8.36 lakh (ex-showroom Delhi). The new variant XM(S) of Nexon is available in both petrol and diesel and with two transmission options — manual and automated manual transmission (AMT), Tata Motors said in a release. “The Nexon XM(S) will  allow our customers to enjoy superior features such as the electric sunroof at a compelling price,” said Vivek Srivatsa, head of marketing, passenger business vehicle unit, Tata Motors.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-299
03-09-2020||Business||Economy looks to break stupor as manufacturing activities resume||The SBI Composite Index, a leading indicator of manufacturing activities in the economy, improved to 50 in August, while the monthly index crossed 60, indicating the rate of decline is easing with the economy opening up slowly. The yearly SBI Composite Index for August has touched the benchmark 50 and is at 50.4 (low growth) in August compared with 46  (low decline) in July 2020, a release said. The monthly index increased sharply to 63 (high growth) in August compared with 40.5 (large decline) in July 2020, it added. “Based on the SBI index, we believe IIP and IIP manufacturing could still contract  5-6 per cent in July and around 1 per cent in August 2020,” Soumya Kanti Ghosh, group chief economic adviser, State Bank of India, said. The index data seem to be in line with the PMI survey released on Tuesday, which indicated that after five months of contraction, the manufacturing sector expanded in August. The headline seasonally adjusted IHS Markit India Manufacturing Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI) rose from 46 in July to 52 in August. Analysts said these data do not indicate turnaround in the economy. “The rise in August’s manufacturing PMI is cold comfort when set against the extremely weak GDP data,” Shilan Shah, senior India economist, Capital Economics, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-299
03-09-2020||Business||Edu-tech startup Unacademy joins the unicorn club||Online learning platform Unacademy on Wednesday said it has raised $150 million in a round of funding led by SoftBank Group with existing investors General Atlantic, Sequoia Capital, Nexus Venture Partners, Facebook and Blume Ventures chipping in. The latest round values the Bangalore based edu-tech startup at $1.45 billion, putting it in the list of homegrown unicorns (startups with valuations of more than $1 billion). SoftBank’s investment is through its Vision Fund 2. The firm has so far raised around $348.5 million in over eight rounds according to market estimates. Unacademy began as a YouTube channel of co-founder and CEO Gaurav Munjal back in 2010 and since then the firm has grown both organically and inorganically. Hemesh Singh and Roman Saini, are the other two co-founders of Unacademy. Earlier in February, the firm had raised $110 million from its investors and in July it had announced the acquisition of PrepLadder and Mastree, having taken over platforms such as Kreatryx, Wifistudy and Codechef. “Learning from the best experts to achieve a life goal has mostly been a privilege, available only to those living in the top few cities of the country. At Unacademy, we are breaking that barrier…We’re delighted to welcome SoftBank as a partner to that vision. We started with test preparation and with this partnership, we will launch other goals on our platform,” said Munjal. Unacademy has over 18,000 educators and over 350,000 subscribers. The company prepares students for more than 35 competitive exams. The company said the documents related to the investment have been signed and the deal is expected to be closed in the next few weeks. The funding will help in the launch of products and the expansion of the team. The platform has seen a spike in its paid subscribers and watch time minutes during the lockdown period. “We have been closely tracking Unacademy for the last 18 months and have been impressed by their growth, quality of products and consumer engagement. They are truly democratising education in India and we look forward to helping them scale up even further,” said Sumer Juneja, partner for SoftBank Investment Advisers. Japan-based SoftBank group is among the major global investors in most Indian unicorns such as Paytm, Oyo Rooms, Ola Cabs, Delhivery, FirstCry, Lenskart and PolicyBazaar. Sequoia Capital India, Unacademy’s another major investor, leads the list of investors in Indian unicorns as of August end with interests in eight firms.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-299
03-09-2020||Business||Compact cars, SUVs drive sales in August||Compact cars and SUVs turned the tide in August as Maruti Suzuki and Hyundai led the recovery in the auto market with double digit rise in sales. While Maruti Suzuki witnessed a 17 per cent growth riding on the sales of its compact cars, Hyundai India posted a 19 per cent surge on the back of record sales for the Creta and the Venue. Maruti Suzuki India recorded total sales of 1,24,624 units in August 2020, a growth of 15.3 per cent over July 2020 and a 17.1 per cent rise over August 2019. Total sales include domestic sales of 1,15,325 units and 1,379 units for other original equipment manufacturers (OEMs). Maruti’s offerings in the mini and compact segments — that include the Alto, S-Presso, WagonR, Swift, Celerio, Ignis, Baleno, Tour-S and Dzire — together sold 81,665 units. The Alto and S-Presso sold 19,709 units compared with 10,123 units in August 2019, up 94.7 per cent. This surely marks the comeback of the entry-level vehicle as people opt for individual mobility as opposed to mass transport. Hyundai Motor India Ltd registered cumulative sales of 52,609 units, of which 45,809 units are domestic and 6,800 units are exports. The Creta contributed with sales of 11,756 units while the Venue sold 8,267 units, showing that SUVs continue to be a popular choice. Tarun Garg, director (sales, marketing and service), Hyundai Motor India Ltd,  said, “HMIL posted a growth of 19.9 per cent on a comparative low base of last year. There has been a good response to Creta, Verna, Tucson, Nios, Aura and Venue. We would like to carry on with cautious optimism as uncertainty still surrounds the pandemic.” Kia Motors is another instance of the popularity of SUVs. Kia completed a year of operations in India last month, and the Korean auto maker occupied the fifth position in the sales chart for August, selling 10,853 units (up 74 per cent year-on-year). Mahindra & Mahindra saw its domestic passenger vehicle sales grow 1 per cent last month. Toyota Kirloskar Motor witnessed a decline in its passenger vehicle sales although there was an improvement over the preceding months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-299
03-09-2020||Business||Amazon Pay widens ambit of financial services||Amazon has widened its financial services offering in Amazon Pay to include motor insurance and digital gold as it takes on rivals such as Paytm, Google Pay, PhonePe and Freecharge. In 2017, Amazon India had secured the Reserve Bank of India’s (RBI) approval to operate pre-paid payment instruments (PPI) or a mobile wallet in the country. Earlier in December 2016, Amazon had launched its Pay Balance service. Similar to other mobile wallet services, the payment mechanism, however, was restricted to transactions made on its platform. Since then it has enlarged its offering to not only enable individuals to add money to their account, recharge their mobile & DTH services, pay utility bills, make LPG cylinder payments, insurance premium and municipal tax among others. Customers can also book flight tickets, check EMI options on their debit and credit cards before making a purchase. The e-commerce giant has now gone a step further by including motor insurance and digital gold as well. The digital gold facility launched last month helps people buy and gold in a ‘hassle free, convenient manner’. People can buy gold starting from Rs 5 and without any KYC, they can buy up to 2 gram. Amazon has partnered SafeGold (Digitial Gold India Pvt Ltd) to enable the digital gold platform. It would allow individuals to buy, sell and take delivery of 24 carat physical gold, at low ticket sizes, with the click of a button. Digital Gold India is an institutionally backed company, primarily owned by Invent Advisors. Customers can buy auto insurance on the Amazon Pay page, Amazon app or mobile website and they can get a quote for their car or bike’s insurance by providing basic details. In this paperless insurance plan, customers can get claims with zero paperwork, one-hour pick-up, and three-day assured claim servicing and one-year repair warranty in select cities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-299
03-09-2020||Business||Coal India profit falls 55% in first quarter of 2020-21||Coal India’s net profit has come down 55.12 per cent in the first quarter of 2020-21 as the public sector miner’s sales took a hit during the period marked by the lockdown on account of Covid-19. The consolidated profit for the quarter from continuing operations was Rs 2,077.51 crore against Rs 4,629.87 crore in the corresponding quarter previous year. Revenue from operations during the quarter was Rs 18,486.77 crore against Rs 24,938.99 crore in the corresponding quarter of the previous year. Coal India had produced 121.04 million tonnes (mt) during the April-June quarter against 136.94mt in the corresponding period a year ago. Offtake during the quarter was 120.42mt against 153.49mt in the year ago period. The average realisation from the sale of coal through the fuel supply agreement route was Rs 1,359.50 per tonne, while 15.87mt of coal sold through e-auction was at an average realisation of Rs 1,598.14 per tonne. Realisation from both FSA and e-auction sales was down compared with the year-ago period. The miner said that the Covid-19 pandemic has impacted its business adversely. There was less demand from the power sector as well as closure of many industries during the period in the non-regulated sector even though the company had a stock of 74.63mt at the start of the quarter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-299
03-09-2020||Business||Vodafone Idea starts funds search for paying AGR dues||Vodafone Idea, which faces an uphill task of meeting the Supreme Court verdict on adjusted gross revenues (AGR), will consider various fund raising options at a board meet on September 4. In a late evening filing with the stock exchanges on Tuesday, the telco said the board at the meeting will “consider and evaluate proposals to raise funds in one or more tranches by way of a public issue, preferential allotment, private placement, including a qualified institutions placement, or through any other permissible mode and/or combination thereof...by way of issue of equity shares or by way of issue of any instruments’’. The board will also consider raising funds through securities, including securities convertible into equity shares, global depository receipts, American depository receipts, or bonds, including foreign currency convertible bonds, convertible debentures, warrants. Non-convertible debentures, including non-convertible debentures, along with warrants, which may or may not be listed are the other options. On Tuesday, a bench headed by Justice Arun Mishra gave telecom players 10 years to pay their balance AGR dues. The apex court said that the operators shall make the payment of 10 per cent of the total dues by March 31, 2021, and the rest has to be paid in yearly instalments starting April 1, 2021 to March 31, 2031. Vodafone Idea has dues of around Rs 58,254 crore of which it has paid Rs 3,500 crore. The company is selling its entire stake in Indus Towers for Rs 4,000 crore. However, it will have to make a pre-payment of Rs 2,400 crore to the Indus Tower-Bharti Infratel merged entity. The company will thus get around Rs 1,600 crore from the stake sale in the tower firm. On Wednesday, shares of Vodafone Idea spurted 11.47 per cent on the proposed fund raising announcement. “If at all its chances of surviving have increased,” tweeted investment adviser Sandip Sabharwal. “We await clarity from the companies on whether the 10 per cent upfront payment can be adjusted against amounts already paid or if an additional 10 per cent needs to be paid by March 2021. If it is the former, then neither company may need to make any additional payment till March 2022,” analysts at Citi said in a note.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-300
03-09-2020||Business||Debt recast terms set to get clarity||The KV Kamath panel report on the nitty-gritty of business loan recast is expected to be out anytime this week even as finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman will meet the top bankers of the country on Thursday to discuss restructuring. The RBI has already permitted a one-time recast of both corporate and retail loans without getting classified as a bad asset. The panel has been asked to decide on the financial parameters that banks must keep in mind while picking borrowers who will become eligible for the new debt recast scheme. The RBI will issue a notification — after vetting the Kamath panel report — on September 6. The expert panel will also undertake the process validation for the plans to be implemented under this framework, without going into the commercial aspects, for all accounts with an aggregate exposure of Rs 1,500 crore and above at the time of invocation. Sitharaman will hold a review meeting with the heads of banks and NBFCs on Thursday for a smooth and speedy implementation of the one-time debt recast for the resolution of Covid-19 related stress in bank loans. Banks are in the process of getting a board-approved restructuring framework in line with the RBI’s framework and eligibility defined by the central bank in its notification on August 6. RBI governor Shaktikanta Das had said the Kamath panel’s suggestions would only be applicable to business loans and that banks can even commence the resolution process on stressed accounts because of the pandemic without waiting for its recommendations. He had also said that the committee will decide the acceptable debt-equity ratio of a resolution. While the six-month loan moratorium ended on August 31, the RBI has said that under the new mechanism, banks can reschedule repayments by a maximum of two years which may include a payment moratorium. They can also convert a portion of the loan into equity instruments. The restructuring plan should be invoked before December 31, 2020 and it  must be implemented within 180 days. The lenders must also enter into an inter-creditor agreement. At least 60 per cent of them by number and 75 per cent by value should sign this agreement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-300
03-09-2020||Business||RBI moratorium principle under fire||A gaggle of big and small businessmen launched an attack on the government and the banking regulator on Wednesday for allowing banks to rip them off by charging interest and a penal levy on the loans that were covered by a six-month moratorium that ended two days ago. Power producers, realtors, retailers, small shopkeepers and jewellery makers joined forces to challenge the warped principle under which banks were permitted to tack on interest on loans covered by a moratorium that was designed to help them cope with the pangs of the pandemic that had ravaged their businesses over the past few months. The government and the regulator have refused to grant a waiver on interest and the penal interest levy while allowing the borrowers to defer their repayments, prompting outrage over the fact that banks were fattening themselves on a stream of income that defeated the very purpose for which the moratorium had been granted in the first place. The petitioners appeared before the Supreme Court to buttress the argument of a UP-based shopkeeper Gajendra Sharma who has filed a public interest litigation seeking a blanket waiver on the levy of interest during the moratorium period that extended from March 1 to August 31. Most of them have also challenged the move of the banks to charge interest on accumulated principal and interest during the moratorium period. At the inconclusive arguments, the counsel appearing for different sectors told a bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan that in view of the unprecedented pandemic and lockdown announced by the government in March many of the industries and business houses have virtually no income and it was the duty of the government to give necessary reliefs in the form of interest waiver and loan rescheduling to mitigate their hardships. Senior counsel K.V. Viswanathan appearing for real estate lobby group Credai said the Centre having declared a Janata curfew since March this year ought to be directed to give the necessary relief to the real estate sector, one of the worst affected during the present crisis. Quoting Section 13 of the Disaster Management Act, Vishwanathan said the Union government had a duty to provide the necessary succour to different sectors in times of national disaster such as the present pandemic. The provisions contained in the 2005 Act is “…is not merely giving discretionary power but it is a power coupled with duty…Your Lordships may direct them to discharge their duty under the DM Act.” The senior counsel was also representing the Association of Power Producers along with the Credai Maharashtra branch. He said the power and real estate sector represented by him “form the nerve centre of the economy”. Senior  advocate Ranjit Kumar representing the Shopping Centres Association of India submitted that shopping centres across the country were one of the worst affected during the present crisis. Senior advocate Sanjay Hegde on behalf of Coimbatore Jewellery Manufacturers Association (CJMA) sought extension of the moratorium period which ended on August 31 for a further “reasonable time and the effects of which can be used as a relief by borrowers. I am obliged to repay my debts, time granted is on the basis of an overwhelming disaster,” Hegde said. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal appearing for some construction companies said the power under the DM Act has to be exercised by the National Disaster Management Authority which is assisted by an advisory council and headed by the PM to provide the necessary loan and interest reliefs to the different sectors. “It’s not one person but an entire body that has to act for disaster management when a disaster occurs,” he said. Advocate Ashish Virmani appearing for some textile mills association said there is no reason why MSMEs should be excluded. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta appearing for Centre said there were some options available to revive the economy. One was to write off interest. Second was a more holistic option in which the first step would be to ease the burden of repayment of loans The hearing will continue on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-300
03-09-2020||India||Will answer every question asked in Parliament: Govt||The Centre on Thursday said it would answer every question asked in Parliament, and 160 “unstarred” questions would be answered every day during the monsoon session starting September 14, sources said. The sources countered the Opposition charge that the Question Hour was being curtailed and pointed out that it has been dispensed with in previous years for various reasons. Research conducted by the Rajya Sabha also revealed that 60 per cent of Question Hour time was not availed during the past five years. Sources said the Question Hour was done away with during the Emergency in 1975 and 1976. Unlike then, the country is now in the midst of a health emergency due to Covid-19 and the season is being held under extraordinary circumstances even as there is paucity of time, the government said. The presiding officers of both the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha have been informed by the ministry of parliamentary affairs that the government has consulted various political parties and that there is broad consensus, barring one political party, on doing away with the Question Hour. It is based on this consensus among the Opposition parties that the government has requested the presiding officers to do away with the Question Hour and Private Members’ Business for this session, the sources said. The Congress’s chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala alleged that parliamentary affairs minister Prahlad Joshi had not consulted all the Opposition leaders. He said that doing away with the Question Hour and not holding the government accountable to the questions of public interest raised in Parliament in the “starred” category was “an assault on India’s democracy and a sinister design to undermine Parliament and parliamentary practices”. He said that in the “starred” question category, the minister concerned has to answer supplemental questions. The idea is to hold the government accountable to ensure that public welfare steps are taken and fix accountability of the government to Parliament and through it to the 130 crore people of India, the Congress leader said. Besides the “unstarred” questions, up to 10 special mentions will also be taken up to bring matters of importance to the government’s notice, the sources said. Both Houses will also discuss important issues like the pandemic, the state of the economy and other developments and there will be provisions for short discussions, besides calling attention notices will also be taken up, the sources added. The Opposition has criticised the government for its decision to not have the Question Hour and the Private Members' Business, alleging that it is trying to “murder” democracy in the name of Covid-19, and the session is being convened to bring legislative proposals to replace ordinances. “By abolishing the Question Hour, the government is running scared of answering relevant questions to the people of India through their elected representatives. The Modi government does not want to answer questions on the transgressions by China, about India’s economy and the free fall of the GDP. “The Modi government does not want to be held accountable in the coronavirus pandemic. It does not want to be held accountable for the closure of businesses and industries. The Modi government does not want to be held accountable for the sinister stifling of democracy and that is why it wants to end the Question Hour. The Congress party will oppose it tooth and nail,” Surjewala said at an online media briefing. Government sources have argued that there has been no Question Hour in state Assemblies ruled by the Congress and other Opposition parties during the pandemic and that sessions are being held for only one to three days. The research conducted by the Rajya Sabha Secretariat revealed that during 2015-19, only about 40 per cent of the Question Hour time was available to raise questions and obtain oral responses of the government and the rest went unused on account of disruptions. During 2015-19, the Rajya Sabha held a total of 332 sittings, during which a total time of 332 hours was available for the Question Hour, but only 133 hours and 17 minutes were spent on raising questions and obtaining oral replies from the ministers concerned.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-691
03-09-2020||India||Border situation a direct result of Chinese action, says India||India on Thursday said the situation witnessed in the border areas in eastern Ladakh over the past four months is a "direct result" of actions taken by China aimed at effecting unilateral change in the status quo of the region. External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said India is committed to resolve all issues through dialogue, noting the way ahead to address the issue is negotiations. "It is clear that the situation we witnessed(in eastern Ladakh) over the past four months is a direct result of actions by Chinese side aimed at effecting unilateral change in status quo. "We strongly urge China to sincerely engage with the Indian side with the objective of expeditiously restoring peace in border areas through complete disengagement," he said at an online media briefing. On Monday, the Indian Army said the Chinese military carried out "provocative military movements" to "unilaterally" change the status quo on the southern bank of Pangong lake in eastern Ladakh on the intervening night of August 29 and 30 but the attempt was thwarted by the Indian troops. Srivastava on Tuesday said the Chinese People's Liberation Army(PLA) was engaged in "provocative action" again a day earlier when the ground commanders of the two sides were holding talks to ease the situation. Following the Chinese attempts, the Indian Army has strengthened its presence in at least three strategic heights in the southern bank of Pangong lake. Replying to a question on whether External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar will travel to Moscow to attend a meeting of the SCO foreign ministers on September 10, Srivastava said "yes". The Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) is an eight-nation regional grouping that includes China and India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-691
03-09-2020||India||Facebook responds to Congress's charge of 'political bias' ||Amid a raging controversy over Facebook's alleged political bias and interference in India's democratic process, the social media giant has told the Congress that it is non-partisan, denounces hate and bigotry in all forms and strives to ensure that its platforms remain a space where people can express themselves freely. Responding to concerns raised by the opposition Congress, Facebook's Public Policy, Trust and Safety Director Neil Potts has said that it has taken the party's allegation of bias very seriously and will ensure that it remains non-partisan and is committed to maintaining the highest levels of integrity. The Congress accused Facebook of interfering in India's democratic process and social harmony and being soft on members of the ruling BJP on applying its hate-speech rules. The Congress had written to Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg following reports by the Wall Street Journal and the Time magazine about the conduct of Facebook and WhatsApp India's leadership team, alleging bias and proximity with the ruling BJP. "We take seriously the concerns and recommendations you raised on behalf of the Indian National Congress... First and foremost, we want to take this opportunity to state that we are non-partisan and strive to ensure that our platforms remain a space where people can express themselves freely. We take allegations of bias seriously and want to make clear that we denounce hate and bigotry in all forms," Potts said in the letter, dated September 1. In his letter to AICC general secretary (organisation) K C Venugopal, who had written to Zuckerberg twice, Potts said, "On the question of hateful content by public figures, we want to assure you that our Community Standards prohibit attacks against people based on their protected characteristics, including religion, caste, ethnicity, and national origin. In line with our hate speech policy, we have removed and will continue to remove hateful content by public figures in India on our platforms." Facebook is at the centre of a raging political debate in the country with both the ruling BJP and the opposition Congress accusing it of colluding and influencing opinion. The BJP has accused the social media giant's employees of supporting people from a political predisposition that lost successive elections, and "abusing" Prime Minister and senior cabinet ministers. In a three-page letter to Zuckerberg, IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad flagged the social media platform's alleged "bias and inaction" by individuals in the Facebook India team on complaints by people supportive of right-of-centre ideology.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-692
03-09-2020||India||Modi donated Rs 2.25 lakh from personal savings to PM CARES: Officials||Prime Minister Narendra Modi's donations to a number of public causes, ranging from girl child education to the cleaning of Ganga, from his savings and the proceeds of auctions of the gifts he received exceed Rs 103 crore, officials in the Prime Minister's Office  said on Thursday. The latest among his donations was the initial corpus of Rs 2.25 lakh to the PM CARES Fund, which was set up in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak to support relief of any kind relating to a public health emergency or any other kind of emergency, calamity or distress. The Fund, set up in March, received Rs 3,076.62 crore in just five days of its formation, as per an account statement made public on Wednesday. Highlighting Modi's donations to public causes, an official on the condition of anonymity revealed that he gave Rs 21 lakh in 2019 from his personal savings to the corpus fund set up for the welfare of sanitation workers of Kumbh Mela. After receiving the Seoul Peace Prize in South Korea in 2019, the prime minister had announced that the entire prize money of Rs 1.30 crore would be given to the Namami Gange project, aimed at cleaning Ganga river, he added. PM Modi has contributed to many public causes. These donations have now exceeded Rs 103 crores, the PMO officials said. During a recent auction of mementoes received by Modi as prime minister, Rs 3.40 crore was collected and donated to the cause of Namami Gange. The sources said Modi had donated Rs 21 lakh from his personal savings towards the education of Gujarat government staff's daughter after he quit as the state chief minister in 2014 to take over as the country's prime minister. He had also raised Rs 89.96 crore by auctioning all gifts he received as chief minister and donated this to the Kanya Kelavani Fund, a scheme for education of the girl child. The prime minister had also initiated the auctioning of gifts he received till then in 2015, and Rs 8.35 crore were raised, with the amount channelled to the Namami Gange Mission, the officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-692
03-09-2020||India||Facebook stirs, bans BJP leader for hate speech||Under pressure for weeks over its handling of hate speech, Facebook on Thursday said it has banned BJP politician T Raja Singh from its platform and Instagram for violating its policy on content promoting violence and hate. "We have banned Raja Singh from Facebook for violating our policy prohibiting those that promote or engage in violence and hate from having a presence on our platform, a Facebook spokesperson said in an emailed statement. The process for evaluating potential violators is extensive and it is what led to Facebook's decision to remove his account, according to the statement. Facebook - which counts India among its largest markets with over 300 million users - has been in the eye of a storm after a Wall Street Journal (WSJ) report alleged that Facebook's content policies favoured the ruling party in India. The report had alleged that Facebook had ignored posts containing hate speech by BJP MLA Raja Singh. Since then, the ruling BJP and Congress have been trading barbs over social media giant's alleged bias. In the wake of the WSJ report, a Parliamentary panel had summoned Facebook representatives to discuss the issue of alleged misuse of the social media platform on Wednesday. On Tuesday, IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad had also written to Facebook chief Mark Zuckerberg accusing the social media platform's employees of supporting people from a political predisposition that lost successive elections, and "abusing" the Prime Minister and senior cabinet ministers. According to sources, the decision to remove Singh from the platform was taken after an extensive process that the company follows in determining which individuals meet the criteria for policy violation and the work had been ongoing for some time to review Singh's actions. The company had previously removed the content Singh had posted that violated its policies, including its hate speech policies, but the decision to ban Singh from the platform has been taken now, one of the sources said. Post the ban, Singh has been designated under Facebook's dangerous individuals and organisations policy, and he will not be allowed to maintain a presence on the platform going forward. As a part of the process, Singh will not be allowed on Facebook or its photo and video-sharing platform Instagram. The company will remove Pages, Groups and accounts set up to represent him. However, it will continue to allow wider discussion of him, including praise and support. Another source said the signals used by Facebook to determine dangerous individuals and organisations include whether they've called for or directly carried out acts of violence against people based on factors like race, ethnicity, or national origin. Other parameters that were taken into account include checking whether they're a self-described or identified follower of a hateful ideology; or they have used hate speech on Facebook, Instagram, or other social media sites, the source said. To date, the company has banned a range of groups and individuals across the globe for violating this policy. The social media giant uses a mix of technology tools and reviewers to take action against content violating its policies. In Q2 2020, it had removed over 4 million pieces of content tied to hate groups, over 96 per cent of which was removed before anyone reported it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-692
03-09-2020||India|| Army Chief begins two-day visit to Ladakh||Army Chief Gen MM Naravane began a two-day visit to Ladakh on Thursday to carry out a comprehensive review of the security situation in the region in view of China's fresh attempts to change status quo along the southern bank of Pangong lake, official sources said. Gen Naravane will be briefed about the evolving situation by top Army commanders overseeing deployment of troops as well as India's combat readiness in the region, they said. "The Chief of Army Staff is on a two-day visit to Leh to review operational preparedness in Ladakh region," said a source. Tension escalated in the Pangong lake area after China unsuccessfully attempted to occupy certain areas in the southern bank of Pangong lake following which India rushed in additional troops and weapons to the sensitive region. On Monday, the Indian Army said the Chinese military carried out "provocative military movements" to "unilaterally" change the status quo on the southern bank of Pangong lake on the intervening night of August 29 and 30 but the attempt was thwarted by the Indian troops. External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava on Tuesday said the Chinese People's Liberation Army(PLA) was engaged in "provocative action" again a day earlier when the ground commanders of the two sides were holding talks to ease the situation. Following the attempts, the Indian Army strengthened its presence in at least three strategic heights in the southern bank of Pangong lake. Some "readjustments" in deployment of troops were also carried out on the northern bank of the Pangong lake on the Indian side of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) as part of precautionary measures, the sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-692
03-09-2020||India||Twitter account linked to Modi's website hacked||Twitter on Thursday said the account linked to Prime Minister Narendra Modi's personal website was hacked, and it has now been restored. "We're aware of this activity and have taken steps to secure the compromised account. We are actively investigating the situation. At this time, we are not aware of additional accounts being impacted. Advice on keeping your account secure can be found here," a Twitter spokesperson said in an emailed statement. The compromised account has about 2.5 million followers. After hacking the @narendramodi_in Twitter account, which is the Prime Minister's personal website, the cybercriminal reportedly sent out posts seeking donations for the PM National Relief Fund for Covid-19 using crypto currency. "Yes, this account is hacked by John Wick (hckindia@tutanota.com), We have not hacked Paytm Mall," another message had said. On August 30, cybersecurity firm Cyble had said hacker group 'John Wick' was behind a data breach at Paytm Mall, the e-commerce unit of Paytm. Paytm Mall had said it had not found any security lapses after investigating claims of a possible hack and data breach. Twitter on Thursday also said as per its investigation, the latest attack was not due to a compromise of Twitter's systems or service. There is no indication or evidence of any correlation between this account compromise and the incident that took place in July, it said. Accounts of high-profile users like Elon Musk, Bill Gates, Barack Obama, Jeff Bezos and others were compromised on July 15. In an update on its blog on July 30, Twitter had said attackers had used credentials of some employees to access its internal systems and gain information about its processes. The attackers targeted 130 Twitter accounts, ultimately Tweeting from 45, accessing the DM inbox of 36, and downloading the Twitter Data of 7 accounts, it had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-692
03-09-2020||India||Judges afraid of the Bar, says Dushyant Dave||The Supreme Court has come to a level where judges are afraid of the Bar, Supreme Court Bar Association president Dushyant Dave wrote in a letter to the Chief Justice of India on Wednesday, after he was denied a chance to speak at the farewell to Justice Arun Mishra. Dave, a forthright lawyer who was part of Prashant Bhushan’s legal team in the criminal contempt case and who had contributed more than Rs 1 crore out of his own pocket towards a Covid relief fund for advocates, said he was “deeply saddened” and would not participate in any event organised by the Supreme Court till his term as SCBA chief ended in December. By convention, the SCBA, which represents the Supreme Court’s lawyers, holds a farewell for a judge on the day of their retirement. The farewell address is delivered by the SCBA president. But Justice Mishra, who headed the bench that convicted Bhushan of “criminal contempt” amid outrage and protests by lawyers, had cited the pandemic and said he did not want the farewell. Traditionally, on their last day in office, the retiring judge sits in the Chief Justice’s court. This convention was followed and Justice Mishrasat with Chief Justice S.A. Bobde, in proceedings that were held through videoconference. After the matters were disposed of, a brief farewell was held, to which attorney-general Venugopal, SCBA chief Dave and Supreme Court Advocates on Records Association (SCORA) president Shivaji Yadav were invited. While the attorney-general, solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, former attorney-general Mukul Rohatgi and Shivaji Yadav got to speak, Dave said he was deliberately “muted”. Once he realised he was not being allowed to speak, the SCBA president logged out of the proceedings and wrote a letter of protest to the Chief Justice. The Telegraph contacted the office of the Chief Justice of India for a clarification, but there was no official response. Sources in the National Informatics Centre, which handles e-conferencing, said if at all Dave had been unable to speak it was because of technical glitches of the sort faced every day even by judges during hearings. Dave, in his letter to the Chief Justice, said the audio and video were fine. The text of his letter follows: “As president of the Supreme Court Bar Association, I wish to place on record my strong disappointment and condemnation at what happened earlier today in the Supreme Court of India during the farewell to Justice Arun Mishra. “I got a link this morning at 10.06 to join the Ceremonial Bench of the Chief Justice of India at 12.30pm from the Team SCI VC and which was sent on WhatsApp by the concerned registrar. I responded at 10.16, accepting it, which was acknowledged by the registrar at 10.18. “I joined through the link around 12.20pm and was confirmed by the Team, saying Video and Audio were perfect. I then had conversations with the AG, the SG, President SCORA, amongst others. Once the court assembled, I saw and heard all the proceedings clearly. At the end, Mr Rohtagi bid farewell. “After court work, Mr Venugopal was requested to speak and I saw and heard him fully, including as to his disappointment on the punishment of Shri Prashant Bhushan. (Venugopal had said in his speech that he would personally have been happy had no punishment been meted out to Bhushan for contempt.) “When he ended, I thought that I will be requested to speak, instead Mr Jadhav was requested knowing full well I was present. For some unknown reasons, I was being disconnected again and again but I persisted and rejoined each time. I saw and heard Shri Jadhav fully and at the end of his address again I was not requested to speak, though Shri Jadhav acknowledged my presence in his address. “After that Your Lordship spoke, which I saw and heard, and then invited Justice Mishra to speak. At that stage, realising the game plan, I exited in the larger interests of the dignity of the Bar and myself.” The text of his letter added: “But what is most important is that I messaged the secretary general on WhatsApp at 12.49 and again at 12.53, asking why I was kept on mute and why was I at all invited. Only at 1.02 he responded, saying he is instructing the registrar to look into it, by which time it was too late and so I messaged him informing that I had exited. “The entire episode leaves much to be desired on the part of this great institution. The whole attempt was to prevent me from addressing on behalf of the SCBA and its EC, after having invited and the invitation having been accepted. This was clearly an affront to the Bar and to me personally. “While you may have done so fearing that I might say something unpleasant, let me tell you exactly what I was to say which I had written down.” Dave then reproduced the speech that he had intended to read out at the farewell. The letter continued: “I must confess, the Supreme Court has come to such levels where the judges are afraid of the Bar. Please do remember, judges come and go but we the Bar remain constant. We are the real strength of this great institution because we are permanent. “I must say, I am personally deeply saddened by this event and will never again participate in any function being organised by the Supreme Court till my term is over in December.” Dave is known for his forthright views and criticism of the present BJP government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-692
03-09-2020||India||Covid excuse to quarantine Question Hour||The self-avowedly muscular Narendra Modi government has used the pandemic as a plea to scrap Question Hour for the upcoming Parliament session, depriving the House of its lone device to exercise some control over the executive and prompting Opposition protests. The publication of a provisional calendar for the fortnight-long session, starting September 14, has confirmed weeks of speculation about the suspension of Question Hour, which an explanatory note on the Rajya Sabha website says “gives the institution of Parliament the great significance it possesses”. Question Hour represents the first hour of a day’s sitting, when MPs can raise governance-related queries that the ministers concerned are obligated to answer, orally or in writing. As Opposition members and social media users slammed the government move as a gag on democracy, parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi was quoted in the evening by ANI as saying: “I have suggested Lok Sabha Speaker & Rajya Sabha Chairman to keep the duration of the Zero Hour at 30 minutes. They will take the final decision. Govt is ready to have discussions on every issue. We have also requested the Speaker to take un-starred questions.” However, Zero Hour had already been curtailed to 30 minutes, and un-starred questions do not require oral answers from the ministers — only written answers are circulated among members. During Zero Hour, ministers are not compelled by law to respond even if they are in the House when an issue is raised. Joshi was quoted as saying that the leaders of all the Opposition parties barring Trinamul had agreed to the scrapping of Question Hour. However, the Congress leader in the Lok Sabha, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, had written to the Speaker last week urging him to ensure there was no curtailment of Question Hour or Zero Hour. The government has argued that conducting Question Hour would require officials to visit the Parliament complex to assist their ministers, increasing the number of people on the premises. However, Trinamul Rajya Sabha leader Derek O’Brien underlined that ministers can be briefed via videoconferencing too. Besides, the number of questions to be taken up daily during Question Hour can be reduced from the current 20, it was suggested. The Opposition has a raft of questions for the government — from the management of the Covid crisis and the Chinese incursions to the economy and the PM Cares Fund — and had been hoping to get a few answers, however wishy-washy. Another of the government’s arguments — that there wasn’t enough time for Question Hour during a session hamstrung by Covid-related restrictions — too faced a challenge from O’Brien. The quizmaster turned politician did some quick research and calculation to show that not only was a regular session without Question Hour unprecedented, there was enough time to accommodate it despite all the curbs. Parliament usually functions for 30 hours in a five-day week, working six hours a day — two hours before lunch and four in the afternoon. This coming session, the two Houses will function four hours a day and sit during the weekends too, making it a 28-hour week. With private members’ business too having been done away with, O’Brien underlined that the upcoming session had actually gained an extra 30 minutes. Past sessions without Question Hour, O’Brien said, were sessions called for special purposes like the 1962 Chinese aggression, proclamation of the Emergency, and enactment of the 44th Amendment to undo many of the decisions taken during the Emergency. Others protested too. “I said four months ago that strongmen leaders would use the excuse of the pandemic to stifle democracy & dissent. The notification for the delayed Parliament session blandly announces there will be no Question Hour. How can this be justified in the name of keeping us safe?” Congress MP Shashi Tharoor tweeted. “Questioning the government is the oxygen of parliamentary democracy. This Govt seeks to reduce Parliament to a notice-board & uses its crushing majority as a rubber stamp for whatever it wants to pass. The one mechanism to promote accountability has now been done away with.” The DMK’s Kanimozhi said: “BJP govt’s decision to suspend the Question Hour for an entire session conveys just one message — ‘Even elected representatives have no right to question the government’.” Trinamul Lok Sabha member Mahua Moitra linked the government decision to the general atmosphere of intolerance towards any questioning in the country. “Asking questions in court is contempt. Asking questions outside Parliament is sedition. And now asking questions inside Parliament is forbidden,” she tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-692
03-09-2020||India||Absence of Modi-Xi role puzzling: Nirupama||The situation along the China frontier continues to remain “exceedingly” tense with the Indian and Chinese armies said to match each other in strength near the southern bank of the Pangong Lake, sources in the security establishment said. A retired foreign secretary and some veterans on Wednesday questioned the absence of contact at the level of the top leadership to resolve the standoff. Former foreign secretary Nirupama Menon Rao tweeted: “The absence of top leadership-level contact — viz. between @PMOIndia/@narendramodi and (President) Xi Jinping — as tensions mount in the continuing India-China standoff is inexplicable. Surely, the two informal summits and many bilateral meetings between them should have helped.” Brigadier-level talks between the two armies that took place on Wednesday for the third consecutive day ended inconclusively and is likely to continue on Thursday. “The ongoing talks for the third consecutive day today failed to achieve any breakthrough. Both sides are negotiating very hard to resolve the standoff and at the same time continue to deploy more men and matching weapons,” said an official of the Intelligence Bureau. A veteran said: “It is clear that diplomacy and military talks are not working at all. Diplomatic intervention from the political leadership is the need of the hour.” Tension escalated in the weekend after Chinese troops allegedly attempted to change the status quo on the southern bank of the Pangong Lake but were thwarted by the Indian Army. A reported counter-operation by the Indian Army led to the occupation of key ridges on the southern bank of the lake within India’s side of the LAC. The Indian Army on Wednesday denied media reports that its specialised units had occupied the ridges on the northern bank of the Pangong Lake where Chinese troops have dug themselves in 8km inside India-claimed lines since May. The army said it had made some precautionary redeployment on its side of the LAC.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-692
03-09-2020||India||Urdu to lose Jammu and Kashmir special status||Urdu is set to lose its 131-year-old status as Jammu and Kashmir’s sole official language. The Narendra Modi government on Wednesday decided to include Hindi, Kashmiri, Dogri and English as official languages of the Union Territory. “We have decided to introduce the Jammu and Kashmir Official Languages Bill 2020 in Parliament, under which five languages — Urdu, Hindi, Kashmiri, Dogri and English —will become official languages,” Union minister Prakash Javadekar said after a cabinet meeting in New Delhi. Javadekar, briefing the media on the cabinet decisions, linked the change to the scrapping of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status last year. “It is not only the fulfilment of a long-pending public demand from the region but is also in keeping with the spirit of equality, which was ushered in after August 5 last year,” he said. The erstwhile Dogra rulers of Jammu and Kashmir had recognised Urdu as the official language in 1889, replacing Persian, which had enjoyed that status for three centuries. The change was largely driven by the desire that most people in the princely state understand the official language. Although Urdu is not the mother tongue of most Jammu and Kashmir residents, a big majority of their children converse in the language, a trend that has picked up in recent years. For more than a century, Urdu has been the language used in revenue records and the courts, and by police. English was, however, gradually allowed for official transactions. Jammu and Kashmir law secretary Achal Sethi said the previous Constitution (scrapped last year) recognised only Urdu as the official language. “But it was written there that English will continue to be used,” Sethi said. The Centre had last year passed the J&K Reorganisation Act, which empowered Parliament to “adopt any one or more of the languages in use in the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir or Hindi as the official language or languages to be used for all or any of the official purposes”. Union minister Jitendra Singh, who is from Jammu, hailed Wednesday’s decision. “Inclusion of Dogri, Hindi and Kashmiri as official languages in Jammu and Kashmir is not only the fulfilment of a long-pending public demand, but also in keeping with the spirit of equality ushered after August 5, 2019,” the minister tweeted. But National Conference leader and former minister Agha Rohullah said there was never a demand here for adding other languages. “It’s a continuation of what has been happening here and is a cultural invasion of Kashmir. Jammu and Kashmir, being a Muslim-majority state, is not an administrative issue for them. It has become a theatre for them to woo Hindutva voters and they want to demolish the cultural identity of Jammu and Kashmir,” Ruhullah told The Telegraph. “Urdu has not been the language of one religion; people from all religions embraced it. It is the Dogras who made it the official language.” People’s Democratic Party spokesperson Firdous Tak said: “It’s like somebody writes an official letter in Kashmiri and gets a reply in Dogri. Neither will understand what the other has written.” Members of Jammu’s Dogri community, however, cheered the inclusion of Dogri in the list of official languages. Other ethnic communities of the Union Territory are now expected to demand official language status for their mother tongues. Kashmiri is spoken by over 55 per cent and Dogri by around 25 per cent of the population of Jammu and Kashmir. Pahari, Gogri and other languages are spoken by the remaining 20 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-692
03-09-2020||India||Health ministry advice belies exam swagger||The Union health ministry has left it to symptomatic students the final decision whether to take an exam or not, echoing a public health policy caution not displayed by those pushing for immediate examinations at higher education institutions. “Only asymptomatic staff and students shall be allowed inside the examination hall,” the standard operating procedures (SOPs) issued by the Union health ministry on Wednesday said. “In regular course, a symptomatic candidate should be referred to the nearest health centre and given an opportunity to undertake the exam through other means or the universities or educational institution should arrange for taking exam at a later date when the student is declared physically fit.” However, if a student found symptomatic insists on taking the exam, she or he “may be allowed to take the exam by shifting the candidate to a separate isolation room”, the SOPs said. “The permission in such cases shall be granted as per the policy already enunciated by the examination-conducting authorities.” Students living in containment zones will not be allowed to sit for the exams, nor will there be any exam centres in such zones. The guidelines are intended to be adopted by the organisers of a series of examinations from this month, covering lakhs of students in the higher education segment. They are also intended for universities that conduct exams during the current phase of the coronavirus epidemic. For practical purposes, the health ministry’s guidelines do not differ from those issued by the National Testing Agency (NTA), which is conducting the ongoing JEE Main exams and the proposed NEET for medical courses. The NTA too had specified that any student whose temperature is 99.4°C or higher would be allowed to take the examination in a separate isolation room. But the Union health ministry has made it clear that ideally, symptomatic students should not sit their exams — advice that is absent from the NTA guidelines. The examinations have become a matter of dispute between the Centre and some of the states, including Bengal. Bearing out the fears expressed by chief minister Mamata Banerjee, as much as 75 per cent of the candidates stayed away from the first day of the JEE Main in Bengal on Tuesday. The Union health ministry’s SOPs have iterated the use of masks, physical distancing, sanitisers, thermal scanning, adequate crowd management and other precautions. But, some health experts said, the clause that allows symptomatic students to visit exam centres appears to contradict the primary objective of the SOPs. Health experts say that allowing symptomatic people into exam centres is fraught with risk. “This is in stark contradiction to the public health measures needed to contain a respiratory infection,” said Oommen John, a physician and senior research fellow at The George Institute for Global Health, New Delhi. “Under current circumstances, individuals with symptoms are expected to stay home and test themselves for the coronavirus infection, not mingle with others,” John said. “Even while on their way to separate isolation rooms, symptomatic students could potentially spread the infection to others.” Several infectious disease specialists have cautioned that exams can trigger a surge in cases -– whether they are open to students with or without infections. “Asymptomatic and pre-symptomatic people also shed the virus and can spread the infection,” said Shahid Jameel, senior virologist and chief executive of the Wellcome Trust DBT India Alliance, a UK-India research partnership. “There is no way of knowing who is infected by checking the body temperature.” However, Jameel said, if in-person exams must happen, “it is best to focus attention on the seating arrangement and air flow, and ensure that everyone wears a mask and has a hand sanitiser for whatever it’s worth.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-692
03-09-2020||India||PubG and 117 other apps banned||The Narendra Modi government on Wednesday banned another 118 Chinese-funded mobile apps, including the popular PubG, Alipay and Baidu, after terming them prejudicial to the sovereignty, integrity and defence of the nation. The latest move comes a little over two months after the ministry of electronics and information technology banned 59 apps, including TikTok, amid heightened tensions on the border with China. The apps banned on Wednesday include Baidu, Baidu Express Edition, Tencent Watchlist, FaceU, WeChat Reading, Tencent Weiyun, PUBG Mobile and PUBG Mobile Lite, an official statement said. The apps have been banned invoking powers under Section 69A of the Information Technology Act, read with the relevant provisions of the Information Technology (Procedure and Safeguards for Blocking of Access of Information by Public) Rules 2009. PubG is an online multiplayer battle royale game originally developed by PUBG Corporation, which is a subsidiary of South Korean video game company Bluehole — one of the probable reasons it was left out of the first list of banned apps. But it has been closely identified with Tencent, which launched it in China with some modifications. Intelligence firm Sensor Tower reckons there have been as many as 175 million downloads of the game in India, making it one of the most popular apps in use in the country. In late June, the Centre had banned 59 Chinese apps, including TikTok and UC Browser. The ministry had indicated then that it would ban another 47 Chinese apps, which were clones of the previously banned apps, for violation of data and privacy issues. However, this ban was never officially confirmed. So far, the government has sent questionnaires to firms like ByteDance, which owns TikTok, and had appointed a committee to hear submissions from the entities affected by the decision. Under Rule 9 of the IT Rules, the government can exercise emergency powers to ban public access to “any information… through any computer resource” as an interim measure without giving the entity an opportunity of a hearing. But the ban has to be confirmed after giving the entities an opportunity to defend themselves. Karnika Seth, a cyber law expert, said: “The government would have to prove beyond doubt the security concerns it had for banning these apps, while hearing out the contentions of the Chinese firms.” However, cyber security experts said the bans should not be seen in isolation. Along with the border tension, it is an attempt to pre-empt cyber attacks and further data transfers from the country. There could be several other measures that the government could come up with to protect its cyberspace. The statement said the IT ministry had received complaints from various sources, including several reports about the misuse of some mobile apps available on the Android and iOS platforms for stealing and surreptitiously transmitting users’ data to servers outside India. “The compilation of these data, its mining and profiling by elements hostile to national security and defence of India, which ultimately impinges upon the sovereignty and integrity of India, is a matter of very deep and immediate concern which requires emergency measures,” the statement said. There have been reports suggesting that many of the apps banned in June continue to be used -- and have effectively circumvented restrictions that were placed on them. There are several reasons for this. The Android apps need not necessarily be downloaded from app stores like Google Play. There are websites that offer the option of manual downloading of modified apps. Another infirmity in implementing the ban is that the government has to work with Internet service providers to ensure that these apps cannot access the Net. The government has to work with ISPs to prevent these apps from accessing the Internet and with the official stores to prevent download of both original and duplicate apps. Technical experts say that some aficionados continue to use the apps by avoiding updates. The government’s clampdown on Chinese companies has prompted many entities to reconsider their investments in Indian technology start-ups. Last month, Alibaba Group, one of the largest investors in several ventures, announced that it had halted fresh investments in Indian firms for at least six months. The government has changed its foreign investment policy by making it mandatory for Chinese investors to take prior approvals before funnelling money into any venture in the country. The government has also clamped restrictions on several items imported from China.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-693
03-09-2020||India||Kerala CM writes to PM on GST||Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi urging him to advise the finance ministry not to transfer the burden of GST on the states and instead follow the compensation clause in letter and spirit. “It is felt that transferring the obligation of GST compensation to the states through their borrowing is not in accordance with the spirit of understanding reached between the Centre and states during the discussions preceding the constitutional amendment for bringing in GST,” Vijayan stated in a letter addressed to the Prime Minister. While the letter was dated August 31, Vijayan released it on Twitter on Wednesday. He said the two borrowing options conveyed to the states on August 30 should be withdrawn. The Centre had asked the states to either borrow from the markets or from the special RBI window to meet the shortfall. Kerala was one of the states that immediately dismissed the borrowing options since the Centre refused to pay the GST dues. Vijayan drew Modi’s attention on the assurances to the states when GST was formulated. “When GST was implemented with effect from July 1, 2017, it was agreed upon that the states would be assured of an annual compounded growth rate of 14 per cent in GST revenue with 201516 as the base year during the initial five years of  implementation.” He noted that this was incorporated in the Goods and Services (Compensation to States) Act, 2017, and its Section 7 stated that “compensation shall be payable to the states and it shall be provisionally calculated and released at the end of every two month period”. Vijayan noted that that the provision was not adhered to since 201920. “From April 1, 2020, no compensation has been released to the states. The amount due to Kerala during the period April to August of financial year 2020-21 is Rs 7,000 crore.” The chief minister said the finance ministry had informed the GST Council that, “part of the loss was unprecedented as a result of Covid19”. “It may kindly be taken note of that the revenue loss and expenditure pressures have been much greater to the states and this artificial distinction that is being sought to be drawn would exacerbate the already severe financial stress on state,” Vijayan said. “It is worth recalling that the compensation promised and statutory backing given to the same was an important factor which prompted the states to accept uniform rates for supply of goods and services despite the rate fall inbuilt in the structure of GST,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-693
03-09-2020||India||Centre reverses order and allows online teacher hiring ||The Centre on Wednesday reversed a week-old order and allowed central universities to resume recruiting teachers, a process being conducted through online interviews amid the pandemic. Teachers expressed dismay, accusing varsity authorities of opacity and rule violations in online recruitments and arguing that such recruitment disadvantaged candidates with poor access to quality devices and high-speed Internet. On August 25, the Centre had asked central universities to freeze the recruitment of teachers and other employees until “complete lifting” of the lockdown, gladdening, among others, JNU teachers who had repeatedly complained about irregularities in faculty appointments. But after the vice-chancellors protested, the Union education ministry issued a fresh letter on Wednesday asking central universities to resume online recruitments. “This (August 25) decision has been reviewed on basis of representations received from vice-chancellors and now it has been decided to allow recruitment process to continue as per rules,” the latest letter said. Stressing the obvious, it asked universities to ensure full transparency in recruitment and give every eligible candidate a fair and equal opportunity. “Transparency is very subjective for the JNU administration. Many candidates have gone to court over the lack of transparency,” Moushumi Basu, member of the JNU executive council and a teacher at the university’s Centre for International Politics, said. Online recruitments had been under way in full swing at JNU till the August 25 directive, with the university’s teacher association lodging several complaints with the Union education ministry about irregularities in the process. The association had sought a freeze on recruitments at least till the lockdown was lifted and physical interviews were possible — which is what last week’s letter directed. Citing an example of the alleged irregularities, Basu said the varsity authorities had tweaked, during short-listing, the criterion declared in the advertisement for a faculty post at the National Security Study Centre. The advertisement had sought candidates with MA or MSc degrees apart from certain other specified degrees. But eventually, the administration did not interview those without an MSc, Basu said. She added that the JNU administration had reduced the number of posts reserved for the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes by tweaking the roster of posts. Every university has to maintain a roster that states the sequence in which reserved and unreserved posts would be filled in each department. “I believe many candidates will not be able to participate properly in online interviews because of the digital divide,” Basu said. Rajesh Jha, member of Delhi University’s executive council, too was unhappy with the government’s change of heart on online recruitment. “Transparency is difficult to maintain in online interviews. The candidate’s friends can help him while remaining outside the screen view,” he said. “The candidate can receive help via remotely assisted hearing aids. Last week’s decision came because of allegations of manipulation; by withdrawing it the government has allowed the continuation of wrongdoing by the universities.” An email sent to the education ministry seeking the reasons for its about-turn remained unanswered. Nor did JNU vice-chancellor M. Jagadesh Kumar answer an email seeking his comments on the teachers’ allegation of irregularities in recruitment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-693
03-09-2020||India||If I have hurt anyone, pardon me, pardon me: Arun Mishra||Justice Arun Mishra, whose term as Supreme Court judge will be remembered among other controversies for his effusive praise of Prime Minister Narendra Modi as a “versatile genius, who thinks globally and acts locally”, retired on Wednesday. “I have dealt with every case with my conscience. Sometimes I have been very harsh in my conduct directly or indirectly. Nobody should feel hurt. Analyse every judgment and don’t colour it this way or that way. If I have hurt anybody then please pardon me, pardon me, pardon me,” Justice Mishra said at a brief farewell held over videoconference. “Even in the last case of contempt, AG said that he didn’t want any punishment (for Prashant Bhushan) but...,” Justice Mishra said, without completing  his sentence. Justice Mishra headed the three-judge bench that convicted senior lawyer Bhushan of criminal contempt for two tweets, triggering outrage and protests. It eventually imposed a fine of Re 1. In his farewell speech on Wednesday, attorney general K.K. Venugopal said personally he would have been happy had the bench not punished Bhushan. “But his judgment elaborately laid down the contempt principle and it will be debated for a long time,” he said. The farewell too ended in controversy, with Supreme Court Bar Association president Dushyant Dave not getting a chance to speak. By convention, it is the SCBA that hosts a retiring judge’s farewell and its president who delivers the address. Dave, known to speak his mind, alleged that he had been deliberately muted and that the Supreme Court had come to such a state where judges were afraid of the Bar. On February 23, in his vote of thanks at a global jurists’ conference, Justice Mishra had showered praise on the Prime Minister and described him “an internationally acclaimed great visionary”. The SCBA, led by Dave, had two days later issued a statement expressing deep concern and dismay at the effusive praise that it said went beyond “formal courtesy” and diluted the perception of impartiality of the judiciary. It reminded Justice Mishra that judges are often called upon to decide cases against the executive, and that it is the “foundational obligation” of judges to maintain a dignified distance from the executive. Some members of the SCBA convened a meeting on May 11 to remove Dave as president and from his primary membership over his criticism of Justice Mishra. However, with the help of the majority in the SCBA, Dave removed the prime mover of the campaign against him, Ashok Arora, from the post of secretary. The dispute is now pending with Delhi High Court. This wasn’t the first controversy Justice Mishra, known to be one of the most hardworking judges in the Supreme Court, was involved in. On January 12, 2018, four seniormost judges of the Supreme Court held an unprecedented news conference and accused then CJI Dipak Mishra of ignoring their seniority and allocating all important and sensitive cases to his own preferred judges. They did not take any names but the message was clear. Justice Mishra had been entrusted with the sensitive case of the death of judge B.H. Loya in suspicious circumstances. Loya, 48, who was hearing the CBI case in which current home minister Amit Shah was an accused, allegedly had a cardiac arrest and died on December 1, 2014, in Nagpur where he had gone to attend a wedding. Shah was discharged in the case weeks later. Some NGOs moved the Supreme Court for a court-monitored SIT probe into the judge’s death. Stung by the criticism of the four judges, Justice Mishra released the case from his bench. A bench headed by CJI Misra then heard the matter and dismissed the appeal for a probe into judge Loya’s death. After the news conference by the four judges, Justice Mishra had been in tears at an internal meeting. “It’s not me who had asked for work, but every successive Chief Justice of India had entrusted me with heavy work,” Justice Mishra, who suffers from a bad back because of arthritis, had told this correspondent. He was trusted by successive CJIs — Justices H.L. Dattu, T.S. Thakur, J.S. Khehar, Dipak Misra, Ranjan Gogoi, and S.A. Bobde —since his elevation to the Supreme Court on July 7, 2014, from Calcutta High Court where he was the Chief Justice. Justice Gogoi had been part of the judges’ news conference but when he was elevated as Chief Justice, he chose to have Justice Mishra as his co-judge along with Justice Sanjiv Khanna to rebut the sexual harassment allegations levelled against Justice Gogoi by a woman employee of the court. On Wednesday, Chief Justice Bobde said to Justice Mishra that he had been “a beacon of courage and fortitude in discharging your duties”. “Even on the personal front I’m aware of the great difficulties you have faced and despite that carried out your duties. I don’t know many people who have carried out work so bravely despite so many difficulties. You, Justice Mishra, are leaving behind a legacy of courage and fortitude,” Justice Bobde said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-693
03-09-2020||India||Facebook’s India head grilled by House panel||Facebook’s India head Ajit Mohan appeared before the parliamentary standing committee for information technology on Wednesday in the midst of a raging debate over the social networking platform’s perceived bias towards the BJP that the ruling party has sought to fight back with a counter allegation. Mohan was questioned by the panel for well over two hours after which he is said to have responded with an assurance of providing a written reply to all the queries. According to those present in the meeting, even the BJP members joined the Opposition MPs in questioning the Facebook head though party MP Nishikant Dubey had been against panel chairman Shashi Tharoor’s decision to summon the platform after The Wall Street Journal expose on the network giving preferential treatment to the BJP while applying its hate speech rules. One member said the BJP MPs seemed to have taken their cue from the letter written by IT minister Ravi Shankar Prasad to Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg on Tuesday; quizzing Mohan about what they billed as the platform’s bias against the ruling party. A majority of the 30-member panel raised questions; mostly on hate speech and how Facebook addressed the issue of the platform being used to spread hate against certain communities; making some keen watchers bill it another pandemic of sorts. Since the panel members are not supposed to speak about the proceedings till the report is finalised, Tharoor tweeted: “In response to overwhelming media interest in the meeting of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information Technology that just adjourned, this is all I can say: we met for some three & a half hours & unanimously agreed to resume the discussion later, incl (including) w/reps (with representatives) of @Facebook.’’ Late in the night, a Facebook company spokesperson said: “We thank the honourable parliamentary committee for their time. We remain committed to be an open and transparent platform, and to giving people voice and allowing them to express themselves freely.’’ However, there was no response from Facebook to the charges made against it by Prasad in his letter. The Telegraph sent a questionnaire to Mohan seeking a response to the allegations made by the minister about Facebook India being dominated by “people who belong to a particular political belief’’ but got no reply. Prior to Prasad’s letter, Trinamul Congress leader in the Rajya Sabha, Derek O’Brien, had written to Zuckerberg stating that the “company’s recent blocking of Facebook pages and accounts in Bengal also points to a link between Facebook and the BJP’’. He also flagged the fact that he had sought an investigation into the serious charges against Facebook’s senior management in India in 2015 during a meeting with Zuckerberg in New Delhi. In a separate letter to Tharoor, panel member P.R. Natarajan of the CPM drew attention to the fact that India is not the only place where Facebook has been accused of discriminatory practises. Demanding a criminal investigation into the relationship between BJP and Facebook, he said, pending this, the platform should not be allowed to operate with any government department or constitutional body.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-693
03-09-2020||India||CPM leader’s son tied to drug-bust suspect||The son of the state secretary of the ruling CPM in Kerala has said he knew well one of the suspects arrested in a Bangalore drug bust. The confirmation by Bineesh Kodiyeri, the son of CPM state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, came after a leader of the youth wing of the Opposition Indian Union Muslim League made the disclosure at a media conference in Kozhikode in north Kerala. P.K. Firoz, the general secretary of the youth wing of the League, told the media conference on Wednesday that Bineesh had connections with Mohammed Anoop who was arrested in Bangalore. The Narcotics Control Bureau had on August 21 raided two premises in Bangalore and seized large quantities of party drugs. They arrested suspected kingpin Anikha D, Anoop and drug peddler Rijesh Ravindran. Firoz claimed that Bineesh had “close connections” with both Anoop and Ravindran. “Bineesh had invested in Anoop’s restaurant in 2015. He had extended his best wishes through Facebook when Anoop started another restaurant in 2019,” Firoz said while waving a few sheets of paper that were purportedly Anoop’s statement to the NCB. In the purported statement, Anoop was quoted as saying that he opened a restaurant in Kammanahalli in Bangalore “with the financial help” of Bineesh. Later in the day, Bineesh said he knew Anoop for several years but didn’t know Ravindran. “I know him (Anoop) well and I had given some money for his restaurant. But the news that has come about Anoop is quite shocking since he is not that kind of a man, according to my understanding,” Bineesh said. Bineesh  said he had given “about Rs 3 lakh each twice” to Anoop to start the restaurant and often gave a few thousands of rupees when Anoop had financial problems. “Would I have given any money to him had I known he was selling drugs? I got to know that he was in this kind of activities only when he was arrested,” Bineesh said. “I first met Anoop when he was in a T-shirt business. He later moved to restaurant business. At that stage, many, including me, had helped him with money,” Bineesh said. He said Anoop used to book rooms for him whenever he visited Bangalore. “His restaurant didn’t do well and it crashed. The Anoop I know is a man who is in debt.” Bineesh accused Firoz of trying to “deflect attention from the killings of two DYFI activists by Congress workers on the eve of Onam (on Sunday)”. Firoz cited some phone records to allege that Bineesh was in Bangalore on July 10 when gold smuggling accused Swapna Suresh was nabbed from a hotel. “My information is that powerful people, including film actors, have been at rave parties in Kerala where drugs are consumed,” said Firoz. Bineesh rubbished the allegations and said he was not in Bangalore when Swapna was caught. “I was not in Bangalore on that day,” said the CPM state secretary’s son who has dabbled in acting and maintained close ties with film professionals. The gold-smuggling case had put the Left government under pressure after it was revealed that the now-suspended secretary of the chief minister’s office, M. Sivasankar, maintained close links with Swapna and the other accused. While the allegations made by Firoz has opened a new front for the Left government to deal with, it will also give Kodiyeri Balakrishnan a new headache about his son. His eldest son Binoy was accused by a Mumbai-based bar dancer of fathering her child out of wedlock. A DNA test result has not been made public yet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-693
03-09-2020||India||Resistance hope rests on youth, not parties: Patnaik||Prabhat Patnaik, economist and professor emeritus at JNU in conversation with Subhoranjan Dasgupta, professor of human science: Dasgupta: In one of her recent lectures, eminent historian Romila Thapar said the Indian republic was teetering on the borderline. On one side of the border stood the secular Indian republic and on the other side a Hindu rashtra. Do you endorse this point of view? Patnaik: Yes, I agree that the republic is teetering on the cusp of a momentous transition, but I see the two sides of this cusp somewhat differently. On one side is a secular, democratic, federal republic where citizens are free of fear and enjoy a set of political rights defended by an independent judiciary; on the other is an authoritarian State where fear is pervasive and all institutions are subservient to the executive, which uses Hindutva as its vote-catching device but works essentially to further the interests of big capital, both domestic and foreign. “Hindu rashtra” is not a Hindu State in the sense of promoting the interests of the Hindus. It is an authoritarian State that suppresses not just Muslims but workers, peasants, petty producers, tribal people, oppressed castes, artists and intellectuals the bulk of whom are Hindus, and promotes the interests of a corporate-financial oligarchy. Its electoral plank is Hindutva, but Hindutva never filled anyone’s belly; it calls its goal a “Hindu rashtra”, but that is a misnomer. Perhaps the most powerful example of the oncoming Hindu rashtra is the picture showing Prime Minister Narendra Modi lying prostrate before the image of Ram in Ayodhya. Was this public display of devotion at all necessary? A Prime Minister like anyone else can have his personal religious beliefs, but to project the picture of his lying prostrate before the image of Ram is to appeal to people in the name of religion. This political use of religion is necessary for Modi precisely because his government cannot deliver on bread-and-butter issues that affect people’s lives. The country, even before the pandemic, was facing the most acute economic crisis since Independence. Between 2011-12 and 2017-18, the per capita real consumer expenditure in rural India declined by 9 per cent, which is so massive and unprecedented that the government suppressed the NSS data showing this. The pandemic has added greatly to this crisis. The government’s own panacea for the crisis is to make fiscal transfers to the corporates, suppress workers’ rights, privatise public-sector assets, make land acquisition easy, and so on, which the corporates relish without making an iota of investment. Investment depends on the growth of demand; but demand will actually shrink because of these measures, since a rupee transferred from the poor to the rich reduces the overall consumption demand. The public display of religious devotion becomes necessary in this context. With due deference to the Supreme Court, could it be said that the Babri Masjid verdict was also somewhat partial? You condemn the demolition of the Babri Masjid as a criminal act but in the same breath you grant the demolishers the right of building a grand temple in the disputed place. Is this an example of righteous justice? The verdict rewards vandalism. If the masjid had not been demolished, the Supreme Court would not even have entertained a petition regarding the ownership of that land, just as it would not if some people claimed that the Raja Rani temple in Bhubaneswar stood on land belonging to their ancestors. It is the masjid’s destruction that gave post facto pertinence to this issue of ownership of that land. The Supreme Court verdict therefore actually rewarded vandalism which it simultaneously condemned as a criminal act. In order to smoothen the passage to Hindu rajya, the present rulers are subverting each and every public institution, including the Election Commission. Some claim that even the judiciary’s sacrosanct independent functioning is being affected. Doesn’t this calculated sabotage remind you of similar programmes implemented by other authoritarian regimes? Yes, such subversion is the modus operandi of all such outfits, of which the RSS (with its front organisations) is a classic example. The Modi government uses a combination of carrot-and-stick methods, and places its followers in key positions, to subjugate public institutions like the Election Commission, Enforcement Directorate, CBI, Delhi police and the NIA. The media, with notable exceptions, are subjugated and the judiciary too is widely perceived to have become significantly subservient to the executive. Of course, the Modi government has been aided by several draconian laws existing from earlier times, including sedition laws from colonial times. The overall effect is to create an atmosphere of fear, criminalise dissent, produce conformism, punish critics and make all institutions serve its political agenda. Will the Hindus — or, better put, the Sangh parivar — demand the demolition of similar “mixed” shrines in Kashi and Mathura? Since religion is being used for political purposes, the demolition of mosques in Kashi and Mathura will be effected if it becomes politically necessary — for instance, if the electorate becomes restive because of the accentuating economic crisis. It is not the “Hindus” who “demand” any demolition; it’s the Sangh parivar that raises these demands to instigate a section of the majority community. It does so for political mileage, so that its blatant but counterproductive pro-corporate policies escape the electorate’s fury. How could there be a return to the reality of the secular republic from the borderline? By unleashing people’s movements and by positing a united opposition of the political parties? The political parties, by and large, have not escaped the carrot-and-stick methods of the Modi government. I do not expect them to take the lead in organising resistance. I put my faith in the innumerable young men and women who deeply abhor what is going on and who can initiate resistance, as it became clear during the anti-CAA movement. I also expect an upsurge of movements of workers and peasants because of their extreme hardship. Such upsurges will then overcome the paralysis of the political parties, forcing them to come together on a common minimum programme that must be not just political but also economic. The Left will have a big role to play in fashioning such a programme and forging political resistance against the spectre of fascism.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-693
03-09-2020||India||AIIMS issues Covid guide for doctors ||Doctors at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, have released guidelines on Covid-19 treatment and medications to try and curb “arbitrary practices” that are not based on evidence. The document, released by the Union health ministry on Wednesday, says that pirfenidone and methylene blue have no role in the treatment of the coronavirus disease and that evidence for another drug, favipiravir, is “weak”. India’s drug regulatory authority had in June approved favipiravir for use in Covid-19. But the AIIMS panel has underlined that studies have used favipiravir primarily in mild and asymptomatic patients, claiming to prevent progression, while most such patients recover with just supportive care. “Our guidelines seek to curb arbitrary practices that might be based either on personal experiences or anecdotal accounts of what works or doesn’t,” Anjan Trikha, professor of anaesthesiology and critical care and chairperson of the Covid-19 clinical management team at AIIMS, told The Telegraph. The AIIMS document underlines that “sudden deaths” among Covid-19 patients have been reported both at their presentation at emergency departments and in hospital. It says these may have resulted from a sudden cardiac event preceding silent hypoxia (oxygen deprivation) that went unnoticed, or from blood clotting complications. Patients showing risk factors for the development of severe Covid-19 or those with prior health disorders such as coronary artery disease or chronic lung disease “should be strictly monitored for their oxygen levels and should not be allowed to move unattended”, the AIIMS panel has said. Anticoagulants – drugs that reduce the risk of clotting – should be used in all “at-risk” patients who do not show any risk factors for bleeding, it has said. According to the panel, there is no evidence to support the use of the antiviral remdesivir in patients who show no symptoms but have underlying health disorders that put them at risk of severe disease. The guidelines recommend the use of corticosteroids, either dexamethasone or methyl prednisolone, in the treatment of patients with moderate to severe Covid-19. But there is no role for steroids when patients are discharged, they say. Some patients who develop severe disease and whose oxygen levels do not improve through non-invasive oxygen-delivery mechanisms might require invasive ventilation, the guidelines say. Patients unable to maintain oxygen levels and heading into respiratory fatigue, and those unable to tolerate non-invasive oxygen, should be considered for invasive ventilation, the guidelines add. “This document is part of efforts to promote the standardisation of clinical practices,” said Sumit Ray, a senior critical-care medicine specialist at the Holy Family Hospital, New Delhi. Standardisation efforts, he said, are important when the medical community faces a new infection. However, Ray said, there remain uncertainties about certain medications used in Covid-19. For instance, tocilizumab has been approved by India’s drug regulatory authority for use on “compassionate grounds”. But the AIIMS panel has stressed that tocilizumab represents “an experimental therapy” with a limited role and should be used only in patients with features of an inflammatory condition called cytokine storm after ruling out active infections. There are still questions about tocilizumab, Ray said. “The only major randomised clinical trial with this medication did not show benefits.” Early during the epidemic, AIIMS had established a helpline for doctors from across India to provide them with technical guidance on the clinical management of Covid-19. Senior AIIMS doctors have for the past eight weeks hosted twice-weekly online conferences to exchange experiences with other doctors.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-693
03-09-2020||India||All-round crisis finger at government||The Congress on Wednesday said the Narendra Modi government’s failures and apathy had created a crisis on every front, from the economy and democracy to border security, and deepened the people’s misery. Rahul Gandhi led the attack with a caustic tweet in the morning: “India is reeling under Modi-made disasters: 1. Historic GDP reduction - 23.9% 2. Highest unemployment in 45 years 3. 12 crore job loss 4. Centre not paying states their GST dues 5. Globally highest Covid-19 daily cases and deaths 6. External aggression at our borders.” Introducing a video that is part of the dharohar (legacy) series the Congress started a few days ago to familiarise the new generation with the freedom struggle, Rahul accused the BJP of divisive politics. “Divide and rule was a despicable policy and will always remain so. Such a policy was defeated by the country in the past and (it) will do it again today because brotherhood and harmony are the foundations of our democracy,” he tweeted. With these two tweets, Rahul has covered the entire range of issues the Congress has raised against the Modi government, from the economy and the Chinese intrusion to the handling of the pandemic, the politics of hate and the federalism row over GST compensation. The Congress has also objected to the cancellation of Question Hour — when MPs can question the government — for the coming Parliament session and the lack of transparency around the PM-Cares Fund. Former finance minister P. Chidambaram said in a series of tweets: “The auditors of PM-Cares Fund have confirmed that it received Rs 3,076 crore in just five days between March 26 and 31, 2020. But the names of these generous donors will not be revealed. Why? Every other NGO or trust is obliged to reveal the names of donors contributing more than a threshold amount. Why is the PM-Cares Fund exempt from this obligation? The donee is known. The trustees of the donee are known. Why are the trustees afraid to reveal the names of the donors?” On the cancellation of Question Hour, Lok Sabha MP Shashi Tharoor tweeted: “I said four months ago that strongmen leaders would use the excuse of the pandemic to stifle democracy and dissent. The notification for the delayed Parliament session blandly announces there will be no Question Hour. How can this be justified in the name of keeping us safe? Questioning the government is the oxygen of parliamentary democracy. This government seeks to reduce Parliament to a notice-board & uses its crushing majority as a rubber stamp for whatever it wants to pass. The one mechanism to promote accountability has now been done away with.” Mahila Congress chief Sushmita Dev said: “Not allowing Question Hour... means the nation will not know the truth about Chinese incursions, PM-Cares fund, the Covid-19 situation, failure of the economic package.... Our system of checks & balances is being destroyed. Shame on the Government of India.” The Opposition is raring to ask questions, though, and the session is likely to witness serious disruptions. Former Union minister Jairam Ramesh echoed Rahul’s sentiment, tweeting: “Here’s how India became a Vishwaguru under Mr Modi during Covid-19 pandemic. 1. Fastest contracting economy 2. Most stringent lockdown 3. Fastest rise in cases 4. Fastest rise in deaths. This double whammy was possible only due to the double MH formula — Modi Hai to Mumkin Hai!” Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala tried to explain the seriousness of the situation. “The common man may not understand the financial implications of declining GDP growth but he knows snatching the livelihood option of workers is cruelty. People walking home barefooted during the lockdown and empty buses remaining stranded is a sin,” he said. Surjewala said that in a country that had launched the Mars orbiter Mangalyaan, “a girl covering hundreds of kilometres with her father on a bicycle is helplessness”. “Deleting doctors’ Twitter account because they asked for PPEs is dictatorship. When ramping up testing was necessary, diverting attention by asking people to light up lamps is injustice. People dying at home while hospital beds are vacant is corruption,” he said. “Slapping fine(s) on common people for not wearing masks and leaders holding rallies is regressive. People may not understand GDP but they know describing disastrous decisions like demonetisation as a masterstroke is a lie. Blaming God for the economy slowing down for six years is a crime. This darkness breaks the common man.” Surjewala said that according to the National Crime Records Bureau, 42,480 farmers and farm workers had committed suicide in 2019 alone. “The youth, daily wage earners, labourers, farmers are all in distress because of the BJP’s bad governance. The figures for the lockdown period will be dreadful. Modiji, shed your arrogance and waive farmers’ loan,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-693
03-09-2020||India||Former Bihar CM’s party joins NDA||Former Bihar chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi’s Hindustani Awam Morcha Secular (HAMS) joined the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) on Wednesday. The move comes ahead of the Assembly elections expected to be held in November this year. HAMS had quit the Opposition Grand Alliance of the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), the Congress and other smaller parties last week. The party’s entry into the NDA could shore up its reach among the Scheduled Castes. “We are a part of the NDA from today. Good things should be done as soon as possible. We will work in close coordination with chief minister Nitish Kumar's Janata Dal United (JDU), though we will not merge with it. We have not imposed any condition for our entry into the alliance,” Manjhi said at a hurriedly convened press conference in the state capital. Manjhi said he left the Grand Alliance after his demand to constitute a coordination committee to steer the seat-sharing talks was not met. The former chief minister also said that he will not contest the Assembly polls. He is currently an MLA from Imamganj constituency in Gaya district. HAMS spokesperson Danish Rizwan said, “Seats had never been an agenda for us. We are going with the NDA on the agenda of development. We will take ahead the stream of development launched by chief minister Nitish Kumar and Prime Minister Narendra Modi.” Bihar has around 16 to 17 per cent Scheduled Caste voters. Manjhi, who hails from the Musahar caste, claims to have influence on 5 per cent of the total SC votes, though poll experts assert that the figure could be less than 3 per cent. Manjhi had been previously with the Congress, the RJD and the JDU. Nitish had anointed him the chief minister after resigning over his party’s dismal performance in the 2014 Lok Sabha elections. However, Manjhi quit the JDU and formed HAMS in 2015 after he was forced to resign from the post of the chief minister as Nitish wanted to come back. He then aligned with the NDA, but left it in 2018 to join the Grand Alliance. HAMS could win just one seat despite contesting on 21 out of the total 243 seats as an NDA partner in the 2015 Assembly elections. Manjhi was the sole winner. It did not achieve any success in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. Manjhi’s son Santosh Kumar Suman is an MLC. With the fortunes waning, sources say that Manjhi wants to contest on 15 seats in the coming state elections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-693
03-09-2020||West Bengal||ED's drive at city markets to check potato prices ||Amid a rise in potato prices in Bengal, the state government's enforcement department officials visited several markets in the city and warned of action if retail traders are found selling the tuber above Rs 27 a kg from Friday. At present, the Jyoti variety of potato is being sold at Rs 32-34 per kg. The margin between potato prices at cold storage and retail market should not be more than Rs 5 per kg, an official of the enforcement department said. "You cannot sell Jyoti variety potato over Rs 27 per kg from tomorrow and action will be taken if you do not follow this," an official told a trader while visiting a market. He also asked potato sellers to maintain proper accounts of purchase as these documents could be scrutinised if required. Traders, however, pointed out they cannot sell at the ceiling price of Rs 27 a kg when their procurement cost is "higher" than that. Last week, the government had asked traders to ensure that the retail price of the tuber is brought down to Rs 25 a kg. The state government, in a meeting with potato trade bodies and cold storages, had decided that a maximum of seven days would be allowed to ensure that the retail price of potato becomes Rs 25 a kg. A meeting of the market task force may be held during the day to assess the demand-supply situation of potato in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-389
03-09-2020||West Bengal||Siliguri teen makes no-touch sanitiser dispenser||When life gives you a pandemic, make a sanitiser dispensing machine. At least, that’s what Sheikh Monirul Islam, a class XI student of Siliguri Boys’ High School, has done. As school closed in March with the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown, Monirul, who lives with his parents at Vivekanandanagar in ward 7 of Siliguri, managed to take time out from his studies to design and make an automated sanitiser dispensing machine. “As the pandemic broke out and people started following health safety protocols, I found many people pressing or pumping bottles to get the sanitiser out. What worried me is that if we all touch the bottle each time, the chances of infection is high. This made me think of a machine that can automatically release the sanitiser without having to touch the bottle,” said Monirul. Deciding on an automatic sanitiser dispenser, Monirul collected some items, which include a nano board (a microcontroller board), a motherboard, an infrared sensor module, a small pump and a rechargeable battery unit. “I assembled these items, mostly bought second-hand, and also created a space (cavity) for filling the liquid sanitiser. The machine needs to be put on a charger like a cellphone and then it works for hours,” said Monirul. “Once we put our hand under the machine, the sensor reads it and releases the sanitiser,” he said. Both water-based and gel-based sanitisers can be used in the machine. Monirul comes from a modest home — his father Sheikh Nasiruddin is a jewellery worker who runs a six-member family. But his family backs him in his inventive endeavours, said the boy. Dispenser apart, he has also made an automated dustbin that works with sensors. “He has never taken any training and yet he makes such things. I try to motivate him and despite financial constraints, try my best to meet his needs,” the dad said. “Altogether, I spent some Rs 250 to make this machine,” Monirul said. “My father helped me with the money. I am now trying to make an automated full-body sanitising machine that can work with sensors without touch.” But before that, he’s making two prototypes of the automatic hand sanitiser dispenser. “Two of my teachers have asked me to make the device for them,” he smiled. “If I get more orders, I plan to sell the machine for Rs 300,” added the inventive boy with an entrepreneurial mindset.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-389
03-09-2020||West Bengal||Farmers near border cry crop damage in Jalpaiguri||Some farmers of South Berubari, under Jalpaiguri’s Sadar block close to the India-Bangladesh border, reached the office of the district magistrate here on Wednesday with the allegation that some Bangladeshi residents were damaging their crops. In South Berubari, there are around 60 farmers with around 156 bighas of farmland beyond the barbed fences of the border, within 150 yards on the Indian side and till “zero point”. They are residents of villages like Baruipara, Bhutiapara, Daspara and Chawshpara, all under Jalpaiguri’s block Sadar block. “For past few months, some Bangladeshis are damaging our crops on a regular basis. I had a tea plantation spread over an area of eight bighas. These people have uprooted around 5,000 tea bushes from the land and now they are not allowing us to plant fresh tea bushes. I had brought in the seedlings but those have also been damaged. We have informed local officials of the BSF and the police but nothing has been done to help us so far,” said farmer Bappa Roy. The farmers, accompanied by district leaders of All India Forward Bloc, filed a complaint with district magistrate Abhishek Kumar Tiwary and sought his intervention. Gobinda Roy, a former MLA and a state secretariat member of Forward Bloc, said these farmers were facing problems on a regular basis. “The tea plantation that was on an Indian land has been turned into a football playing field by the Bangladeshis. The administration should raise the issue to appropriate levels so that these people can farm on their land,” Roy said. Along the India-Bangladesh border, there are hundreds of Indian farmers who cross fences through gates guarded by the BSF to reach in their fields beyond the fences. Some districts like Cooch Behar even have Indian villages located beyond the fences. “We want to make it clear that if the problem persists, we would be forced to launch a sit-in with the affected farmers on the border. Many of them are entirely dependent on the agricultural produce from the land they own for years now. If they cannot farm or cultivate tea bushes on their own land, it is tough for them to run their families,” Saradaprasad Roy, the Jalpaiguri district Forward Bloc president, said. The farmers said the BSF allowed them to move through the gates from 8am onwards. By 4pm, they return to their villages. “The Bangladeshi miscreants on a number of occasions take away our crop ready for harvest, either early in the morning or after we return from the field,” said Harishchandra Roy, a South Berubari resident. DM Tiwary said he had been apprised about the issue. “We will soon speak with officials of BSF and the police. All necessary steps will be taken in this regard,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-390
03-09-2020||West Bengal||Rural unrest in two border districts ||Four civic volunteers and an elected panchayat member of BJP were thrashed by a Border Security Force (BSF) officer at Bijol village under Habibpur police station of Malda on Tuesday night, police sources said. The incident created a sensation in the locality with people demanding that the police deal with the matter sternly following the course of law. Police sources said an officer of the BSF moving in a vehicle suddenly got into an altercation with two on-duty civic volunteers. Two other civic volunteers, who were returning home from the local police station on bicycles after their duty, were also there. “The BSF officer was questioning them as to what they are doing there though he had no business to do so. He suddenly got agitated and assaulted two civic volunteers. As the other two protested, they were also roughed up. Hearing the commotion, Santosh Soren, a member of Baidyapur gram panchayat, went there and tried to mediate. Though he introduced himself to the officer, he too, was manhandled,” a senior police officer said. After the incident, the BSF officer dragged one of the civic volunteers into his vehicle and left the spot. As the news spread, Purnendu Mukherjee, the inspector-in-charge of Habibpur police station, went to the spot himself. “I picked up the other injured civic volunteers and the panchayat member and was on way to a local hospital. After some time, the other civic volunteer was found on the road. Later, all of them were admitted at a hospital for treatment,” said Mukherjee. The incident has made all four civic volunteers file a common complaint against the BSF officer. The panchayat member has filed a separate complaint with the police, said sources. “Cases have been registered and the necessary legal steps have been initiated,” a senior police officer said. Malda district police chief Alok Rajoria said: “Whatever happened on Tuesday night is undesirable. We have already spoken with the BSF officials. The police and BSF maintain a strong coordination in Malda to curb crime along the borders. We believe that the incident would not affect our coordination with the BSF.” No one from the BSF was ready to comment on the issue. A source said they identified the officer and were talking to him to know what led to the incident. Joel Murmu, the BJP MLA of Habibpur, condemned the incident. “It is quite unfortunate. I would take up the matter with our state leadership,” Murmu said. Trinamul leaders have also raised questions over the alleged highhandedness of the BSF in bordering areas. They pointed to a recent incident when a BSF team had entered a village in Cooch Behar and opened fire that had led to the death of a youth.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-390
03-09-2020||West Bengal||‘Illegal’ resort sparks tribal protest in Santiniketan||A group of tribal residents of Banerpukurdanga village in Santiniketan took out a protest rally on Wednesday and lodged a complaint against a promoter for allegedly constructing an illegal resort by obstructing an irrigation canal at Sonajhuri forest. Protestors said the resort was one of at least hundred such constructions coming up illegally in Santiniketan. “The resort was being built on land belonging to the irrigation department. We protested against it and decided to raise our voice against all such illegal constructions. In most cases, promoters have targeted land belonging to tribal people and the government,” said villager Ram Soren. Resort owner Tanmoy Ghosh, however, said: “I have necessary land papers to undertake the project. I have leased a part of the land from the irrigation department. If there is any dispute over construction near the canal, I will demolish it.” The protest began on Tuesday after tribal outfit Birbhum Adivasi Gaonta joined hands with villagers. The villagers said a month ago Ghosh started building the resort by obstructing the irrigation canal. Villagers, mostly farmers, said they were forced to protest against the construction as it would reduce the flow of water from the canal to their fields. Ghosh alleged the protest started after he did not meet a demand of a group of youths to cough up Rs 3 lakh. Bolpur SDO Abhra Adhikary said he had received the complaint over the resort. Many blamed Trinamul leaders for being hand-in-glove with those building illegal resorts in Sonajhuri. Denying this, Trinamul leader Ranendranath Sarkar said they were against such encroachments. Rabin Soren, the secretary of Birbhum Adivasi Gaonta, said: “The livelihood of the tribal people is at stake in Santiniketan because of mushrooming illegal constructions. We will continue our protests against such resorts and hotels.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-390
03-09-2020||West Bengal||GI tag on Sikkim’s red chilli||“Dalle khursani” or the red cherry pepper chilli, which is grown in Sikkim and considered as one among hottest varieties in the world, has earned a geographical indication (GI) tag from the Union department of industry promotion and internal trade. Although the plant is cultivated in the neighbouring Darjeeling hills also, it was included in the Geographical Indications Registry of the Government of India on the basis of an application filed by the Guwahati-headquartered North Eastern Regional Agricultural Marketing Corporation Limited (Neramac) on behalf of Sikkim. A GI is a name or a sign given to a certain product that relates to a specific geographical location or origin like a region, town or country. The tag is part of intellectual property rights that come under the Paris Convention for the Protection of Industrial Property. The August 31 issue of the Geographical Indications Journal, published by the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade, mentioned the tag for dalle khursani. The chilli is known to have a Scoville scale at the range of 1,00,000 to 3,50,000 SHU (Scoville Heat Units). The Scoville scale is a measurement used to trace the spiciness of chilli peppers across the world. “The granting of GI tag certifies that dalle khursani is endemic to Sikkim and the neighbouring areas of the Darjeeling hills as it has been mentioned in the journal,” said a government official. For north Bengal and Sikkim, this is the third product of the region to earn a GI tag. Earlier, GI was conferred on a large cardamom cultivated in Sikkim. Also, the Darjeeling Tea was the first Indian product to get a GI tag. However, it is not clear if the red cherry pepper chilli will be known in the name of a region. Last year, Sikkim had produced around 250 tonnes of dalle khursani. “The figure is certain to go up this year. Government intervention by way of providing seeds, nutrients and other items will definitely boost production,” said M.T. Sherpa, secretary, Sikkim horticulture department. The largest manufacturer of dalle khursani products is the state government-owned Sikkim Supreme, which alone procured about 50 tonnes of the chilli last year to make pickles and pastes. “Around 60 per cent of tonnes are sold in the state. Our other major markets are the Northeast and north Bengal,” said an official. The August journal also revealed the news of GI tags for some other products which include Rataul Mango of Uttar Pradesh and Tamenglong Orange of Manipur. “Red Cherry Pepper (Capsicum annum var cerasiforme), locally known as Dalle khursani in Sikkim is well known for its unique flavour and high pungency. The crop belongs to the family Solanaceae and genus Capsicum. Plant grows up to 100-130 cm height under open field and 150-180 cm height in green house condition,” said the journal. The cherry-size red chillies are eaten in various forms, most famously as sauce to go with the region’s equally famous momos. They are also used to make pickles and pastes. The red hot chilli, which was retailing at about Rs 400 per kilogram in Gangtok markets on Wednesday, are also known to have medicinal properties. “It is high in vitamin A, vitamin E, and potassium, and low in sodium. One hundred grams of fresh dalle khursani have 240 mg of vitamin C (five times higher than an orange), 11,000 IU of vitamin A, and 0.7 mg of vitamin E,” the journal said. The conferment of GI tag on the chilli, which is also liked by tourists visiting Darjeeling, Kalimpong or Sikkim, has also made the locals react with glee. “Finally, the GI registration is approved for Dalle Khursani or our Cherry pepper chilli. Great job NERAMAC. This is landmark for an important produce of #Sikkim,” tweeted P. D. Rai, a two-time Parliamentarian from Sikkim.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-390
03-09-2020||West Bengal||Suri alma mater plans Pranab Mukherjee museum||Authorities of Suri Vidyasagar College have decided to build a museum in memory of its most famous alumnus, former President Pranab Mukherjee. Mukherjee, who passed away on Monday aged 84, had completed his graduation with Bengali honours from Suri Vidyasagar College in 1956. Two of his old classrooms will be turned into a museum, college authorities said. Principal Tapan Kumar Parichha said: “We are proud of our alumnus (Mukherjee) who went on to occupy the highest office in the country. We have in our possession documents from his college days and old photographs of Pranabbabu as a student.” A college source said they had copies of Mukherjee’s registration certificate, attendance register of his batch, and other old documents. “We have the chair on which Mukherjee sat during his visit to the college in 2012 as the President,” the source added. “During a visit, team members of NAAC (National Assessment and Accreditation Council) suggested we keep the original look of classrooms where the former President used to attend classes,” said Parichha. “To bring back the old look of the classrooms, we have sought the services of an architect.” After finishing his school in Kirnahar, Mukherjee moved to Suri in 1952 and took admission at the Suri Vidyasagar College. He spent four years of his student life in Suri before going on to study at Calcutta University. Mukherjee had fond memories of his college days. “I took admission to the ISc course here in 1952 and it seems like yesterday. My registration number was 5,057 and registration fee was Rs 2,” Mukherjee had recalled in his speech at the felicitation ceremony his college had organised for him in 2012 after he became the President. College sources said the authorities had planned a museum after Mukherjee’s visit to the college in 2012. The idea took a backseat over lack of planning. Sources said that the original building was made of lime and bricks and had a tin roof. The two classrooms are from the time the college was set up in 1942. Some officials said it would be tough to restore the brick and mortar look of the classrooms of Mukherjee’s time “The rooms were in such a dilapidated state that they could have collapsed any moment. So, we had to use cement to keep the walls standing,” said an official. However, a college teacher said: “We have already spoken to an architect who said the original look could be restored by removing the outer layer of cement.” Apart from the classrooms, the hostel building where Mukherjee used to stay and an old banyan tree that bears his memory would also be preserved, said a college teacher. On Wednesday, around 300 villagers of Mirati and adjoining areas took out two rallies to pay tributes to the son of the soil who passed away on Monday evening. “The villagers mourned the demise of their very own Kakababu who loved everyone and used to meet us during Durga Puja,” said Mirati resident Jadab Ghosh. The Visva-Bharati authorities have decided to hold a special memorial service on Friday in honour of the former President.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-390
03-09-2020||West Bengal||NEET: ‘Quiet’ aspirant from Belghoria missing||A 20-year-old from Belghoria went traceless on Tuesday morning when he left home to visit a temple on the extreme northern fringes of Calcutta. His two-wheeler and helmet were found on Wednesday morning nearly 172km away at Beldanga in Murshidabad district. Rakshit Mittal was to appear for NEET on September 13 for admission to medical colleges. His family said the youth would visit the temple every day and return home between 10.30 and 11 in the morning before settling down for his final leg of preparations. On Tuesday, Rakshit, who returned from Kota (in Rajasthan) six months ago after a preparatory course to crack NEET, was last seen at Sree Shyam Mandir in Ashokgarh, a few kilometres off his residence near Rathtala in Dunlop, around 10.18am. “We have set up a team to probe into the disappearance of the youth based on a missing diary filed by his parents. The team left for Beldanga on Wednesday afternoon,” said an officer of Barrackpore police commissionerate. The eldest of two brothers, Rakshit left home for the temple around 9.30am on Tuesday riding the scooter that his father had bought barely 20 days back. The vehicle didn’t have a registration number. Police have collected CCTV footage that show Rakshit in a striped tee and trousers inside the temple around 10am on Tuesday. What happened thereafter is unknown. Family members feared that Rakshit may have been abducted, but police sources said that the complaint lodged at Belghoria police station around 2pm on Tuesday did not mention it. After the complaint was lodged, the police informed all police stations with details of Rakshit’s build, the clothes he had on, and his mobile number. The police also started tracking his phone location. The police of Beldanga, where Rakshit’s scooter and helmet were found, said they found the buyer’s name, Belghoria address and a phone number from the documents in the vehicle. Rakshit’s parents Ashok and Kabita have told police they had no relatives in Beldanga and it was nearly impossible for their son to drive down such a long distance alone. He had only recently got his driving licence, the parents said. “Rakshit used to keep to himself and did not have too many friends with whom he would mingle. He was a very quiet boy,” Kavita told police. His father Ashok Mittal said: “He was in a happy mood preparing for the upcoming medical entrance test. On Tuesday, he took one of his regular breaks, but did not return home.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-390
03-09-2020||West Bengal||Trinamul Birbhum chief sees red over road||Trinamul district chief in Birbhum Anubrata Mondal was stumped by a party colleague on Wednesday with his plainspeak when the latter during a public meeting said that a road was better in his area during the Left regime. The Birbhum strongman had convened a meeting with the booth committee members of Suri II block areas in Purandarpur village on Wednesday. During the meeting, he asked why the party had lagged behind the BJP in two booths of Majhigram village under Damdama gram panchayat. Ganesh Roy, acting booth committee president, stood up with a microphone, blaming the poor condition of the 4km long mud road from Majhigram to Hatora. “The road is very bad and no one can even cycle along this stretch... The local people have lost faith in the party due to that road only,” said Roy, adding that a young man had asked him whether villagers should start fishing in the flooded road. A rattled Mondal tried to deflect the criticism by comparing the Trinamul regime with that of the Left. “Weren't they fishing in the road during the Left rule?" asked Mondal. The local leader replied: “During that time (Left’s tenure), it was possible at least to ride a cycle through the stretch. But now that’s not possible.” “You mean, the road was better in the Left regime?” Mondal asked. Pat came the reply: “Yes, the road was better.” Such plainspeak was clearly difficult for Mondal to digest, who reeled off all schemes like Kanyashree, Yuvashree and rice at Rs 2 a kg that the Mamata Banerjee government had rolled out after coming to power. “What else do you want?" Mondal asked. Roy said: “Yes, we got the benefits of all these schemes... But we need roads, well-lit lamp posts..” Mondal, aware that the interaction was getting recorded, finally lost his cool. “We don’'t need people like you... You could have said that Mamata Banerjee did a lot, but people in our village demand a proper road,” he said before asking his followers to immediately remove Roy from the booth committee. As Roy’s followers started leaving the venue, party district vice-president Abhijit Sinha calmed them down. Later, Mondal said: “It was a small misunderstanding. The road has been sanctioned. We will build it.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-390
03-09-2020||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee: GST legal opinion  ‘subterfuge’||Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, alleging that his government’s act of adding attorney-general K.K. Venugopal’s opinion to the discourse over the GST compensation impasse was apparently “an act of subterfuge” to undermine the faith of states in cooperative federalism. With her four-page missive to Modi, the Bengal chief minister made it clear she thought the Centre’s proposal that the state governments could borrow to meet the compensation deficit was a “betrayal of trust” and “violated the very premise of federalism”. In the letter, she expressed her objection to Venugopal being brought in, contrary to the spirit of dialogue. “… there was no legalistic approach taken by bringing in the AG, since it was a matter of trust with full cooperation between the states and the Centre,” she wrote, referring to the Centre referring to Venugopal’s view — brought up by the Centre last week — that the Union government was not legally bound to compensate from its coffers a shortfall in GST revenues of states. Her counterparts in Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Chhattisgarh and Delhi raised similar concerns. “… AG has been brought in, who seemed to opine that it is not the responsibility of the government of India to compensate the states for GST shortfall in the pandemic situation. This appears to be an act of subterfuge to undermine the trust reposed by the states in the spirit of cooperative federalism,” added the Trinamul Congress chief, who in a meeting of several non-BJP chief ministers convened by Congress chief Sonia Gandhi on August 26 fiercely defended the states’ right to the compensation. Sources close to Mamata said that she mentioned the AG’s opinion as she thought that his opinion was part of a plan to deny the states their legitimate dues. According to the Centre’s estimates, the compensation requirement of states in the current fiscal would be Rs 3 lakh crore, of which Rs 65,000 crore would come from levy of cess. Of the Rs 2.35 lakh crore shortfall, Rs 97,000 crore is for GST implementation and the remaining amount is to cover Covid-19-related expenses and losses. The Centre gave the states two options: borrow Rs 2.35 lakh crore or borrow Rs 97,000 crore through an RBI-provided window. The Mamata government has already rejected the twin formula, with state finance minister Amit Mitra claiming it neither has any headroom to borrow nor the ability to pay interest. Initial estimates suggest Bengal alone will face a shortfall of Rs 15,000 crore in GST collection this year as the economy faces headwinds from the Covid-19 pandemic. If the state plans to recoup the loss, which translates into 1.5 per cent of state GDP, entirely by market borrowing, it would hit the debt ceiling limit under the FRBM Act. “Why should we accept this deprivation from the Centre? In my letter, I spoke on behalf of all (including BJP-ruled) states,” Mamata said on Wednesday. “Why will you budge from a commitment? Commitments must always be honoured. There cannot be such a breach of trust. At this time, we think, it will only weaken federalism. There will be conflict between the states and the Centre. That is not correct,” she added. Expressing “deep anguish” by the GST impasse, which she called a “betrayal” of the trust and moral responsibility of the Centre towards the states, Mamata wrote: “This is a travesty and an abrogation of the fundamental basis on which the states gave up 70 per cent of their taxing powers, including the entire VAT regime, to usher in the GST regime.” Reminding Modi of his stand on the GST while he was the chief minister of Gujarat and the view of his party while in the national Opposition, placed on record by deceased leader Arun Jaitley in 2013, she asked the Prime Minister not to “belie the trust” between the states and the Centre. “I further urge you not to allow an insufferable blow to the federalist policy of our nation,” she added. Mamata’s party has planned extensive protest programmes on September 8, 14 and 20 across Bengal against the alleged deprivation of the state by the Centre. Announcing the decision, Trinamul secretary-general Partha Chatterjee said it was not only about the GST impasse but also Rs 53,000 crore in dues from the Centre, besides Cyclone Amphan relief.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-390
03-09-2020||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal 4th in recovery rate||Bengal on Wednesday recorded a new 24-hour high of 44,120 Covid-19 tests and a drop in active cases for the 10th consecutive day from 28,069 on August 23 to 24,445. The state reported 2,976 new cases in 24 hours till Wednesday 9am, fewer than the 3,297 recoveries in the same time. However, 56 deaths were reported on Wednesday, of which 17 are from Calcutta, taking the total toll to 3,339. Of the 1.68 lakh Covid-19 cases reported in Bengal since the first detected on March 17, nearly 1.41 lakh are recoveries. The state’s recovery rate is 83.53 now, far ahead of the national rate of 77.08 per cent. “Bengal is now fourth among states (after Delhi, Bihar and Tamil Nadu) in terms of recovery rate. With an active ratio (total active cases among total cases) of 14.49 per cent now, Bengal is third from bottom, with only Bihar and Delhi doing better,” said a minister. The state’s tests per million count is now 21,950, which was 10,384 a month ago. “The World Health Organisation’s advisory specifies a daily minimum of 140 tests per million. A month ago, Bengal was at 234. On Wednesday, it reported 490. Getting past 500 requires reaching 45,000 in daily testing, which will take a day or two,” the minister said. With more tests, and relatively fewer new cases in the past 10 days, positive confirmation rate improved from 8.9 to 8.54 per cent. Five most high-incidence districts Calcutta, North and South 24-Parganas, Howrah and Hooghly continued recording a collective fall in their total active cases — by 184 on Wednesday. Of 3,339 deaths, 2,892 (86.6 per cent) were reported comorbid. The state’s mortality rate improved to 1.97 per cent, while the national rate is 1.75. “We are trying to catch up with the national rate and expect to do so by mid-September,” said the minister. Bengal reported 32.75 per cent occupancy of 12,045 Covid-19 beds in 87 hospitals. Telemedicine services have been provided to nearly 1.58 lakh, 4,236 of them in the past 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-390
03-09-2020||West Bengal||Alipurduar earns praise for Covid control||The district health department of Alipurduar and the administration as a whole have earned appreciation from a team of senior officials of the state health department on a visit to north Bengal to take stock of the Covid-19 pandemic situation. The team, comprising the mission director of National Health Mission in Bengal Saumitra Mohan, the director of health services (DHS) Ajoy Kumar Chakroborty and director of medical education (DME) of the state Debasish Bhattacharya, have appreciated the manner in which the situation has been dealt with in the district, sources said. Unlike most parts of the state where the number of Covid-19 deaths are on the rise, the toll in Alipurduar remained relatively low at 13 so far. So far, 2,019 people have been detected with the infection in the district. Among them, 920 have cured and another 1,162 are still under observation and treatment. On Wednesday, a high-level meeting was held at Dooars Kanya, the district collectorate here, where the officials from Calcutta were briefed about the current Covid situation of the district. “The way this pandemic has been handled in Alipurduar district has made it a model in the state. There had been excellent teamwork across all tiers of the administration and district health department, coupled with proactive decisions and arrangements. That is why the pandemic could be controlled here,” said Chakraborty, the DHS of the state. Sources in the district health department said Alipurduar was the first district in the state to initiate preventive measures and safety protocols. Since January, steps like training health staff, making arrangements for medical inventories were taken. Also, the administration moved into the tea belt early, keeping in mind the vulnerability of the tea population as it is a common trend in tea estates to work in groups, whether in plantations or in factories. “The tea population, managerial staff and others concerned were apprised in detail about the pandemic and the ways and means to prevent it from spreading in the gardens. This campaign turned out to be effective and so far, the rate of infection has remained low in tea estates. Also, even if we find some people flouting the safety norms in towns, those in gardens strictly adhere to norms,” said an official. The health department took the task to set up health check-up camps at Jaigaon in the Indo-Bhutan border and Pakhriguri on the Bengal-Assam border to prevent the entry of any suspected Covid patient. This apart, questions were raised over the transfers of Puran Sharma, the immediate past chief medical officer of health (CMOH), and Subarno Goswami, a deputy CMOH, from the district. “Both were instrumental in checking the spread of the contagion, yet they were transferred. The decisions have not gone down well with those who are associated with government healthcare in Alipurduar district and those who visited from Calcutta are aware of it,” said a source. On Wednesday, a number of doctor organisations sent letters to chief minister Mamata Banerjee, requesting her to revoke the transfer order of these two health officials. The director of health services, when asked on the issue, dodged a direct reply. “One or two players can be changed in a team but that does not prevent the team from performing time and again,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-390
03-09-2020||North East||Why Mizoram has escaped Covid death so far||Amid India’s rising coronavirus deaths, Mizoram stands alone for now. Eight states, Bengal among them, accounted for 80 per cent of the 819 new coronavirus deaths recorded on Tuesday, but Mizoram remains the only state without a single documented Covid-19 death. While Mizoram’s count of lab-confirmed Covid-19 cases has reached 1,011 and 420 patients were under medical supervision on Tuesday, doctors in the state say its zero death number is a puzzle but likely the result of multiple factors. “We’ve been fortunate so far — we’ve seen very few severe cases,” Eric Zomawia, a senior state public health official told The Telegraph. “But we’ve also seen prompt transfer of patients to Covid-19 care centres or to our one dedicated Covid-19 hospital and our staff dedication has been remarkable.” Mizoram recorded its first Covid-19 case on March 25, a patient with a foreign travel history, then no cases at all until early June. Since then, cases have increased with multiple spikes — from 46 new cases on June 9 to the highest single-day count yet of 120 cases on August 15. The first patient did develop severe Covid-19 and had required ventilation for several days, Zomawia said. But the majority of patients diagnosed since then have had mild symptoms. “We don’t know why yet — this will need research,” said Sukanta Sinha, a senior microbiologist and dean at the Zoram Medical College, Aizawl, the state’s only dedicated Covid-19 hospital 15km south of Aizawl. “I think many factors are contributing to this — we can only speculate for now.” Mizoram is India’s least populous state after Sikkim with an estimated 1.2 million people. Sikkim’s count of Covid-19 cases has climbed to 1,652 and three patients have died. Public health experts would view Mizoram’s terrain marked by hills and jungles as posing a challenge to epidemic control but, Sinha said, people across the state are “more organised and very cooperative”. “I think the state has been able to contain the epidemic much better than others — with community engagement,” he said. Mizoram was among states least prepared for the pandemic — it did not even have a viral diagnostic laboratory. “We had to build the lab from scratch in just seven days,” Sinha said. Microbiologists in neighbouring academic institutions initially lent machines for Covid-19 diagnostic tests. While the reasons for the relatively low proportions of severe disease remain unknown, Sinha said, patients who do develop moderate to severe disease and require oxygen receive the best possible treatment from the staff. “Our doctors, nurses, other staff work with no inhibitions at all,” he told this newspaper, citing the example of a young microbiologist who has a young baby but has reported every single day through the pandemic. “It may seem like a small thing but still something great in a pandemic,” he said. Some researchers have speculated whether genetics or nutrition might also explain the low prevalence of severe disease. “Nutrition among the Mizo population is relatively good compared to populations in many other states,” Sinha said. The college has plans to pursue research on these lines in collaboration with other academic institutions that could contribute through studies on human and viral genomes. “But that’s for later. Right now, we’re just managing samples (for tests) and patients.” The eight states with the largest number of new deaths on Monday were Maharashtra (184), Karnataka (113), Tamil Nadu (91), Andhra Pradesh (85), Uttar Pradesh (63), Bengal (52), Punjab (49) and Madhya Pradesh (20). India on Tuesday recorded 69,621 new Covid-19 cases, raising the total number to over 3.69 million, of whom nearly 2.84 million patients have recovered, 785,996 are under medical supervision, and 65,288 have died, 819 on Monday. The eight states account for 69 per cent of the country’s active patients.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-46
03-09-2020||North East||NSCN-IM: Nagas ready for fresh ‘war’||The National Socialist Council of Nagalim (Isak-Muivah) has said the Nagas are ready to “fight another war” if their political rights and history are not respected and that the Naga issue will remain India’s Achilles heel if the Centre or its interlocutor is “trying to misinterpret” the prevailing situation or act clever. The August edition of the outfit’s bi-monthly news bulletin, Nagalim Voice, carries this message in an editorial titled “Government of India Oversight: Indo Naga Political Talks” at a time when the peace talks between the Centre and the NSCN (I-M), which is in ceasefire since 1997, are said to be floundering amid demands from other Naga groups to seal a final solution. The NSCN (I-M) is still firm on shared sovereignty which would include a separate flag and a separate constitution for the Nagas. The editorial touches upon the history of the Naga conflict, the various peace measures effected by both the Centre for lasting peace, the signing of the 2015 Framework Agreement, the standoff triggered by R.N. Ravi, the Centre’s interlocutor for the peace talks and Nagaland governor, and the consequences it could trigger. The opening paragraph says since 1832 when the British first arrived in Naga areas, the Nagas have “unwaveringly maintained the right to be independent from any external power, whether it be British or otherwise”. Attacking Ravi for “losing focus and perspective by throwing a “chance of a lifetime” to politically and respectfully end the longest armed resistance in Southeast Asia, the NSCN (I-M) said he was “repeating the same mistakes of history” by not realising that insult and disrespect to the Nagas will not help resolve the Naga issue. The outfit also said that the Centre was losing its vision and focus or it is being misled by Ravi, whose “delinquency and double standards will have huge ramification for a country like India”. “Nagas have fought long enough and they have survived all the Machiavellian policies from the adversaries. They are still ready to fight another war if their political rights and history are not respected,” it says. However, if India is keen on solving the political conflict, it must “honour” the Framework Agreement in letter and spirit, exhibit confidence and trust on the Nagas and must stop employing militaristic approach, law and order approach and divide and rule policy. The editorial ends with the line: “The position of Naga people is clear: respect and honour the political history and rights of the Nagas and we will respect India ten times more.” The bulletin was released amid mounting demands by several Naga organisations for a solution to the decades-old insurgency at the earliest and also not to change the interlocutor. The Nagaland Gaonburah Federation, an influential committee of village headmen, in a memorandum to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday, wanted to settle the issue at the earliest by September and not to remove Ravi. The Working Committee of the Naga National Political Groups (NNPGs), which is also part of the peace process, too is not in favour of removing Ravi as it would push back the whole process and wants the Framework Agreement reviewed because it has “erased the golden years of Naga struggle” while preferring the use of Nagaland instead of Nagalim because it is more “inclusive”. Peace talks observers, however, believe that the earlier efforts did not succeed because the key protagonists were sidelined. “The same mistake should not be repeated this time. Piecemeal pact will not help usher in lasting peace. It has to be inclusive,” one of them said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-46
03-09-2020||North East||Assam to shut govt madrasas, tols in November||The Assam government has said that it would close down all government-run Sanskrit tols (schools) and madrasas in November. State education minister Himanta Biswa Sarma made the announcement in the Assembly on Tuesday during a discussion on budgetary allocation for the education department when a few legislators pushed for provincialisation of madrasas. Sarma, a senior minister in the BJP-led coalition government, said there was no question of provincialising madrasas and Sanskrit tols because Dispur was moving towards a modern education system. Those who want to run madrasas and tols can do on their own, he said. “There is no bar on operating Sanskrit tols and madrasas with one’s own funds but the government will use its resources for modern and secular education. Students of these institutes can enrol in nearby schools. Since we are closing down such government-run institutes, there is no question of provincialising new madrasas and Sanskrit tols,” Sarma said on the second day of the four-day Assembly session. There are 614 recognised madrasas in Assam — 57 for girls, three for boys and 554 co-educational — and 17 under Urdu medium. On the other hand, there are nearly 1,000 recognised Sanskrit tols, of which around 100 are government-aided. Sarma had said in February that Dispur has decided to close down government-run madrasas, high madrasas and Sanskrit tols because it was “not the duty” of the state government to impart religious education, teach Arabic or some other language or religious scriptures. The madrasas, high madrasas and Sanskrit tols would be converted into high and higher secondary schools, he had said. Sarma on Tuesday also said the rules for provincialisation will change. “It will be more a need-based instead of date and year based. For example, if there is no school within a 5km radius of an area, we will fund a school there or where there is a need, like in the Sixth Schedule areas,” he said. He said provincialisation based on date, year and enrolment often leads to fudging of these figures because of various factors. “For example, there are three private colleges in Dhemaji which are doing exceptionally well than the government college there. We may recognise such institutions. Therefore, we are trying to go for need-based provincialisation,” he said, while highlighting the student welfare initiatives of the government such as free admission, among others Sarma, who is also the health minister, defended the government’s decision to charge for some facilities extended to Covid-19 patients . The facilities include a paying cabin, Rs 6,000 for a plasma kit for getting treatment in nursing homes or Rs 2,200 for getting Covid test result within 24 hours. “Those who can pay will have to pay the charges but otherwise our treatment is free,” Sarma said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-47
03-09-2020||Opinion||Smoke screen: Vehicular pollution||Sometimes the real picture emerges even if the smoke has not quite cleared. That is what seems to have happened with regard to the findings of a study by the National Environmental Engineering Research Institute, which showed that goods vehicles are responsible for the greater part of automobile pollution in Calcutta and Howrah. These revelations are to be taken seriously, as they dispel a number of myths in the public discourse regarding the dominant role played by modes of public transportation — buses, taxis and autorickshaws — in growing pollution levels. The study has found that buses account for 24 per cent of the total load of PM10 and PM2.5 — ultra-fine particles that act as major air pollutants and contribute to a range of respiratory illnesses, including cancer; in contrast, the contribution by goods carriers to the same problem is significantly higher. Pollution caused by private vehicles is marginal. These readings bring to light the need to overhaul the ways in which interventions to address vehicular pollution are imagined and designed. For one, town planning initiatives for modern Indian cities must take into account the importance of keeping residential areas at a safe distance from major transport hubs. The government must allot land and then construct and maintain modernized hubs for goods carriers keeping in mind not only ecological and industrial concerns but also ensuring that costs of goods transportation do not rise. More important, however, is the need to assimilate green technology in the goods vehicles sector. Public transport — CNG autorickshaws are an example — is often prioritized over goods vehicles when it comes to such investments. Natural gas looks to be the closest clean energy solution for India’s transport sector but manufacturers and other stakeholders must undertake innovations — sops should not be ruled out — to induce goods carriers to turn green from grey.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-154
03-09-2020||Opinion||An unusual leader: Remembering Pranab Mukherjee||Sir — With the demise of the former president, Pranab Mukherjee, India has lost a statesman par excellence (“A pragmatist within the paradigm that happened to be in place,” Sep 1). He was a well-respected politician and an exceptional troubleshooter for the Congress. Mukherjee’s dedication to public service combined with a rare kind of intelligence and statesmanship truly made him a political figure worth emulating. If there is one incident that could be considered a dent on his secular credentials, then it would be his acceptance of an invitation to address a valedictory function in Nagpur organized by the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh in 2018. Other than that, it can safely be said that Mukherjee’s commitment towards secularism remained unflinching till the end of his life. He was truly a nationalist figure. Tharcius S. Fernando,Chennai Sir — In a long political career spanning five decades, Pranab Mukherjee had cemented his credibility as a consensus builder when India moved from single-party domination to coalition politics. The former president, unlike many other statesmen, had friends across the political spectrum. Hence, his opinions were respected by all when he defended Congress-led governments in Parliament. Mukherjee was a key troubleshooter for several prime ministers including Indira Gandhi, P.V. Narasimha Rao as well as Manmohan Singh. It is interesting to note that he was conferred the highest civilian award, the Bharat Ratna, during the tenure of the incumbent prime minister, Narendra Modi. Although Mukherjee cannot be considered a mass leader, he nonetheless left an indelible imprint on Indian politics. Shovanlal Chakraborty,Calcutta Sir — It would not be an exaggeration to say that had Pranab Mukherjee held the post of the prime minister, India would have witnessed immense progress in all possible arenas of governance. But in spite of his capabilities, he was never offered the top job. One wonders how Indian politics would have fared had he, and not Manmohan Singh, assumed the post of the prime minister in 2004. While many considered his appointment as the president of India to be a compromise, it was nevertheless a just acknowledgement of his contributions to the country. The Bharatiya Janata Party government, too, honoured the statesman with the conferment of the Bharat Ratna. Upon hearing the news of his passing, many of his colleagues recalled his elephantine memory and insightful views. These traits, along with his geniality, earned him immense respect across party lines. The void left by his death will be truly impossible to fill. Bal Govind,Noida Sir — It was heartbreaking to learn about the demise of Pranab Mukherjee at the age of 84 after a battle with a prolonged illness — he had undergone brain surgery at the Army Research and Referral Hospital in Delhi. He was one of the greatest leaders of independent India and had dedicated his life to the service of the nation. His expertise in multiple areas including defence, finance and foreign affairs was unmatched. As the incumbent president, Ram Nath Kovind, said, Mukherjee’s death is truly akin to the “passing of an era”. M.A. Iqbal,Darbhanga, Bihar  Wrong move Sir — At a time when India recorded the highest global single-day rise in Covid-19 infections, news emerged that the metro rail authorities in Calcutta are preparing to resume train services. Although several precautionary measures will be in place, they will certainly not be enough to prevent a further spread. When buses began plying the city in June, they initially adhered to social distancing guidelines. But crowded buses soon became the norm. It is unlikely that the Calcutta metro, which saw a footfall in lakhs per week in pre-Covid times, will be able to follow strict measures for long. Anamika Saha,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-154
03-09-2020||Opinion||Off the rails: Floundering Indian economy||The Indian economy is floundering. Before the National Statistical Office came out with its macroeconomic data for the first quarter ended June 30, there was only an academic curiosity in the pundits’ minds. How bad could it possibly be? At minus 23.9 per cent, the contraction in real GDP is the worst ever and the first since 1980. The greater concern is that the nominal GDP, calculated at current prices, has also contracted by 22.6 per cent in the first quarter. The worry now is that if this trend continues, Narendra Modi will achieve the unthinkable: he will end up shrinking India’s economy this fiscal, a feat that nobody has managed to do. Economists have been urging the government to come up with a real fiscal stimulus that is properly funded and extensive in its reach in order to gun the engines of growth. The government seems to show no intention to follow the proffered advice: it will not, for instance, monetize its fiscal deficit which is already running ahead of the budgeted estimate of Rs 7.96 trillion for the full year. The curious thing is that the Centre has already enhanced its fiscal firepower by raising its ceiling on gross borrowings by almost 54 per cent to Rs 12 trillion in May. But what does it intend to do with it? Will it fritter away these resources on populist schemes or will it conceive a credible plan to bring the economy back on the rails? The Centre is not telling. Policy experts in the finance ministry suggest that the government intends to keep its powder dry till the ‘right’ moment when it will unleash its plans. This suspense is deeply unsettling for the markets amidst a rising clamour for an immediate policy stimulus. The Centre’s fumbling efforts have only increased the nervousness in the market, which is reflected in the sharp surge in bond yields that prompted the central bank to adopt a variety of unorthodox measures to quell volatility. As a consequence, some disquieting facts emerge: the Reserve Bank of India will have to print more money to stop the governments — the Centre and the states — from crowding out other borrowers from the market. This is already visible with currency in circulation shooting up by 22.8 per cent year on year to Rs 26.88 trillion as of August 21. A surge in money supply should stoke inflation, which has already crossed 6 per cent, the upper bound of the RBI’s policy mandate. The conventional method to squelch inflation would be to raise interest rates. But the RBI cannot go down that road as it could scupper the prospects of an economic recovery. So the central bank has been flirting with the idea of allowing the rupee to appreciate against the dollar, an unconventional way to beat inflation. Some of these strategies may work; others will not. With the government sitting on its hands, how long will the RBI be allowed to continue with such hothouse experiments?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-154
03-09-2020||Opinion||Steep right turn ahead: Congress and the Ram temple||The foundation stone-laying ceremony for the Ram temple in Ayodhya on August 5, 2020, is likely to have a long-term impact on national politics. The clearest sign of this is to be seen in the shift in the discourse of the Congress, India’s principal Opposition party, that is now a shadow of its former self. The Congress leader, Kamal Nath, who was till some months ago the chief minister of Madhya Pradesh, issued an advertisement on the 76th birth anniversary of the former prime minister, Rajiv Gandhi, on August 20. Here, the Madhya Pradesh Congress committee chief sought to offer a new explanation of Rajiv’s legacy, celebrated as ‘Sadbhavna (harmony) Divas’: that he had a vision of a modern India in the 21st century as also of a Ram temple in Ayodhya, which in some manner becomes synonymous with a symbolic Ram rajya. The advertisement says that Rajiv was inspired by Mahatma Gandhi’s Ram rajya, started the telecast of Ramanand Sagar’s Ramayana on television, got the locks of Ram Janmabhoomi opened in 1986, permitted the shilanyas of a Ram temple in 1989 and said, in his last press conference, that a Ram temple would come up at Ayodhya. The message: Rajiv, and not Narendra Modi, is the true architect of the Ram temple movement and that modern India and the Ram temple movement complement each other. On August 4, Priyanka Gandhi had also tweeted that the Ram temple in Ayodhya could become a symbol of national unity. “Let Lord Ram shower his blessing so that this function becomes a celebration of national unity, fraternity and cultural affinity,” she said. While the Congress is unlikely to match the Bharatiya Janata Party when it comes to taking ‘credit’ for the Ram temple movement, the attempt itself shows that the centre of Indian politics has clearly turned rightward. If the temple visits by Rahul Gandhi in the last few years before elections were part of an old template of the days of Mahatma Gandhi’s Congress — something that the Congress had almost discarded in the heady days of a ‘secular’ opposition to the Ram temple movement in the decades after 1992 — the present template is new. For the Congress has for the first time held an old dispute between sections of Hindus and Muslims to be unequivocally a matter of national unity and cultural pride. “The rank and file of the Congress and all but a few leaders have turned right,” admitted a Congress leader on condition of anonymity. If Mahatma Gandhi’s Congress was open to being symbolically Hindu but in a pluralist sense and the Congress of Sonia Gandhi was clearly secular — even open to looking at measures aimed at Muslims as a community — there are clear indications that the new Congress of 2020 is open to accepting Hindutva as a legitimate subset of Hinduism and also nationalism. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, whose six years in power have made Hindutva India’s prime ideology, said on August 5 in Ayodhya that the foundation stone-laying date for the Ram temple was as important a date as August 15 as both marked the ‘culmination’ of long struggles. Hindutva, in other words, earns the same place as the freedom struggle itself. But this is no longer the belief of the BJP alone. It is now increasingly becoming a symbol of the new normal in India, with Rahul Gandhi adding the caveat that Lord Ram stands for supreme humanism and not hatred. It is important to make sense of this paradigmatic shift. It is also the latest turn in the history of the Congress, even if it does not end up benefiting the party. The Congress in the days of the freedom struggle and beyond was open to seeing India’s ancient past as its strength. It was also accommodating of its medieval past. If Mahatma Gandhi openly talked about Ram rajya as the ideal of good governance while being a voice of Hindu-Muslim unity, Jawaharlal Nehru himself expressed great respect for Hindu mythology in The Discovery of India, saying that even if all the stories weren’t “true”, they were an inspiration for the common people and stood for what their ancestors were capable, in their imagination, of doing. Nehru celebrates these “imaginary histories”, as he calls them. The civilizational aspect of Nehru is missed by present-day Nehruvians, who focus on Nehru as the builder of modern India alone. The Congress in the Nehru years remained an organization that had conservative leaders in the states. There were those who celebrated Hindi and Sanskrit — like Sampurnanand in Uttar Pradesh or Seth Govind Das in Madhya Pradesh — in the 1960s. Cow slaughter was also banned by Congress governments in the north in this decade. Under Indira Gandhi, the institutional turn towards a more Western form of secularism and scepticism towards tradition began with the rise of the academic left in the 1970s. However, the biggest shift came after the 1990 rath yatra of L.K. Advani, which made the Congress embrace secularism as India’s defining official ideology. Communalism, a category constructed in the 1920s, as the historian, G. Pandey, has shown, became the prime Other of national unity after 1990. Secularism as a discourse became central to politics. The regional parties, displaying opportunistic secularism, were the first to dent its legitimacy, as they forged alliances with an ascendant BJP in 1998 and 1999. The quest for power made secularism seem like a logic of convenience. With the rise of Modi, the Supreme Court’s green signal to a Ram temple at Ayodhya and the BJP’s increasing growth across regions and caste groups, secularism no longer seems viable politics to many. The shift in the Congress is thus a tacit acceptance of the present reality of a Hinduized India. Secular intellectuals are still resisting this — and bringing up the normative promises of a Constitution put in place in the heyday of the Congress — but politicians who meet people on the ground are increasingly accepting a symbolically Hindu polity. The year, 2020, may go down as the year when India accepted Hindutva as the idea of India, and the Congress will be seen as the moderate collaborator of a strident BJP in this transformation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-154
03-09-2020||Opinion||Airbrushed history||Over the past year, but particularly in the wake of the Black Lives Matter movement in the United States of America, there has been disquiet over what a British writer recently described as the “grievance industrial complex”. The phenomenon, which started off innocuously as ‘political correctness’ that established a language code among a few, has evolved into a ‘cancel’ culture that aims at suppressing all that is deemed offensive and unacceptable by self-appointed boards of intellectual standards. Coinciding with a curious left turn in US politics whose efficacy will be partly tested in November’s presidential election, cancel culture has crossed the Atlantic and is gradually permeating the rest of the English-speaking world. The manifestations of cancel culture range from the sublime to the ridiculous. It is understandable that the culture of Dixie worship that was till recently a feature of states that once formed a part of the defeated Confederacy in the American Civil War of the 1860s was deemed offensive by many Black Americans. The underlying romanticism behind the celebration of a way of life that, alas, was inextricably linked to slavery and the Jim Crow laws inevitably concealed the brutal underside of a deeply iniquitous society. It was inevitable that sooner or later there would be a reaction against the statues of Confederate heroes that dotted cities of the Deep South in America. Equally, while flaunting the Confederate flag may well have been an innocent way for some to assert their southern regional identity, it is undeniable that it meant something more sinister than Joan Baez’s moving rendition of “The Night They Drove Old Dixie Down”. Without doubt the flag of the defeated had also come to be equated with assertions of white supremacy. It is indeed remarkable that the worship of the Confederacy persisted as long as it did. Politically it may have been eclipsed after the fading out of George Wallace who won as many as 45 electoral votes and 13.5 per cent of the national popular vote, but it maintained a fringe presence that was seen as embarrassing by all mainstream politicians. All it took was a gentle push for many of the visible symbols of the old Confederacy to be relegated to museums and specialist shops trading in memorabilia. An earlier version of Black Lives Matter was witnessed in Oxford two years ago when some students — inspired by a movement in the universities of South Africa — took exception to the statue of Cecil Rhodes in Oriel College. The problem was that while Rhodes is rightly seen as a venal exploiter in southern Africa, his extraordinarily large bequests to Oxford University had a different meaning. The Rhodes scholarships, for example, had acquired a formidable reputation throughout the Anglophone world, including India, and it was problematic to separate the benefactor from his money. Indeed, this is not uniquely a problem limited to Oxford. A large number of the major universities on both sides of the pond have funded their road to excellence through bequests whose provenance may not pass the test of exacting ethical scrutiny. This is particularly true of the United Kingdom. Today’s spirited decolonizing activists may not like the presence of Lord Clive in the forecourt of the old India Office (now the Foreign and Commonwealth Office) and they may balk at statues of erstwhile heroes such as Lord Roberts of Kandahar and others who put down the 1857 uprising in India quite mercilessly. Yet there is no denying the fact that earlier generations fed on a diet of G.A. Henty — a largely forgotten writer whose books were obligatory for schoolboys of yore — thought these men to be heroes. In many cases, the statues were put up with public subscriptions. Britain may have successfully divested itself of its Empire, but the symbols of past glory are omnipresent. What is equally interesting is that while there are chapters of its history that appear shameful — and in some cases worthy of public apologies —the Empire, taken in totality, is something that doesn’t offend by its mere mention. Efforts to link the so-called absence of a decolonized curriculum in the liberal arts to imaginary racism in the classroom and the campus are largely contrived. If there aren’t more expressions of disgust at the attempted imposition of ‘white shame’ on an entire people, it is because of a strange political squeamishness that deems voices of colour to be automatically worthy of patient consideration. Yet, it is not knowing where to draw a line that could generate a backlash. Last month, for example, in a move that provoked legitimate outrage all over Middle England, the BBC allowed some overzealous music conductors to ensure that the words of “Land of Hope and Glory” and “Rule Britannia” were not sung — as is the custom — in the Last Night of the Proms. This was because they were deemed to be celebrations of a past that the politically correct have decided must be cancelled — airbrushed from popular memory and history. Earlier, there have been persistent reports of the iconic song, “Jerusalem”, being similarly bowdlerized. The epidemic has touched such ridiculous levels that a respected professor of theology in Oxford was the target of denunciatory petitions by fellow academics for having the temerity to suggest a research project on the ethics of the British Empire. Nigel Biggar, Regius Professor of Moral and Pastoral Theology at Oxford and the target of this outpouring of silliness, wasn’t attempting anything revolutionary. It is undeniable that there was an ideology of Empire that went beyond economic exploitation of the natives. The sense of paternalism or ‘civilizing mission’ — a term coined, incidentally, in America — may well have been misplaced or even evidence of what old-style Marxists like to call ‘false consciousness’ but these ideas were nevertheless real. I have before me a book, A Judge in Madras: Sir Sidney Wadsworth and the Indian Civil Service, 1913-1947, by Caroline Keen, published earlier this year by Hurst and Company, a reputed publishing company in London. It is entirely possible that most Indians have never heard of Sir Sidney or believe him to be significant. Yet it is worth reading the small appreciation of the book by David Washbrook, a Cambridge historian who has studied South India: “While colonialism these days stand rightly condemned, it is easy to forget that many of those caught up in its history were human too — and, in the case of Sidney Wadsworth, remarkably humane.” Washbrook is stating the obvious but it is also blasphemous in the context of the cancel culture that would rather the old judge was consigned to either silent oblivion or noisy disgrace — if, indeed, he was a known figure. However, it is reassuring, in the context of the Biggar controversy, that a reputed publisher still believes that a good book is worth publishing regardless of its underlying bias. This innate belief in pluralism may be terribly old-fashioned but is a virtue that is under threat in this age of certitudes. Revisionism certainly has an important place in the larger scheme of intellectual evolution, but that goal will become elusive if it is subsumed by a wave of iconoclasm — of the type that was witnessed by the indiscriminate destruction of the library at Nalanda by the army of Bakhtiar Khilji in the 13th century. These are dangerous trends and more dangerous if some Indians decide they are worth emulating. Some of the controversies over the management of social media and the pulping of a book on the Delhi riots because it suggested there was no one truth are disturbing. The cancel culture, like the barbarians, must be kept outside the gates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-154
03-09-2020||Jharkhand||Chatra officials begin hunt for land for medical college||The Chatra district administration has begun scouting for a 20-acre plot for the construction of a medical college after a prod from the department of health. The medical college will be set up as part of a country-wide push to establish such institutions in all aspiring districts. Chatra is considered a laggard in healthcare facilities. The Sadar hospital is often in the news for the wrong reasons. Local residents on Thursday caught two persons stealing tyres from a truck on GT Road in Kariyatpur of Barhi block, about 46km from the Hazaribagh district headquarters. Suraj Kumar and Nitesh Kumar Yadav are both residents of Kenduwa village in Barkatha block. A pick-up van and stolen tyres, besides two smartphones, have been found. A woman allegedly committed suicide in Chothai Kulhi locality in the Jharia police station area on Thursday. Malti Devi, 34, was upset because a housemaid had not returned her jewellery worth Rs 3 lakh she had taken for a wedding, according to the suicide note. Police have lodged a case and sent the body for post-mortem.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-312
03-09-2020||Jharkhand||Jharkhand quarantine norm keeps Bihar poll pot boiling||The JDU has alleged that action was taken against RJD MLA Samta Devi under Covid protocols in Ranchi as she was a Dalit whereas Tej Pratap, who, like her,  had also met his father and the RJD chief Lalu Prasad days ago, was let off without being subjected to 14-day quarantine. Ruling JD(U) and the new entrant to the NDA-fold, Hindustani Awam Morcha (HAM) of former chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi, attacked RJD for "using its influence" on the JMM-led coalition government in Jharkhand to "punish" a Dalit woman MLA while Tej Pratap visiting Ranchi to meet Lalu Prasad at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) did not invite such action. The RJD has dismissed the charges, saying the NDA leaders appear to be "haunted" by Lalu Prasad day and night. Samta Devi, RJD MLA from Barachatti (reserved) seat in Bihar's Gaya district, along with one of her associates and two security guards were quarantined by the Ranchi administration on Wednesday after they visited Lalu at RIMS. The order to quarantine the legislator was passed by additional district magistrate, law and order, Akhilesh Kumar Sinha. Officials said that the RJD MLA reached Ranchi by road without informing the authorities. When the authorities came to know about her visit from the government guest house, she was quarantined there for 14 days as per the COVID-19 protocols in the state. Samta Devi told PTI she was unaware of the quarantine norms in place, and had urged the Jharkhand government to release her from isolation and allow her to go back home. The incident stirred the political pot in Bihar where elections are due in October-November. Bihar's minister for Information and Public Relations Department Neeraj Kumar asked RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav to speak as "why the Jharkhand government under the influence of his party is adopting double standards in dealing with Samta Devi and Tej Pratap Yadav. "Has she been punished because she is a Dalit woman?" the JD(U) leader asked the RJD leader in a statement in Patna. HAM national spokesman Danish Rizwan also trained guns at RJD, alleging "Lalu is insulting Dalits using his influence on the Jharkhand government." Manjhi who had quit Grand Alliance led by RJD on August 20,  announced on Wednesday that his party was joining NDA in Bihar as a constituent. RJD spokesperson Mrityunjay Tiwari brushed aside the charges and said the law was taking its course in the neighbouring state without discriminating against anybody. "Lalu jee seems to be haunting NDA leaders day and night,” Tiwari said. Since they have nothing to show for by way of work to the voters, they are levelling baseless allegations," he said. Bihar Deputy Chief Minister Sushil Kumar Modi has also accused the RJD supremo of running his political show from behind the bars and even receiving biodata of over 200 ticket aspirants for the state assembly polls. "If the Jharkhand government is helping Lalu to run the party and allowing him to play a political role while violating the jail manual, we will seek the Election Commission's intervention," the senior Bihar BJP leader had said in a series of tweets last Friday. The RJD is a part of the JMM-led coalition government in Jharkhand. Congress is also a member. Lalu Prasad is serving jail time after his conviction in four fodder scam cases. He was shifted to RIMS because of medical issues and then moved to the director’s bungalow to ensure he did not contract a coronavirus infection.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-312
03-09-2020||Jharkhand||JRD Tata Sports Complex to be turned into Covid centre||East Singhbhum health authorities have decided to convert the sprawling JRD Tata Sports Complex in Bistupur into a Covid care centre at a time when over 2,000 patients are currently admitted across treatment facilities and 600 patients are being treated at home. "The district administration, in consultation with Tata Steel, is exploring options to see if Covid patients can be accommodated in the halls within the sports complex or in separate tents inside the sports facility,” said East Singhbhum district civil surgeon, R.N. Jha. He, however, stressed that they would finalise all the nitty-gritty soon. The district civil surgeon revealed that cases were being reported from lanes and bylanes of the steel city, and that they apprehend a steady increase in numbers in days to come. "As the number of Covid cases is expected to rise in the near future, we are making preparations. Turning JRD Tata Sports Complex into a Covid case centre is part of this preparation,” he said, adding that a three-member central team was likely to visit the steel city for a survey. Jha said Covid patients accommodated at the stadium would be provided with similar medical facilities as in a hospital. "Patients lodged at the JRD Tata Sports Complex will not only get medicines and food, besides a bed, but will also be looked after by health workers, including the nurses, in three shifts round-the-clock," the civil surgeon said. On Wednesday, 228 new coronavirus cases were reported in East Singhbhum district, taking the total number to 7,634. Seven persons died of Covid-19 since Tuesday, taking the district toll to 213. As many as 5,061 people have recovered. There are 2,360 active patients of whom 980 are admitted to Tata Main Hospital, 100 to MGM Medical College Hospital. The remaining patients are at Uma Superspeciality Hospital in Mango, St John's Hospital on NH-33 and Tata Motors Hospitals in Telco. Over 600 Covid patients are undergoing treatment at their homes as there is no bed for them in the hospitals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-312
03-09-2020||Jharkhand||JFC sign defender Dinliana from Chennaiyin FC||Laldinliana Renthlei, fondly known as Dinliana, on Thursday signed Jamshedpur FC for a three-year deal as the club continues to form a strong, competent squad for the upcoming Indian Super League (ISL). The 22-year-old Mizo right-back is quick and strong and was a revelation under Owen Coyle last season. He was one of the top right-backs in the ISL last season and can slot in as a left-back. He was an important cog in the machinery, which finished as runners-up in the ISL 2019-20, and was a crucial member of the side that finished runners-up in the AIFF Super Cup in 2019. “It’s a privilege to have signed for a club like Jamshedpur which has all avenues conducive for a player like me to exhibit my true potential. This move is a perfect fit especially with Owen Coyle at the helm. I had a great outing with him last year and I am hungry to perform. I am excited at the prospect of bringing the deserving fans of Jamshedpur the much-awaited and coveted silverware in the ISL,” Dinliana said. The full-back came to prominence after winning the Mizoram Premier League (MPL) with Chhinga Veng FC in 2017, where he was adjudged best defender of the tournament for his outstanding displays. He was loaned out to Aizawl FC to play in the I-League, where he made 24 appearances for them in the 2017-18 season. In 2018, Dinliana was signed by Chennaiyin FC and made 34 appearances across two seasons. He also appeared in the AFC Cup and AFC Champions League qualifiers with Aizawl and Chennaiyin FC, making his continental debut against Iranian side Zob Ahan Esfahan back in 2018. Jamshedpur FC head coach Owen Coyle was glad to be reunited with the defender. “The position of a full-back is crucial to any football system as it requires the right balance of attack and defence. Dinliana matches my requirements perfectly. He has been fabulous over the past three years and was phenomenal last season as he helped his team reach the ISL final. He will be an important player for the club and country in the years to come,” Owen said. The youngster has helped his teams with 15 clean sheets in 58 top-tier matches he has played. Dinliana will be wearing jersey number 26 in the tournament ahead.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-313
03-09-2020||Jharkhand||JEE amid pandemic worth the risk, students against losing a year||Lack of affordable transportation to far away exam centres and no seating arrangements for guardians outside centres have kept JEE Mains aspirants on the edge in Ranchi since the beginning of the examinations on September 1, but the pressure performing well in the tests have kept them going in the midst of a global pandemic. Many examinees preferred facing the odds instead of losing a year of their academic career. Aditya Kumar, a Ranchi resident who appeared for the exam on Day One of the six-day exams, said that losing a year would be worse than facing difficulties in the process of appearing for the exams. “I have my own car, so reaching the exam centre was not a problem for me. Students who do not have their own vehicle might have faced problems. However, I am sure that no student would want to lose a year despite the challenges they have faced for appearing in the exams,” he said. Parents and local guardians of the examinees have been sharing their stress. Dhananjay Kumar, a resident of Nalanda in Bihar, covered 300 kilometre on his motorcycle to bring his daughter to Ranchi on Day Two of the exams as buses were not plying. The 12-hour-long journey was taxing on his body, but he could not let his daughter lose a year. Despite covering long distances on two-wheelers and cabs, many parents were not even provided a place to sit while their children appeared for the exams amid strict Covid-19 precautionary measures. Patratu resident Vishal Prasad, who booked a cab to bring his sister to Ranchi for the JEE exams, said guardians had to face a tough time outside the centres. “There was no seating arrangement. Even tea stalls and eateries were closed, so spending three hours in the sun was quite a challenge,” he said. Aarti Srivastava, a resident of Simaliya in Ranchi, said the administration should have at least arranged for a tent for guardians as frequent downpours were expected in Ranchi during this time of the year. “Exam centres are so far away from the city. There are no eateries around and we don’t even have a place to sit,” said Aarti, who brought her son to the exam centre by a pre-booked cab. Around 23,000 students are appearing for the ongoing exams in eight centres across five cities in Jharkhand. There are two centres each in Ranchi, Jamshedpur and Dhanbad and one centre each in Bokaro and Hazaribagh. In wake of Covid-19, loudspeakers were installed at an examination centre in Tupudana here to remind students about maintaining social distancing. Besides, circles were also marked at the entry to ensure students do not come close to each other. Examinees were also provided triple-layer masks at the centres and asked to remove the masks that they were wearing when they left home. The body temperature of all the examinees was checked using a thermal scanner. A separate isolation room was also set up for those students who showed symptoms of Covid-19 infection. Despite all the precautionary measures, as many as 190 students missed the first sitting of the exam at the Tupudana centre on Day One. However, there was no clarity on whether they missed the exams owing to the fear of Covid-19 infection or due to other reasons. “I don’t think missing the exam is an option. We can bear with lockdown restrictions and other challenges, but appearing for the exam was paramount,” said Abishek Anand, an examinee from Kanke Road in Ranchi. Days before the JEE Mains began, chief minister Hemant Soren conducted a poll on Twitter in which around 78 per cent participants voted in favour of postponing the exam. Ministers from at least six non-BJP ruled states, including Jharkhand, had also knocked at the door of the Supreme Court seeking postponement of the exams owing to risk of Covid-19 infection among students.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-313
03-09-2020||Jharkhand||Distress calls to steel city's suicide prevention centre go up ||The number of distress calls to Jeevan, a Bistupur-based suicide prevention centre, has gone up at a time when the steel city is witnessing a surge in Covid-19 cases. Volunteers are receiving 20-25 calls daily for over a week now. A majority of calls are related to job loss, financial problems and closure of business establishments. Jeoraj Jain, director of Jeevan, said the distress calls have gone up as the East Singhbhum district administration has publicised the centre’s helpline numbers. “Posters of Jeevan mentioning our telephone numbers have been publicised at various places across the city. We also met the deputy commissioner last week with a request to make the nature of publicity permanent since posters get damaged after some time,” he said. He explained that the publicity of Jeevan’s telephone number should sustain and it is possible only if the advertisement is made permanent. “The posters should also come up at isolation centres,” Jain said. Posters of Jeevan have come up in Bistupur, Sakchi, Golmuri and other localities. Posters are also visible at some housing societies. Speaking to The Telegraph Online, Jain said during the days after the coronavirus-induced nationwide lockdown in March, Jeevan was receiving around 10-12 calls daily. However, the number of distress calls came down to 4-5 daily from mid-June onwards as people were not aware about the telephone numbers. “People now know where to contact us, and are subsequently approaching us for much-needed help. This has been possible due to the administration, which has made our helplines public,” he added. “The present situation is no better. Some people call to tell us that they fear they have contracted the viral disease,” Jain informed. Jain has recently formed a 12-member special team comprising young volunteers. “The team members arrange for and take grocery to old people, sometimes spending from their own pockets. They also facilitate medical assistance. The members of the special team pool in money for such kind of assistance,” the Jeevan director said. The district administration has issued passes to the volunteers for swift movement across the city. Jeevan, which operates in collaboration with Tata Steel Foundation and district administration, has 30 volunteers, including 12 in the special team. Volunteers try to instil positive thoughts and raise the confidence level of callers. They also try to convince people who have suicidal tendencies, to think otherwise. “We understand that the situation is not good but there is no need to panic and take fatal steps. Covid is not going to stay forever. It will gradually subside and the lives of people will be back on track,” Jain said. Reach Jeevan volunteers on: 9297777499, 9297777500 (only call), 9955377500, 9955435500 (call or WhatsApp).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-313
03-09-2020||Jharkhand||Good news for Jharia as work on water plant begins||Work has begun to set up a water treatment plant on the banks of river Damodar, a welcome development for the over 5 lakh residents of Jharia who face regular disruption in water supply. A boundary wall is being constructed for a water treatment plant on the banks of the Damodar. It is part of a comprehensive plan, worth Rs 310 crore, to replace the existing pipeline where leaks spring up regularly, leading to perennial problems for Jharia residents. “Besides replacing existing pipelines from the Jamadoba water treatment to the tank at Bhagatdih and again from Bhagatdih to Dhansar, we will be constructing an intake well at Jamadoba on the bank of river Damodar. Additionally, we will also construct eight water treatment plants at various places in Jharia, Jamadoba and Dhansar,” said secretary and technical member of civic body Jharkhand Mineral Area Development Authority (JMADA) Indresh Shukla. Shukla said survey work for the project had been completed. “The work of replacing the pipeline, as well as constructing intake wells and the water treatment plants is being handled by Mumbai based agency, JMC Projects. These should be completed in two years,” he said. Shukla said that out of the eight water treatment plants, seven would be to treat mine pit water, while the one at Jamadoba will be used for treatment and supply of water from the Damodar. JMADA supplies more than 176 lakh litre from the Damodar river through its Jamadoba treatment complex to Jharia and Katras. Of this, around 105 lakh litre water is supplied to Jharia and its adjoining areas through a 12 million gallon per day capacity water treatment plant. The remaining water, around 71 lakh litre, is supplied to Kendua, Putki, Moonidih and other areas of Katras. This apart, JMADA also supplies around 25 lakh litre water per day to various parts of Katras, like Katras Bazar, Rani Bazar, Malkera Sijua, through the Topchanchi lake constructed way back in 1924. As the supply pipeline from Jamadoba to Jharia, laid more than 50 years ago, has faced wear and tea, leakages are frequent. When that happens, supply is disrupted along with considerable wastage. Some localities like Baniahir and Surratand did not get water supply for over two months due to decrease in water pressure in the main pipeline because of the leaks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-313
03-09-2020||Jharkhand||Harrowing time for Rajdhani passengers at Daltonganj railway station||Around 750 passengers of the New Delhi-Ranchi Rajdhani Special had a harrowing time on Thursday when the 22-coach train was detained at Daltonganj railway station since 6.40am following a big stir at the Tori railway junction by Tana Bhagats, ‘disciples’ of Mahatma Gandhi. The situation was tense at the junction, where hundreds of Tana Bhagats of all ages have been sitting on railway tracks since Wednesday evening, demanding their right to hold land under the Chhotanagpur Tenancy Act, which land revenue officials have been depriving them of. Local railway officials expressed their helplessness of the situation, infuriating the passengers, some of whom threatened to sue the railways for jeopardizing their lives amid the Covid pandemic. The Telegraph Online has a copy of SDO Latehar’s letter to the divisional railway managers of Dhanbad and Ranchi divisions, apprising them of the situation, hinting at any possible dislocation of rail traffic as well. Sources said the railways just did not take the developing situation seriously and ran its train through Tori. “Tori railway station and the Tana Bhagats squatting there all fall under Latehar district and the SDO Latehar had done the right thing to inform the two DRMs about the stir on the railway tracks on Wednesday itself. However, the railways ignored and overlooked the gravity of the stir and ran this train only to cause hardships to the passengers,” said SP Ajay Linda. Following the intervention of the state chief secretary Sukhdev Singh, DGP MV Rao, DC Shashi Ranjan and SP Linda, a fleet of buses was arranged for the stranded passengers to be taken down to Ranchi via the NH-75. Linda said more than a dozen buses were pressed in for the stranded passengers to take them down to Ranchi. Sources said many affluent stranded passengers hired cars for themselves and left for Ranchi at their own expense. Sources said the local railway officials arranged tea and slices of bread for the stranded passengers from the train pantry car, said station superintendent Daltonganj railway station AK Tiwari. Chatra MP Sunil Kumar Singh too tried to impress upon the railway officials the need to send the passengers to Ranchi via a diverted route on any other train, but in vain. “My office sent a tweet to union railway minister Piyush Goyal in this regard also,” he said to The Telegraph Online. Railway sources said had this train been diverted in the wake of the stir, the present situation would not have arisen at all.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-313
03-09-2020||Jharkhand||Covid tally close to 45,000, 10 succumb to the disease ||The Covid tally in Jharkhand drew close to 45,000 on Wednesday as over 1000 people were found infected in the last 24 hours, figures released by the health department on Wednesday late night stated. While 10 Covid patients lost their battle against the virus on Wednesday, taking the toll in Jharkhand to 438, as many as 1383 patients recovered from the infection and were subsequently discharged from hospital as per government figures. With 253 fresh cases of the infection, Ranchi once again reported the highest number of Covid cases among 24 districts in Jharkhand on Wednesday. However, as many as 512 Covid patients recovered in the district on the same day, causing a dip in the number of active cases here. As per government figures, over 9000 Covid cases have been reported in the district so far while 3,804 of them is undergoing treatment. The Covid toll in East Singhbhum, which has reported highest Covid casualties in Jharkhand so far, reached 199 on Wednesday and seven of 10 Covid deaths reported in Jharkhand occurred in the district. The Covid mortality rate in Jharkhand, however, dropped to 0.97 per cent on Wednesday. East Singhbhum reported 228 fresh cases of infection on Wednesday, while 275 Covid patients recovered in the district. The government has so far collected swab samples of over 9.91 lakh people and tested around 9.80 lakh of them. On Wednesday, health workers tested swab samples of 20,846 people, and 19,819 of them came negative. Jharkhand’s Covid recovery rate, as per government data, was 66.30 per cent on Wednesday after the number of recoveries surpassed the count of fresh cases of infection. As many as 44,862 people have been infected by the virus so far in Jharkhand and 29,747 of them have recovered, figures of the health department state. There were 14,677 active cases of infection in the state by the time this report was filed. The virus has infected nearly 4000 cops and more than a dozen politicians in the state so far. Doctors say that policemen and politicians were more likely to get infected as they have to meet people and go out of their homes more often. The government has set up a special isolation centre for infected policemen in Ranchi’s Visthapit Colony.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-313
03-09-2020||Jharkhand||Social outfit helps JEE aspirants ||Amid political slugfest over the conduct of Joint Entrance Exams (JEE) and National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET), a social outfit in Jharkhand has come forward to help students in remote areas of Dhanbad reach their exam centres on time without any hassles. Dev Kumar Verma, a 35-year-old manager of Bharat Coking Coal Limited, along with his wife, a professor at BIT-Sindri, has helped 20 JEE aspirants reach their exam centres within a span of two days through their Pathshala Educational Trust. The couple have been providing free education to poor children of coal pickers in the mining areas through their schools named Pathshala since 2014. “Ever since it was announced that the JEE-Mains exams would be held between September 1 and 6 and the NEET exams on September 13, we could see several students airing their apprehensions on social media about problems they might face in reaching the centres due to the lockdown. We discussed with the members of our trust and formed a 20-member team to coordinate and ensure that students from far-flung areas do not face problems in reaching the specified centre. We floated a helpline number (9470595075) dedicated for the students and so far we have been able to help nearly 20 students in the two days to sit for JEE-Mains,” said Dev Kumar, who holds an MBA degree from NIT Durgapur. The trust has deployed one SUV and four eight-seater vans to ferry the students. “We had to follow the SOPs for Covid-19 and not crowd the vehicles. We had the school vans and my personal SUV. If the need arises, we will hire more vehicles. We are also providing free sanitiser and masks to those students who do not have it,” Dev Kumar added. A huge majority of aspiring medicos and technocrats — more than 78 per cent of nearly 1.87 lakh respondents — had voiced support for the postponement of NEET and JEE in the feedback survey conducted by Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren on August 31 on his official Twitter handle. Several students had tweeted their concern over reaching the exam centres on time due to transportation problems despite intra-state buses and hotels resuming operations on September 1 in the state. A review petition by several non-BJP ruled states has been filed in the Supreme Court for postponement of the JEE-NEET exams. “I am indebted to Dev Sir for arranging a free transport facility. Otherwise I would have to book a room in a hotel in proper Dhanbad city for night stay and then leave for the exam centre early morning on a private cab or auto-rickshaw as the city bus service has their own scheduled time. Besides, the buses carry limited number of passengers in keeping with the Covid-19 SOP,” said Ravi Mandal, 19, a native of Rajganj in Baghmara block, around 30km from Dhanbad, who appeared for JEE-Mains at Izone in Barwadda, Dhanbad. There are two centres for JEE in Dhanbad—Izone in Barwadda and Digital Zone in Kusum Vihar. The exams will be held in two shifts between 9am and noon and between 3pm and 6pm.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-313
03-09-2020||Jharkhand||Video on Swadeshi movement||The Jharkhand unit of the Congress on Wednesday shared a short video on social media depicting a part of Indian history. The 2.09-minutes-long video depicts the partition of Bengal and emergence of the concept of self-rule and is the sixth edition of a video series titled Dharohar (Legacy) on the Congress’s history and its contribution to the freedom struggle and the country’s emergence as a superpower within 70 years of its Independence. “All the MLAs and other leaders of the party will share this video on social media platforms so that the younger generation can know the real history of our country,” state Congress spokesperson Alok Dubey said, explaining the intention behind circulating the video. “The video shows how people united themselves and rose against the divisive policy of the British at that time,” said Jharkhand Congress president and state finance minister Raneshwar Oraon. He said the people should unite once again against such divisive forces. The video on Bengal’s partition and the wave of self-rule showed how, following announcement of the decision, a meeting at Town Hall in Calcutta on August 7, 1905, led to the call for boycott of British goods and subsequently the formal announcement of the Swadeshi movement in the Benaras conference the same year and the demand for self-rule the next year. The video showed how it was also an economic movement in the sense it inspired many Indians to consolidate artisans, workers and others to establish Indian cloth mills, banks and insurance companies, referring to the stewardship of such leaders as Gopal Krishna Gokhale, Lala Lajpat Rai, Bal Gangadhar Tilak and Bipin Chandra Pal. The launch of the video series was announced by the Congress in New Delhi and the first episode was shared on social media platforms on Independence Day. While four more videos were also released subsequently, the sixth one was shared on Wednesday. The first edition of the series on “135 Years’ Legacy of a Robust History” began with the formation of the Congress on April 28, 1885, “as an organisation that gave voice to the voiceless and led the fight for India’s freedom”. “Congress has been at the forefront in the efforts to create an India which is global leader in industry, agriculture,  science and technology, health, military and culture and all this without ever compromising on its secular and democratic nature,” said a statement issued by the party at the time of the launch of the video series.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-313
03-09-2020||Jharkhand||Several discharged from Covid treatment centres||Nine persons were discharged on Wednesday from the dedicated Covid-19 care centre at the zonal railway training institute in Bhuli. In Koderma, 14 persons were on Wednesday discharged from the Holy Family Covid-19 care centre. Those released included an 88-year-old man. The discharged persons have been instructed to remain in home quarantine for 14 days. Covid-19 testing of 90 officials and employees was conducted at the Palamau collectorate on Wednesday. One person tested positive for the coronavirus; he is in quarantine. Two Indian Army jawans drowned during training in a pond at the Sikh Regimental centre in Ramgarh district on Wednesday, police said. Divers swung into action soon after reports came in of the incident, but the soldiers could not be saved. The jawans, identified as Jorawar Singh and Parminder Singh, both 22 years old, were from Punjab. Their bodies were handed over to the army after post-mortem. Police on Wednesday conducted a raid in Dhanbad’s Govindpur and seized a huge cache of liquor being transported in a truck from Bengal to Bihar via NH2. Dhanbad superintendent of police R. Ramkumar said: “We have seized 200 cartons of liquor and arrested the driver and cleaner of the vehicle.” The employees of the cash-strapped Jharkhand Mineral Area Development Authority (JMADA) on Wednesday decided to meet deputy commissioner Uma Shankar Singh in two-three days over non-payment of salaries. At their meeting on Wednesday, the employees also decided to meet chief minister Hemant Soren in Ranchi to seek his intervention in the matter. A youth died at Basaria in the Masnodih panchayat in Domchach block of Koderma when a bomb he was making exploded. Police said Lalo Turi was with three of his friends at the time of the explosion. His family took him to a private hospital in Ranchi. But Turi died on Wednesday. His friends are missing. Police teams from Paton, Nawa Jaipur and Chainpur in Palamau on Wednesday arrested eight persons and seized three country-made guns, along with four motorcycles and three mobile phones. The arrested persons were allegedly involved in snatching and robbery. Faced with irregular power supply in Jharia for over a month, office-bearers of the Jharia Chambers of Commerce and Khudra Vastra Vyavsai Sangh, an association of retail garment traders, on Wednesday held a joint meeting. They threatened to launch an agitation if the situation did not improve soon. A delegation of betel shop owners on Wednesday met Dhanbad deputy commissioner Uma Shankar Singh and submitted a memorandum demanding permission for reopening of their shops. The delegation highlighted the fact that the government had already allowed the opening of shops, restaurants, saloons, etc.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-313
03-09-2020||Jharkhand||Hemant Soren directs health secretary to revive FCI Hospital||Chief Minister Hemant Soren has instructed Health, Medical Education and Family Welfare Secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni to revive the 205-bed Fertilizer Corporation of India (FCI) defunct hospital at Sindri. The district administration is already considering a proposal to restart the hospital with help of the Sindri-based Hindustan Urvarak and Rasayan Limited (HURL), and Associated Cement Company (ACC). A district administration team led by Dhanbad Sub Divisional Officer Raj Maheshwaram visited the hospital on July 26 and August 13 to check if it could be used as Covid treatment facility. But the existing building is in bad shape and was deemed not suitable for the purpose. HURL and ACC Sindri presented a proposal for the revival plan for making the hospital ready for long term usage during the second visit of Maheshwaram on August 13. Speaking with The Telegraph Online, Dhanbad hotelier Amitesh Sahay, district president of JMM’s traders cell of JMM, and a close friend of Hemant, said, “I met the chief minister earlier this week and proposed the revival plan. He immediately instructed Health, Medical Education and Family Welfare secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni to make provisions for funds.” He added that a proposal was also put in to name the revived hospital after three-time Dhanabd MP, the late AK Roy. Nagendra Sharma, Manager (Human Resource), FCI Sindri, said, “We are ready both for joint venture proposals along with ACC and FCI as well as our own proposal for re-launch of the hospital. A team from the Mission Hospital, Durgapur has also visited the hospital on our invitation, but the FCI’s nod is crucial for the revival.” “We are awaiting the district administration response for the hospital revival as per a joint venture proposal of hospital revival and also wrote a letter to FCI management seeking their nod for the hospital revival” said Sharma. In-charge General Manager FCI Sindri, Ravi Kant Prasad said, “We have not yet received any proposals for reviving the hospital from either the state government or the district administration. If any proposal is presented, the final decision will be taken by the Ministry of Fertilizer.” Established in 1952, the hospital was inaugurated by then union health minister Rajkumari Amrit Kaur. During its heyday, the facility received over 2000 visitors daily, and was the biggest hospital in the coal belt. It also served as the referral hospital for several other medical centres from surrounding areas like the Chasnala Hospital of BCCL. The hospital was equipped with a major and minor operation theatre, a pathological laboratory, radiological facilities, a physiotherapy center, along with separate OPDs for pediatrics, maternity, dental, gynaecology, dermatology, medicine, ENT, and ophthalmology. It was shut down in March 2003, two months after the closure of the factory on December 31, 2002. A former doctor of the medicine department said that altogether eight doctors were working in the medicine department alone when the hospital was closed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-313
