04-09-2020||Calcutta||Bhanu turns 100||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-319
04-09-2020||Calcutta||Dressed as first in their fields||As a child I wanted to become a pilot but it didn’t happen. Nonetheless, I got to look and feel like a pilot at a programme to pay tribute to women this year and it turned out to be next to the real thing,” smiled Priyanka Kejriwal, who had dressed up as Durba Banerjee, India’s first woman commercial pilot. Priyanka and eight other women celebrated their gender by dressing up as Indian women who were firsts in their field. The fun project was the brainchild of Namitha R. Dalmia, who runs Ssidhh Studio in Kankurgachhi. The programme took place before the pandemic stalled all activities. “I first picked the personalities I wanted to feature, studied their dressing styles and chose women from among my clients and friends to play them. I assigned them roles as per their figures as it would bear the closest resemblance,” said Namitha, a fashion designer. The participants had a ball. Whether it was AJ Block’s Suman Jhawar who felt all important draping the ghoonghat over her head like former president Pratibha Patil or Suddha Dalmia, who sat behind an autorickshaw wheel to pose as the country’s first lady auto driver Shila Dawre. “We had hired an auto for the shoot and, no, I didn’t try to drive it lest I also stage the first auto accident by a woman!” laughed the lady who had worn a green and yellow salwar to match the colour of autos in the city. Madhu Sureka, smartly turned out in jeans, shades and leather jacket, posed with an Enfield. “I play Roshni Sharma, the first lady biker to ride from Kanyakumari to Kashmir,” said Madhu, who confessed she had to Google Roshni to learn about her. “The lady had a point to prove. Riding was her passion and she didn’t let anyone stop her,” said the lady who runs a boutique. The bike, by the way, was borrowed from the photographer who was covering the event. Rekha Choudhary was flattered when told she would be playing the beautiful Sania Mirza. “My husband and I play tennis and I’ve watched Sania playing too. Her wardrobe, however, is nothing like mine and I had to borrow my daughter-in-law’s skirt to wear for the role. I couldn’t source a nose ring like Sania’s either and I finally resorted to jugaad by using a pin from a chandelier for the job,” laughed the resident of CD Block. To play Saina Nehwal, Sweety Agarwal took tips from her daughter, a district level badminton player. “It was great fun but next time if Namitha holds such a shoot, I would like to pose as Rhonda Byrne, author of my current favourite book The Secret,” said the lady who runs a furniture business. Priyanka jests that she had an upper hand at playing a pilot as she lives so close to the airport. “I can see the airport from my terrace at Ujwala Luxury Complex in New Town and we can hear flights taking off and landing all day. If I was a real pilot I would have travelled the entire world by now.” For those like Indra Choudary, the opportunity was one to live their dreams. “How else could I feel like I’m going to outer space?” asked the lady who played astronaut Kalpana Chawla. She wore an orange sweatshirt and draped a black dupatta in a way that resembled the NASA space suit and let her straight hair down to recreate the iconic picture of Chawla. “I played Anandi Joshi, one of the first lady doctors, and I can only imagine how difficult it must have been for her to fight for an education so many generations ago,” said Usha Saraf, a resident of AJ Block. “She remains a role model for women today.” Rekha does not have a daughter but says has asked her daughter-in-law to do everything she herself wanted and couldn’t. Everyone wanted to know what Namitha, the brains behind this project, would dress up as. “They all thought I would save a beautiful princess-like personality for myself but I told them I’m like a mother to them all. So I dressed up as Mother Teresa.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-319
04-09-2020||Calcutta||CE Block ode to spirit of women||The New Town CE Block Cultural Association celebrated the spirit of women in an all-woman extravaganza. The event was organised by the women of CE Block, for all women, with a view to provide expression against the various atrocities committed against the modern-day women and to celebrate the success of women in various fields. The guest of honour was retired judge Abha Khan who encouraged the women to maintain the trend and enthusiasm. The programme was hosted by Shobhona Roychowdhury and Madhumita Chatterjee, and was inaugurated by a chorus group from the same block. It was followed by a self-composed poem recitation by Satabdi Banerjee. “I like writing so the organsiers requested me to pen something down for the occasion. I wrote on the strength of women,” said Banerjee, a graphic designer. “The concept of equality hasn’t percolated down to everyone in society even in the 21st century. While my husband helps me a lot with chores I know of cases where the husband and wife both work but when it comes to chores, the woman alone is expected to perform them.” Nandita Chatterjee shared with the crowd some information about women achievers around the world and engineering student Srijonee Ghosh danced to the recitation of Ami shei meye by Bratati Bandyopadhyay. “I’ve danced at lots of functions before but this was my first time at an event dedicated to women. I chose this poem as the title is both intriguing and makes a direct connection with women.” There was a distinct effort made by men to ensure that the day belonged to the fair ladies to celebrate their independence. The crowd ranged from five-year-old Aaradhya Roy, to the extremely matured Jayoti Das, all of whom participated in their own way to enlighten the gathering. If you want to get a programme featured in this column, write in to The Telegraph Salt Lake, 6, Prafulla Sarkar Street, Calcutta - 700001  or e-mail to saltlake@abpmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-319
04-09-2020||Calcutta||Civic body plan for rapid tests||The Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation has decided to increase the number of Covid-19 tests in all 41 wards. A mayoral council member said they are looking to procure rapid antigen test (RAT) kit and test residents focussing on areas like Duttabad, Teghoria, Kaikhali, Raghunthpur, Mongalganthi and several places of Rajarhat that are reporting a steady stream of cases. According to a health department official, the corporation has put in place two testing centres at the Bidhannagar Municipal Sports Academy in Central Park and at Rajarhat near Narayanpur but these are not adequate to conduct tests for the masses. Additionally, the Bidhannagar Sub-divisional Hospital in DD Block has a walk-in swab collection kiosk. Samples from these three centres are being sent to various government-run hospitals that have laboratories equipped for testing. “So far, the councillors were either recommending or bringing specific people of their wards for testing. This has yielded little result as there is a sizeable section that doesn’t want to undergo tests for a variety of reasons. We have come across many people who have had symptoms of Covid but flatly refused to visit the testing centres,” said the official. He said reports often came late and that the time-lag was risky since the potential patient might step out of isolation in the meantime and increase the risk of the infection’s spread. This is one of the reasons the civic body is looking to conduct rapid antigen tests and is also planning to conduct random tests like the Calcutta Municipal Corporation is doing. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had expressed her concern about the rising number of cases in North 24-Parganas some days ago. As per figures released by the health department, the number of cases in North 24-Parganas is 35,259 with 728 new cases as on September 1. There are three containment areas under Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation — two in Duttabad and one in Deshbandhunagar, Baguiati. NKDA is already conducting free rapid antigen tests in New Town for shop-keepers, domestic helps and toto drivers who could be super spreaders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-320
04-09-2020||Calcutta||Green dream spread over 12 cottahs||A dumpyard for construction materials with a store of bamboo poles. Ever since they shifted to New Town in 2017, this is the view that would greet Barun and Purabi Basu whenever they would step out of their apartment in AB Block. But thanks to their endeavour, the plot is now a green verge. Their inspiration was a stretch of Gobi Desert where billions of trees are being planted across 13 provinces since 1978 in China’s fight against expanding deserts. “When we were flying back from the US, I kept an eye on the flight path displayed on the screen in front of me. When it showed that we were over Gobi Desert, I looked down. I could surely spot greenery,” said Purabi. The thought inspired the 65-year-old lady. “If they could plant trees in a desert, why can’t we do so on this stretch, I wondered.” Earlier, the Basus used to stay in a garden villa in Baguiati. Then they went to Connecticut, US to visit their daughter. “On our return, we settled in New Town. So this view just across the street used to be an eyesore for us, more so as encroachments were coming up right along the empty stretch,” said Purabi. So she went off to the NKDA office one day to check the map of Street 93. “I put in a request to protect it from shanties. NKDA heeded my request and fenced off one-third of the stretch that was still empty. But the encroachers started drying their clothes and heavy blankets on the fence. Soon the fence broke.” Purabi would send pictures of the stretch regularly to NKDA and keep in touch with the officials. That is how the bamboo fencing got barbed iron wire on the top. “Even then, grass was growing wild inside. And a narrow canal adjoining the stretch, which is the northern boundary of New Town, had turned into a den for mosquito larvae.” At her entreaty, NKDA covered that with concrete slabs. Seeds of ambition The first tree was planted on July 12, 2019 in presence of a monk from Ramakrishna Saradashram and neighbours. The Basus bought 80 trees from the Tall Tree Nursery. “I wanted tall trees instead of saplings as they would help in cloud formation,” Purabi said. The couple footed the Rs 3,500 bill from their own pocket. The first lot of plantation fired their ambition. Some time later, they invested Rs 1,500 in 50 slightly more expensive trees. “The nursery gave us a hefty discount this time though the trees they gave us in the second lot are refusing to grow.” Barun may be 77 years old but he is sprightly. “I still go on treks and avoid taking the lift in my building,” grins the man who can hardly stay seated at one place for long. Till recently, he used to run a free coaching centre on Sundays in the garage space of the apartment where children from underprivileged families, aged three to 14 years, came to study. The Sunday school ran from 9am to noon. In between classes, the children watered the trees. By then, their venture had become locally known and hands were extended in help. A local Rotary club sponsored some trees. A gardener brought 15 mahogany saplings. Volunteers of a residents’ forum gave five guava trees. Some neighbours too planted a couple of betel nut and sal trees. At one side of the 12 cottah stretch, there is a garage for NKDA germicide spraying vehicles. The garage had a water connection. The Basus requested for water to be drawn from there for the trees which was allowed. Even now, they walk into the stretch and inspect each twig for fungal infections and ant attacks.  “I want an orchard to grow here so that birds flock to peck on fruits and nest. Flowering trees would be a nuisance as people would try to climb over the fencing to steal flowers,” Purabi says. The stretch now houses about 120 trees of varied species — neem, banyan, ashwattha, mango, betel nut, chhatim, mahogany and krishnachura. “Somehow, spinach has also started growing here. Women from the shanties enter to pluck the leaves with our permission,” Purabi says. Though classes are suspended, Barun continues to work for the kids. “A neighbour from Utsa Luxury once celebrated his grandson’s birthday with them. Even after the lockdown, we have distributed milk and biscuits thrice among 300 children. We also collected old clothes from the neighbourhood and distributed among them,” he says. His next goal is Sunday breakfast meets for 20 kids. “We can accommodate that many, maintaining social distancing. We will explain to them how coronavirus is spreading and discuss lives of icons. That way they can stay in touch when their regular classes have stopped,” says Barun. Even as he nourishes the minds of young human saplings, his wife keeps an eye on the plot in front. “It feels nice to watch the greenery from the window on waking up. Wish more people offer to plant trees here,” Purabi smiles.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-320
04-09-2020||Calcutta||Plasma donation camp for Covid-free||A blood donation camp will be held with Covid-19 survivors in New Town on Sunday morning. Organised by New Town Forum & News (NTFN), a local social welfare  organisation, and Cenergy, another non-governmental organisation, it will be held at the CB Block community hall. Organisers claim this will be the first such camp outside a hospital in the state which is aimed to help with plasma collection for Covid-19 treatment and research. “We were receiving many requests for plasma donors from friends and relatives of Covid-19 patients. That made us think of holding such a camp. In the meantime, the health department issued an order on August 24 to set up convalescent Covid-19 plasma banks in 20 state-run hospitals. That order also allowed collection from voluntary blood donation camps. So we sought permission from the New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA),” said Samaresh Das, president of NTFN. The State Blood Transmission Control and the blood transfusion cell of the National Health Mission were then approached. The organisers are contacting residents who have recovered from Covid-19 sufficiently early. “We are taking the cut-off date for eligibility to be 38 days from the day of the report coming positive. The other criterion is 28 days after the report coming negative. But now many are not going for a test after they recover,” Das added. Arindam Dutta Chowdhury, who has been a moving force behind the series of blood donation camps organised during the lockdown by the forum across New Town, explained that though the target is plasma collection, the team coming from SSKM Hospital will collect whole blood. “That way the other components can be put to other use, especially platelets which are needed for treatment of dengue, which is also being reported,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-320
04-09-2020||Calcutta||BE Block holds Covid Q&A session online||How to handle vegetables that come straight from the market? Does one need to wear a mask while walking in the park? How to disinfect a house? Such many and various questions came up at the webinar organised by BE Block Nagarik Sangha on Saturday. Facing the questions was Sibabrata Banerjee, internal medicine and critical care physician of Fortis Hospital. Banerjee started off stressing on the essential practices — wearing masks, social distancing and frequent washing of hands. “This is an unknown virus. It has already mutated 11 times across countries and climates,” he said. Explaining how its presentation was varying across geographical regions, he said doctors initially were screening for fever as that was the dominant symptom in the West. “But later we realised that most people here, who were later being found to be Covid-19 positive, were coming initially with diarrhoea.” The initial exposure was putting medical practitioners at risk. “There have been situations when a patient has entered my chamber without a mask when I was sitting wearing only an N95 mask (not complete personal protective equipment). I could not scold them,” he said, adding a grim statistic — already 264 doctors have succumbed to Covid across the country. “I am treating Covid patients so I may get infected any day. If I have stayed safe so far, it is only by following the basic safety guidelines.” But while stressing on social distancing, he pointed to the need for social bonding. He shared how panic was making people behave irrationally and insensitively. “An acquaintance, who tested positive, contacted me for a hospital bed which I arranged for. But once she realised that I was treating Covid patients, after getting cured, she called my wife to ask why I was coming home from the hospital!” Though one hardly ever knows when one gets infected, symptoms, he said, usually start appearing from the third or fourth day. “As for those who are being treated at home with mild or no symptoms, a person usually remains capable of infecting others for 10 more days starting from that day. The first Covid-19 detection test should be done on the fourth or fifth day. “ The later half of the discussion was interactive, with residents seeking answers to questions related to the pandemic. (see box) The doctor suggested keeping the government helpline 180031344422 and the local police station contact number at hand. “If you need government help, the police arranges for an ambulance.” His parting advice was not to keep patients aged over 65 years with comorbidities at home unless a doctor specifically allows home treatment with a nurse in attendance. How to handle vegetables and other things that come straight from the market? Vegetables, fish or meat do not transmit the virus. So cleaning them normally should be adequate. Printed materials like newspapers are also not known to be transmitters. Currency notes could be a risk and should be handled with care.  Is it safe to order home-delivered food? Cooked food does not contain the virus but the container in which it is delivered might. So instead of putting the container in the microwave to heat, it is better to put on disposable gloves, take out the food immediately, keep it in utensils and dispose of the container as soon as it arrives along with the gloves.    What should be the hygiene protocol to follow for caregivers coming from outside? He or she should have a separate toilet where he or she should go directly on entering the house. The person should wash his hands and change out of the outside dress and into a set of washed clothes left for him in the toilet. Before leaving, the person should wash the dress and leave it to dry. Since mornings are often cloudy, it is better to keep two sets of clothes in the toilet for the person to use in case the first set does not dry adequately the day after.  How to disinfect the inside of the house? Two chemical solutions are being used — sodium hypochlorite and hydrogen peroxide. You can buy a can used to spray insecticides from a nursery and use it. But spraying hypochlorite will ruin your furniture and wall paint. The buttons of our hospital lifts have lost the digits due to regular spraying. Hydrogen peroxide is slightly better that way. But can you sanitise everything every time? The best remedy is washing hands with soap and water.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-320
04-09-2020||Calcutta||Theft bid reported at Karunamoyee||Two theft attempts on the same night in Karunamoyee’s E Block has left residents jittery. The incidents happened on the night of August 31. Around midnight on Monday, corporate trainer Neena A. Ghosh Roy heard a noise and got up to investigate. Ghosh stays in a flat where construction of new rooms is nearing completion. The family has put internal construction on hold due to the pandemic and no lights have been installed in the newly-constructed rooms. “Although it was dark, I could see that one of the windows of the room facing the elevator shaft was open and a man was peering inside. I immediately started shouting and he disappeared,” said Ghosh. Alerted by her screams, Ghosh’s husband called the police. When the cops arrived, they found a couple of slippers near the landing of the elevator shaft. “In all likelihood the man had climbed up the bamboo scaffolding put in place to facilitate the construction work,” said an officer of the Bidhannagar East police station. Sometime later on the same night, in another E Block building, Sanghamitra Mukherjee, 69, heard a rustling sound coming from outside her bedroom. “As soon as I heard the sound, I woke up and walked out. The construction of a new wing along with an elevator is on at our building and I saw that somebody was pulling out the sheets of plastic sheets covering the scaffolding. I raised an alarm but the person ran away,” said Mukherjee, a former principal of Lady Brabourne College. She said that they were living in fear as her family resides in a ground floor flat and the area around their building has plunged into darkness since cyclone Amphan damaged the streetlights. The police are probing both cases but have not been able to ascertain if it was the same person behind both. Several residents said that police patrolling inside the complex was extremely lax. “There is a police barrack on top of the Karunamoyee Municipal Market but the cops only park their vehicles and reside there. There is no patrolling at all,” said a resident who did not wish to be named. Mukherjee, on the other hand, pointed out that the large housing complex is devoid of security guards. “Most buildings here are getting new wings built but there are no security guards. There are absolutely no checks in place,” said Mukherjee. Another resident said they had to let go of guards as very few residents had agreed to pay for their services. “In the absence of private security guards, groups of young men often park their cars and two-wheelers inside the complex to drink and smoke,” he said. “We cannot protest as we are aged and we don't want to risk any trouble.” An officer of the Bidhannagar Commissionerate promised to increase patrolling inside the complex.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-320
04-09-2020||Calcutta||Platinum rating for New Town||Two years after it won gold certification for being a green city, New Town has achieved platinum — the highest level of certification awarded by the Indian Green Building Council (IGBC). The IGBC is a part of the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII). Formed in 2001, it rates cities as well as buildings, schools, healthcare centres etc on their eco-friendly quotient and had in September 2018 had conferred on New Town a gold certification - the second highest level after platinum. The news was reported in The Telegraph Salt Lake on September 25, 2018. Since the authorities have worked to fill up the lacuna and improve their standing. “We had applied for the certification last year and they began a series of reviews, making observations and recommendations for us to implement. It all happened before the lockdown,” said  Debashis Sen, chairman cum managing director of Housing and Infrastructure Development Corporation (Hidco) and chairman of New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA). Sen last week presented a copy of the certificate to state urban development minister Firhad Hakim. The authorities have worked on pushing new buildings to adopt rainwater harvesting and they are building infrastructure for cycle lanes and electric vehicles. “Parking lots are now required to reserve two per cent space for electric vehicles, we have entered a public-private partnership with a group called EESL (Energy Efficiency Services Limited) whereby they set up and operate e-vehicle charging units at eight places in New Town while paying Hidco a percentage. The project has been successful and they have asked for two more plots for stations,” said Sen. They have also worked to make their pavements wheelchair-friendly and they are developing India’s first Sensory Park for differently-abled children. New Town also scored well due to its waste management and segregation system and the upcoming eco-friendly modes of transport like the Metro and monorail. The only other cities to have received platinum certification from IGBC so far are Chennai, Amravati in Maharashtra and Rajkot and Dholera in Gujarat. The certification is valid for five years. “The platinum certification is the Everest of mountains. There’s no higher peak to scale,” says Sen. “But we shall continue to improve on our practices,”  promised Sen. saltlake@abpmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-320
04-09-2020||Calcutta||Name of the road||The road along Kestopur Canal, between AB and AD blocks, may be named Barnaparichay Rasta, if the corporation has its way. The naming of the road was ratified at a meeting of mayoral council members of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation. According to civic sources, besides renaming the road Barnaparichay Rasta they would install motifs of Bengali alphabets and popular characters from Sukumar Roy’s Abol Tabol along the stretch. “We thought of giving a road in Salt Lake a name as it would help people identify it. None of the roads in Salt Lake have names and it gets difficult for outsiders to navigate or drive inside the township,” said mayor Krishna Chakraborty. She did not explain why the AB to AD Block stretch was chosen when the road stretches from AA to SA Blocks. Nor did she explain why the name was selected. Barnaparichay, of course, is the path-breaking 1855 book by Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar introducing learners to the Bengali alphabet. September 26 this year would mark the 200th birth anniversary of the educationist and social reformer. Streets in the township are formally known as Avenues and Crossroads — first, second and so forth — they are hardly used by residents. First Avenue would more likely be known as the street from PNB Island to Tank 8, for instance. After coming to power in 2010, the Trinamul-run civic board had wanted to name streets after eminent personalities but the Opposition had pointed out that the major roads in Salt Lake were maintained by the urban development department and Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority and that the civic body maintains only roads inside the blocks. The project died a natural death. The Telegraph Salt Lake had reported the issue on July 9, 2010. The AB to AD Block stretch is rather green. While one side has homes the other has the Green Verge, followed by the canal and then VIP Road. Grass on the AB Block side of the Green Verge could be trimmed shorter but overall the stretch is reasonably well-maintained. “People used to come here for morning and evening walks but we’ve kept it under lock and key during the lockdown,” said the guard at the AD Block portion of the park. “A side entrance is open only to allow people to use the municipal tap inside.” Some sections of the fence are broken and others have wild growth through them, intertwined with cables overhead. Two vats, however, ruin the view. The one at AB Block was almost empty but some trash lay outside on the road. The vat at AD Block had a lot of branches and leaves spilling out onto the road. While the vat itself was hardly full, the garden waste had covered more than one flank of the road outside. An empty plot at the beginning of AB Block even has a few hutments built on it and if one is lucky, one can spot the beautiful VIP Road flyover on the other side of the road through the trees in the verge here. The junctions of AB-AC blocks as well as of AC-AD blocks have tea shops and rickshaw stands. The state of the road is better than many around the township at the moment. Abhisek Chakrabarti, a resident of AC Block, is tired of telling people he lives “on the khal dhaar”. “People associate the canal with mosquitoes and get a negative first impression of my home,” he says. “Every lane outside Salt Lake has a name and I welcome the idea of having a respectable name for where I live too. It would be easier to give directions to visitors.” Pallabi Maiti, an entrepreneur, too feels the road deserves a better name than “khal paar”. “It’s a good idea but maybe a shorter name would be suitable. Also, Barnaparichay would be a tongue twister for residents who are not Bengalis. Domestic helps and security guards would hardly be able to remember such a long name too,” says the AD Block resident. AD Block’s Saumitra Maiti agrees. “No one understands names like First Avenue and Second Crossroad. Barnaparichay sounds secular and apolitical. But a name should have a link with the road. It’s only names like Mahatma Gandhi Road and Netaji Subhas Road that can be assigned to any street anywhere in the country. So why suddenly Barnaparichay?” Riju Roy, a resident of AD Block, feels the colloquial name “canal side road” is descriptive and functional. “The way renaming Tollygunge Metro station as Mahanayak Utam Kumar led to confusion, so will this. It will be years, if not a generation before people call it Barnaparichay road,” says the IT sector employee. “If it must be renamed, it should be something related to trees, given how green the stretch is.” Another AD Block resident proposes the stretch be called Bhaba Sarani since the Variable Energy Cyclotronic Centre under Homi Bhabha National Institute, is located here. “Besides, I doubt the chief minister will allow such a move. Some years ago water tanks of the township were named but each of them was, not one. They should do the same with roads — all or none,” he says.  “In any case, the major roads of the township are under the CMDA. It is they who can rename the roads and not the corporation.” Others could not care less. “A road by any other name would be just as bad,” AD Block’s Swapan Kumar Brahma shakes his head. “They dig it up to lay cables and move on without covering the ditch. The footpaths have paver blocks but they are so slippery after the rains that no one dares walk on them. Amphan debris are still lying about, residents dump their trash, the statues are cleaned only on the eve of occasions…Will a name change all that?” he wonders. Roy mentions how the new Bailey bridge of AE Block now brings in added traffic to the canal side road. "The road is getting congested and needs better traffic management," he says. Brahma wonders if the christening would have any functional use. Our Islands have statues of personalities now but we continue to call them by their older established names like Island no 3 and 4. Anita Banerjee, also of AD Block, says she doesn't mind a name as long as the street is maintained. "It would be nice to see the jungle outside cleared even if the pujas aren't around the corner. The footpath on the canal side of the street aren't cleaned either," she says. Her fear however is different. As it is we are driven up the wall submitting our KYCs and linking our Adhar cards with various accounts. I don't have the energy now to change my address to Barnaparichay Road on all my documents," says Banerjee. Additional reporting by Snehal Sengupta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-320
04-09-2020||Calcutta||Brands move to customers’ doorsteps||Retail chains and apparel brands have started holding one or two-day camps to showcase their collections in housing complexes across the city at a time most of their potential customers are scared to step out and visit stores because of the Covid pandemic. Brands like Bata, Pantaloons, Max and Lifestyle have initiated this marketing strategy to reach out to their customers instead of waiting for their customers to reach them. Officials of Bata India Limited said they had covered over the past three weeks around 30 housing complexes, including Upohar Condoville on the EM Bypass and Siddha Pines in Rajarhat, to make up for the loss incurred during the lockdown. “Children’s shoes, slippers and walking shoes were most in demand. Many parents brought their children whose feet have outgrown their shoes. They have been delaying the purchase because of the fear of going to the store,” said Subhasish Chatterjee, senior district manager (retail), Bata India. The company has been fixing sales targets for the teams that organise the events based on the number of flats and their occupancy in a particular complex, Chatterjee said. “It may not be equivalent to the normal sale we have, but this revenue model is definitely more profitable than sitting idle in the stores and waiting for customers. People are more comfortable when we are going to their doorsteps,” he said. The companies are setting up temporary tents or hiring community halls in the housing complexes to display their products to the residents. All lifestyle stores — including apparels, shoes, cosmetics and leather goods — were closed during the lockdown from March and started to reopen only with the Unlock that started in June in a phased manner. However, the footfall across the city stores had been negligible. Officials of Pantaloons (Kankurgachi outlet) said they had started approaching the big housing complexes in the city to boost their sales in the run up to Durga Puja. “We have held a three-day event in five housing complexes till now. Talks are on in a few more complexes,” said Shyamdip Paul, deputy store manager, Pantaloons (Kankurgachi). Paul said they had been maintaining all social distancing norms and also ensuring that no one without a mask was allowed inside the shopping venue. Potential shoppers are being asked to maintain a queue if the number of people in the venue is crossing 20. For several Calcuttans, the chance to shop at their doorsteps has come as a relief after a gap of four months. “I am not comfortable with online shopping. Although my daughter (who lives abroad) had booked a pair of Sketchers for my morning walk, there was an issue with the size and I had to return them. I was so happy to see shoes being sold inside our housing. I could try and purchase one, finally,” said Gopal Mukherjee, who was one of the Bata customers at a south Calcutta housing complex in August. From apparel brands to laptop companies — several have replicated this model. “Initially, bank ATMs, frozen fish and meat carts were coming to our housing. But now even laptop repairs are happening at our doorsteps. The other day, Lenovo (a computer brand) came up with a stall in our housing complex where I could get my old laptop repaired,” said Anirban Bhattacharya, an IT professional who had been working from home over the past few months. However, housing complexes like South City have not been able to allow any of these vendors inside because of their association rules. “We cannot organise any commercial activity in the complex other than for essential commodities. Hence, we are not considering these offers when vendors are approaching us,” said an official of the South City Residents’ Welfare Association.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-320
04-09-2020||Calcutta||Metro date expected after Friday meeting||A meeting between officials of Metro Railway and the state government on Thursday could not finalise the date of resumption of commercial services. A date and other modalities are likely to be announced after another round of meeting on Friday, said state government and Metro officials. “Today’s meeting was positive. The state government has assured us of all help. But some operational modalities are yet to be finalised,” said a Metro official. The state government has requested Metro Railway to run trains on September 13 for NEET aspirants, said the official. “A similar request has also come from Delhi. If commercial services do not resume until September 13, we are likely to run at least some trains for students on that day,” the official said. The focus of Thursday’s meeting was social distancing and crowd control, the two key areas where Metro Railway needs the help of local police. “The idea is to ensure crowd management at the surface gates of stations which are the first entry points. Subsequent checks will be in place at the concourse and on the platform but controlling the crowd at the entry points will be crucial,” said Indrani Banerjee, Metro spokesperson. Once the number of passengers is controlled at the main entrance, the job of managing them at the concourse and on the platform will automatically be easier, said Metro officials. “The RPF can keep a check on passengers on the platform or train but we need the help of the police at the main gates,” said an official. The Unlock 4 guidelines of the Union home ministry had given a green signal for “graded” resumption of Metro services from September 7. The state government had said Metro trains can run in Calcutta from September 8. The entire state will be under lockdown on September 7. The proposals discussed at Thursday’s meeting included keeping only a couple of gates open at every station (one for entry and one for exit) and allowing only a fixed number of people on each train, said another official. The proposals are in alignment with the standard operating procedures announced by the Union urban affairs ministry on Wednesday and a protocol released by the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation on Thursday. A section of Metro officials in Calcutta said each train “should not carry more than 400-450 passengers”. The normal seating capacity of an eight-coach Metro train is around 400. The state government’s team included the home secretary, transport secretary and the Calcutta police commissioner. Metro Railway was represented at Thursday’s meeting by the assistant general manager, chief operations manager and the chief security commissioner.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-320
04-09-2020||Calcutta||Cheaper isotope for PET-CT ||A medical isotope which plays a key role in cancer detection is now being produced on the Variable Energy Cyclotron Centre (VECC) campus and supplied to hospitals at a price cheaper that market rates. The isotope — 18F-Fluorodeoxyglucose (18F-FDG) — is used in a PET-CT scan. The commercial production and supply began in June, when most of the country was under lockdown. Earlier, hospitals and diagnostic centres had to purchase the isotope from private agencies. Ten hospitals in the city are procuring the isotope from the Board of Radiation and Isotope Technology (BRIT), which is producing it on the VECC campus at Chakgaria, off EM Bypass. Among them are Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals, AMRI Hospitals Dhakuria, Quadra Diagnostic Centre, North City Diagnostic Centre, HCG EKO Rajarhat, Spandan Diagnostic Centre on the NRS Medical College and Hospital campus, Netaji SC Bose Cancer Hospital and others. “We have been supplying 18F-Fluorodeoxyglucose (18F-FDG) uninterrupted through the lockdown to these hospitals,” said Sankha Chattopadhyay, scientific officer and head, BRIT, Calcutta. This was echoed by doctors and radiology-safety officers at Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals, Quadra Diagnostic Centre and HCG EKO Rajarhat, the hospitals that have since shifted their entire purchase of FDG to BRIT. “Earlier, we used to procure our supply from a private agency of a US-based company. But now we are shifting our purchase to BRIT because it is made in India and safety and quality are on a par with international standards. Besides, it is about 60 per cent cheaper,” said Debasis Chowdhury of Apollo. BRIT will also supply Gallium-68, another important isotope used specifically for breast and prostate cancer detection. Gallium-68 radioisotope has been successfully produced for the first time in India by VECC and BRIT recently. “We will soon be supplying Gallium-68 to the city hospitals too,” said Chattopadhyay. The medical cyclotron that was purchased from Belgium was set up and made operational by VECC scientists and engineers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-320
04-09-2020||Calcutta||Signal jump proves fatal for biker at Esplanade||A motorcyclist came under the wheels of a lorry after he jumped a traffic signal at the Dorina crossing in Esplanade and collided with a lorry moving towards Lenin Sarani on Wednesday, police said. The motorcyclist died on the spot. The person on the pillion escaped from being crushed under the lorry’s wheels as he was flung off the two-wheeler on impact and he landed a few metres from Lenin Sarani, the police said. Alauddin Laskar, 23, a resident of Rajabagan, and his friend Abul Jisan Mallick, 20, a resident of Nadial, were wearing helmets when the accident occurred minutes past midnight on Wednesday, a traffic police officer said. “It is clear from the CCTV footage of the area that vehicles on Central Avenue headed towards JL Nehru Road were not moving when the bike sped past them,” the officer said. “The lorry was headed towards Lenin Sarani from the Raj Bhavan end.” The motorcyclist saw the lorry to his right and accelerated in a bid to cross the stretch before the lorry but could not avert the collision, the officer said. “Both the vehicles were moving at high speed… it is clear that neither the lorry driver nor the motorcyclist could control their speed,” the officer said. Laskar came under the wheels, along with the motorcycle. Mallick got saved from being run over as he was flung off on impact, the officer said. Officers from New Market, Hare Street, and Bowbazar police stations went to the accident spot. They could not pull the mangled motocycle out from under the lorry and a crane had to be used to remove the mangled two-wheeler and Laskar. Laskar and Mallick were taken to SSKM Hospital where Laskar was declared dead, the police said. Mallick had to be admitted to the hospital. The driver of the lorry fled after the accident, the police said. A case of causing death by negligence, rash and negligent driving, causing grievous hurt by doing a rash and negligent act to endanger human life and causing mischief has been started against the driver. Laskar used to look after his family’s business of garments. He was headed home with Mallick when the accident occurred, the police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-321
04-09-2020||Calcutta||Tiger attack in Sunderbans||A man who had ventured deep inside the Sunderbans to catch crabs and fish died after being mauled by a tiger on Thursday morning. Ram Raptan had set out on a small boat with several others from Kumirmari island, a forest department official said. The Indian portion of the Sunderbans encompasses an area of 9,600 square km, comprising 102 islands. Of these, 54 islands — including Kumirmari, which derives its name from the word kumir (Bengali for crocodile) — have human settlements. The rest are thick mangrove forests, home to the Royal Bengal tiger. According to the forest department official, the tiger attacked Raptan from behind inside the Jhila forest. Before the other men could realise what was happening, the animal had dragged him away. The tiger tried to drag Raptan deeper into the forest when some of the men managed to hit it with axes and sticks. “The tiger then let go of Raptan and went away,” said the forest official. Forest minister Rajib Banerjee said the men had ventured deep into the forest when the tiger attacked them. “The men told our officials that they had gone to catch fish,” Banerjee said The lockdown and Cyclone Amphan, which has left most fields and ponds in the Sunderbans inundated with saline water, have resulted in loss of livelihood for many people, according to foresters and people working for the welfare of those living in the Sunderbans. Even inexperienced groups have been venturing into the forests in search of a living, an official said. “Many migrant workers have returned to their villages after losing their usual means of livelihood during the lockdown. Several have fallen back on the forest and have taken to catching crabs and fish in order to make ends meet,” Sagnik Sengupta, a member of Stripes And Green Earth (SAGE), an NGO, said. Members of the NGO had visited several ranges in the Sunderbans to distribute relief materials in the aftermath of Amphan. At least 15 fishermen have already been killed in tiger attacks in the mangroves — two more than the number of persons killed in 2019. This is the official data, the actual number might be higher.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-321
04-09-2020||Calcutta||Stay-put advice for IIT Kharagpur staff||IIT Kharagpur has advised teachers and others who stay on the campus to refrain from moving out of the campus/city “considering the recent increase in the number of cases on the campus”. A notice issued by the registrar of the institute on Thursday seeks support from the faculty and other employees to keep the campus safe during the Covid-19 pandemic. The notice came on a day the number of Covid-positive cases on the campus climbed to 14. If any resident comes from outside, he or she will have to visit BC Roy Technology Hospital on the campus on arrival and mandatorily spend 14 days in home quarantine, the notice says. The first positive case on the campus was detected on August 19. Of the 14 confirmed cases, five are students of the institute. Among the rest are a teacher and her son, who are being treated at a private hospital in Calcutta. “The faculty, staff and others who are staying in the campus are strictly advised to refrain from the movement out of the campus/city considering the recent increase in the  number of cases in the campus. Your help and support may make our campus safe and secure from the COVID-19 pandemic,” the notice reads. Registrar B.N. Singh said the earlier order asking the students and research scholars to leave the campus and head for their hometowns would be in force. “The notice is applicable to those who are residents of the campus. The handful of students who are staying at the hostels have to leave for their hometowns,” Singh told Metro. The students had been asked to leave the campus by August 30. The institute snapped Internet connection to the hostels on Tuesday evening to force those who could not comply with the deadline to leave. An official of the institute said the notice had made a distinction between residents of the campus and the students because residents have to move in and out of the campus for various reasons. “Many of our teachers and other employees often have to visit Calcutta or other places to meet their parents or other relatives. Many visit various markets in the town outside the campus to buy stuff. Such movements are not advisable now,” the official said. Residents are allowed to visit the market on the campus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-321
04-09-2020||Calcutta||Waste compactor must in new big complexes||Upcoming housing projects with a built-up area of at least 200,000sq ft have to mandatorily create space for a waste compactor station on the plot, the Calcutta Municipal Corporation has decided. The corporation took the decision recently while doing away with the previous rule that gave developers of such projects the option of paying a certain sum if they could not create space on the plot, a civic official said on Thursday. The complexes will have to set up the compactor stations themselves or the CMC can do it against payment, the official said. South City, The 42 and Urbana are some of the housing complexes in the city with a built-up area of at least 200,000sq ft. The changed rule will not be applicable to such complexes that are already completed. It will be applicable to projects that seek the CMC’s approval from now on. “A resolution has been passed in a meeting of the CMC’s board, making the rule mandatory…. Earlier such housing complexes could pay Rs 40 lakh… a sort of compensation… if they failed to provide space for a station,” a CMC official said. Debabrata Majumdar, a member of the CMC’s board of administrators who is in charge of solid waste management, said “the stations would be used to compact the waste generated by residents of the housing society as well as the neighbourhood”. But waste management specialists said compost units would have been better. Composting is a process to make fertiliser out of organic waste such as fruit and vegetable peels and cooked food waste. It helps in the recycling of waste and reduces the volume of waste going to landfills, according to waste management specialists. A compactor, on the other hand, only squeezes waste to make it more compact and reduces the volume of waste without recycling it. “Waste compactors only remove the problem from the streets… what is needed is more stress on recycling, for which waste segregation at source is necessary,” Brajesh Dubey, a professor of civil engineering at IIT Kharagpur who specialises in waste management practices, said. Running a composting unit will ensure that fruit and vegetable waste is turned into fertiliser and the civic body will need to pick up a small fraction of wastes produced in a housing complex. The CMC should have insisted on houses segregating waste into biodegradable (wet) and non-biodegradable (dry), Dubey said. “The solid waste management rules of 2016 speak about waste segregation at source; but compactors create a habit of anti-segregation among people.” If wet waste is segregated and put into a compost unit then there is hardly any need to compact dry waste, which mostly includes plastic products, papers and metals. These can be handed over to agencies that run plants to recycle such waste, a waste management specialist said. The state level environment impact assessment authority had in December notified the construction of a compost plant in projects with a built-up area of at least 200,000sq ft. The notification made it mandatory for the projects to “install onsite compost plant to treat biodegradable waste”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-321
04-09-2020||Calcutta||Farmer sells land to help son fulfil Isro ambition||An unlettered farmer in Murshidabad sold off 10 cottahs of his two-bigha plot last year to pay for his son’s coaching classes. Skipping the JEE (Main) exam was not an option for his son because “a lot depends on this” for the family. Azad Mosarof, 19, and his father Manirul Islam risked the infection of Covid in an overnight journey on a bus, covering more than 200km to reach the city for an exam they hope will ensure a new life for them. Azad is the first in the family to clear the Higher Secondary exams. All his relatives — cousins, uncles and aunts — have either never been to school or dropped out of school. Azad scored appeared for HS from Chhabghati KD Vidyalaya and scored 87 per cent in the exams. His father is a farmer while his mother rolls bidis to supplement the family income. “One day he told me he wants to study in an IIT and that he would need coaching for the exams… Rs 40,000 was required and I had no money; so, I sold off a portion of my land,” Islam said. “Before that day I had never heard of IIT… I had no idea who all study there.” Azad appeared for the JEE (Main) in January and scored a 93 percentile. Many students who are eligible for JEE Advanced based on their scores in the January exam take the JEE (Main) again in September to improve their scores. “There is pressure on me because I know my parents have stretched their limits so that I can study,” he said. “I knew we were exposing ourselves to the possibility of infection by travelling in a bus… but there is no other option,” he said after leaving the exam centre at TCS Gitabitan in Salt Lake. They took a rickshaw from Hasanpur village in the Suti police station area to Chander more bus stop on Wednesday night. The 9pm bus reached Sealdah at 6am on Thursday and they were left with “enough time to reach the centre at Salt Lake”. The exam started at 9am. Exam over, they took a bus to Esplanade and then to Murshidabad. “If he gets through a good engineering college I intend to take a loan. If he wants to study I will do whatever is possible for me to make it work for him,” Islam whose family income is about Rs 5,000 said. “It was not this bad always but my health deteriorated and a lot of money had to be spent on me... before that I would go to Assam and sell shawls and I would earn more than what I do now… but that stopped about two years ago because of my health.” Back in his village it is when he looks at the open sky, Azad is transported to his dreams and that is what pushes him to stretch his limits. “I have always been fascinated by the universe and I want to explore space. I want to go to Isro one day… that is my ambition.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-321
04-09-2020||Calcutta||Catch-up class for Jadavpur University tech students||Jadavpur University will conduct regular classes through “distance digital mode” from September 7 for the BTech students so that students of the intermediate semester can be compensated for the classes they had missed out on in the previous semester because of the lockdown, said a university official. Half the classes of the previous semester could not be held because the campus had to be shut down on March 16 as a precaution against Covid-19. The compensatory classes will be held up to September 25. “Classes for the new semester will start on September 28,” said an official who is also a member of the faculty council for engineering and technology. Another official said that in the “distance digital mode” — already being applied for the compensatory classes for the students of science and arts — materials such as notes, soft copies of textbooks, and audio and video demonstrations would be provided to the students through email and WhatsApp. But students of the engineering and technology faculty wondered how the students who don’t have a mobile phone or cannot afford a data pack would be able to attend classes. “Starting classes without addressing the connectivity concerns will be unethical,” said Aritra Mazumder, the chairperson of the students’ union for the engineering and technology faculty. “We have left it to the teachers to decide how to reach out to the students overcoming the odds,” said an official. “If nothing can be done, then additional classes should be held for these students when they will be handed the devices and the data pack,’’ vice-chancellor Suranjan Das had said earlier.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-321
04-09-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta airport chaos shifts gates||The airport had on Tuesday witnessed congestion at the entry to the terminal and security check counters. On Thursday, the congestion shifted to gate 3C, in front of the ticket counters of various airlines. The airport authorities and airlines deployed additional personnel at the entrances and extra scanning equipment at the security check counters to clear the rush on the second day flights operated between Calcutta and six other Indian cities, including Delhi and Mumbai, since resumption on September 1. Hundreds of passengers on Thursday were found not carrying smartphones or the necessary app and travel documents on their smartphones. These passengers were then redirected to gate number 3C at the departure level of the terminal building, where the airlines have their ticket counters. “These passengers, all first-time fliers, were taken to gate 3C, where airlines helped them with the documents. Those who did not have smartphones and so could not download Aarogya Setu app were given self-declaration forms on their health conditions. Others were helped by airline staff to get web check-in done,” said an official of a private airline. It was taking nearly an hour on an average for most passengers to complete the formalities. “On Tuesday, there was a crowd build-up outside the entry gates. On Thursday, the crowd shifted to gate 3C. Those who had all the documents entered the terminal without any hassle on Thursday,” said the official. On Tuesday, hundreds of passengers missed flights and several flights were delayed because of lack of passengers. Many had blamed the chaos on lack of preparedness on the part of the airport authorities despite the number of departing flights jumping from 60 to 92. Asked about the congestion, an airport official had said on Tuesday: “A large number of the passengers who had booked tickets on resumed flights are first-time fliers. They did not have required documents or apps and that led to congestions at the entrance.” Flights to Calcutta from Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Ahmedabad, Pune and Nagpur had been suspended on July 6, following a request from the Bengal government, because of high Covid prevalence there. The flights resumed on Tuesday. Till September 14, the flights will operate on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays. Later, they will operate on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays. After Tuesday’s chaos, officials of the airport and airlines conducted a survey on Wednesday to find out possible solutions. As part of the plan, it was decided that airline employees and security personnel would identify first-time passengers and help them. But that led to the congestion at gate 3C. “We have appealed to the airport authorities to allow these first-time fliers to show their tickets at the gate and enter the terminal. Inside, the airlines can assist them. Inside the terminal there is a lot of space. Because of the congestion at gate 3C, social distancing could not be maintained,” said a representative of the airline operators’ committee at the airport. “The airlines have verbally appealed to us (to relax the rule for first-time fliers). But because this is against the safety norms laid down by the Centre, we need a formal application from them. We will then consider it on humanitarian grounds,” said airport director Kaushik Bhattacharya. The congestion was much less at the security check-in area on Thursday because of additional equipment to scan hand baggage, Bhattacharya said. The number of X-ray counters with faster automatic tray retrieval system was increased from two till Wednesday to four on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-321
04-09-2020||Calcutta||Supreme Court reprieve for minority schools||Six minority schools in Calcutta can approach Calcutta High Court for a “recall/modification” of the court’s order asking a two-member committee to go through their income and expenditure details, the Supreme Court said on Thursday. Until an order is passed on the application of the petitioners, the high court order will be kept in abeyance, the Supreme Court said. The high court formed the two-member committee after parents of students of 121 private schools sought a fee waiver. They had said they found it difficult to clear the dues because of financial crisis during the pandemic. Six Christian missionary schools run by the Calcutta diocese of the Church of North India (CNI) had moved a special leave petition before the Supreme Court challenging the high court order. The church decided to move the petition because minority schools enjoy financial autonomy to run their schools, a CNI official said. This freedom to minority schools is guaranteed by Article 30 of the Constitution. “The direction to submit the audited books of accounts with income/expenditure statements of the schools causes grave hardship and prejudice to the minority rights of the petitioners who are private unaided minority schools managed and controlled exclusively by the Diocese of Calcutta, Church of North India,” the petition in the apex court read. A special bench of Justice Ahoke Bhusan, Justice R. Subhash Reddy and Justice M.R. Shah of the Supreme Court on Saturday allowed the special leave petition and gave the six schools the liberty to make a fresh application before Calcutta High Court. The apex court was “of the view that looking into the issues, which are involved in the writ petition, the high court may decide all issues at an early date”. The six schools that moved the special leave petition are the two La Martiniere schools, St James’, Pratt Memorial, St John’s Diocesan Girls’ Higher Secondary School and St Thomas’ Church School Howrah. Some of these schools had offered 25 per cent relief on computer fees, sports and games fees and library fees from April to September. The La Martiniere schools do not charge separate fees for computer, library or sports but they form part of the tuition fees charged every quarter. Parents whose children are in the La Martiniere schools could not say if they had received any waiver at all. On July 18, a division bench of the high court, headed by Justice Sanjib Banerjee, had set up the two-member committee to examine the income and expenditure details of the 121 private schools while hearing a public interest litigation. The bench had asked the committee to submit a report to the court after going through the details. The two members of the committee are Suranjan Das, the vice-chancellor of Jadavpur University, and Gopa Dutta, the former vice-chancellor of Gourbanga University. The court had asked the committee to examine the expense and income details of the schools to find out if the institutions had faced any financial difficulty as many guardians were reluctant to pay the fees during the lockdown. The committee can seek the help of chartered accountants for the accounting job, the court had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-321
04-09-2020||Calcutta||Donor of rare blood rushes at night, saves patient’s leg||A man in his mid-40s hitched a motorcycle ride late on Wednesday and came all the way from Bally in Howrah to SSKM Hospital to donate two units of Bombay blood, a rare type, for a patient who was awaiting a critical operation on his left leg. Nilkantha Das reached the hospital’s blood bank around 11pm, covering a distance of around 18km. By the time he returned home early on Thursday, doctors at the surgery ward had started preparing Montu Sarkar from Amtala, in South 24-Parganas, for the operation. On Thursday afternoon, surgeons stepped out of the operating theatre and informed Montu's family members that the procedure had been successful. Nilkantha, who works in the back office as a member of the sales team of a hosiery group in Sector V, knew he had to respond when a call came from SSKM’s blood bank on Wednesday night. There was a strong stirring inside and he had to go, Covid pandemic notwithstanding. Around 10pm, he called one of his neighbours and rode pillion on his two-wheeler to the hospital. “Since this is a rare blood group, whenever someone requires it, I know what it means. Manusher rokto ta dorkar. (The man requires blood). Er beshi aami kichhu jani ni. (I didn’t know anything beyond this),” Nilkantha said. “I did not have to donate blood earlier during the pandemic. But if it was required, I wouldn’t have hesitated.” Nilkantha’s words offer hope for state-run blood banks across Calcutta that are battling a shortage. The blood bank at the RG Kar Medical College and Hospital, for instance, has 40 per cent less stock compared with the demand. “People are afraid to turn up at blood donation camps because of the Covid-19 pandemic. We are trying nevertheless,” an official of the blood bank said on Thursday. At the SSKM blood bank, the daily requirement is around 350 units. At a donation camp held around two weeks back, a team from the hospital had collected 260 units. “The Bombay blood group is a rarity and people like Nilkantha stand out during these times with their gestures,” said an official at the SSKM blood bank. “We wanted to send him a car at his home. But he refused saying that would mean loss of precious time.” Montu’s family is thankful to Nilkantha for his priceless contribution to the effort to save a part of the left leg of the businessman. The rest of the leg had to be amputated as a part of a pillar of his rented office space in Amtala collapsed. Montu runs a small factory that manufactures mineral water. On July 28, a part of the pillar came crashing down, leaving Montu with gashes on his head and a severely damaged left leg. “He received 23 stitches on his head,” said Biswajit Pal, one of his family members. “Two other persons had donated blood. But Nilkantha’s donation ensured that the surgery could take place.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-321
04-09-2020||Business||GM, Honda team up||General Motors and Honda have signed a deal to explore sharing vehicle underpinnings and propulsion systems in North America. The companies said discussions on jointly-designed vehicles will start immediately and include vehicles powered by both electricity and internal combustion engines. Engineering work would begin early next year. Honda and GM said in a statement on Thursday that they would also cooperate on purchasing, research and connected services. The memorandum of understanding between the companies is not binding. But the move is another sign of increasing consolidation in the automotive business as companies face huge capital outlays to develop current products as well as new electric and autonomous vehicles. Crosstown rival Ford finalised a similar deal with Germany’s Volkswagen earlier this year, while Italian-American auto maker Fiat Chrysler is finalising a merger with Frances PSA Peugeot. In the GM-Honda deal, the companies say they’ll collaborate on a “range of vehicles sold under each company’s distinct brands” . The announcement builds on the work the companies have been doing jointly on electric and hydrogen fuel cell vehicles, as well as pn an autonomous vehicle. “The alliance will help both companies accelerate investment in future mobility innovation by freeing up additional resources,” GM president Mark Reuss said. He said the companies would get “significant synergies” in developing vehicles. “We can achieve substantial cost efficiencies in North America that will enable us to invest in future mobility technology, while maintaining our own distinct and competitive product offerings,” Honda executive vice-president Seiji Kuraishi said in the statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-298
04-09-2020||Business||Tagore on lips, China flays app ban||China on Thursday slammed the Modi government for overplaying its national security concerns while imposing a ban on another 118 mobile apps backed by Chinese investors — and contrasted its own openness in accepting Tagore and yoga with the xenophobic attitude of the Indian regime while terming the latter’s action as a violation of WTO rules. Gao Feng, a spokesperson of China’s commerce ministry, said at a press briefing on Thursday that India has abused the concept of “national security” by imposing discriminatory restrictions on Chinese companies. “India’s action not only harms the legitimate rights and interests of Chinese investors and services providers but also harms the interests of Indian consumers while doing damage to India’s investment climate,” Global Times quoted Gao as saying. The Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson said Beijing’s acceptance of Tagore and yoga was a sign of the nation’s confidence in itself. Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Hua Chunying said the popularity of Tagore’s poems or the wide approval of yoga among Chinese citizens did not mean that China views them as an “infiltration” or a “threat” the way India is looking at apps owned by Chinese companies. She had also come armed with an appropriate quote from Tagore: “We read the world wrong, and say that it deceives us.’’ Further, bringing in a personal touch while drawing attention to yoga gaining currency in China, Hua said: “Yoga is becoming more and more popular in China; including myself, I am very fond of Indian culture. But we do not think that Indian culture or the poems or other things are infiltrating here or are posing any threat to Chinese culture.” India has banned another 118 mostly Chinese mobile apps including Tencent Holdings Ltd’s popular video game PUBG, citing data security concerns. The list of 118 mostly Chinese apps also includes applications from Baidu and Xiaomi's ShareSave. The Global Times quoting an executive of a Beijing-based Chinese tech company which has business in India said “we have halted hiring new employees in India as part of our risk-aversion strategy. Most Chinese investors have frozen expansion plans and are even shrinking business scale in preparation for further assault on Chinese firms.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-298
04-09-2020||Business||Services continue to languish||The crippled services industry fell for the sixth straight month in August as Covid-19 restrictions continued to hurt business operations and demand, causing the longest streak of job losses on record, an industry survey has showed. The IHS Markit Services Purchasing Managers’ Index increased to 41.8 in August from July’s 34.2 but remained well below the 50-mark separating growth from contraction. “August highlights another month of challenging operating conditions in the Indian services sector. Sustained periods of closure and ongoing lockdown restrictions in both domestic and foreign markets have weighed heavily on the health of the industry,” said Shreeya Patel, economist at IHS Markit. Shilan Shah, senior India economist at Capital Economics, said, “The rise in  August PMI pales in comparison with the decline during the lockdown and it is highly likely that output is still a very long way from pre-pandemic levels. Given the bleak economic outlook, we think the RBI will loosen policy further over the coming months.” The Composite PMI Output Index, which measures the combined services and manufacturing output, rose from 37.2 in July to 46 in August, and remained below the neutral 50 level, thereby signaling a fifth consecutive decline in private sector business activity. New business and output continued to contract at marked rates, albeit slower than April and May, the survey said, adding that restrictions also contributed to a record increase in outstanding business. “Output and new work continue to fall at solid rates, while restrictions meant that firms were often unable to complete projects. Backlogs of work accumulated to the greatest extent in almost 15 years of data collection,” Patel said. On the employment front, reduced business activity saw the Indian services sector operating below capacity. As a result, firms reported job losses for a sixth consecutive month. On the price front, sustained revenue losses through the second quarter and increasing cost burdens led companies to raise charges for the first time since March. Looking ahead, the sentiment was neutral in August. Two-thirds of the respondents expected output in the year ahead to remain unchanged from current levels.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-298
04-09-2020||Business||Vodafone stock soars on Amazon, Verizon buzz||Shares of Vodafone Idea (VIL) on Thursday spurted almost 30 per cent on reports of Amazon and US wireless carrier Verizon picking up a stake in the operator. The rally in the counter also came on the eve of a board meeting that will consider various fund-raising options. On the BSE, the stock zoomed 26.74 per cent or Rs 2.65 to close at Rs 12.56 . Intra-day, it had risen 29.96 per cent  to Rs 12.88 — its 52-week high. On the NSE, it gained 29.79 per cent to close at Rs 12.85. In a late evening filing with the bourses, Vodafone Idea said it was constantly evaluates various opportunities as part of its corporate strategy but “there is no proposal as reported by the media that is being considered at the board”. The filing came after the BSE sought clarification from the company on Thursday over reports suggesting investments by Verizon and Amazon. Thursday’s sharp rally came amid reports that the telecom joint venture between Vodafone and the AV Birla group may see e-commerce giant Amazon and Verizon investing around $4 billion. Vodafone Idea had earlier said that a meeting of the board of directors of the company was scheduled for September 4. Vodafone said the board would consider multiple options to raise funds such as a public issue, preferential allotment, private placement, including a qualified institutions placement.. While there were fears that Vodafone Idea may slip into bankruptcy, analysts said after the Supreme Court judgment, its chances of survival have increased. “The Supreme Court’s order gives Vodafone Idea just enough breathing space to limp to 2021-22 — the Indus-Infratel merger announced on Tuesday came just in time — but thereafter, major tariff increases will be the absolute minimum to salvage VIL,” analysts at IIFL said in a note. “From 2022-23, VIL will need to resume Rs 15,500 crore auctioned spectrum deferred instalments. This plus annual AGR payment of Rs 8,000 crore plus capex of over Rs 5,000 crore plus bank interest would total to over Rs 30,000 crore, significantly higher than operating cash flows at current average revenue per user (ARPU),” the note said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-298
04-09-2020||Business||Vedanta lowers book value price||Vedanta Resources, in a bid to temper floor price expectations, has said that the book value of the equity shares of its Indian arm is Rs 89.38 per share. According to brokerages, this is at a discount of around 40 per cent to the calculated book value of Vedanta Ltd of Rs 147 per share. Book value is calculated as net worth of the company divided by the total number of outstanding equity shares. In May, Anil Agarwal-led Vedanta Resources had announced its plans to voluntary delist the equity shares of Vedanta Ltd. “We would like to inform that the book value of Vedanta Ltd’s equity shares, according to delisting regulations (book value) for the year ended March 31, 2020, is Rs 89.38 per share, as extracted from the audited consolidated financial statements of Vedanta Ltd,” Vedanta Resources said in a statement on Wednesday. Book value signifies the intrinsic value of the company’s shares as on a particular date. It, therefore, sets an indicative floor price for the reverse book building process. Book building is a mechanism where companies which are looking at de-listing collect offers from the shareholders at various prices, which are above or equal to the floor price. The price at which equity shares through eligible bids take promoter holdings to 90 per cent is determined as the final exit price. The promoter has the option to accept or reject the offer or even make a counter offer after discovery of the final exit offer price. A counter offer has to be done within two working days from the discovery of the final exit offer price. If the delisting offer is accepted, the promoter will have to pay the requisite consideration to shareholders within ten working days of the closure of the bidding period.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-298
04-09-2020||Business||FM for loan recast start in 15 days||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Thursday asked banks and NBFCs to roll out their loan restructuring schemes for Covid-19 related stress by September 15. “During her interaction, the finance minister focused on lenders immediately putting in place a board-approved policy for resolution, identifying eligible borrowers, and reaching out to them. Quick implementation of a sustained resolution plan by lenders for the revival of every viable business,” the finance ministry said in a statement. During the meeting, the minister impressed upon the lenders that borrowers must be given support and Covid-19 related distress must not impact the lenders’ assessment of their creditworthiness, an official statement said. The six-month moratorium on payment of EMIs ended on August 31. Last month, RBI governor Shaktikanta Das had said a resolution framework for a loan restructuring scheme for all types of borrowers — corporate, MSME and personal loan segments — will be finalised by September 6. Restructuring some loans will support economic recovery and help businesses tide themselves over the crisis. During the three-hour meeting, the statement said, the finance minister asked lenders to identify eligible borrowers and reaching out to them. She stressed quick implementation of a sustained resolution plan for the revival of every viable business. Banks are in the process of getting a board-approved restructuring framework in line with the RBI’s framework and eligibility defined by the central bank in its notification on August 6. The finance minister also emphasised that resolution schemes must be rolled out by lenders by September 15, 2020, and a sustained media campaign to create awareness be carried out thereafter, the statement said. She advised lenders to ensure that regularly updated information on the resolution framework is uploaded on their websites in Hindi, English and regional languages, and also circulated to their offices and branches. The bankers assured the finance minister that they were ready with their resolution policies and had started identifying and reaching out to eligible borrowers. They promised to comply with the timelines stipulated by the RBI. The ministry of finance is also in touch with the RBI to ensure that the lenders are guided in the resolution process. The restructuring benefit can be availed by those whose account was standard on March 1 and defaults should not be over 30 days. The K V Kamath committee is working on the recommendations on the financial parameters of the schemes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-299
04-09-2020||Business||Finance panel meet today||The 15th Finance Commission will hold a meeting with its economic advisory panel on Friday to discuss the issues of GDP growth, GST compensation and fiscal consolidation. Chairman N.K. Singh and the members of 15th Finance Commission will hold a day-long meeting with the economic advisory council of the commission on Friday, an official statement said. The topic of the meeting is “Final discussion on GDP growth, tax buoyancy of the Centre and the states, GST compensation, revenue deficit grant and fiscal consolidation”. The meeting comes in the backdrop of India’s GDP growth contacting 23.9 per cent in the April-June quarter. Besides, fiscal deficit has already crossed the budget estimates at the end of July. The Centre’s fiscal deficit during April-July stood at Rs 8.21 lakh crore, or 103 per cent of the 2020-21 budget estimates of Rs 7.96 lakh crore. The issue of GST compensation payable to the states would also be discussed in the meeting. The compensation due to the states in the April-July period stood at Rs 1.5 lakh crore. The commission in its interim report for 2020-21 in December had reduced the share of states in the divisible pool of central taxes by one percentage point to 41 per cent, factoring in the conversion of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir into two Union territories. It will be interesting to see if the commission would recommend increasing the share of taxes considering stretched state finances and a different option for GST compensation, giving ammunition to the state coffers. The term of the commission was extended by a year in November and the panel is expected to present the final report covering financial years 2021-22 to 2025-26 by October 30.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-299
04-09-2020||Business||Clarity on insolvency||The National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) has said insolvency proceedings cannot be triggered on the basis of debt that has been converted into capital such as equity of a company. The appellate tribunal also said any investment cannot be “financial debt” and the provisions of Section 7 of the Insolvency & Bankruptcy Code provides for the initiation of CIRP by a financial creditor only and that too, if there is “debt” and “default”. CIRP is corporate insolvency resolution process. The observations from a two-member NCLAT bench came as it upheld an order of the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT), which on November 26, 2019, had dismissed the plea by an individual Rita Kapur seeking initiation of insolvency proceedings against Invest Care Real Estate LLP. Kapur had claimed that she was a financial creditor of the company on the basis of the investment in the firm, which had allegedly defaulted her repayment and converted loans into equity. Citing Section 7 of the Code, the appellate tribunal said it is clear that once the debt is converted into capital, it cannot be termed as financial debt and the appellant cannot be described as financial creditor.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-299
04-09-2020||Business||Temporary relief for defaulters||The Supreme Court on Thursday said accounts which were not declared as non-performing assets (NPA) till August 31 this year shall not be declared NPA till further orders, offering a temporary relief to stressed borrowers facing hardships because of the pandemic. While passing its order, a three-judge bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan posted the matter for further hearing on September 10. The apex court will examine whether banks and financial institutions can impose a penal interest on interest dues during the moratorium period. “At the request of Tushar Mehta, learned solicitor general, the matter is adjourned for September 10. Harish Salve, learned senior advocate, submitted that no account shall become NPA at least for a period of two months. In view of the above, the accounts which were not declared NPA till August 31 shall not be declared NPA till further orders,” the bench also comprising Justices R. Subhash Reddy and M.R.Shah said. The court was dealing with a PIL filed by a businessman Gajendra Sharma challenging the decisions of banks to charge interests and also interest on the accumulated interest during the moratorium period. A number of associations representing different sectors such as real estate, power, tourism, shopping malls have also intervened in the matter, seeking extension of the moratorium period and also the waiver of interest or at least reducing the percentage to a bare minimum. Solicitor general Tushar Mehta appearing for the Centre said the government and the RBI were working out various measures to mitigate the hardships faced by different sectors, including the restructuring of stressed assets. “The impact of Covid-19 is faced by everyone but the impact is different for every sector. The impact is good also on some sectors such as pharma and IT,” Mehta said. He said the idea of moratorium was to defer repayment to ease the burden caused by the pandemic and lockdown so that businesses can manage working capital. The idea was not to waive off interest. The effort is that those who are affected by Covid-19 and facing distress get the benefit and those who are defaulters are not able to take benefit, Mehta said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-299
04-09-2020||India||SC reject pleas seeking postponement of JEE, NEET exams||The Supreme Court on Friday dismissed the pleas, including the one filed by ministers of six opposition-ruled states, seeking review of its August 17 order which paved the way for holding NEET and JEE exams. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, B R Gavai and Krishna Murari, which considered the pleas in-chamber, said there was no merit in the review petitions. The apex court also rejected the applications seeking listing of the review petition in the open court. Applications seeking permission to file review petitions are allowed. We have carefully gone through the review petitions and the connected papers. We find no merit in the review petitions and the same are accordingly dismissed, the bench said in its order. National Testing Agency (NTA) which conducts both the exams is holding JEE Main Exams from September 1-6, while NEET exams will be held on September 13. The review matters in the apex court are usually considered 'in-chambers' through circulation of petition among the judges of the bench. The judges then decide 'in-chambers' whether there is any merit in the review petition to re-examine the case in open court hearing. One of the review pleas was filed by ministers from West Bengal (Moloy Ghatak), Jharkhand (Rameshwar Oraon), Rajasthan (Raghu Sharma), Chhattisgarh (Amarjeet Bhagat), Punjab (B S Sidhu) and Maharashtra (Uday Ravindra Sawant). The apex court had on August 17 dismissed a plea which had sought postponement of JEE (Main) April 2020 and NEET-Undergraduate examinations amid spurt in number of Covid-19 cases. While refusing to interfere with the conduct of medical and engineering entrance exams, the top court had said that though there is pandemic situation, ultimately life has to go and the career of the students cannot be put on peril for long and full academic year cannot be wasted. In their review plea filed through advocate Sunil Fernandes, the ministers of six states -- ruled by parties like Congress, TMC, JMM, NCP and Shiv Sena -- had claimed that the top court order failed to secure students' "right to life" and ignored "teething logistical difficulties" to be faced in conducting the exams during the Covid-19 pandemic. The plea had said the apex court order fails to satisfy the safety and security concerns of students who have to appear for the exams. It had said the mere fact that lakhs of students have registered for the exam is not indicative of their consent or their willingness or their desire to attend physical exams. It had also said the August 17 order is cryptic, non-speaking and does not discuss various aspects and complexities involved in a matter of this magnitude. The review plea had also said that only two reasons given by the court - life must go on and students should not lose an academic year - do not constitute an authoritative and comprehensive judicial scrutiny of the issue. It had said that JEE Mains is slated to be conducted over 660 exam centres with 9.53 lakhs students appearing for it, roughly 1,443 students per centre. Similarly for NEET UG, 15.97 lakhs students will appear in 3,843 centres across the country, nearly 415 students per centre, it had said. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta had in August assured the top court that all safeguards would be taken while conducting the examinations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-689
04-09-2020||India||CBSE opposes plea to put off compartment class 12th exams in SC ||The CBSE on Friday opposed a plea in the Supreme Court seeking postponement of compartment exams for 12th class scheduled this month, saying all "necessary" safety measures for students are being taken in view of Covid-19 pandemic. A bench comprising Justices A M Khanwilkar, Dinesh Maheshwari and Sanjiv Khanna asked the counsel for the petitioner whether postponement of the examinations will help the students. "Without examination where do you stand. Is there any other methodology contemplated by CBSE," the bench asked during the hearing conducted through video conferencing. The counsel for the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) said the board has increased the number of examination centres for compartment tests from 575 to 1,278. "We have taken a decision that in a class where 40 students could sit, now only 12 will sit and we are taking all precautions," the counsel for CBSE said. "All necessary measures are being taken. The notification is likely to be issued soon. The examinations are to be held in September," he said. The court, which asked CBSE to file a short affidavit in response of the plea of Anika Samvedi, has now fixed the case for hearing on September 10. The plea has challenged the CBSE decision to hold compartment examinations for 12th class on the ground that it would be detrimental to the health of the examinees. The apex court asked the counsel for the petitioner to be clear about the relief being sought when he said the students will be considered as failed as the compartment examinations will not be concluded by September end. The lawyer also said the students will not be able to apply for further studies as admissions in universities will close by the time compartment examinations will be held. The counsel for CBSE said that on the one hand, petitioner wanted cancellation of examinations and then also raised the issue of admissions in universities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-689
04-09-2020||India||NCB raids Rhea's brother, Sushant's house manager ||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Friday conducted searches at the premises of Showik Chakraborty, brother of main accused Rhea Chakraborty, and Samuel Miranda in connection with the drugs probe linked to the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, officials said. They said both Showik and Miranda, house manager of Rajput, were handed over summons to join the investigation during the raids that started early morning. An NCB officer said as there was a lot of media presence during the raids, both told the sleuths that they will come along with NCB team. They are being taken by the NCB search team and will be questioned now, the officer said. The NCB has arrested two alleged drug peddlers operating in the capital city of Maharashtra in this case till now and it has detained one person. The agency has filed a case under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act after the ED shared with it a report following the cloning of two mobile phones of Rhea. Rajput was found dead at his Bandra flat on June 14.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-689
04-09-2020||India||Odisha bins senate, eyes role in VC selection||The Odisha cabinet presided by chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Wednesday decided to abolish the senate system of universities and let the government play a major role in the selection process of vice-chancellors of universities. It has also taken away the power of the universities to appoint their staff. However, the decision of the state government has triggered protests from the ABVP, a right wing all India student organisation which on Thursday organised a rally here demanding that the government should refrain from infringing on the rights of the universities. Chief secretary Asit Kumar Tripathy on Wednesday said: “Though senate is the highest authority of a university over the years it has become dysfunctional. Therefore, the concept of senate shall be done away with. It is found that the senate has become more an ornamental body with the real authority being exercised by syndicate. It is therefore decided to do away with the concept of senate and restructure syndicate for smooth academic and administrative functioning of the universities.” Henceforth, the syndicate of the university will function as the highest authority of the university. The constitution of the syndicate will be restructured to make it more functional and professional. In the restructured syndicate, there will be adequate representation of the chancellor and the state government. Senate is a body comprising various sections of the society, students, teachers and mostly from educational background which guide the universities on various issues but it has become dormant over the years. The syndicate is the executive body of the university and exercises general supervision over the affairs and management of the body. The tenure of vice-chancellors will be increased to four years from present three years so that they can make long-term contributions to the universities. “The upper age limit to hold the post of vice-chancellor shall be enhanced from 65 years to 67 years. No vice-chancellor shall be reappointed as VC of the same university for the second time,” Tripathy said. The state government also made it clear that it would play a crucial role in the appointment of the vice-chancellors. “At present, the state government does have a say in the three member search committees constituted by chancellor (governor) for selection of vice-chancellors. Therefore, an eminent academician nominated by the state government shall be made a member of the search committee in place of the nominee of the syndicate of the university concerned,” said Tripathy. According to the new amendment, the appointment of the teachers in the universities shall be done centrally by the Odisha Public Service Commission and not by the respective universities. The recruitment of non-teaching employees of the universities shall be done by state staff selection board and not by the universities. “The state cabinet today approved promulgation of the Odisha Universities (Amendment) Ordinance to amend the Odisha Universities Act 1989. Henceforth all the universities will function under one Act.  It will ensure smooth administration,” Tripathy said. The government has also decided to accord classical status to Odissi music. Culture minister Jyoti Panigrahi said: “The form of music is very ancient and is different from other form of classical music. The state will soon send a proposal to this effect to the Centre to give classical tag to Odissi music. Besides, we have also decided to take up a special project for the development of Suanoda village, the village of Gopabandhu Das (1877-1928).” Das, popularly known as Utkalamni (jewel of Utkal or Odisha), was the modern maker of Odisha. “The state should not interfere in the administration of the universities. It’s now trying to infringe on their autonomy which is dangerous for the education system,” said ABVP national executive member Sanjay Mallick.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-689
04-09-2020||India||Rawat sees Pakistan-China double threat||Chief of Defence Staff Bipin Rawat on Wednesday spoke about the threat of a combined challenge from Pakistan and China from two fronts and warned the western neighbour against any “misadventure” to take advantage of the tensions along the Line of Actual Control. General Rawat said India was prepared to respond and warned Pakistan of “heavy losses”. On China, he said that although it had resorted to aggressive action along the LAC despite border management protocols, India was “capable of dealing with this in all possible ways”. The general’s statement on the combined threat from China and Pakistan came a week after he had said India was “prepared for military actions” if the diplomatic and military talks with China did not yield results. On Thursday, speaking at a webinar organised by a US think tank in Delhi, Rawat said Pakistan could take advantage of India’s border standoff with China to attempt a misadventure. “If any threat develops around our northern borders, Pakistan could take advantage of that and create some trouble for us. We have taken adequate precautions to ensure that any such adventure by Pakistan is thwarted.… In fact, they may suffer heavy losses should they attempt any misadventure,” Rawat said. On China, he said: “We have border management protocols with China but of late we have been seeing aggressive actions by the Chinese. But we are capable of dealing with this in all possible ways.” Rawat said that Chinese economic cooperation with Islamabad in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir was continuing with diplomatic support and mandated high level of preparations on India’s part. “Infrastructure development in Tibet, development of strategic railway lines and military reforms by China are being studied by us,” he said. India, Rawat said, was seeking US collaboration in technology development, especially in aerospace and artificial intelligence. “We are looking at info-sharing and continued supply of high-tech battlefield systems from the US,” the general said in response to the question whether the US could help in the current conflict with China. Naravane in Ladakh The army chief, General M.M. Naravane, on Wednesday arrived in Ladakh on a two-day visit. He reviewed the security situation along the LAC. Later in the day, Indian Air Force chief R.K.S. Bhadauria visited frontline air bases at the eastern air command in Meghalaya and reviewed the operational preparedness of the combat units. Sources in the defence ministry said the army chief was briefed by the senior field commanders of the northern command on the prevailing ground situation along the LAC. “During his two-day visit, General Naravane will review the operational preparedness of the troops who are locked in a standoff with Chinese soldiers for over four months now. He is likely to visit frontline posts near the south bank of Pangong Lake that has witnessed fresh rounds of confrontation between the armies of India and China,” said a defence ministry official. Over the weekend, tensions have escalated after Chinese troops attempted to change the status quo in eastern Ladakh — first on the intervening night of August 29-30 and again on September 1 — but were thwarted by Indian soldiers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-689
04-09-2020||India||Odisha nod for seven proposals ||The Odisha government has approved seven investment proposals worth Rs 3,205.67 crore in metal and metal downstream, infrastructure, tourism and cement sectors to bring the economy back on the track. The move is likely to generate employment opportunities for 2,494 people. The proposals were approved at the state level single window clearance authority (SLSWCA) meeting chaired by chief secretary Asit Kumar Tripathy on Wednesday. Principal secretary, industries, Hemant Sharma said the seven projects, included the proposal of M/s MGM Minerals Limited for expansion of its project by setting up 0.125 MTPA (Million Tonne Per Annum) Sponge Iron Plant, 0.6 MTPA Pellet Plant, 0.25 MTPA MS Billets, 0.25 MTPA TMT & Wire Rods and 40 MW Captive Power Plant at Nimdha in Dhenkanal with an investment of Rs 801.89 crore. “All these industries would provide employment to about 1,215 people. We continue to extend support for the state and country’s economic growth and perform its duties to steadfast growth trajectory of Odisha,” Sharma said. Another proposal was of M/s GM Iron & Steel Company Limited for expansion of its project by setting up 0.8 MTPA Pellet Plant, 0.2379 MTPA Direct Reduced Iron (DRI) plant, 0.195 MTPA Billet, 0.24 MTPA Wire Rod Mill, 0.416 MTPA Slag Cement and 46 MW Captive Power Plant in Dhenkanal, with an investment of Rs 607.52 crore of capacity and providing employment opportunities for 592 people. “M/s. Envirocare Infrasolution Pvt. Ltd’s proposal for setting up Iron Ore Beneficiation plant of 3.6 MTPA capacity at Koira in Sundergarh, with a total investment of Rs 60 crores, also got the nod of the committee. It would provide employment opportunity to around additional 175 people,” said a press release issued by the state government. Proposal of M/s Hindalco Industries Limited for setting up Flue Gas Desulphurization Plant (FGD) for its existing CPP (6x150 MW) at Lapanga, Sambalpur, with an investment of Rs 696 crore providing an additional employment opportunities for 50 people was also approved. Likewise, the proposal of M/s Lifeline Multi-ventures Pvt. Ltd. to set up a five-star Hotel in Bhubaneswar with a total investment of Rs 150.38 crore, was also approved by the state government. It would provide employment opportunities to 240 people. SLSWCA also approved the proposal of M/s JSW Cement Ltd. (JSW) for expansion of cement grinding capacity from 1.2 MTPA to 2.4 MTPA at Kalinga Nagar, Duburi, Jajpur, with an investment of Rs 489.88 crore and providing employment opportunities for 68 people. M/s Jajpur Cements Pvt. Ltd’s proposal for expansion of cement grinding capacity from 0.5 MTPA to 1.5 MTPA at Kalinga Nagar, Jajpur, with an investment Rs 400 crore has received the approval of the state and will provide employment opportunities to 154 people. The Odisha government has  made coronavirus test mandatory for any person to be produced before a magistrate for remand as over 500 inmates and 30 officials of different jails in the state have been detected as Covid-19 positive, reports PTI. The home department has issued an 8-point SOP to be implemented by different arresting agencies like police, excise, forest and vigilance departments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-690
04-09-2020||India||HC seeks DU digital degree data||Delhi High Court has directed Delhi University to submit data pertaining to the number of students who have applied online for digital degree certificates and the number of such certificates that have been issued. The high court was informed that despite a judicial order, students have not been issued digital degrees. “This is completely violative of the order of this court. The timelines as set out in the order dated August 7 shall be adhered to strictly by DU,” Justice Prathiba M. Singh said. The high court directed the university to issue digital degree certificates of the two students, who filed the pleas, before September 7. “In the affidavit to be filed by DU, the data relating to number of students who have applied online for seeking digital degree certificates and the number of digital degree certificates issued online shall be clearly mentioned,” the judge said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-690
04-09-2020||India||If driver is alone in car, no need to wear mask: Official||A person driving a car alone need not wear a face mask, the Union health secretary said on Thursday, but emphasised the need for continued personal protective measures, including the use of masks, in public spaces. The health ministry has not issued any guidelines mandating a mask while a person is driving a car alone, health secretary Rajesh Bhushan clarified while briefing reporters on the coronavirus, but asserted the need for continued Covid-19-appropriate behaviour. He added that when people are engaged in outdoor physical activities such as cycling or jogging in groups, they need to be mindful of physical distancing and wear masks to prevent the spread of infection. “If you’re riding your cycle alone, the health ministry has issued no directives specifying that you should wear a mask,” Bhushan said. The clarification comes amid concerns expressed by many on social media platforms that Delhi police have fined drivers alone in their cars who were not wearing masks.  A Delhi resident told The Telegraph that he had to argue his way out when the police stopped him for driving without a mask on. “I had to tell them dimaag istamaal karo (use your brains),” the resident said. A local media report had said last week that Delhi police had fined at least 188,578 people for not wearing masks in public and collected Rs 9.42 crore. The health official iterated the importance of standard precautions — physical distancing, masks, frequent hand washing, respiratory etiquette — to minimise the risk of picking up respiratory infections. “We’re heading into the season of festivals and different examinations are also taking place…. It is important to not just adopt but also promote Covid-19-appropriate behaviour across society — within families, among neighbours and in our workplaces,” Bhushan said. The reminder for Covid-19-appropriate behaviour from the health ministry comes amid a still growing epidemic and what some experts say are troubling anecdotal accounts of people defying directives to wear masks. “There are quite a few people we see on roads or in markets who wear masks improperly, or worse still, lower the masks when they have to speak to someone,” said Oommen John, a public health specialist at The George Institute for Public Health, New Delhi. “Behavioural interventions and adherence is a complex science — still in its infancy in India,” John said. “It is far more complex than just creating infographics and expecting compliance.” In the early weeks of the epidemic in India, the first advisory urging all members of the public to wear cloth masks had come from the office of the principal scientific adviser to the Union government. Multiple studies have established the efficacy of even cloth masks in curbing the spread of infections that spread through coughs or sneezes. A study by researchers in India, for instance, published last month found that while respiratory droplets from an uncovered cough can travel up to 3 metres, even a simple disposable mask can reduce the distance to less than 0.5 metres. “Even if a mask does not filter out all particles, if we can prevent clouds of particles from travelling far, it’s better than not doing anything,” said Padmanabha Prasanna Simha, an engineer at the Indian Space Research Organisation who led the study. Simha collaborated with a cardiovascular surgeon at the Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research, Bangalore, for the study that analysed the fluid flow fields of coughs under various common types of masks. Their findings were published last month in the journal Physics of Fluids. They found that N95 masks were the most effective at reducing the horizontal spread of cough droplets. The N95 masks reduced the speed of the droplets by a factor of 10, limiting spread to 0.1 to 0.25 metres. In situations where sophisticated masks are not available for the general public, any mask would be better than no mask at all to slow the spread of the infection, Simha said in a media release issued by the American Institute of Physics.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-690
04-09-2020||India||Pandemic to push 47m women into poverty: UN||The female poverty rate in South Asia will increase in 2021 because of the Covid-19 pandemic and more women than men in the 25-34 age group will be poorer in the next decade, according to new data released by the United Nations. The UN Women and the UN Development Programme (UNDP) said that the Covid-19 pandemic will disproportionately affect women and push 47 million more women and girls into extreme poverty by 2021, reversing decades of progress to lift this demographic above the poverty line. The report, “From Insights to Action: Gender Equality in the wake of Covid-19”, said that the gender poverty gap will worsen further still in South Asia. Central and southern Asia and sub-Saharan Africa, home to 87 per cent of the world’s extreme poor, will see the largest increases in extreme poverty, with an additional 54 million and 24 million people respectively, living below the international poverty line as a result of the pandemic. “The expected rise of poverty in South Asia as a result of the economic fallout of the pandemic showcases the vulnerability of women and girls living in households that have only recently been able to escape poverty, the report released on Wednesday said. The pre-pandemic female poverty rate in South Asia was projected to be 10 per cent in 2021 but is now expected to reach 13 per cent. “Moreover, before the pandemic, projections for the region suggested that by 2030 only 15.8 per cent of the world’s poor women and girls would be living in South Asia. The revised projections now put that figure at 18.6 per cent,” the report said. The report pointed out that the resurgence of poverty due to the pandemic threatens to deepen gender poverty gaps, especially for people aged 25 to 34, which is a key productive and family formation period for both women and men. In 2021, it is expected there will be 118 women in poverty for every 100 poor men globally, and this ratio could rise to 121 poor women for every 100 poor men by 2030. While sub-Saharan Africa and South Asia will be the most impacted, “significantly more women than men in South Asia will be affected”. In the 25-34 age group, there will be 118 poor women for every 100 poor men in South Asia, and that ratio will increase to 129 women for every 100 men by 2030. Globally, the poverty rate for women was expected to decrease by 2.7 per cent between 2019 and 2021, but projections now point to an increase of 9.1 per cent due to the pandemic and its fallout. The “pandemic will push 96 million people into extreme poverty by 2021, 47 million of whom are women and girls. This will increase the total number of women and girls living in extreme poverty to 435 million, with projections showing that this number will not revert to pre-pandemic levels until 2030,” the UN agencies said. “The increases in women’s extreme poverty are a stark indictment of deep flaws in the ways we have constructed our societies and economies,” UN Women executive director Phumzile Mlambo-Ngcuka said. “We know that women take most of the responsibility for caring for the family; they earn less, save less and hold much less secure jobs. In fact, overall, women’s employment is 19 per cent more at risk than men’s.” Mlambo-Ngcuka said that the evidence of multiple inequalities is critical to drive swift, restorative policy action that puts women at the heart of pandemic recovery. While the pandemic has posed a serious threat to the prospects of eradicating extreme poverty by the end of this decade, the reality is even grimmer as these projections of increased poverty rates for women and girls only account for the downward revision of the gross domestic product (GDP), excluding other factors such as women leaving the workforce due to childcare responsibilities, that may also affect the sex distribution of poverty. “More than 100 million women and girls could be lifted out of poverty if governments implement a comprehensive strategy aimed at improving access to education and family planning, fair and equal wages, and expanding social transfers,” UNDP administrator Achim Steiner said. He noted with concern that women are bearing the brunt of the Covid-19 crisis as they are more likely to lose their source of income and less likely to be covered by social protection measures. “Investing in reducing gender inequality is not only smart and affordable, but also an urgent choice that governments can make to reverse the impact of the pandemic on poverty reduction,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-690
04-09-2020||India||Hate Speech: BJP Telangana MLA banned from FB, Insta||Facebook on Thursday announced it had banned BJP Telangana MLA T. Raja Singh from its Facebook and Instagram platforms for violating company policy on the promotion of “violence and hate”. Facebook’s announcement on Singh came a day after its vice-president and managing director in India, Ajit Mohan, had deposed for over two hours before a parliamentary standing committee on the safeguarding of citizens’ rights and the misuse of social media platforms. “We have banned Raja Singh from Facebook for violating our policy prohibiting those that promote or engage in violence and hate from having a presence on our platform,” a Facebook spokesperson told The Telegraph. The Wall Street Journal had recently reported that Facebook’s public policy director for South and Central Asia, Ankhi Das, had opposed banning Singh and at least three other Hindu nationalist individuals and groups for hate posts, citing the company’s business interests in India. On Thursday, WSJ reported on its website that five accounts on Facebook in Singh’s name and one on Instagram — the photo and video-sharing platform owned by Facebook — had been disabled. Singh, whose Twitter background is a banner calling for the establishment of a “Hindu Rashtra”, tweeted: “I’d like to clarify that I’ve not been using FB since April 2019. So, banning me makes no sense.” He suggested that the pages Facebook had now banned may have been created by his followers, PTI reported. It quoted Singh as saying he had written to Hyderabad’s cyber police on October 8, 2018, that his official Facebook page had been hacked, and that a new page he had started “was unpublished/deleted in April 2019”. Singh said he would write to Facebook to reopen his official account. “I will follow all rules and regulations.... I should be given the right to use a Facebook account and I will seek their permission,” PTI quoted him as saying. In a video message, Singh alleged that Rahul Gandhi had made false statements on social media against the BJP and Prime Minister Narendra Modi, and demanded that accounts of the Congress and the AIMIM party be deleted, the PTI report added. Facebook did not respond to queries on which accounts of Singh had been disabled and when; nor did it explain the delayed action against him. Time magazine had reported last week that Shivnath Thukral, a Facebook public policy executive whose role entails both enforcing the rules on hate speech and lobbying with governments, had gone slow on acting against another BJP politician, Assam MLA Shiladitya Dev, for his hate posts. Das, Thukral and Mohan have not responded to queries from this newspaper since the controversy broke out. Both WSJ and Time have reported that Das and Thukral have ties with the BJP, although Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad complained to Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg this week that Facebook India officials were biased against his party. Response to Cong Facebook has responded to the Congress’s complaints of bias and collusion with the BJP, promising corrective measures, a non-partisan attitude and willingness to engage with the party on these concerns, the Opposition party said. The Congress had accused Facebook and WhatsApp of interfering in India’s electoral process and helping the BJP spread hate, and demanded a criminal investigation and a joint parliamentary committee probe. It had written two letters to Zuckerberg on the activities of his company’s India team and threatened legal action if corrective measures were not taken. “We have today received a response from Facebook Inc. Facebook has thanked the Congress party for raising this concern and acknowledged its seriousness while not refuting any of the charges made against individuals of the Facebook India leadership team in the media articles,” Congress data analytics chief Praveen Chakravarty said on Thursday. “They have also expressed their desire to be non-partisan and continue to engage with the Congress party on these matters.” Chakravarty added: “The party will await further concrete action from the global leadership of Facebook and demonstration of specific corrective measures being undertaken in Facebook and WhatsApp India.” Sources said the decision to ban Singh came after an extensive process that the company follows in deciding which individuals meet the criteria for policy violation, and that a review of Singh’s actions had been going on for some time, PTI reported. Facebook had previously removed content Singh had posted for violating its policies, but the decision to ban him from the platform had been taken now, one of the sources said. Singh has been brought under Facebook’s policy relating to dangerous individuals and organisations, the PTI report said. He will not be allowed on Facebook or Instagram, and the company will remove pages, groups and accounts set up to represent him, it added. However, Facebook will continue to allow a wider discussion of him, including praise and support, the report said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-690
04-09-2020||India||Sharjeel in judicial custody till October 1||A Delhi court on Thursday sent JNU student Sharjeel Imam to judicial custody till October 1 in a case related to communal violence in northeast Delhi in February. Imam, arrested by the special cell of Delhi police on August 25, has been booked under the stringent anti-terror law, Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, for allegedly being part of a “premeditated conspiracy” in connection with the riots during protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act. Imam’s counsel said that the accused had been sent to judicial custody till October 1 and earlier during the day, he had erroneously construed that Imam had been sent to jail for 14 days. Additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat sent Imam to jail considering the nature of the investigation in the case. “Considering the nature of the investigation as also the case record, application is allowed, Accordingly, Sharjeel Imam is remanded to judicial custody till October 1,” the court said. The police had moved an application for 30 days’ judicial custody of Imam. The court had earlier sent him to police custody for three days. Imam was also arrested on January 28 in the case related to violent protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act near the Jamia Millia Islamia University in December last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-690
04-09-2020||India||Delhi Metro gears up to reopen with safety norms||As Delhi Metro gears up to resume services on Monday, the authorities have issued detailed guidelines to ensure passenger safety amid the pandemic that could serve as a reference point for other cities like Calcutta that too are preparing to open up. The new norms announced by the Delhi Metro Railway Corporation (DMRC) on Thursday cover every aspect from entry to ticketing to security checks and travel. All lines of the Delhi Metro will gradually reopen from September 7 to 12, with services initially from 7am to 11am, and 4pm to 8pm. The Delhi Metro has 285 stations spread over 389km of tracks. Union minister for housing and urban affairs Hardeep Puri had on Wednesday announced the staggered reopening of Metro services across the country except in Maharashtra, where the lockdown has been extended to the end of this month. Even before the lockdown began in the capital on March 22, Delhi Metro had restricted the number of passengers in trains and prevented crowding at stations. In a media release on Thursday, the DMRC said that initially only one or two entrances would be opened at every station. “All passengers will be required to undergo thermal screening and hand sanitisation at the entry/frisking point itself. Forty-five major stations have been provided with ‘auto thermal screening-cum-hand sanitisation machines’, whereas the rest of the Metro stations will be having provision of ‘auto sanitiser dispensers’… and thermal screening will be done manually by ‘thermal guns’,” the statement said. “Only 2-3 persons at a time will be allowed to use the lift depending on the capacity…. Similarly, passengers will be required to stand on alternate steps on escalators to maintain social distancing,” it added. Fifty lifts at 16 stations have been made “leg-operated”, where buttons can be pushed with the feet instead of hands. Ticketing will be cashless and almost entirely without human interface. “Only smart card holders (including QR code users on Airport Express Line) will be allowed to travel, which can be recharged digitally by a number of ways easily avoiding human interface. Recharge of smart cards at the ticket vending machines (TVMs) or customer care centres will be through cashless modes only (debit/credit/Bharat QR code etc),” the DMRC media release said. Smart card recharging will also be cashless. The trains are going to be warmer and slower. Fresh airflow intake will be increased from 30 per cent to 100 per cent inside trains. Earlier, stations used to have only a 10 per cent intake of fresh air from 7am to 10pm to keep temperatures low, now such an arrangement will be allowed only from 10.30am to 4.30pm. For the rest of the time, there will be 100 per cent fresh airflow. The time a train will stop at a station will be increased by 10 seconds — from 10-15 seconds to 20-25 seconds — so that passengers get sufficient time to board and alight. At interchange stations, the stoppage time will be increased by 20 seconds — from 35-40 seconds to 55-60 seconds. The feeder bus services will remain suspended. Besides the mandatory use of masks, and seating on alternate seats, trains may skip stations that fall in Covid containment zones. The list of such stations will be issued just before the services begin and will be updated regularly. A team of 800 Metro officials as well as local police can restrict the entry of passengers into stations if crowds swell and physical distancing is compromised.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-690
04-09-2020||India||Kafeel Khan and family move to Rajasthan for 'safety'||Kafeel Khan, the doctor released from jail on Tuesday after Allahabad High Court nullified his National Security Act-driven imprisonment, and his family have arrived in Jaipur, saying they felt safe in a Congress-ruled state. “There is a Congress government in Rajasthan. My family felt that we would be safe here. I wanted to spend some quality time with my family,” Khan told a news conference in Jaipur. The doctor, who spent eight months in jail following his arrest over an anti-Citizenship Amendment Act speech at Aligarh Muslim University, said he had been falsely implicated and sent to jail by the Uttar Pradesh government as he had exposed the system. On Tuesday, Allahabad High Court had quashed Khan’s detention under the NSA and ordered his immediate release, saying the Uttar Pradesh government had done a “selective reading” of his anti-CAA speech. The medical doctor had called for national integrity and not incited violence, the court observed. Khan said on Thursday: “I was leading a simple life. I tried to expose the system as children died at BRD Medical College (in Gorakhpur) because of lack of oxygen. This did not go down well with our chief minister. A false case was lodged and I was sent to jail.” He added that he was tortured and asked “weird questions” after being arrested in January for the December speech at AMU. The Uttar Pradesh government had invoked the stringent NSA against him after he was granted bail in February and kept extending his detention by three months at a time. “I was not given water for 72 hours after being taken into custody,” Khan said. “I was physically tortured after the STF arrested me. I was asked weird questions like if I have invented a powder to kill people and visited Japan to topple the government.” The doctor had made the same allegations in a video message on Wednesday. “The interrogators told me that I had made a powder that would instantly kill people. I said, ‘Brother, I’m a children’s doctor, how can I make a powder? Are you talking about corona? If so, ask China.’ They told me they had audio proof that I had planned to pull down the government. I asked them to show me the evidence, which they didn’t have,” he said. “They asked me why I had gone to Japan. I said instead of Japan, you should have said Pakistan. Tell me, how can I go to Japan if my passport is (with the) court?” Khan’s passport was impounded on a court’s direction after the 2017 Gorakhpur child death tragedy. Khan said: “Often, they wouldn’t give me anything to eat for five days at a stretch.... They tortured me mentally and physically.” He alleged that he used to be hung upside down and beaten in jail. “I used to treat children suffering from malnutrition, now I’m suffering from malnutrition myself because of the poor quality of jail food.” Khan had said in the video message: “People are saying the government may try to implicate me in one case or another. They can also get me killed in an encounter. Maybe this is my last conversation with you.” On Thursday, Khan said he had feared for his life after his arrest. “State-sponsored victimisation of my family and myself has been going on. I feared (being) killed in an encounter. I’m thankful to the STF that they did not kill me while bringing me to Uttar Pradesh,” he said. Khan said he would urge Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath to give him back his job in the state medical services. “As the high court has quashed the charges under the NSA against me, I would write to the Uttar Pradesh chief minister to reinstate me in the medical service,” Khan told the media conference in Jaipur. “If I’m not allowed, I will hold medical camps in flood-affected areas of Assam as an activist.” He said his arrest had affected his family. “My 65-year-old mother, my wife had to frequently visit the Supreme Court during the pandemic. My brothers’ businesses were destroyed. My seven-and-a-half-month-old son doesn’t recognise me and runs off to my brother’s lap. I don’t think any government can cause me bigger pain than this,” Khan said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-690
04-09-2020||India||High Covid rates among health workers||India on Thursday recorded its highest-yet daily rise of 83,883 new coronavirus cases as health officials flagged increases in average daily deaths in Delhi and Karnataka and high positivity rates among healthcare workers in six states. The new cases have raised the country’s total number of lab-diagnosed cases to over 3.85 million, of whom over 2.97 million have recovered, 815,538 patients are under medical supervision and 67,376 have died, 1,043 over the past day. The Union health ministry released statistics showing that the average daily active cases have fallen over the past two weeks in Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh, but average daily case fatality rates have increased in Delhi and Karnataka. In Delhi, mortality has increased by 50 per cent from an average 12 deaths per day during the August 11-19 week to an average 18 deaths per day during the August 27-September 2 week. In Karnataka, mortality increased by 9.6 per cent from 114 per day to 125 per day over these two weeks. “We’re seeing this 50 per cent increase in Delhi because over the past few weeks, new infections and mortality have increased here,” Rajesh Bhushan, the Union health secretary, said while briefing reporters on the status of the coronavirus epidemic in the country. The Centre is actively engaging with the Delhi government to take steps to address this issue, he said. Bhushan also said the health ministry had recorded unusually high positivity among healthcare workers in some states — 18 per cent in Telangana, 16 per cent in Maharashtra, 14 per cent in Delhi, 13 per cent in Karnataka, 12 per cent in Puducherry and 11 per cent in Punjab. He said the health ministry had alerted the states, urging them to check on hospital infection control practices as well as on the appropriate use of personal protective equipment by healthcare workers. The rise in the daily new infections in Delhi follows a steady decline for several weeks. Delhi had recorded its highest-yet single-day rise of 3,947 new infections on June 23 but the number fell to 674 on August 3 but have since increased to 2,509 on September 2. Although antibody surveys have suggested that nearly 30 per cent of the population of Delhi has already been infected by the coronavirus, health experts say  the fresh surge points to the large proportion of population still susceptible to the infection. While the current surge in daily new cases in Delhi might appear to be a second wave, public health experts say the surge might be the outcome of the virus spreading to new areas across the capital after the lockdown was relaxed. “What we need ideally is a ward-by-ward analysis of new infections within cities — that will give a clearer picture of what is happening,” said Dileep Mavalankar, director of the Indian Institute of Public Health, Ahmedabad, and an infectious disease epidemiologist. Mavalankar and other senior epidemiologists have predicted that the virus will continue to spread across the country from cities into towns and villages until the population is protected through herd immunity — either through natural infections or through vaccines. Some epidemiologists have estimated that herd immunity — a situation in which so many people are infected that they pose barriers to the spread of the virus — is likely to emerge when about 60 per cent of a population is infected. Population surveys in several cities have pointed to infection prevalence of up to 30 per cent although in Dharavi, a pocket of Mumbai, a survey had detected an infection prevalence of 58 per cent. “In Dharavi, the number of new cases has fallen sharply,” Mavalankar said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-690
04-09-2020||India||Eye on China, blanket scan on university pacts||The Centre has sought details of all the agreements Indian universities have signed with foreign institutions, with some professors and government officials suggesting the objective is to scrutinise the academic collaborations with Chinese universities. Senior JNU academic A.K. Mohapatra — a former ABVP member and trenchant critic of the Left — said China had been using its universities’ collaborations with Indian institutions to build a constituency in its favour among Indian academics and thus protect its business interests. Instructed by the Centre, the UGC on Thursday asked universities to inform it by September 15 about all the memorandums of understanding (MoUs) they had signed with foreign institutions. “In view of directions received from ministry of human resource development, all Indian universities are requested to provide information regarding the memorandum of understanding signed by them with foreign higher educational institutions,” the notice, signed by UGC secretary Rajnish Jain, said. Recently, the education ministry had asked several universities for the details of the Chinese study centres and Confucius institutions on their campuses. These centres are funded by the Chinese and promote their language and culture, among other activities. The UGC notice comes at a time when India has banned scores of Chinese apps, placed riders on foreign direct investment with an eye on China, and dropped Chinese as a foreign language for schoolchildren. “The UGC will collect details about all MoUs. The details of China-specific MoUs can be looked into,” a government official, who did not wish to be quoted, said. Mohapatra, dean of JNU’s School of International Studies, said that “90 per cent” of the MoUs between Indian and Chinese institutions were the result of Chinese initiative. The usual approach is to invite an Indian academic to China for a seminar, he said. “After the seminar, they privately discuss the idea of academic collaboration. The academic is provided with good hospitality,” he said. “When he comes back, he pursues the proposals for collaboration towards student and faculty exchange, joint research and the like.” Mohapatra said Beijing wanted foreign policy relations with New Delhi to remain unaffected by the border irritants because it had plans for business expansion in India. “China’s main objective behind the university collaborations is to create a constituency among academics to further its various interests. It also wants to isolate India from western countries — anti-America sentiments already exist among sections of Indian academics,” he said. “India is a major market for Chinese goods. So, whenever there’s a government plan to take a strong stand on China, (Beijing wants) protests here. These collaborations serve that purpose.” Navnita Chaddha Behera, a political science professor with Delhi University, however, cautioned against any “blanket approach” towards academic collaborations with Chinese institutions. “Collaborations depend on domains. Many are related to science, culture studies. One should see if they are for the advantage of both sides,” she said. “I would caution against a blanket approach. Sometimes these collaborations do help in back-channel diplomacy when formal diplomatic engagements break down.” Agreements for exchange programmes between Indian and Chinese institutions have been under the government’s radar for the past few months. Last October, the UGC had written to all universities saying they must secure clearances from the foreign and home ministries before signing any agreements with Chinese institutions for academic exchange. “Many institutions had before that signed MoUs with Chinese institutions — now the government will know about all those agreements,” a former vice-chancellor with a central university said, requesting not to be named. Asked whether the UGC could seek such information, given that universities were supposed to enjoy autonomy over their academic activities, he said it could. “The UGC is the funding agency — it can always ask for these details,” he said. The government’s current attitude towards China is reflected in the recently approved National Education Policy’s move to drop Chinese from the list of foreign languages that can be taught in schools. NEP 2020 says that “in addition to high-quality offerings in Indian languages and English, foreign languages such as Korean, Japanese, Thai, French, German, Spanish, Portuguese and Russian will also be offered at the secondary level....” This is different from what the draft NEP submitted by an expert committee last year had said: “A choice of foreign language(s) (e.g. French, German, Spanish, Chinese, Japanese) would be offered... during secondary school.” The NEPs of 1968 and 1986 — which was modified in 1992 — did not cover the teaching of foreign languages.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-690
04-09-2020||India||Jammu and Kashmir domicile certificates for 12,000 ‘outsiders’  ||More than 12,000 “outsiders” are among the 12.5 lakh people who have received domicile certificates in Jammu and Kashmir under the new domicile laws for the fledgling Union Territory. Government spokesperson Rohit Kansal has said that 99 per cent of these certificates have been issued to erstwhile holders of permanent resident certificates (PRCs). Most people in Jammu and Kashmir view the remaining one per cent as “outsiders”, and believe that the Muslim-majority state’s special status was scrapped so that these “outsiders” can be settled there to change its demography. Tensions had been flaring in the Valley and Jammu over reports that many “outsiders” had received domicile certificates. Kansal’s news conference was held to calm tempers through claims that most of these certificates had gone to erstwhile PRC holders. Till Article 370 was abrogated on August 5 last year, the permanent residents enjoyed exclusive rights over land and government jobs in the erstwhile state. But new laws introduced in May this year have thrown open the possibility of domicile being granted to certain categories of the other residents. The possession of a domicile certificate is now an eligibility condition for appointment to any Union Territory government post in Jammu and Kashmir. The government has taken a slew of measures in recent months to speed up the process of granting domicile certificates to applicants, including a five-day deadline for their issuance. “About 12.5 lakh domicile certificates have been issued so far. Over 99 per cent of those issued certificates include erstwhile PRCs, including Kashmiri Pandit migrants,” Kansal told the news conference on Tuesday. He said the remaining one per cent included 11,398 refugees from the erstwhile West Pakistan, 415 members of the Valmiki community and 10 from the Gorkha community. Among the 99 per cent are 12,340 registered migrants, who are apparently Kashmiri Pandits living in Jammu and outside. The refugees from West Pakistan have been living in Jammu and Kashmir for decades but were not entitled to permanent resident certificates as they had come from territory outside Pakistan-occupied Kashmir. Unlike them, tens of thousands of refugees from PoK received permanent resident certificates and were fully absorbed into the system. Some other “outsiders”, including senior IAS officer Navin Choudhary who is from Bihar, too have received domicile certificates but their number is not known.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-691
04-09-2020||India||Ladakh passes resolution to safeguard jobs and land for locals||The BJP-led Ladakh Hill Development Council in Leh passed a resolution on Thursday seeking safeguards for Ladakhis over land, employment and other opportunities, dealing a blow to the party’s integration theory. A source in the council said the resolution was tantamount to seeking Ladakh exclusively for Ladakhis, although it did not say so explicitly. When the special status of Jammu and Kashmir, of which Ladakh was then a part, was revoked last year, the BJP had argued the provision — which reserved land and jobs for local people — was hindering the state’s full integration with the rest of the country. Now, with Article 370 revoked, the Ladakhis have sought similar safeguards under Article 371, which grants special privileges to the residents of some Indian states. “Keeping in view the aspirations of the people of Ladakh, I would like to move the resolution that the Union Territory of Ladakh be granted constitutional safeguards for land, environment, employment, business and cultural resources either under 6th schedule, or under Article 371 or domicile act under Constitution of India to protect the tribal rights of the indigenous people of Ladakh,” the resolution said. When the Union Territory of Ladakh was carved out of Jammu and Kashmir last year, its Buddhist minority had cheered the decision. But it has since been raising concerns over the region’s identity and environment. In Hindu-majority Jammu, too, many have objected to “outsiders” being allowed to take up government jobs and buy land. In November, Ladakhi environmentalist and Magsaysay Award winner Sonam Wangchuk had voiced fears about the rise of a separatist movement in Ladakh, claiming Ladakhis were beginning to compare their treatment by India to that of Tibetans by China. Thursday’s resolution was moved by the deputy chairman of the council, who is from the BJP, and seconded by three other members. “It was unanimously passed with all parties supporting it,” a source said. Sources said 30 councillors, including six from the Congress, had participated in the meeting. Also present was the BJP parliamentarian from Ladakh, Jamyang Tsering Namgyal. He welcomed the resolution. The resolution said Ladakh’s distinct cultural aspects, strategic location and fragile ecosystem were the reasons Ladakhis from all sections of society were seeking “constitutional safeguards” for the protection of their land, employment, environment, business and culture. Ladakh’s Muslims, who enjoy a slender majority, had fiercely opposed the scrapping of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status and its division into two Union Territories.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-691
04-09-2020||India||Houses for sale over UP police ‘harassment’||At least 20 families in a western Uttar Pradesh village have pasted notices on their doors saying their houses are for sale, claiming they want to leave the state because of harassment by Yogi Adityanath’s police. Ironically, Adityanath had during the 2017 Assembly poll campaign alleged that people were fleeing their homes in western Uttar Pradesh for fear of criminals from a particular community, and promised to end the atmosphere of fear if voted to power. Residents who want to sell their homes in village Gangnauli, in the Baraut area of Baghpat district, say the police have been booking their family members in false cases to meet arrest targets. These residents are from multiple castes and communities, and make up nearly a fifth of the village’s 100-odd families. “The police have terrorised the area. Adityanath had promised us security but as chief minister, he has been torturing people on the plea of maintaining law and order,” Satveer Rathi, husband of village panchayat chief Sudeshna Rathi, told reporters on Thursday. “The police picked up my son Praveen from our fields on August 30 and later claimed he had been arrested from the highway while trying to escape. They shot and injured him, then framed him in a false case claiming they had seized a country-made pistol from him.” Rathi added: “This has happened with many families in the area. We have written to the chief minister several times to protect us but he has ignored our appeal.” Baraut circle officer Alok Singh dismissed the allegations as “false”. “There are five cases against Praveen. One of his brothers, Pramod, is also a criminal and is in hiding. Another brother, Ravi, is lodged in Agra jail and is awaiting trial,” Singh said. He said Praveen faced robbery charges; Ravi was an accused in an attempt-to-murder case; and Pramod was a rowdy facing charges of assault and violence. Rathi claimed that all the cases against his sons were false. “The police want to frame every youth of the area. We have come to know that each inspector has been set a target to arrest 20 youths,” another villager said, requesting anonymity. “This is because we don’t support the BJP in elections.” Gangnauli falls under Chhaprauli Assembly constituency, which has been voting for the Rashtriya Lok Dal since 2002. However, the BJP has been winning the Lok Sabha constituency, Baghpat, since 2014. Allegations of random arrests to meet targets have come also from a few other places in Baghpat, Muzaffarnagar and Shamli districts, all in western Uttar Pradesh. So far, the allegations have not reflected any communal or caste angle.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-691
04-09-2020||India||Chinese outfit faces tighter visa scrutiny ||India has ordered tougher scrutiny of visa requests by a Chinese non-profit headed by a senior official of the ruling communist party, designating it as an entity of concern in a broader security sweep, sources involved in the matter say. The closer monitoring of the Chinese Association for International Understanding (CAIFU) comes at a time when India and China are locked in their most serious border dispute in more than half a century. The latest step also follows tougher scrutiny of Chinese cultural and language institutions such as Confucius Institutes in the US and partnerships in Australia. Indian officials say the well-resourced Beijing-based group is tied to the Communist Party Central Committee’s United Front Work Department, which runs influence operations outside China by cultivating leaders, members of think tanks and the media. In an internal memo, the Union government has listed the body as an entity of concern, signalling that its activities could run counter to national interests, said two officials aware of the matter. The new category means that the body’s representatives, or groups it backs, will face a security clearance procedure before visas can be issued, said the officials, who sought anonymity because they were not authorised to speak in public. “Visa requests will be looked at very closely, whether it is think-tankers, businessmen,” one of them added. China’s foreign ministry said the association, headed by Ji Bingxuan, vice-chair of China’s largely rubber stamp parliament, the National People’s Congress, was a non-profit engaged in friendly interaction with social bodies from all countries. “It aims to promote mutual understanding and friendship between the Chinese people and people from all over the world, including India,” a ministry representative said in response to a Reuters query. “It also strives to promote the exchange between cultures and civilisations.” Organisations such as the India-China Economic and Cultural Council based in Beijing that have been sponsoring visas for CAIFU will also be subject to security clearances. The move is part of a broader investigation into Chinese activities in India as political ties sour. “We do know that the government is looking at various China-related outfits operating in India,” said Jayadeva Ranade, a China specialist formerly with the Research and Analysis Wing, India’s external intelligence service. Last month, US secretary of state Mike Pompeo said the centre that manages Chinese government-funded Confucius Institutes in the US would have to register as a  foreign mission.CAIFU has traditionally been headed by a high-ranking Chinese leader, such as a current or former vice-chair of the National People’s Congress. Its board comprises a current, and two former, vice ministers from the communist party’s International Liaison Department. “It has a lot of resources at its disposal, intended to win friends and reduce risk for China abroad,” said Srikanth Kondapalli, a China studies expert at Jawaharlal Nehru University in New Delhi. A Chinese professor, however, said the new move would make little difference as India has traditionally been strict in handing visas to Chinese scholars and organisations. “I think the Indian move is more to appease domestic nationalism than a real security threat about Chinese spies,” said Zhang Jiadong, director of the Center for South Asian Studies at Fudan University in Shanghai.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-691
04-09-2020||India||Congress piles economy heat on Modi, Nirmala||The Congress on Thursday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi and finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had lost the moral right to continue in office even “for a moment” for destroying the economy, which threatens to push over 40 crore people below the poverty line. Rahul Gandhi persisted with his charge that the informal or unorganised sector was being destroyed deliberately to hand over the “advantage to India’s biggest billionaires”, adding that the November 2016 demonetisation was the first major step towards that. Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala said: “Why has the Prime Minister not spoken on the economic crisis so far, even as the quarterly growth has dipped to -23.9 per cent. Will feeding peacocks and changing clothes for photo shoots revive the economy?” He added: “Both the Prime Minister and the finance minister have lost the moral right to continue in office (even) for a moment. There were timely warnings of an economic tsunami but they refused to pay heed. They rejected suggestions given by Nobel laureates, economists, experts, the Congress president, Manmohan Singh, Rahul Gandhi…. They made fun of Rahul Gandhi when he warned against the corona pandemic and the economic devastation. Time to rise from the shackles of this ruinous government and rediscover the aspirations and hopes of India.” Rahul, who on Thursday released the second episode of his video series on the economy, tweeted: “Modi’s cashless India was actually India devoid of labourers, farmers and small businesses. The (demonetisation) card played at 8pm on November 8, 2016, delivered its dreadful result on August 31, 2020 (when the grim economic data were released).” The former Congress president explained in the video: “Demonetisation was an attack on India’s poor, its farmers, labourers and small shopkeepers. Demonetisation was an attack on India’s unorganised economy.” Recalling the debilitating shock that demonetisation delivered to the country, Rahul said: “The first question: Did it erase black money? No. Secondly, what was the benefit of demonetisation for the poor people of India? The answer is — nothing. So, who got the benefit? The advantage was given to India’s biggest billionaires. How? The money that you had in your pockets, that you had in your homes was taken and used by the government to waive the debts of these people. But that was just one goal.” He added: “The second goal was to wipe out cash from the system. Our informal sector, which is the sector of the unorganised economy, runs on cash. Whether it is a small shopkeeper, farmer or labourer, he or she works with cash. The Prime Minister himself said that he wanted a cashless India, a cashless Hindustan. “However, if there is cashless India, the informal sector will be destroyed. Farmers, labourers, small shopkeepers, small and medium businesses who are dependent on cash, those who cannot live without cash, suffered.” Surjewala said the Modi government now faced a severe “confidence deficit”. “Ask the micro, small and medium enterprises and they will tell you that neither do the banks extend loans or financial assistance nor does the words of the finance minister have any weight. Banks have no faith in the government and the government has no faith in the RBI. States have no faith in the central government. An atmosphere of distrust is prevailing. By denying the GST compensation, the Centre has pushed the states into serious crisis. They are creating conditions for a financial emergency.” Sitharaman earlier this week projected the pandemic as an “act of God” while announcing the Centre’s decision to disclaim its responsibility of compensating states for GST shortfalls. Surjewala reeled off critical statistical details: “The International Labour Organisation has said 40 crore Indians are being pushed below the poverty line. In the middle of this economic depredation, 80 lakh people were forced to withdraw Rs 30,000 crore from their EPFO accounts. The Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE) has reported 2 crore salaried people lost their jobs between April and July 2020. “In the unorganised sector, 10 crore jobs were lost during the lockdown. Out of 6.3 crore MSME units in the country, only one-fourth are able to operate at 50 per cent of their capacity. The rest are lying closed or are on the verge of permanent closure.” The Congress spokesperson pointed out that the State Bank of India’s latest report, released on September 1, had predicted that the GDP growth for 2020-21 would be -10.9 per cent. “The government should stop the business of lies and falsehood, in addition to curbing the tendency of diverting the people’s attention by using pliable television channels. It should realise the gravity of the crisis and pay heed to sane advice on how to revive the economy,” Surjewala said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-691
04-09-2020||India||Bar on Netflix documentary on business ‘bad boys’||The release of a Netflix series on four Indian tycoons facing fraud allegations has been put on hold following a state court order, two sources said on Thursday, in the latest legal tussle faced by the US streaming giant in a key market. The Bad Boy Billionaires: India documentary series about liquor tycoon Vijay Mallya, Subrata Roy of the Sahara group, founder and former head of Satyam Computer Services Ramalinga Raju and jeweller Nirav Modi was set for release this week. The Araria district court in eastern Bihar last week ordered a stay on its release after the Sahara group argued it would damage Roy’s reputation, according to a copy of the order which is not public but was seen by Reuters on Thursday. The court order said the series “would certainly damage the reputation of the head of the Sahara family”. Roy is currently on bail in a case where he has been ordered to repay billions of dollars to investors of a scheme run by Sahara which was found to be illegal. Netflix had sought to appeal against the directive in the Supreme Court but was directed by judges on Wednesday to approach a higher state court first, the two sources with knowledge of the matter said. ”Netflix is currently deliberating what to do — the show’s release is absolutely on hold,” said one of the sources. Netflix declined to comment. The company counts India as a key growth market but its shows there have faced court cases and police complaints for obscenity or for hurting sentiments. On Thursday, Netflix’s website did not show a trailer or episodes of Bad Boy Billionaires, but described it as an “investigative docuseries (which) explores the greed, fraud and corruption that built up — and ultimately brought down — India’s most infamous tycoons”. Raju, who was accused of a $-1billion accounting fraud more than a decade ago, has also secured an order from another state’s court against the show’s release, the sources said. Modi is facing extradition attempts by India after his arrest in London last year for alleged involvement in a $-2billion bank fraud, while Mallya too is in Britain fighting India’s extradition bid for alleged fraud at his now defunct Kingfisher Airlines. It was not clear if Modi or Mallya have filed petitions against the release of the series.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-691
04-09-2020||India||Selective iron fist foils PDP meeting||The administration on Thursday scuttled the People’s Democratic Party’s first scheduled meeting since last year’s abrogation of Article 370 by preventing its leadership from attending it, indicating its iron-fist policy against some parties might continue. The government’s move was in stark contrast to its decision to allow the PDP’s rival, the National Conference, to hold a meeting last month after a year’s suspension of political activity. The BJP had been an ally of the PDP in Jammu and Kashmir for three years before withdrawing its support to the Mehbooba Mufti government in 2018. Mehbooba later fiercely opposed the plans to scrap the then state’s special status, warning that Delhi would not find anyone in Kashmir willing to hold up the national flag if Articles 370 or 35A were touched. After the government allowed the National Conference meeting, the PDP had decided to test the waters and announce its own meeting on Thursday despite the absence of the jailed Mehbooba. Although some of the party’s lower-rung leaders turned up at the party headquarters in Srinagar, the government prevented the senior leaders from moving out of their homes. The party released videos showing security forces stopping leaders from leaving their homes. Mehbooba’s daughter Iltija Mufti, who operates her mother’s Twitter account, hit out at the government for singling out the PDP. “Shameful that J&K admin along with police physically prevented PDP leaders from leaving their homes in Srinagar today. They shamelessly lie to courts that these people are free to move & then have the audacity to detain them illegally at home,” Iltija tweeted. Several PDP leaders are said to be under house arrest although the administration has repeatedly denied the claim. Government spokesperson Rohit Kansal did not respond to calls and text messages from this newspaper. The National Conference had called its meeting to try and test a government claim in court that no political leader was under house arrest. The government did let National Conference leaders meet the Abdullahs, former chief ministers Farooq and Omar, thus allowing the meeting to take place. Mehbooba’ party, however, continues to be in the crosshairs of the government, apparently for her “anti-national remarks” and starker public opposition to the developments of August 5, 2019. PDP leaders said that hours ahead of the scheduled meeting, the police had told them not to leave their homes. Party general secretary Ghulam Nabi Lone said the meeting had to be cancelled. “It seems the government is scared of us,” he said. The party said it had earlier written to the divisional commissioner for Kashmir, inspector-general of police (IGP) for Kashmir, IGP security, Srinagar deputy commissioner, Srinagar senior superintendent of police (SSP) and the SSP security informing them about the scheduled meeting but received no response. “We had pledged to ensure compliance with the Covid-19 protocol but were not allowed (to hold the meeting),” Lone said. Recently, the National Conference and other parties had taken a joint public pledge to fight for restoration of Article 370.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-691
04-09-2020||India||Delhi Riots book authors file police complaint||The authors of the controversial book, Delhi Riots 2020: The Untold Story, filed a complaint with the police on Thursday against publishing house Bloomsbury, some media organisations and noted individuals, alleging cheating, mischief, misappropriation of property and criminal intimidation by them. The authors met Delhi commissioner of police S.N. Shrivastava with their complaint and sought “immediate and necessary action” against those named in it. The complaint accused professor Nandini Sundar and news portals The Print and Newslaundry of “illegal receipt and retention of stolen property”, and several individuals, including historian William Dalrymple and author Aatish Taseer, of “criminal intimidation and (making) statements creating and promoting enmity, hatred, and ill will between classes”. The book, authored by advocate Monika Arora and professors Sonali Chitalkar and Prerna Malhotra, got embroiled in a controversy for inviting BJP leader Kapil Mishra as a guest of honour on its launch on August 22. There have been allegations that several leaders, including Mishra, made inflammatory speeches targeting anti-citizenship law protesters before the violence broke out in northeast Delhi on February 23. Bloomsbury, after facing a backlash on social media, withdrew itself from the book, saying the virtual launch was “organised without its knowledge”. The book found a new publishing house in Garuda Prakashan the next day. According to the complaint signed by Arora, Bloomsbury “wilfully with dishonest intentions expunged her work and also leaked a PDF version of the book in public to hamper any future sales”. “The present complaint seeks investigation... for being the publisher of my authored book and having deliberately, wilfully with dishonest intentions expunged my work, effort and skill thereby diminishing my goodwill, reputation and standing, without my knowledge and consent rescinded from performing its obligations under the terms of the agreement dated 29.5.2020 and leaked a PDF version of the book in public to hamper any future sales,” the complaint said. In the complaint, Arora claimed that a “venomous campaign” emerged on the social media and a “group of individuals/ propagandists”, whom she referred to as “Urban Naxal Gang”, “conspired and went all out to kill the book by pressurizing, intimidating, bullying and blackmailing the publishers”. She also put out tweets by activist Saket Gokhale, along with journalist Arfa Khanum Sherwani and poet Meena Kandasamy, all named in the complaint, alleging that they were congratulating one another for being able to put a stop on the release of the book. The complaint also accused The Quint and NewsLaundry and Sundar for critiquing the book and attempting to discredit the authors’ work based on a leaked or “stolen” PDF copy of the book. Taseer tweeted:  “I’m actually glad this has happened. This should remove all doubt, in anyone’s mind, that these were not independent writers at all, but a state-sponsored syndicate, dedicated to whitewashing the role of certain BJP leaders in the Delhi Riots.” “This complaint is a joke. But the one I file about the contents of the book with DGP Maharashtra won’t be,” tweeted Gokhale.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-691
04-09-2020||West Bengal||No Question Hour in the upcoming monsoon session of Bengal Assembly, says Speaker||There will be no Question Hour during the upcoming two-day monsoon session of the Bengal Assembly due to "paucity of time and the Covid-19 situation", Speaker Biman Banerjee said on Friday. The BJP has termed it as "double standard" of the Trinamool Congress, which had earlier called the decision to not have Question Hour during the upcoming Parliament session a "murder of democracy". Other major opposition parties in the state, the Congress and the CPI(M), however, said they will comment on the decision only after they are officially informed about it. "We have decided that there will be no Question Hour during the two-day monsoon session, scheduled to begin on September 9, due to paucity of time and the Covid-19 situation. "Having Question Hour will mean prolonging the session for which the MLAs will have to stay back for a longer period. We do not want that during this pandemic situation," Banerjee said. Senior Congress leader Abdul Mannan, also the leader of the Opposition in the Assembly, said he will comment only after he is officially informed about it. BJP Legislative Party leader Manoj Tigga said the decision reflects the "double standard of the TMC". "The TMC is demanding Question Hour during the upcoming Parliament session, scheduled to be held from September 14 to October 1, but it has decided not to include it in the Assembly proceedings in Bengal. This is nothing but double standard of the party," he said. The speaker had earlier announced that the monsoon session of the Assembly will be held from September 9 in strict compliance with the ICMR's guidelines and every person entering the premises during the period, including lawmakers, journalists and House staffers, will have to undergo Covid-19 tests. The seating arrangement for the MLAs has been made in adherence to social distancing norms and no visitor will be allowed inside the House during the two-day session, he had said. The state government had last week sent a proposal to the speaker to convene the monsoon session either from the first or the second week of September, sources said. "As per the norms, there cannot be a gap of more than six months between two Assembly sessions. The previous session was adjourned sine die in March. So, the next session will have to be held by September," a senior TMC leader said. The 294-member Bengal Assembly was adjourned on March 17, when the budget session was curtailed due to the Covid-19 outbreak.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-388
04-09-2020||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly session on September 9 and 10||The Bengal Assembly will meet for a short duration on September 9 and 10, Speaker Biman Banerjee said on Thursday. Every individual entering the Assembly premises will have to undergo a rapid antigen test for coronavirus, Banerjee added. The last session of the Assembly was adjourned on March 17 because of the outbreak of Covid-19. “However, in the constitutional framework, a House has to meet once in six months. After much deliberations, the Speaker decided to call for a ‘token session’ before the six months of time span expires,” said a source. An all-party session and the meeting of the Business Advisory committee will be held on September 8, when a decision will be taken on what issues will be discussed in the Assembly. Banerjee emphasised that the session would be held abiding by all kinds of social distancing protocol. Lawmakers, employees and journalists will be tested for Covid-19. “We have arranged for these tests on September 8 and 9. If there are still some people left, they will be tested on the 10th. Only those testing negative will be allowed on the premises,” Banerjee said. The test results will be out in half an hour. “We have estimated that around 250 to 300 people will be coming to the Assembly on these two days,” Banerjee told The Telegraph. “All 294 MLAs don’t turn up every day. The number of lawmakers is 140 maximum,” he added. MLAs will be allowed to enter 10 minutes in advance so that they can locate their seats. Sources said the seating arrangement inside the House would be rearranged to leave a considerable gap between two lawmakers. There are plans to use the audience and gallery areas as well. However, Opposition leaders expressed concern over the short span of time for the Assembly session. “Technically, the session will be of a single day since the first day will be spent to pay tributes to departed souls,” said CPM lawmaker Sujan Chakraborty reminding that the Assembly normally sat for three weeks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-388
04-09-2020||West Bengal||Bar on sea bathing in Digha||A five-day bar on sea bathing as a precaution against the rough sea has been clamped in East Midnapore’s Digha where tourist rush has given lockdown-weary hoteliers a reason to smile. The department of disaster management and civil defence on September 1 alerted the administration of seven south Bengal districts, including East Midnapore, to high tidal waves exceeding 19 feet — about the height of a double-storey building — lashing the coastal belt between Wednesday and Sunday. The administration barred tourists from venturing into the sea till September 6. Ever since Unlock 1 rolled out on May 31, tourists have been flocking to seaside resorts in East Midnapore. The rush increased since August 15. As high tidal waves, which usually occur during full moon and new moon nights, are likely to lash the coastal belt over the weekend because of the full moon, the administration did not want to take chances. “The state disaster management department has alerted us that the sea is expected to remain rough till September 6. The rush of tourists to the sea resorts increases during the weekends. To avoid any loss of lives, we have imposed a ban on bathing in the sea till September 6. We are conducting a campaign to alert tourists to the dangers of venturing into the sea,” said Ramnagar-I BDO Bishnupada Roy. “Every monsoon at least 25-30 tourists die as they try to be adventurous and venture into the rough sea. This year there has been only one death at Tajpur. We do not want unnecessary loss of lives,” said officer-in-charge of Digha police station Krishnendu Pradhan. He said as Digha was slowly getting back to its normal self, the administration was extra careful about safety. Hoteliers are also concerned about tourist safety. Joint secretary of the Digha-Shankarpur Hoteliers’ Association Bipradas Chakrabarty said: “All hotels are up and running because of the rush of tourists since mid-August. As more buses have been running on the route since Unlock 4 was announced, we expected a rush this weekend. People tend to love a rough sea. As far as bookings go, this weekend will be no different. We want to make the most of the situation as we have suffered because of the lockdown. However, we want people to stay safe.” Schoolteacher Soumen Konar, walking on the seaside with his family, said: “We have come to enjoy the beauty of a rough sea. But we need to be safe. Too much adventure may end in tragedy.” As a government vehicle zipped past telling people about the sea bathing ban, he said: “That’s good.” Fishermen have been asked to stay away from the rough sea, deputy director, department of fisheries (marine), Surajit Bagh said. The administration is also evacuating people from the low-lying areas near the sea.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-388
04-09-2020||West Bengal||Calcutta High Court case on animal killings||Calcutta High Court on Thursday started a suo motu case on killings of elephants, bison and birds in north Bengal forests. A division bench headed by Chief Justice T.B.N. Radhakrishnan observed that such incidents would have to be stopped immediately. The court directed the registrar general of the court to make principal secretary, forest, chief conservator of forests and all other officers concerned parties to the case. The forest department was also asked to file a comprehensive report on the killings and the problems it was facing in tackling the issue. As a few elephants had been electrocuted in the recent past, the bench also directed that the West Bengal State Electricity Distribution Corporation be made a party to the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-388
04-09-2020||West Bengal||NEET: Missing boy back home, kin blame stress||The NEET aspirant who had gone missing two days ago from Belghoria returned home on Thursday morning. Rakshit Mittal, 20, had disappeared from his Belghoria home on Tuesday on a two-wheeler that was found in Murshidabad’s Beldanga on Wednesday, sparking kidnap fears. He was just stressed because of his medical entrance test on September 13, his family members said on Thursday. Late on Wednesday, the youth called up his parents to tell them that he was in Siliguri and had boarded a Calcutta-bound bus, police sources said. His family received him as he alighted from the bus near the airport on Thursday morning. His uncle Dinesh Mittal said: “His father wants him to study medicine. As he had failed to clear the exam twice, he was under stress. He left home unable to bear the burden of his father’s expectations.” An officer of Barrackpore police commissionerate said: “He only had Rs 1,500 on him. Reaching Siliguri, he feared running out of money and decided to inform his mother.” Rakshit’s family took him to Barrackpore police commissioner Manoj Verma, who offered the youth chocolates and advised him not to leave home again and share his concerns with his parents.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-388
04-09-2020||West Bengal||Deadline to issue 8 lakh farm credit cards||The Bengal government has asked banks to issue 7.89 lakh kisan credit cards (KCC) by September 15 as part of its bid to stand by small and marginal farmers in the midst of the Covid-19 pandemic. State finance and industry minister Amit Mitra said on Thursday that the target had been given to the banks — both public and private sector — as the state government was keen on issuing 20 lakh KCCs by September 15 this year. “Already 12.11 lakh cards were issued between June 1 and August 31 because of consistent efforts by the state government as well as the banks. We have asked the PSU banks, cooperative banks and regional rural banks (RRBs) during an SLBC (state level bankers committee) meeting on Thursday to issue remaining cards by September 15,” said Mitra. Issuance of over 12 lakh KCCs in three months — a record if compared with past numbers maintained in the agriculture department — during the pandemic holds significance for two reasons, said the economist-turned-politician. First, it would ensure that lakhs of farmers don’t face trouble to invest in the kharif season as they would be eligible for bank loans and it would minimise their dependence on local money lenders, who often lend money at a much higher rate during the pandemic. Second, it would ensure that employment opportunities don’t shrink in the agriculture sector at a time when earning a livelihood has become a problem for many in the rural areas because of the pandemic. “Before June 1 this year, a total of 35 lakh KCCs were issued in the state so far. With the issuance of 12.11 lakh KCCs, the figure has reached 47.11 lakh. If we achieve the target of issuing 20 lakh cards by September 15, a total of 55 lakh farmers would have KCCs, which will be a success,” said a senior official. If 55 lakh farmers have KCCs, officials said, majority of the small and marginal farmers in the state would be covered. “The state has a total of 72 lakh farmers. About 10 lakh farmers don’t need bank loans as they are financially stable. If 55 lakh farmers are covered by KCC, it will be an achievement and it would leave a positive impact on the agriculture sector,” said an official. The agriculture department officials believe that if the majority of the farmers are eligible for bank loans, they could be encouraged to go for diversification like cultivation of pulses, instead of potato surplus production of which often leaves farmers in trouble. Diversification boosts farmers’ earnings and creates a direct impact in the rural economy, which further boosts aggregate demand and results in higher growth numbers. The finance minister said achieving the target of issuing a total of 20 lakh cards by September 15 was not difficult. “It is very much possible as 5.5 lakh applications are pending with the banks. Another 2.6 lakh applications have been rejected citing lack of documentations. The district magistrates would look after the rejected applications and the banks have been asked to clear the pending applications by September 15,” said Mitra. As part of augmenting rural income, the state government is also laying stress on bringing farmers associated with pisciculture and animal resources development under the KCC net. Sources said the state government monitored the process of issuing KCCs during the pandemic with due seriousness to ensure that the rural economy did not face the brunt of the economic slowdown that has become a nation-wide phenomenon. “If many of the farmers, particularly the small and marginal ones, were unable to cultivate plots, it would have spelt a disaster in the rural economy. No ruling party would like to face a situation like this ahead of the Assembly polls, as 72 lakh families directly associated with farming holds the key to electoral success in Bengal,” a source said. The finance minister also said that a sum of Rs 15,404 crore had been disbursed as loan to MSME sector between April 1 and June 30, which is also an achievement as a large part of the period fell during the nation-wide lockdown. Besides, the state government has set a target for the banks to disburse loans of Rs 15,000 crore to the self-help groups in the ongoing financial year, while a total of Rs 9,225 crore was disbursed last year. “All these are efforts to help the downtrodden people during the pandemic. The target is to ensure that the rural economy does not take a hit because of the pandemic,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-388
04-09-2020||West Bengal||Over 45,000 tests in a day, active cases fall||Bengal on Thursday went past 20 lakh tests with a record 45,291 tests in 24 hours, taking the state past 500 tests per million people in a day. Bengal logged 3,335 recoveries in 24 hours till 9am on Thursday, much more than the 2,984 new infections in the same span. The toll, however, rose by 55, and 15 of those deaths occurred in Calcutta. With this, total number of cases in Bengal is 1.71 lakh, of which recoveries are over 1.44 lakh and deaths 3,394. Bengal’s recovery rate is 84.02 now, much ahead of the national rate of 77.21 per cent. Having begun testing in early February, it took Bengal six months to get to 10 lakh tests on August 5, and from there, crossing 20 lakh took 29 days, the latest lakh in two days. The tests per million is now 22,453, which was 10,630 even a month ago. “This is a tremendous achievement. Till August 5, we had 10.03 lakh tests. Today, we have nearly 20.21 lakh. Our daily testing is past 45,000,” said a minister. “The World Health Organisation’s advisory specifies a daily minimum of 140 tests per million. A month ago, Bengal was at 245. Today, it is at 503.” With more testing, and relatively fewer new cases found over the past 11 days, positive confirmation rate improved from 8.9 to 8.5 per cent. For the 11th consecutive day, the state reported a fall in total active cases, with more recoveries than new cases. The total active cases on August 23 was 28,069, and on Thursday it was 24,039. The five most high-incidence districts of Bengal — Calcutta, North and South 24-Parganas, Howrah and Hooghly — collectively recorded a fall, this time of 372, in their total of active cases. From 7,041 active cases of August 9, Calcutta improved to 4,178 on Thursday. Of the total deaths, 2,938 (86.6 per cent) were reported comorbid by the state government. The overall mortality rate stayed at 1.97, while the national rate is 1.74 per cent. Bengal reported 32.36 per cent occupancy of 12,275 Covid-19 beds in 90 hospitals. Telemedicine services have been provided to over 1.62 lakh, 4,257 of them in the past 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-388
04-09-2020||West Bengal||Bhutan’s phased unlock spells hope||The Bhutan government has decided to start relaxing the nationwide lockdown, prompting loud cheers among traders on the Indian side of the border. The neighbouring country’s move signals that cross-border trade, which had come to a grinding halt since August 11 when it clamped a total lockdown amid a sudden spike in Covid-19 cases, will resume. In Bhutan, the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) announced on August 31 — after 21 days of lockdown — that the government would initiate the unlock process from September 1 in three phases over 10 days, that is, till September 10. Curbs will continue in Phuentsholing, Gelephu, Sandrupjonkhar and Samtse, near the Indian border. “As of now, only a few trucks carrying petro fuels are entering Bhutan. There has been an improvement in the Covid situation in Bhutan and we hope unlocking will soon start in Phuentsholing that has been marked as a red zone,” said Rakesh Pandey, secretary, Jaigaon Hardware & Electrical Goods Merchants’ Association. “This would bring some respite for us as we can resume supplying goods to the country. There has been a decline in supplies in the hospitality sector as tourist movement stopped. But even then, supplies that the Bhutanese population need can at least help us survive.” Ramashankar Gupta, secretary of Jaigaon Merchants’ Association, pointed that easing of Bhutan lockdown could help them in another way. “Because of the lockdown, we could not deposit Bhutanese currency we have with us in the banks in Bhutan. Many of us are sitting with hordes of Bhutanese notes and cannot use them to make payments (in India). Now that there are indications of relaxation, we feel we can get over this problem,” said Gupta. According to trade statistics of Bhutan, goods worth over Rs 8,000 crore are traded between the countries in a year, and if electricity is included, the sum is over Rs 9,000 crore. “Of the total imports of Bhutan, 84 per cent is sent from India, and 74 per cent of Bhutan’s total exports are sent to India. This indicates the mutual dependence of both the nations,” said a trade expert. The release issued by the PMO in Bhutan states: “We will strengthen vigilance along our borders and ensure augmented safety for trading interactions. Special and additional measures will be introduced in the high risk areas to protect the community. Additional tier of protection to avoid spillage of the disease from high risk to lesser risk communities will be ensured.” Travel trade stakeholders are keeping fingers crossed. “We don’t know what is in store for us in this year,” said Biswajit Saha, secretary, Jaldapara Lodge Owners’ Association. The Tourism Council of Bhutan says over 2.3 lakh Indians had been to Bhutan last year. This is 73 per cent of the total number of tourists who visited the country from other nations, says the data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-388
04-09-2020||West Bengal||Fixed by villagers, road awaits fitness report ||A 20km-long stretch of Jibanti-Sherpur road, repaired for Rs 80 lakh raised by villagers, remains closed over an administrative bottleneck. Murshidabad district administration has refused to allow traffic there, citing the lack of an “inspection report”. The road that links the district to Rampurhat in Birbhum was closed to traffic since June 3 as the administration felt allowing traffic on the crater-ridden stretch would lead to accidents. The decision inconvenienced more than 1 lakh residents of the Jibanti-Sherpur area. When repeated pleas for repairs went in vain, villagers raised funds on their own, and repaired the road over a month ago. “The government was supposed to do what the people have done with their own funds,” a government official had admitted. But asked why the administration was not allowing the road to reopen, district police chief, Murshidabad, K. Sabari Rajkumar said: “We don’t have an engineer in police to certify whether the road is fit for movement of vehicles. We can’t allow heavy vehicles on the road without a (fitness) report.” Atanu Sen, executive engineer of the public works department, which usually issues fitness certificates after roads are repaired, declined to comment. “The administration has restricted movement of vehicles on that road. I have nothing to comment regarding Jibanti-Sherpur road,” said Sen. But people are livid. “Though the villagers spent Rs 80 lakh from their pockets, hired earthmoving machines and gave labour to repair the road a month ago, the stretch is closed because of administrative apathy,” said a member of the Jibanti-Sherpur Sarak Unnayan Committee, formed to raise funds and facilitate the repairs. Syed Mehboob Alam, secretary of the committee,  added: “Movement of vehicles was stopped as the road was full of potholes. Villagers repaired it with their own money, but a reluctant administration is not allowing vehicles to ply on the road. They can’t even cite a proper reason for the delay.” The villagers are livid as the administration sits on road inspection. “We met the executive engineer of the public works department and district police chief on Wednesday. They assured us that the road would be opened after an inspection. It is over a month since we finished repairing the road, but the dilemma over an inspection continues,” Alam added. Some villagers also accused the police of extorting from truck drivers at points from where vehicles are being diverted towards Moregram and Berhampore. “The delay to open the road is to ensure that the business of extortion can continue. The extortion amount ranges from Rs 4,000 to Rs 5,000 per truck,” said Komal Sheikh, a lorry owner and resident of Mahalandi village in Khargram.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-389
04-09-2020||West Bengal||Enforcement Directorate team visits Visva-Bharati ||A two-member team of the Enforcement Directorate on Thursday came here for a two-hour closed-door meeting with Visva-Bharati vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty and officiating registrar Ashok Mahato. The central agency that deals with economic offences was asked to probe the source of funds that had apparently been mobilised for the vandalism on varsity campus on August 17 over protests against a boundary wall on Pous Mela ground. “It was a closed-door meeting of ED officials with the VC and officiating registrar. They held preliminary discussions and said they would visit the campus again,” said a varsity official. Many see the involvement of the ED as an attempt by the Centre to nail the Trinamul, whose leaders, including MLA Naresh Bauri, were accused by the central varsity authorities of mobilising the mob on campus. ED sources in Calcutta said the team, consisting of officers of assistant director rank, visited Santiniketan to find out if there was a cognisable offence that merited a probe by the central agency. On their way back to Calcutta, the ED sleuths went to see the vandalised gate and the Pous Mela ground. However, the officials did not get down from their car. District police officers said the team did not inform them about the visit and neither did they meet cops of Santiniketan police station. The incident of vandalism happened in an area under the jurisdiction of the Santiniketan police station. Earlier, the ED had sent a letter to Birbhum police seeking copies of five FIRs lodged over the incident of vandalism and construction of a wall on Pous Mela ground. They had also sought action-taken reports in all the five complaints. Police sources said they were yet to send any such document to the central agency. “We have not sent any document related to the case as we are carrying out our own investigation,” said a senior police officer. Leaders of Bolpur Traders’ Association, who have been accused by Visva-Bharati of taking part in the vandalism, said the ED should find out whether the tender process to construct the boundary wall had been done properly. “If ED officials talk to us, we will request them to inquire into the tender process that was issued to construct the wall on the Pous Mela ground. The Rs 90-lakh tender was done without going through the stipulated process of e-tendering process. We will request the ED to look into the role of the varsity authorities, including its VC who is yet to return the security deposits worth Rs 1 crore of around 1,500 traders,” said Subrata Bhakat, treasurer of the traders’ association. The varsity had taken security deposits from traders for taking part in last year’s Pous Mela. In a related development, the contractor assigned to build the wall has submitted a report that he had suffered a loss of Rs 6 lakh because of the vandalism. The ED team of officers from the agency’s Calcutta office reached the varsity’s central office at 11.45am. After the meeting, they went to the Ratan Kuthi guest house and stayed there for an hour. The team left Santiniketan around 3pm. “After refreshments at the guest house, the team left Santiniketan and the varsity’s security personnel escorted the team up to the Birbhum border,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-389
04-09-2020||West Bengal||Acid splashed on Cooch Behar official||A former ration dealer walked into the office of the Cooch Behar district food controller and splashed acid on him on Thursday afternoon to avenge an old legal setback. Food controller Dawa Wangel Lama suffered serious burn injuries on his cheek and is under treatment now at the Cooch Behar Government Medical College & Hospital. Police arrested the attacker, Ashok Kumar Bansal, 60. Initial probe revealed Bansal, in the late 1980s, was a ration shop owner in Binnaguri of Jalpaiguri, and Lama the sub-controller of food in the district. Bansal then had run into problems with the state food and supplies department. Sources said that on Thursday Lama was working in his chamber when Bansal, who is from Hissar in Haryana, came to meet him. As Bansal entered Lama’s chamber, he asked the latter if he was “Mr Lama”. When the official nodded, Bansal immediately splashed acid on him and tried to escape. Lama raised an alert, prompting other employees to rush and intercept Bansal. A police team led by Soumyajit Roy, the inspector-in-charge of Kotwali police station, reached the spot and took Bansal into custody. Lama was rushed to the CGMCH. A police officer said that Bansal, as a ration dealer back in the 1980s, had filed a case against the state food and supplies department at Calcutta High Court. He lost the case against the department and filed another case in Punjab & Haryana High Court. He lost again. As the district food controller, who was a sub-controller of food then, was instrumental in getting the cases quashed, Lama became revengeful against the officer and took this step, the police officer added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-389
04-09-2020||West Bengal||Fatal mishap, suicide in Jalpaiguri||Sunil Roy, a 67-year-old resident of Karjipara village in Rajganj block of Jalpaiguri, hanged himself on Wednesday night, hours after his son Bikash, 46, died in a road accident. Sources said that Bikash had been walking home on a village road when he was hit by a pick-up van. He died on the spot. When his father heard the news, he rushed to the mishap site. After seeing his son dead, Sunil returned home and then hanged himself, sources said. The van is yet to be traced, police said. Wednesday’s double tragedy led to a protest by around 100 residents of the locality on Thursday, who demanded that civic volunteers should be engaged in the area to monitor traffic and speed-breakers placed to prevent such mishaps from recurring on the stretch. Around 1.30pm, Khageshwar Roy, the area’s Trinamul MLA, as well as the Rajganj block development officer and police station officer-in-charge pacified the crowd, and assured them that the demands would be looked into.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-389
04-09-2020||West Bengal||Binay camp writes to PM, CM on hill demands||Two top leaders of the Binay Tamang faction of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha have written separately to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee seeking their intervention for meeting two long-standing demands in the Darjeeling hills. The letters are being viewed as the Tamang camp’s attempt to establish itself as the voice of the people in the hills in the run up to the Bengal polls. Tamang has sent a letter to Modi seeking conferment of Scheduled Caste status on 11 communities in the hills. Anit Thapa, the general secretary of the faction and chairperson of the Board of Administrators of the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration, has sent a letter to Mamata requesting her to look into the demand raised by the contractual employees of GTA who want their jobs to be made permanent. “This approach is balanced... They can now claim that they take up the issues of the hills not only with the Centre but also with the Trinamul government. Trinamul and the Tamang camp are allies,” said an observer. In his letter to Modi, Tamang has mentioned that the demand to include the communities, namely, Bhujel, Gurung, Mangar, Newar, Jogi, Khas, Rai, Sunwar, Thami, Yakhha (Dewan) and Dhimal in the list of the ST according to The Constitutional (Scheduled Tribes) Order, 1950 under Article 342 of the Indian Constitution had been raised time and again. He has also pointed out that back in 2016, a committee was formed by the Union ministry of tribal affairs to look into the demand but what it did thereafter was not known to the people in the hills. For the past few years, the issue was time and again raised by hill parties before the BJP MPs who have been representing Darjeeling since 2009. The sudden missive from the Morcha to the Prime Minister is being considered as a strategy to put pressure on the BJP. “Like permanent political solution, this issue had also earned assurance from different quarters of the BJP. Now that the BJP is focussing on the Bengal Assembly elections, it seems the Tamang faction is trying to mount pressure on the party,” said a veteran in hill politics. Anit has told the Trinamul government that the demand of GTA employees should be considered. “In his letter, he has mentioned that since the days of the DGHC, temporary employees have been recruited by different departments. Their demand to make them permanent is old. The GTA has informed the state that it intends to give such appointments to them. However, no decision has reached the GTA from the state so far,” said a Morcha insider. In total, over 4,000 temporary employees work in four categories at the GTA and since Wednesday, they have been on a pen-down strike and it will continue till September 10 over the demand. The letter to Mamata, political analysts said, indicates that the Tamang faction also wants to prove that it, too, can mount pressure on its ally. Civic employees’ plea A group of casual employees of Darjeeling municipality met L.B. Rai, the president of Trinamul’s Darjeeling district committee (hills), requesting him to approach the state to make their jobs permanent. Rai said on Thursday that he had decided to meet Firhad Hakim, the state minister for municipal affairs and urban development in Calcutta, with a delegation of these employees. Additional reporting by Bireswar Banerjee||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-389
04-09-2020||West Bengal||Protests by BJP union in tea gardens||The Bharatiya Terai Dooars Workers’ Union (BTDWU), which is backed by the BJP, organised demonstrations in over 200 tea gardens in the plains of north Bengal on Thursday and raised a series of demands ranging from conferment of land rights on the residents of the plantations to fixing of minimum wages. This is the first time in recent months that the BJP has taken up such an activity in the brew belt of north Bengal, where the party performed well in the Lok Sabha elections last year. “We want tea companies to pay workers bonus at 20 per cent ahead of Durga Puja this year. Also, the Bengal government should see that other issues like minimum wages for the workers and granting of land rights to people living in tea gardens are resolved at the earliest as they have been pending for many years. Our trade union will continue to harp on these issues and will keep on organising different activities in tea gardens,” said John Barla, the BJP MP of Alipurduar and the chairman of the BTDWU. Since morning, protests had been held under the banner of the trade union in the tea gardens. Hundreds of workers took part in the protests and raised slogans for about an hour before joining their duties. Barla joined the protests at Lakhipara, a tea estate in Jalpaiguri district where he resides. “Similar demonstrations would be held in the gardens on Friday. There are a number of gardens where the management is not depositing the provident fund even though the amount is being deducted from the workers’ wages. Healthcare and quarters are in a shambles in most tea gardens. The tea companies and the state can no longer ignore these issues,” said Barla. Senior tea planters based in the region said the BJP was trying to mount pressure on the Trinamul Congress government by holding the protests. They said as the BJP had managed to secure support of the tea population last year, the party was trying to make its presence felt in the brew belt keeping in mind the Assembly elections next year. North Bengal has at least 15 Assembly constituencies where votes of tea workers and their families decide the fate of candidates. Trinamul leaders based in the tea belt, however, said such strategies of the BJP would not work. “In fact, such demonstrations, which are being planned at a time when tea production is at the peak, would upset the industry and eventually affect workers. We, too, want the workers to be paid bonus at a decent rate and for that, the usual negotiation process of bipartite talks would be followed. The BJP leaders should spell out what the Centre has done for the tea industry,” said Mohan Sharma, chairman, Trinamul Congress Cha Bagan Mazdoor Union.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-389
04-09-2020||West Bengal||BJP worker ‘custodial death’ outcry in Bengal||A BJP supporter in North Dinajpur died on Wednesday evening, a few hours after his arrest in connection with a crime, prompting district party leaders accuse the police of killing him in custody and demand a CBI inquiry. The bereaved family of Anup Roy, 23, seconded the party’s allegation and demands. Police, in turn, said Anup fell ill. The report of a post-mortem done on Wednesday night, out on Thursday, stated cerebral haemorrhage as the cause of death. BJP leaders demanded a second post-mortem. Sources said on Wednesday around 1pm, a team from Raiganj police station went to Nandangram village of Itahar block. There, they arrested Anup, a former CPI supporter who defected to BJP around six months ago, in connection with a recent snatching case. Some youths on bikes had held two traders at gunpoint and looted Rs 1 lakh on NH34 in Ghughudanga More of Raiganj on August 28. Four youths who were arrested reportedly named Anup as mastermind during their interrogation. Anup was accused of planning the crime, arranging the bikes and firearms and handing over a share of the booty to these youths. “We brought him (Anup) for interrogation but after some time he suddenly fell ill and was rushed to Raiganj Government Medical College & Hospital. There, he died late in the evening. Nevertheless, an inquiry into the death has been ordered,” said Sumit Kumar, North Dinajpur SP. BJP leaders were not ready to buy the post-mortem report. “He has been murdered in police custody, and to conceal it, the post-mortem was done at night. We want the post mortem to be done before a magistrate during daytime and a CBI investigation into the case,” said Biswajit Lahiri, North Dinajpur district BJP president. Gita, Anup’s mother, said: “We suspect my son has been brutally tortured and that is why he has died. Also, the police tried to implicate him falsely in a case. We want the CBI to investigate.” On Thursday evening, some BJP leaders blocked Raiganj’s MG Road to raise the demands.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-389
04-09-2020||West Bengal||Fresh erosion in Malda||A fresh bout of erosion by the Ganga caused havoc at Birnagar-I panchayat in Kaliachak-III block of Malda on Thursday, gobbling nearly 30 houses in a couple of hours since the afternoon. The erosion, which again turned acute after a respite of three days, worsened the situation in the area as the river also swallowed a 250-metre stretch of concrete road, to the dismay of the residents of Durgaramtola village. Alarmed by the expanding erosion, officials of district administration, who had earlier spoken with the Farakka Barrage Project (FBP) Authority — responsible for protection work in areas where the river is engulfing land on its left bank — are now sending a letter to them on the gravity of the situation. The state irrigation department will send a separate letter to FBP authorities, said sources. Villagers said people who lost their houses on Thursday are mostly migrant workers at Durgaramtola village. Many of these families are in economic distress for the past few months as workers are back home and jobless amid the pandemic-induced lockdown. Now, they are homeless too. “We were resting at home when suddenly erosion started in the afternoon. Before we could do anything, nearly 30 houses were swallowed by water. People could shift only some of their belongings, the rest were submerged,” said resident Birbal Mandal. Manik Mandal, a member of the panchayat was seen standing helplessly with neighbours Serajul Sheikh, Kalu Sheikh, Subhash Mandal and others. “Nearly 200 families have started dismantling their houses to shift to nearby mango orchards overnight,” the panchayat member said. “The damage to the road has caused further trouble as Durgaramtola is now inaccessible by even a two-wheeler,” schoolteacher Mohammed Jiaul Haque said. Rajarshi Mitra, the district magistrate of Malda, said: “The block administration has been directed to adopt all possible measures to cope with the situation. Preparations for rehabilitation of the erosion victims are underway. We already had a discussion over the situation with FBP authorities. Now, a letter would be sent to them on Friday, detailing the situation,” he said. Mausam Benazir Noor, Rajya Sabha MP, and the district Trinamul chief of Malda visited the affected areas with some party leaders on Thursday. “It is the barrage authorities who are responsible for this situation. We will raise the issue at necessary quarters and also take up political activities in protest,” said Noor. Erosion by the Ganga in Kaliachak-III block started in June-end when stretches of farmland and some homes were lost at Chak-Bahadurpur. The irrigation department adopted preventive steps. In August-end, erosion was seen in China Bazar and Sarkarpara areas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-389
04-09-2020||North East||IIT team works to curb cyber attacks||A team of researchers from Indian Institute of Technology, Guwahati, in collaboration with scientists from University of Pardubice, Czech Republic, is working towards developing indigenous algorithms that can protect the country’s digital data from cyber attacks by advanced computers. The team has also designed encryption architectures that can be used to protect sensitive health data that is transmitted through the Internet, IIT Guwahati said on Wednesday. The team of researchers from IIT Guwahati is led by Gaurav Trivedi, associate professor, department of electronics and electrical engineering, while professors Zdenek Nemec and Jan Pidanic make up the University of Pardubice team. The team’s work has been published in the proceedings of IEEE International Conference Radioelektronika (RADIOELEKTRONIKA). The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) is the world’s “largest” technical professional organisation dedicated to advancing technology for the benefit of humanity, inspiring the global community to “innovate for a better tomorrow” through its 419,000 members spread over 160 countries. “It has become indispensable to design new encryption schemes that can resist both quantum computer as well as classical computer-based attacks,” Trivedi said. The IIT Guwahati team is also working towards enhancing data security in the healthcare sector that is increasingly using the Internet of Things (IoT) to cater to the needs of the country. IoT healthcare aids in the real-time diagnosis of diseases by keeping a patient digitally connected to a medical expert 24x7, thus avoiding the visits and admissions in the hospital, a facility particularly critical in these pandemic times. On the work done by Trivedi’s team, IIT director Prof. T.G. Sitharam said, “Both these electronic devices are the results of the joint efforts of IIT Guwahati and the University of Pardubice with whom we have successful collaboration for the past nine years.  These devices are in line with India’s vision of self-reliance and independence from foreign technology.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-46
04-09-2020||Opinion||Covid: Poor timing for Goa CM||Sir — Hotels, restaurants and bars have opened in Goa — a prime tourist location in India — for the first time since the lockdown was imposed in March. The Goa airport even retracted the rule that mandated domestic travellers to carry Covid-19 negative certificates. Unfortunately, the next day, after Goa was thrown open to Indian tourists, its chief minister, Pramod Sawant, was reported to have contracted Covid-19. This shows that it is still not safe for the lockdown to be lifted completely. It is true that the tourism industry has been hit and the economy is suffering, but the government must prioritize the health of the citizens.  Ruchira Chakraborty, Mumbai Sir — The sentence has finally been served in the contempt case against the advocate, Prashant Bhushan. The Supreme Court declared that Bhushan must pay a fine of Re 1 or he would face three months of imprisonment along with being banned from practice for three years (“SC slaps Re 1 fine, Bhushan to pay”, Sept 1). There are many who believe that Bhushan was only exercising his freedom of speech in his tweets and should not have been penalized at all. As such, the verdict can hardly be interpreted as a vindication — Bhushan still stands guilty under the law. The only ray of hope in these dark times for democracy is the manner in which Bhushan conducted himself throughout the trial. He stood his ground firmly, refusing to apologize in spite of being offered several chances to do so. His stance is inspiring for the common people who believe that any public institution should be open to criticism. Bhushan has, of course, accepted the punishment, stating clearly that he would have accepted any other lawful punishment just the same. This reflects his respect for the judicial system of India, even when he is the one on trial. It was also encouraging to see how different sections of the legal system responded to this case. It was not surprising that Bhushan’s lawyer, Rajeev Dhavan, offered to pay the one rupee on behalf of his client, but the attorney-general of India, K.K. Venugopal, also urged the court to let Bhushan off with only a warning. Not only eminent lawyers but a number of law students, too, had written to the apex court, requesting it to reconsider its position. The law of contempt of court is an archaic one, and it goes against the right to freedom of expression that is guaranteed to every Indian citizen by the Constitution. All common citizens, advocates and judges should come together to scrap the law for good. R.P. Sengupta,Calcutta Sir — The verdict in the Prashant Bhushan case does not, in any way, mitigate the original order of the apex court, which appears to restrict the space for criticism. A victory for those who believe in free speech would have been a review of the order itself. The judiciary must be open to feedback from citizens, even as citizens accept its supremacy. From the outset, the court seemed willing to avoid controversy — it attempted to persuade the lawyer to tender an apology and “save the grace of the institution as well as the individual”. However, Bhushan did not oblige, standing by his bona fide opinion and placing his “conscience” above the need to have the case shut in the most convenient way possible. The punishment, which Bhushan has respectfully accepted, was inevitable in view of his refusal to apologize for expressing his opinions on the functioning of the judiciary. He should now seek a review of the verdict so that the court has another chance to strike down the sentence and erase this blot. S.S. Paul,Nadia Sir — Prashant Bhushan has been held guilty by a three-judge bench of the Supreme Court of India and punished to pay Re 1, upon failing which he could be imprisoned for three months and banned from practice for three years. But Bhushan has shown no disrespect towards either the law or the top court. He just seems to be of the opinion that democracy in India is in danger. Bhushan has pointed out the gradual dilution of morality and values in hitherto democratic institutions. His views should not be ignored. Instead, his stance should provide a moral boost to all right-thinking people in society and nudge the administration to take a deeper look at ways to save democracy.Asok Kumar Majumdar,Calcutta Sir — Shinzo Abe has stepped down from the position of the prime minister of Japan, and left a great political vacuum (“Abe resigns as PM”, Aug 29). The prolonged disease with which Abe has been battling seems to have got the better of him. This has forced him to decide against remaining at the helm of affairs. The Indian prime minister, Narendra Modi, shared a great rapport with his Japanese counterpart, resulting in strong cultural and economic relations between the two nations. India will now have to put in renewed effort to sustain the bilateral ties with Abe’s successor.  Rahul Chouhan, Ujjain Sir — It is unfortunate that Japan’s longest serving premier, Shinzo Abe, had to resign on account of his illness. He suspected that he would not be able to serve the nation to the best of his abilities. It was refreshing to see a political figure put the well-being of his country above his own ambitions. How many Indian ministers would choose to give up power for the sake of the nation? Akash Sharma, Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-154
04-09-2020||Opinion||War of words: Faceebook and Ravi Shankar Prasad||Even a voluminous letter may have very little by way of substance. The Union information technology minister, Ravi Shankar Prasad, recently shot off a missive — it was well over 900 words — to Mark Zuckerberg, lecturing the CEO of Facebook on the alleged ideological tilt of some of his employees in India. Among Mr Prasad’s allegations are such charges as the Facebook team, including senior officials, being dominated by “people who belong to a particular political belief” and that the company’s employees abuse the prime minister and cabinet ministers. Mr Prasad, characteristically, did not provide evidence to substantiate his claims. Strangely, one of his colleagues had even taken the pains to split procedural hair and object to the parliamentary panel’s decision to grill Facebook’s representative. Of course, offence, the Bharatiya Janata Party has always believed, is the best form of defence in terms of political strategy. Mr Prasad’s hand may have been forced by the damaging revelations made by respected international media — The Wall Street Journal and Time Magazine — that reported not only Facebook’s enthusiastic endorsement of Narendra Modi’s political campaign but also its willingness to condone hate speeches of BJP leaders. This kind of complicity on the part of Facebook is not peculiar to its Indian market. There have been persistent whispers that Mr Zuckerberg’s firm shares rather cosy ties with predominantly right-wing regimes that run the levers of power in many countries. The United States of America, Mr Zuckerberg’s critics say, is another example of such an unholy, but influential, alliance. The truth of the matter — Facebook’s ideological tilt — can only be established after a fair investigation. But the worry — the charges and counter-charges are an affirmation — lies elsewhere. Facebook’s massive reach — it is the world’s largest social media platform — and its ability to influence the choices — economic or political — of its users have transformed it into a behemoth that can condition and even alter political realities. This makes Facebook attractive as an ally for the political fraternity. Such bonhomie can lead to patronage, which, in turn, can undermine the principles of neutrality and ethics. There is an allied concern. Dubious claims are increasingly being made along with the argument that challenging or refuting such accusations would be tantamount to an infringement of free speech. This is as curious as the contents of Mr Prasad’s letter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-154
04-09-2020||Opinion||Unchanged: Definition of criminal contempt||It would seem that the sequence of events following two tweets by Prashant Bhushan has drawn to a close. But a conclusion is hardly satisfactory when it gives rise to more questions. Many see the ending of the Supreme Court’s case of criminal contempt against Mr Bhushan as a moral victory for him, for all he had to do was pay a fine of one rupee. Yet the Supreme Court convicted him of criminal contempt of court, which includes scandalizing the institution and its officers, thus lowering its dignity in the eyes of the people. This definition of criminal contempt is usually linked to words or acts that are intended to obstruct the delivery of justice or the administration of the judicial system. The court decides whether lowering its dignity is also affecting its functioning. This power is bequeathed to it by the Constitution: an earlier judgment makes this clear. Mr Bhushan’s tweets prompted an important section of the judicial community to discuss aspects of the law against contempt and the problems of its application. There was also widespread response on mainstream and social media, where his point of view, too, received publicity. This special focus would be lacking in the case of a citizen not so well-known. The court’s conviction for criminal contempt stands; it has further said that the right to freedom of speech is not absolute — it cannot be abused in order to scandalize a public institution and its officers who cannot defend themselves. Anyone who is not a known figure convicted of criminal contempt would be unlikely to receive the benefit of publicly expressed professional, analytical and popular opinion. Mr Bhushan’s case underlines the need for a review of the law. Why is criticism of the court or of judges, even if baseless, a crime? Britain abolished this law after 1930; the United States of America, Canada and Australia no longer apply it. Free public expression of opinion can only strengthen an institution, feel some judges in these countries, adding that the court is not so fragile as to wither away at criticism. India, too, might find it pertinent to reassess the relationship of the independence and dignity of the judiciary with public discussion and criticism. Not fear, but fairness, should be the foundation of an institution’s superiority.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-154
04-09-2020||Opinion||There are no escape routes: Post-Covid manufacturing sector||Hit by the slump that’s become the norm across the world, a manufacturer of electric vehicles decided to diversify into the product that is now ruling the world: masks. Having bagged a massive order from California, the company got labour from its other plants and production started in full swing. But it came at some cost: in four months, five workers died and one lost his hand when he tried to retrieve a mask stuck in the machine. Was he stupid to disregard safety procedures? His fellow workers will never know because, as they wrote on social media, they could not stop production to see what had happened to their colleague. Not all five deaths in this mask factory were during production. One worker died when the elevator in his dormitory collapsed while he was in it. Others died in scuffles with one another or with security guards. Violent ruffians? Maybe. But working from 8 am to 8 pm with an hour’s break for lunch, covered from the tip of their heads to their toes, and getting just one day off from March to mid-June, might just have made them so. The hour-long lunch break seems generous. But imagine 5,000 workers undergoing the extra checks required on account of Covid-19, the very disease that had given them this opportunity to earn. Half an hour goes in queuing up to enter the dining room. So some of them just prefer to have snacks and rest.Point to ponder There is no escape from this punishing schedule, for their basic salary is just 1,900 yuan. Thanks to overtime, these workers manage to earn 5,000-6,000 yuan (around Rs 53,000-65,000), about three times the minimum wage. Is this the scenario envisaged by our government when it talks of India replacing China as the manufacturing hub? These workers must count themselves lucky in earning enough to sustain their families. That is more than can be said about a substantial section of Chinese workers post-lockdown. August saw as many as 51 protests by workers across the country for salary arrears, mostly on construction sites. Contrast this with the comfortable situation in which the residents of Macau — a Specially Administered Region of China — find themselves. From the start of the lockdown, the local government has given every citizen of this picturesque little port city — including every Chinese from the mainland who works there and possesses a resident permit — an allowance of 1,000 Macanese patacas (approximately Rs 9,100), which will continue till December. In a fix But even if you have no resident permit, you are better off than a worker on the mainland. Macau’s economy depends on casinos and tourism, and neither of these survived the lockdown. However, there were no layoffs, thanks to a stern warning from the local Gaming Inspection and Coordination Bureau. Nor were there any salary cuts for workers. Smaller establishments, however, have found a way out: leave without pay. “My salary was low already,” wailed Suyin, a supervisor at a Chinese restaurant who does not have a Macau resident permit, “now it’s worse. We hardly get any customers, so the boss makes us take four or five days of leave without pay every month.” Travel restrictions within China have been removed, but the 14-day compulsory quarantine for those travelling to Macau from the mainland has kept visitors away. Suyin has found a solution: she is off on a 10-day holiday to her hometown in Hunan to celebrate her mother’s birthday. If she must take leave without pay, she may as well enjoy it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-154
04-09-2020||Opinion||Loss of direction||Historically, the credit for establishing the conceptual framework of clinical neurophysiology goes to the Yorkshire-born John H. Jackson (1835-1911). My interest in his work got kindled when I was working on a little book on cultural amnesia. Jackson was among the first to be given an honorary doctorate by Leeds University. Among the varieties of neurological disorientation that Jackson identified, the one that fascinated me was “navigation impairment”, called “topological agnosia” in medical terminology. An individual afflicted by this agnosia — a Greek word, meaning ‘loss of knowledge’ — is unable to remember the way to a destination known to him although he may be able to recall important landmarks seen a long time ago. Jackson’s work made me look critically at the directional terms in use in the intellectual discourse of the 1980s. The terms that dominated it were Orientalism and its notional opposite, Occidentalism, under the impact of Edward Said’s landmark publication, Orientalism. ‘Orient’, in use since the 11th century, meant “the rising sun” or the east. And its antonym, ‘Occident’, meant the direction in which the sun sets. From the beginning of the Anglo-Saxon advent till the creation of the East India Company several centuries later, these terms meant what they were intended to mean. With the spread of the European colonial powers to countries geographically south of Europe, the Orient became a combination of the East and the South. The Occident primarily remained the North and, in an extended sense, included the West as well. As colonialism touched the zenith of its spread, the distinction between the South and the East disappeared almost entirely. In 1889, Rudyard Kipling (1863-1936) wrote in his youthful verse: “Oh, the East is East, and the West is West, and never the twain shall meet;/ till Earth and Sky stand presently at God’s great Judgment seat.” Around a decade earlier, in 1878, Dr Jackson had published his most important findings. He would have called the colonial ‘disorientation’ of the South/East a ‘topological agnosia’. Precisely during the times neurologists in Europe were busy studying varieties of cognitive disorders, European linguists were busy laying the foundation of a hypothesis that later caused one of the worst genocides in human history. In Essay on the Inequality of Human Races (1853), the linguist, Arthur de Gobineau, floated the idea that the term, ‘Aryan’, corresponded with a pre-historic European culture originating somewhere in the north, probably Ireland. The historical fact was that it was used merely as a term for self-identification by the people who spoke Indo-Iranian and ancient Sanskrit. Karl Plenka in Die Herkunft der Arier (The Homeland of the Aryans, 1886) moved the imagined location to Scandinavia. He added to the hypothesis, against all scientific norms in Linguistic-Anthropology, the idea of Aryans as a ‘race’. It was imagined to consist of people with blue eyes and blonde hair. “Xanthochroi” was the term coined by anthropologists for consolidating the ‘Aryan racial supremacy’ theory. One does not have to spell out how this theory was used during Adolf Hitler’s regime towards engineering the genocide of Jews, communists, Poles and gypsies. For some decades at the turn of the century, the theory of Aryans and their imagined original home received attention from cultural adventurists in Europe and in India. B.G. Tilak (1857-1920) produced Orion (1893), arguing the ancient date for the Rig Veda and its connection with the people in Scandinavia. The theme of the imagined Aryans and their material and spiritual attainments as the culmination of human wisdom had a field day in India in the first two decades of the twentieth century. The esoteric cults and schools of mysticism, which lent credence to the wishful historiography, included Theosophy of Helena Petrovna Blavatsky (1831-91) brought to India by Annie Besant (1847-1933) and the early writings of Sri Aurobindo (1872-1950). It must be added that both of them quickly distanced themselves from the fascist strand in these thoughts, involved themselves in the national freedom struggle, and actively opposed Hitler’s fascism. But the Aryan supremacy bug — what the German called Herrenmenschen or the alleged master race — found a hospitable space in the ideology of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh established in 1925. B.S. Moonje (1872-1948), V.D. Savarkar(1883-1966) and K.B. Hedgewar (1889-1940) grew up in the decades when these ideas were on ascendancy in Europe and were clearly influenced by them. As a result, a kind of a competitive Herrenmenschen emerged in the world, with a German variety and an Indian variety. The two major flaws in this idea — an untenable transfer of a linguistic feature to ethnic-racial identification and the neurological disorder of topological agnosia — escaped their attention. In contrast, M.K Gandhi avoided the topological agnosia by refusing to pit the East against the West and spoke of a non-violent world and universal human unity. Like him, B.R. Ambedkar rejected the very foundation of fascism by disproving the Aryan supremacy thesis in the context of ancient India in many of his scholarly works. These were the most significant modern articulations of the South as the South. A century has passed since the rise of Hitler and his starkly racist ideas. The colonial empires are a thing of the past. It is necessary to readjust one’s understanding of the world, both ancient and modern. The idea of the faultily defined East has been nearly corrected and the selfhood of the Global South has been restored. Even a cursory glance at the various struggles for liberation over the last century indicates that they were all waged for restoring selfhood and dignity of the South, in South America, Africa and Asia. Of course, it is necessary to remember that the South is today both a metaphor for the poor and the oppressed as well as a topographical reality. Historically, a large number of progressive ideas and liberating movements had their origin in South India, including the emergence of the Bhakti panths from the eighth century onward in opposition to the codified and ritualistic varieties of Hindu practices during the medieval times. Jyotiba Phule (1827-1890), Shahu Maharaj of Kolhapur (1874-1922), Narayana Guru (1856-1928), Periyar E.V. Ramasamy (1879-1973), B.R. Ambedkar (1891-1956) — outstanding modern Indian reformers — emerged from the South. They rejected the idea of any racial and caste discrimination and any false glorification of the past. The topographical disorientation and the inherited flawed reading of history forming the ideological base of the present regime are adversely affecting us today. The economic indicators are dipping; the regime wants us to believe that they are improving. The real threat to Indian security is from the North. The government wants us to turn the nation’s attention to the West. Long lines of unemployed young persons are building up. Instead of focusing on them, we are asked to look back to ‘sanatan wisdom’, as the National Education Policy states. Is this topological disorientation or, in simple English, a directionless leadership with misplaced priorities? The author is a cultural activist and founder of DNT Rights Action Group; ganesh_devy@yahoo.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-154
04-09-2020||Jharkhand||Maoist attack foiled as IEDs are discovered||Police and paramilitary forces have found a series of IEDs planted on a mud road in a jungle in the Goelkera police station area in West Singhbhum district. In all, 18 IEDs weighing 15kg each had been planted on a 250m-long stretch of the strategic Kurkutia-Bansua road in Goelkera. The explosives were connected with each other using codex wire for triggering serial blasts with an aim to inflict casualty to the police and paramilitary forces which often conduct anti-insurgency operations in this dense jungle. The discovery of the explosives came after a tip-off from a villager. On August 25, the police and paramilitary forces had unearthed as many as 72 can bombs under a mud road near Raisindri hill in the Kuchai police station area in the adjoining Seraikela-Kharsawan district. A joint police and CRPF team on Friday arrested Ashok Ganjhu, subzonal commander of the Communist Party of India (Maoist) from Luttu Sohawan forest in the Lawalong police station area in Chatra district. After a tip-off, superintendent of police Rishav Kumar Jha constituted a team led by assistant commandant Girish Kumar which managed to arrest the Maoist leader. He was wanted in a number of cases lodged in various police stations across Chatra and Latehar districts. Asim Vikrant Minz, a 2005 batch IPS officer, on Friday took charge as the Dhanbad senior superintendent of police from Akhilesh B. Verior. Verior has been shifted to the police headquarters in Ranchi. Minz said: “Containing organised crime, including economic offences, and establishing cordial relations with the common people will be my priorities.” Minz served as superintendent of rail police in Dhanbad two years ago. Rajkumar Bhuian, a security official attached to Eastern Coalfields Ltd (ECL), was seriously injured during a clash between ECL security personnel and alleged coal thieves at the company’s Raja colliery in Nirsa, about 35km from Dhanbad district headquarters, on Friday morning. Bhuian was taken to the ECL regional hospital at Mugma from where he was referred to a healthcare facility in Asansol. The clash broke out when the security personnel tried chasing away the coal thrives. Dhanbad police on Friday arrested Amit Kumar, 19, a resident of Dhansar; Kundan Pandey, 26, a resident of Sudamdih; and Sunny Singh, a resident of Patherdih, in connection with a case of robbery. Jharia-based trader Shrawan Kumar was allegedly robbed of Rs 50,000 on August 25 near Bastacola petrol pump at 6.45pm by the trio. Police seized cash worth Rs 12,500, a mobile phone and a motorcycle from the arrested persons. The 48-year-old Bokaro resident who cooked healthy, balanced and delicious meals for Covid-19 patients in hospital has died of a cardiac respiratory arrest. Sapan Kumar Ghosh was taken to Bokaro General Hospital (BGH) after he complained of breathlessness. He was a constable of the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF). Almost all the top officials of the CISF, Bokaro Steel Plant and doctors of BGH paid tribute to him. He had been cooking food for Covid-19 patients for the past five months. DIG, CISF, S.S. Mishra said Ghosh’s devotion was incredible. “Ghosh was the cook who started sending food for Covid-19 patients in Bokaro. He had volunteered for food supplies for the patients and was doing it till last week. This is a big loss to Bokaro,” Mishra said. Suchi Singh on Friday took charge as divisional finance manager of the Dhanbad division of East Central Railway from Parveen Sinha, who has been shifted out to the Danapur division. Singh was the divisional operating manager of the Dhanbad division. Dhanbad deputy commissioner Uma Shankar Singh on Friday instructed the BCCL central hospital authorities to ensure availability of oxygen cylinders at the dedicated Covid-19 hospital at the central hospital in Jagjivan Nagar, Dhanbad. He cited frequent complaints that oxygen cylinders are exhausted or there is a delay in their availability. “No Covid-19 patient can be deprived of oxygen,” said Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-311
04-09-2020||Jharkhand||Covid-19: 50 active cases at Bokaro Steel Plant||The coronavirus has started spreading at the Bokaro Steel Plant (BSL), a unit of Steel Authority of India Limited (SAIL). This was discovered during a Covid-19 testing camp organised exclusively for BSL employees by the district administration at Mohan Kumar Mangalam Stadium on September 2. Of the 477 employees of BSL who gave their samples, 27 tested positive. With this, the total number of active cases increased to 50 in the company, sources said. A total of 82 BSL employees have tested positive so far. The virus has affected every stratum: from ground-level staff to a higher executive director (ED). The ED is undergoing treatment at Bokaro General Hospital (BGH). Among the Covid-19-positive employees are five BSL officials of ranks of deputy general manager and above. Bokaro civil surgeon Dr A.K. Pathak said that the authorities have decided to continue the camp at the stadium to test all the 11,000 employees and officials at BSL. “We will restart the camp soon,” he said. The company’s Bokaro Steel Township has seen a spike in cases. In the district, 1,798 people have tested positive. Of them, 1,071 have been cured of the virus while 712 are active cases. The BSL management, which was appreciated for performing remarkably well among the units of SAIL in terms of cash collection in August, is worried over the spread of the virus in the company. BSL is operating at about 80 per cent production capacity and receiving large orders from domestic as well as international players. The spike in Covid-19 cases has forced the management to introduce a SOP on preventive measures to contain the spread. Officials and employees have been instructed to follow the recommended steps strictly. BSL chief of communication Manikant Dhan said: “We have introduced an SOP for employees and asked them to follow the procedures strictly as there is a spike in positive cases.” The advisory says that any employee returning from other states will have to remain in home quarantine. No employee will be allowed to leave the station without approval. The company management has said that non-disclosure of information by any employee or official will be viewed strictly. In case the residence of any employee is declared a containment zone by the district administration, he/she has to remain at home till the de-notification. The chief executive officer in charge of Bokaro Power Supply Company Pvt Ltd (BPSCL) has also tested positive for the coronavirus. He is asymptomatic and at home. The BPSCL is a power project of SAIL-DVC and supplies its entire power production to BSL. It is situated inside BSL. The first case at BSL was reported on July 10. The director of BGH, run by BSL, was also infected by the virus in August. The coronavirus also infected several doctors. A majority of them have been cured.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-311
04-09-2020||Jharkhand||24x7 magistrate stationed at RIMS to keep Lalu supporters at bay||A magistrate was stationed at Kelly’s Bungalow on RIMS campus where RJD supremo Lalu Prasad has being lodged on Friday to ensure there is no violation of the jail manual in the form of unauthorised meetings of party workers. The move comes in the wake of a letter from jail IG Birendra Bhushan, directing the Ranchi district administration to tighten the security ring at the bungalow in Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences in view regular reports of violations pertaining to the number of visitors who come to meet the RJD chief. “Three magistrates have been deployed round-the-clock to ensure no one tends to violate any prescribed rules. Each magistrate will be on duty on eight-hour shifts,” said Ranchi deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan. Ever since Lalu was shifted at this sprawling bungalow, also known as director’s bungalow, in the first week of August from the main hospital campus to ensure he does not infected by the coronavirus, hordes of RJD workers both from Jharkhand and Bihar have been regularly camping outside in the hope of meeting him. Of late, several MLAs and councillors from Bihar have been coming to Ranchi to meet him for lobbying for tickets ahead of the Assembly elections in Bihar, turning the bungalow into a mini-RJD camp office. Opposition BJP on the other hand has been criticising the Hemant Soren government for turning a blind eye to such violations for political gains ahead of the Bihar polls as the JMM was looking to contest in alliance with RJD. In the last week, over a dozen ticket aspirants, along with their supporters in cars and vans, drove down from Patna to Ranchi to meet Lalu. Among those who have come include, film actor Ali Khan and RJD MLA from Barachatti Samta Devi, who has been quarantined for 14 days in Ranchi following a hue and cry by the Opposition in Bihar. Lalu’s son, Tej Pratap, also isited Ranchi to meet his father along with a posse of supporters in the last week of August, prompting the district administration to later file an FIR against him for lockdown violations and staying at a hotel illegally.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-311
04-09-2020||Jharkhand||Chaibasa greens ready to welcome willow-holders ||The greens at Birsa Munda Cricket Stadium in Chaibasa, the district headquarters of West Singhbhum, are ready to welcome willow-holders when the cricket season gets underway. It is perhaps the first cricket venue in Jharkhand to be decked up well in advance. The West Singhbhum District Cricket Association (WSDCA) has worked overtime to prepare the ground, which will host over 100 matches involving both local leagues, JSCA inter-district events and junior matches once the government sets guidelines for re-starting sports activities. “The three centre wickets and two for practice are already prepared. We did regular rolling with a power roller provided by the Jharkhand State Cricket Association. The grass on the outfield was also regularly trimmed using power mowers,” said WSDCA secretary Aseem Kumar Singh. Groundsmen Nandu Karwa and Shiva Lama worked in tandem to deck up the venue owned by the West Singhbhum district administration and leased out to WSDCA. Singh also chipped in with his support by moving the power roller on the wickets. According to Singh, they have laid a fresh layer of soil on the three centres and two practice wickets with grass cover by spending Rs 30,000. Heavy and dense grass on the outfield needs regular trimming. “The grass needs trimming as it grows very quickly,” Singh explained. “We also used the power roller on uneven patches of the ground. We had to sometimes stop ground maintenance due to the rain. It has poured heavily in Chaibasa but despite the hindrance, we have managed to prepare the ground for upcoming tournaments,” the WSDCA secretary added. Players are already using the practice wickets. Singh said that the ground is maintained throughout the year. “We believe in proper maintenance since a host of tournaments are played at the venue. It is because of proper maintenance that we have been able to prepare the ground without any hassles whatsoever,” he added. The stadium has been hosting BCCI under-16 over the years now. Cricketers have often appreciated the condition of the ground and the wickets as well as the outfield. Women’s tournaments are also played at the greens.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-311
04-09-2020||Jharkhand||Jamshedpur kids learn sport climbing virtually in Covid times||Tata Steel Adventure Foundation (TSAF) has taken an initiative to help children between the ages of 5-9 remain tuned to sport climbing while at home during the coronavirus pandemic. Instructors conduct training virtually, from 4 pm to 5.30 pm. TSAF’s senior manager Hemant Gupta said the objective behind the online training was to keep the children connected to sport climbing. “Kids are learning the tricks of the game at home. Parents are also appreciating the move from our side,” he added. Wooden boards called ‘monkey boards’ measuring 2x2 ft have been handed over to the children and fixed at their respective homes. “The boards have different holding bars which the kids catch for upper body movement. The activity strengthens hand and core muscles, which are key elements when it comes to sport climbing,” Gupta, an Everester, said. Eleven children are part of the virtual training and the numbers will increase in the days to come. The training involves beginners who were part of outdoor training at a cradle run by the premier Jamshedpur-based adventure outfit at JRD Tata Sports Complex. The outdoor training was discontinued owing to the nationwide lockdown but some trainees, including international climbers Anisha and Aman Verma, had sweat it out when the JRD Tata Sports Complex re-opened. However, the sports hub is presently shut since it was made a Covid centre by the district administration a few days back. The online trainees work on the guidance of instructors. They also do physical exercises like walking and lunges, knee jumps and push-ups. “Depending on the height of the trainee, the monkey board is fixed at least half a foot above him on the wall. Such type of home training is not conducted elsewhere in India,” a TSAF instructor said, adding only hands are used for training. In foreign countries, climbers set up expensive sport climbing holes inside their homes, which is not possible in India. Parents also appreciated the move by TSAF. “When my daughter Aditi couldn’t go to JRD Tata Sports Complex for regular practice, the monkey board provided by TSAF became a real rescue. It not only keeps her engaged and connected with sport climbing but also helps in strengthening her muscles,” said Amit Modak, a Tata Steel employee and a parent. TSAF has three separate holes for lead, speed and bouldering categories of climbing at its cradle. Training is conducted by experienced coaches. The outfit has plans to set up a sport climbing academy on the lines of Tata Football Academy. The craze for sport climbing among children has increased as the city has hosted open nationals, zonal and state events for sport climbing. Ambitious plans to prepare climbers for big-ticket competitions have so far produced three internationals in the form of siblings Anisha and Aman Verma, and Talim Ansari. The siblings have also been provided accommodation at the Sports Hostel inside JRD Tata Sports Complex so that they can get a proper diet and concentrate on the game.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-312
04-09-2020||Jharkhand||One held for August 19 murder of Dhanbad BJP leader||One person has been arrested for the murder of local BJP leader and property dealer Satish Singh, who was shot from point blank range in the afternoon on August 19, police here said on Friday. Police have recovered two pistols, one of them country made, besides a 7.62 bullet and an empty cartridge from Lalan Kumar Das (27), a driver of Putki. They have also recovered a motorcycle (Honda Shine-JH10 BP-0602) and a white Honda City (JH 10 BP -8722), both used by those responsible for the murder. Dhanbad SP (city) R Ramkumar said Das was arrested after investigations by a special team and the technical cell of the police on the basis of CCTV footage recovered from the site of the murder at Matkuria. “The car and two motorcycles were spotted moving together from JP Chowk, Subhash Chowk and other areas, besides Matkuria,” the SP said. After questioning the car owner, police were able to zero in on those who were involved in the killing, ie, Das and his brother-in-law Kishan Kumar Ravidas. Police raided Ravidas’s house but could not arrest him. But they were able to recover a pistol from his place, in addition to the Honda Shine motorcycle, a helmet and a number plate. Asked about the motive, Ramkumar said, “We are investigating two or three angles. But since investigations are on, we can’t give a conclusive statement on the possible motive as of now.” Singh (40), a property dealer and Kendua mandal vice president of the BJP, was killed at Makuria on Dhanbad-Bokaro Road on August 19 at 3pm as soon as he got off his SUV and started walking towards Vikash Nagar while talking on his cell phone. Singh was close to Dhanbad MLA Raj Sinha, who demanded that the district administration ensure a quick investigation into the killing. Sinha blamed the deteriorating law and order situation in the state under the Hemant Soren government and as a mark of protest also wore a black badge. An SIT, led by DSP (Law and Order) Mukesh Kumar, was constituted on the instruction of coal belt range DIG Prabhat Kumar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-312
04-09-2020||Jharkhand||State looking to reopen schools with senior students from September 21||The state education department is considering reopening of schools for classes 9 to 12 from September 21 and is ready with a proposal to send to the state disaster management department for a formal approval. Explaining the rationale behind the move, state secondary education director Jatashankar Choudhary cited the Centre’s latest unlock advisory that details a gradual opening up of various business and social sectors. “The Centre has stated that if any student wants to consult a teacher by going to school, he/she could do so after getting a consent letter from parents or guardians. Schools, however, will not call any students,” he said. An official of Jharkhand Education Project Council added that the draft proposal framed by the education department suggests that a maximum of 20 students be allowed in a class per day. “This is to ensure social distancing inside the class. After receiving requests from the parents for allowing students to attend school, the school will have to prepare a roster in which only 50 per cent teachers will be allowed to come per day,” the official, who did not want to be identified, said. Notably, the education department held its second round of interactions to gather public feedback on reopening schools for classes 9 to 12 between August 24 and August 31. Out of about 12,500 respondents, around 25.76 per cent parents wanted schools to be reopened only in September, while the rest expressed willingness to send students only after the introduction of a Covid-19 vaccine, said the JEPC official. Some parents' organisations have welcomed the government's move for staggered reopening of schools by allowing senior students to attend. But they also asked for a reduction in the syllabus. The Jharkhand chapter of Private School and Children Welfare Association (PSWA), a nationwide body, said that parents were now concerned about children’s education as online modes of teaching were nowhere as effective as the conventional model of schooling. PSWA president Alok Dubey said, “We welcome the Jharkhand government’s efforts to reopen schools for higher classes as the Union government has already sent a communique about this to all states. It is also clear that Covid is here to stay but we have to unlock ourselves amid heightened safety protocols and go about our daily work. We are waiting to hear from the state government on our demand for a reduction in school syllabus.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-312
04-09-2020||Jharkhand||Covid fails to stop football tournaments in Chatra||Organisations in Chatra are organising football tournaments even amid the coronavirus pandemic. After getting reports of tournaments taking place across many blocks, deputy commissioner Divyanshu Jha asked officials not to give permission for such events in areas under their jurisdiction. In one such event on Wednesday, Simaria BJP MLA Kishun Kumar Das was chief guest of a football tournament in Itkhori, drawing huge criticism. Local zilla parishad representatives and leaders of various political parties are encouraging such tournaments and becoming chief guest of the events. Das, however, defended himself and organisers of all other tournaments taking place in the district recently, claiming that social distancing was taken care of. However, block officials made organisers call off the tournament. Interestingly, Chatra officials are permitting MLAs and other powerful leaders to go ahead with such events. In Simaria, block development officer Amit Mishra passed an order against organising such events. He said if anyone violates this order, they will have to face legal action as the state government has prohibited such activities till September. The district administration is worried that a large number of people coming to see matches is resulting in violation of social distancing norms.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-312
04-09-2020||Jharkhand||‘Swing’ pump to fetch water and produce electricity||An alumnus of BIT-Sindri in Dhanbad, SN Singh and two others invented a unique swing which is used to fill the water tank on the roof as well as to produce electricity by converting mechanical energy into electrical energy. IIT Kharagpur praised Singh, along with principal of ITI Kalpatru in Patratu, Ramgarh Sanjeet Kumar, and technician Bhagwan Sharma for this invention. The spring pump, which took the trio one year to make, has been installed at a school in Ranchi where students enjoy swinging, which fills up the school tank without the need for electricity. Kumar said it cost only Rs.10,000 and can also be used to generate electricity and help farmers irrigate their fields. Singh said he used the swing mechanism to convert mechanical energy into electrical energy. The hand pump is a single-piston. We have used a double piston to double the strength to make the spring pump work,” added Kumar. Singh has a degree in mechanical engineering from BIT-Sindri in Dhanbad, whereas Kumar completed his education in the same field from BIT-Mesra in Ranchi. The trio are testing the invention to make it better. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Kumar said the spring pump was Singh’s brainchild. “I kept thinking about the hand pump’s mechanism to fetch water from within the earth, and soon came up with the idea,” said Singh, “My jhula entertains children as well as people of other age groups who like swinging. But their enjoyment results in productive work like filling of water tanks, lighting of bulbs and running fans,” he said, adding that the swing has the capacity to send water up to a height 60 ft without electricity or motor. It can also be carried easily from house to field and will be convenient for farmers. Singh said when he was a student, he noticed problems farmers faced due to lack of electricity and irrigation facility. Singh said to save water, he wanted his spring pump to be installed at schools, colleges and other institutions. He said he had tested it a number of times and found that it can generate 1 kilowatt of electricity, which can be used to light up a number of bulbs and to run fans. Kumar said a school named Kislay Vidayalaya in Ranchi has installed the spring pump. “In the coming days, our plan is to fit gear into the swing to make it more smooth,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-312
04-09-2020||Jharkhand||Over 1500 cases in a single day, Covid tally close to 47000||The Covid-19 tally in Jharkhand drew close to 47,000 on Thursday as over 1500 people were found infected in 24 hours. The toll jumped to 444 with six patients dying during the same duration, figures released by the health department stated. As per government data, Ranchi alone reported 435 of the 1587 fresh cases of Covid infection on Thursday, taking the number of cases reported in the district so far above 9000. East Singhbhum reported 328 cases of infection on Thursday and the tally in the district rose to 7552. Only 56 patients recovered from Covid infection in Ranchi, taking the number of active cases in the district above 4000 – the highest among all the districts in Jharkhand. As per figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM), as many as 4,156 Covid patients in Ranchi were yet to recover from the infection by Thursday night. East Singhbhum, the district which has reported highest number of Covid casualties in the state so far, saw three of six Covid deaths on Thursday, taking the Covid toll in the district to 202, the NHM figures stated. Nearly 50 per cent of the Covid fatalities in Jharkhand have occurred in East Singhbhum, a densely populated district hit by industrial pollution. Besides Ranchi and East Singhbhum, Hazaribag and Giridih reported a triple-digit spike in the number of Covid cases during the day, taking the tally in Hazaribag close to 2000 and above 2000 in Giridih, government data highlighted. Despite 1121 patients recovering from the infection on Thursday, Jharkhand’s Covid recovery rate dropped to 65.45 per cent as the count of fresh cases surpassed the number of recoveries. The Covid mortality also dropped to 0.95 per cent as fewer deaths were reported on Thursday in comparison with the past few days. The national Covid recovery rate is 75.27 per cent while the national mortality rate for Covid patients is 1.85 per cent. The government so far has collected swab samples of 10.27 lakh people and tested 10.17 lakh of them. On Thursday, health workers tested swab samples of 30,835 people and 29,248 of them came negative. Jharkhand, according to health officials, has tested more than 2.5 lakh people for Covid-19 this week. As per figures compiled by the NHM, there were as many as 15,150 active cases of infection in Jharkhand on Thursday night. Out of the 46,480 people found infected so far, as many as 30,886 have recovered and were leading a healthy life, the government claimed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-312
04-09-2020||Jharkhand||New 400-bed Covid center at Dhanbad’s PMCH||The rising number of Covid-19 cases has prompted Dhanbad authorities to develop a 400-bed dedicated care centre at the Patliputra Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) at Saraidhela. Once ready, the care centre -- housed in two of the three blocks of the PMCH’s PG hospital -- will be one of the biggest in the district. Dhanbad subdivisional officer Raj Maheswaram said work was already underway and the facility is likely to be ready by next week. PMCH superintendent Arun Kumar Chaudhary said two of three blocks of the PG hospital, including one block comprising the medicine and paediatrics departments and another block consisting of the ENT and eye departments, were being developed as the Covid-19 treatment center. The third block will be kept reserved for future use. Chaudhary added that a team led by the subdivisional officer, which included civil surgeon Gopal Das, visited PMCH on August 23 and identified the two blocks for use as a dedicated Covid-19 health centre meant for the treatment of asymptomatic patients or those with mild symptoms. Besides PMCH, the district administration also explored the possibility of establishing a Covid-19 treatment centre at the FCI hospital at Sindri, which has been non-functional since 2002. However, as the condition of the hospital is poor, its immediate use seems unlikely. Currently, there are seven Covid-19 treatment centres in the district, including one 100-bed facility and six dedicated Covid-19 hospitals. Of the six dedicated Covid-19 health centers, one 200-bed center is operational at the Government Polytechnic, Nirsa, in Gopalpur. Among the three 100-bed centres, two units are operational at the Railway Zonal Training Institute at Bhuli and PMCH cath lab. Two 50-bed units have been established at the regional hospital at Bhuli and the Sadar hospital in Dhanbad. A 25-bed dedicated Covid-19 health centre is open at Tata Central Hospital at Jamadoba. The district administration has also established a telemedicine centre at the circuit house in Dhanbad. Deputy commissioner Uma Shankar Singh recently conducted a review of the medical counselling work being carried out at the telemedicine center where focus is also being laid on mental counselling of patients. Thirty-two people were discharged from the Zonal Training Institute after being cured of Covid-19 on Thursday. The discharged persons were instructed to remain at home for 14 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-312
