05-09-2020||Calcutta||CMC likely to introduce property tax waiver scheme||The Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) is likely to introduce next month a scheme to waive interest accrued on unpaid property tax if allowed by the state government, an official of the civic body said. The authorities hope the waiver scheme would encourage property owners to clear their tax arrears, boosting the civic coffers that have been reeling under the Covid-19 pandemic. An official said the CMC’s income from property tax — its biggest income source —from April to August was 29 per cent less than what was collected in the corresponding period last year. Civic officials are pinning their hopes on the scheme to waive interest to cover the deficit in property tax collection and also increase the collection compared with last year. The CMC had last floated a waiver scheme in 2012 and the response was encouraging. “We have sent a proposal of interest waiver on unpaid property tax to the municipal affairs department. We hope to receive an approval soon so that we can float the scheme by early October,” said a CMC official. “We have proposed a complete waiver of the accrued interest so defaulters can come clean by paying only the principal.” Property tax defaulters together owe Rs 2,300 crore to the CMC. The amount does not include the interest accrued on the unpaid principal over the years. Most of the large tax defaulters are commercial establishments. “The waiver is a win-win situation for both sides. The defaulters look for a way to come clean by paying. If they do not need to pay interest, many of them will be keen to pay the tax arrears. For us, too, it is a good way to recover unpaid tax,” a CMC official said. “In times like now, when revenue earning has taken a hit, this scheme could help us strengthen our coffers.” The civic body’s main sources of income are property tax, trade licences and approval of building plans. The earnings from all three sources have dipped significantly since April, following the imposition of the lockdown to slow down the spread of Covid-19. Property tax collections, however, are ahead of the other two by a significant margin, said an official. Earlier, the civic body had decided to start visiting new housing complexes to help residents understand the nitty-gritty of property tax, in a bid to encourage them to pay their taxes on time. The visits were supposed to start in July but were postponed as Covid-19 cases saw a sharp spike that month. The CMC has also planned to provide a rebate to those who make online payments of property tax but it needs an amendment to the CMC Act, for which the Assembly’s approval is necessary. The civic body’s 2019-20 budget had set a target of Rs 1,021.50 crore as revenue from property tax. The target for collection from building plan approvals was Rs 131.77 crore and that from trade licences was Rs 73.54 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-318
05-09-2020||Calcutta||ICSE YouTube classes for IX-XII students||The Council for Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) will conduct live classes for students of classes IX to XII on YouTube from September 9. Students will be able to ask questions that will be answered by subject teachers immediately after the classes. Students can post their queries on the chat window during the live streaming that will be replied after the classes are over, the council said in a notice issued to schools on Friday. Classes will be held on all major subjects. All schools have been closed since the middle of March because of the pandemic and students have been taught only through the online mode. The council has decided to start live classes considering the problems students who will take the Class X and Class XII board exams in 2021 are facing for not being able to attend regular classes, the principal of an ICSE school in Calcutta said. Experienced teachers will hold the classes, the notice said. During the live classes, the council will share a link to Google Form, in which students and teachers can give their feedback on the classes. The council had taught students of classes IX to XII through TV in April. For students of Bengal, the council had partnered with two Bengali channels to teach English, mathematics and science. The classes had been held for a few weeks. A large number of schools have been doing well in holding online classes, particularly for students who will take the board exams next year, the council said in the notice. “There are an equally large number of schools, which are not able to do so for various reasons. The present situation of the coronavirus pandemic is unrelenting and seems to be getting worse in many parts of the country.” The council aims to reach out to students of all its schools, especially in semi-urban and rural areas, by holding live classes on YouTube, according to the notice. The classes titled, “CISCE Virtual Learning Series” will start with a lesson on the English language for ICSE students on the first day. Students will be taught to write an argumentative essay in the class that will start at 10am on September 9. Students will have to click on the link  https://youtu.be/223JU7PVRjU to watch the live class. The detailed schedule of the classes planned by the council will be sent to the schools after the launch on September 9.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-318
05-09-2020||Calcutta||IIT law school scraps interview due to Covid||The Rajiv Gandhi School of Intellectual Property Law at IIT Kharagpur has scrapped personal interviews for aspirants to the bachelors’ and masters’ programmes because of the Covid-19 pandemic and decided to screen candidates solely on the basis of online admission tests. The school, set up in 2006 to produce techno legal experts through LLB and LLM programmes, had till last year admitted students through an all-India online written admission test and personal interviews. “This year we are skipping personal interviews because that would have entailed visits by candidates to facilities in Delhi, Mumbai, Calcutta and Bangalore. We do not want candidates to travel frequently amid the pandemic. The candidates will be screened solely on the basis of the online entry test,” an official of the school said. The admission test is likely to be held in the first week of October. Shortlisted applicants have to turn up at centres in Delhi, Mumbai, Calcutta and Bangalore to write the test. The test was to be held in April but had to be deferred because of the pandemic. “Domestic flights are now available in greater numbers. So, we have decided to hold the written test,” a professor of the department said. The school has started online classes for the students in the intermediate semesters. “After the tests are held in October, classes for the fresh batch, too, will be held online. We cannot call students to the campus amid rising cases of Covid-19,” said a teacher. Once the test dates are finalised, the candidates will be informed about the centres, an official said. “We will also prepare the safety protocol the candidates will have to follow while writing the test,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-318
05-09-2020||Calcutta||Mother Teresa death anniversary: anecdotes from her life||Mother Teresa, who passed away on this day (September 5) in 1997, is always in my heart. I cannot forget the times my wife and I had the opportunity to be in her presence at Mother House and while accompanying her to her homes for the poorest of the poor. The core of Mother Teresa’s message was not that we should be charitable; it was that we must love. The poor suffer, she used to say, even more from rejection than from the lack of material possessions. Mother had shared with me and my wife anecdotes from her life. Once a gentleman had come to Mother and told her about a family with eight children who had not got anything to eat. Mother had recounted to us the joy she had seen on the face of the children and their mother when they had shared the food among themselves. “I had taken some rice for them. I saw the children, their eyes shining with hunger,” Mother said. Mother divided the rice among the children and left the room. “I didn’t take more rice that evening because I wanted them to enjoy the joy of sharing,” she said. Mother used to speak about the need to share the suffering of people everywhere, not only in the poor countries. She said she found poverty in the West much more difficult to remove. “When I pick up a person from the street hungry, I give him a plate of rice, a piece of bread. I am satisfied. I have removed that hunger. But a person who is shut out, who feels unwanted, unloved, terrified, a person who has been thrown out from society — that poverty is so hurtful. Our Sisters are working amongst that kind of people in the West,” Mother had once said. I remember Mother speaking about her efforts to fight abortion through adoption. “We have saved thousands of lives. We have sent word to all clinics, to hospitals, police stations, ‘Please don’t destroy the child, we will take the child’.” Mother often urged unwed mothers to give their children to the Missionaries of Charity so that they could be taken care of. She had once recounted a story: “One evening we went out and we picked up four people from the street. And one of them was in the most terrible condition. And I told the Sisters, ‘You take care of the other three, I will take care of her’. So I did for her all that my love could do. I put her in bed, and there was such a beautiful smile on her face. She held my hand as she said one word only, ‘Thank you’, and she died.” I distinctly remember when Mother Teresa came to my Eastern Command Provost unit at Fort William in October 1992. Before leaving, Mother asked me if I could send the leftover food to her home for the poor. Mother Teresa always fed the hungry. I salute Mother Teresa who is now a Saint amongst us. Pratapaditya Mazumdar is a retired army lieutenant colonel||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-319
05-09-2020||Calcutta||Resolve Amphan couldn’t break||Biswanath Das, 18, lives in a bamboo house with a tin roof in a village in Kakdwip in South 24-Parganas. The roof came apart during Cyclone Amphan and even now water seeps through the cracks on the roof but the teenager who had scored 97.6 per cent in Higher Secondary managed to keep his books safe and study for the JEE (Main). On Friday, he was at TCS Gitobitan in Salt Lake for the exam he hopes will secure him an entry to an engineering college. “I cannot miss an exam or lose a year.... I have to make it through one of the entrance tests.” Biswanath and his father Samiran Das took a bus to Calcutta from Kakdwip on Thursday. They got off at Esplanade and stayed at a hotel in Kankurgachhi to report to the centre at 7.30 am. “The hotel charged us Rs 1,000. It is a lot of money for me under the present circumstances,” Samiran Das said. Das used to buy whole turmeric from the market and get them grounded into powder before supplying it to grocery stores. “I don’t have the money to buy a machine… so, I used to go to someone who has one and get it grounded there.” Stores have reduced their purchase of turmeric during the pandemic. “People don’t buy turmeric in huge quantities… and now they have reduced the consumption of turmeric. Naturally, shopkeepers, too, are buying less,” Das, who is a graduate, said. “The pandemic has hit us badly. Earlier, I used to earn Rs 7,000-8,000 a month; now, it has gone down to Rs 5,000. I know what education means…. I don’t want my son to make the same mistakes I made,” he said. Das wants his son to acquire a skill so that he is well-prepared even if there are problems in employment. “For the next few years I understand the job situation will not be too good. But if he acquires a skill he should be able to manage and hopefully not struggle to earn.” The family resources are limited but the family hopes that Biswanath gets a good rank and maybe a scholarship. “His school Sundarban Adarsha Vidyamandir has helped him because he was a good student... if he is able to get a good rank I am sure people will come forward to help him,” Das said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-319
05-09-2020||Calcutta||Half of month’s earnings spent on JEE travel||Sheikh Abdul Halim spent about half of his month’s earnings on travelling from Patharpratima in South 24-Parganas to Calcutta so that his son could take the JEE (Main) exam on Friday. Halim, a tailor by profession in Metiabruz, had been earning Rs 8,000 a month till March. But the pandemic has taken away that source of income from him but not the spirit to fight and live. Skipping the exam was not an option for Halim’s son Sahil Ansari and they reached the city in a vehicle with a neighbour from the Digampur area in Patharpratima, even if it meant taking a loan for the travel. “There is no work for three months now.... I might be called back in September but I cannot say for sure,” Halim said. “In between there was some work… but that, too, is gone now.” Halim has to now depend on odd jobs like working in a farm or fishing to make ends meet. Before the lockdown, he worked for six days a week in Metiabruz and returned to Patharpratima for a day with his sons and wife. Halim dropped out of school after Class VIII but he hopes that his son does not have to do that. “When I was growing up we did not get that kind of support to continue with our studies... giving up and starting to work was an easy option.” But he now understands “the value of studies”. “Even for a few thousands I have to take a loan… at least I am trying for my son… we don’t know what fate has in store for him.” Sahil scored 83 per cent in Higher Secondary. “The only target is to get admission to a government college where expenses will not be that high,” Halim said. Sahil had the exam in the second half, after which he and his father returned to their village in South 24-Parganas. “Travelling by bus would have been cheaper but risky during the pandemic... the next exam is the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) and I don’t want him to fall sick before that,” Halim said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-319
05-09-2020||Calcutta||Metro yet to decide on resume date||The city’s Metro is still to decide on a date for the resumption of services, even a week after receiving the Centre’s green signal. Metro services in Delhi and Bangalore are set to resume from Monday, the day of total lockdown in Bengal. On Tuesday, the city’s lifeline will have trial runs. The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation has come up with a detailed protocol to resume commercial services. But “crowd control and distancing measures” have stalled the resumption of services in Calcutta. Every Metro agency in the country barring Calcutta’s is a corporation with a limited government stake and increased autonomy. Calcutta Metro is with the rail ministry, which limits decision-making and efficiency. “We were ready to run trains in the run-up to the announcement of Unlock 3 guidelines… by June end, we were ready to resume services on a two-day notice,” Mangu Singh, the Delhi Metro chief, told Metro on Friday. Delhi Metro has 285 stations spread over 389km of tracks. The daily passenger volume was above 1.5 million before services were suspended. Calcutta Metro has 24 stations spread over 27km. The daily passenger volume was close to 600,000 before services were suspended. One meeting after another “We will have dry runs on September 8 and 9. An announcement of the date for the resumption of commercial services is likely after that,” a Calcutta Metro official said after a meeting — the second in two days — with state government officials on Friday. The modalities discussed include developing a system of e-passes and QR codes to be scanned at station gates. The code will be valid for a fixed time. “The government has proposed to develop a system of issuing e-passes to passengers. We will provide the information they have sought,” Metro spokesperson Indrani Banerjee said. The Metro authorities had earlier announced that only existing smart card holders would be allowed access once services resume. A Metro Railway app to recharge existing smart cards is available on Google Play store. On Friday evening, this correspondent was redirected to the Metro Railway website when he tried to recharge his smart card through the app. Smart or un-smart An app to get a Metro train will effectively shut the doors on passengers, including many senior citizens, without smartphones. Metrospeak “I will not be able to comment on other Metros. Each Metro operates under different circumstances. Like three days in the next week are total lockdown days in Bengal. We are working with the state government to resume services,” Calcutta Metro general manager Manoj Joshi said. The government has been asking for the resumption of Metro services for over two months. The government had on Monday issued a notification saying total lockdown remained unchanged (September 7, 11 and 12). The notice said Metro services could resume in a graded manner from September 8. A retired engineer specialising in urban transport questioned the logic of pre-booking Metro slots. “The idea of Metro is a quick ride from point A to point B. Not everyone travels on a fixed route daily on Metro,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-319
05-09-2020||Calcutta||Aerobridge turns PPE changing room, disrupts services||Two aerobridges at the airport had to be closed for more than half an hour on Wednesday because a number of passengers who had arrived on flights from other cities discarded face shields and PPE packets on the floor. Airport officials said the incident happened on the aerobridges at the arrival gates 20 and 24 in the domestic section of the airport terminal. “Some of the passengers had thrown their face shields and PPE packets on the floor of the aerobridges. Our employees had to clean those and sanitise the aerobridges for reuse,” airport director Kaushik Bhattacharya said on Friday. The protective equipment is given to fliers in the middle seats as a precaution against Covid-19. Officials of several airlines said in-flight announcements were frequently made telling passengers to discard face shields, PPE and the packets in which these are handed to passengers at designated places. At the Calcutta airport, the authorities have placed yellow bins in which passengers are supposed to discard the PPE and face shields. The bins are placed in the corridors, which are extensions of aerobridges, and also in the baggage collection area, said officials. “We have about 25 such bins placed in several areas in the arrival section. The number has been doubled recently to further facilitate disposal of PPE by passengers. But despite that, many passengers are throwing them on floors of aerobridges, resulting in disruption to services,” Bhattacharya said. Earlier, there were reports of passengers discarding PPE on the floors of the terminal. Officials said they had increased the personnel strength in the arrival area to boost surveillance on passengers. “Because of increased surveillance, the incidence of PPE being discarded on the floor of the terminal has reduced. But it is not possible to keep people deployed inside aerobridges as well,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-319
05-09-2020||Calcutta||Bengal medical body offers instalment option for Covid patient’s kin||The state clinical establishment regulatory commission on Friday thrashed out a settlement between a Covid victim’s family and a private hospital by asking the family to pay Rs 1.2 lakh of the Rs 3.92 lakh charged by the hospital in a supplementary bill, the panel chairperson said. The family has also been given the option to pay the Rs 1.2 lakh in 24 monthly installments of Rs 5,000 each. An 84-year-old woman who had tested positive for Covid-19 died in July after spending two weeks in a critical condition at Ruby General Hospital. The woman’s family had paid Rs 2.25 lakh during admission, the commission said. After she passed away, the hospital handed the family an additional bill of Rs 3.92 lakh, which the family was unable to pay. The total bill came to Rs 5.12 lakh. The family approached the commission saying officials of the hospital had called them up and “threatened” them to clear the bill, retired judge Ashim Kumar Banerjee, the chairperson of the commission, said at a news conference. “Besides the initial payment of Rs 2.25 lakh, the family had also spent Rs 76,000 to buy the medicines the hospital had sought from time to time,” Banerjee said. An official of Ruby General Hospital denied that anyone from the hospital had threatened the family to pay up. “No one from the hospital had called up the family even once after the patient had passed away,” the official said. Banerjee said that during Friday’s hearing, the family and the hospital asked the commission to decide on the matter. “The family said they were from a lower middle-class background and did not have the means to pay the full amount demanded by the hospital. But they also said they wanted to pay the amount justly demanded by the hospital. The hospital, too, urged the commission to decide on the matter,” he said. The commission then asked the family to pay Rs 1.2 lakh. “Both parties agreed to the decision,” the chairperson said. The official of Ruby General Hospital Metro spoke to said they would be in a position to comment on the case after receiving a copy of the commission’s order. The commission on Friday also took suo motu cognisance of a report in a newspaper that named six hospitals that were not displaying the rates for Covid-19 treatment. The commission had earlier issued an advisory asking all private hospitals to display the rates on their campuses. “We have asked the hospitals to file an affidavit,” said Banerjee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-319
05-09-2020||Calcutta||Banks back to 2 working Saturdays||The Bengal government has allowed bank branches in the state to reopen on first and third Saturdays of the month starting September 5. Also from September 5, business hours of the banks for customers will continue till 4pm, instead of 2pm. The Bengal government had on July 20 declared Saturdays as public holidays for all bank branches in the state under the Negotiable Instruments Act. The government’s order was effective till further change and the State Level Bankers’ Committee (SLBC) had advised the banks on August 13, 2020, that all branches shall remain closed on Saturdays till August 31. There was confusion among customers and bankers whether the closure of branches on Saturdays would be extended to September and this prompted the banks to raise their concern with the bankers’ committee. In a notification issued on Thursday, the state finance department announced that the July 20 notification stood cancelled with immediate effect allowing all branches to function on Saturdays except the second and fourth Saturdays of the month, as was the norm before the restriction was imposed. The SLBC said on Friday banks would resume their normal business hours (10am to 4pm for customers) from Saturday. Earlier, the hours were from 10am to 4pm. “The branches will remain open till 4pm for customers from Saturday. The banks will remain closed only on the lockdown days announ-ced by the state government. Otherwise the banks will function normally. We have sent the instruction to all banks,” said Ashwini Kumar Jha, convenor SLBC, West Bengal. The Bengal government has extended the lockdown in containment zones till September 30 and declared September 7, 11 and 12 as “complete lockdown” days. Sources at Nabanna said the holiday on Saturdays was declared as Covid-19 cases were rising in the state and it was assumed that the disease was significantly spreading from bank branches. “Now, Covid cases are continuously decreasing and bank officials are not being affected as much as in the past month. So, it was decided that the banks should be allowed to function normally,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-319
05-09-2020||Business||Marital discord over Nirmala's Act of God comment||Wife terms Covid-19 an Act of God; economist husband says for God’s sake do something — a domestic discord over the perilous state of the economy is building up in finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman's household even as her ministry orders spending cuts on payouts to consultants and sundry expenses, while asserting the economy is on its way to a V-shaped recovery. Sitharaman had last week refused to pay states their rightful GST dues, blaming it on the pandemic and followed it by her callous Act of God comment. Not so, thundered husband Parakala Prabhakar, like Sitharaman a JNU alumni. They had married in 1986 and have a daughter, Vangmayi. “Real ‘Act of God” is lack of coherent set of ideas in the govt to respond to macro-economic challenges. Covid is a late comer,” tweeted Prabhakar on Thursday. “What I said in Oct’ 19 on govt’s denial mode is vindicated by the 23.9% contraction. Do something at least now, for God’s sake,” railed Prabhakar in the tweet, which appeared to allude to the finance minister's views on the economy and the shortcomings of the Modi government. Prabhakar had also studied at the LSE. He is the managing director of RightFolio, a Hyderabad-based data analytics outfit. Prabhakar, previously the communications adviser to former Andhra CM N. Chandrababu Naidu, had last year written a trenchant article against the BJP government's economic policies in a opinion piece in the Hindu. The article had blasted the Modi government's inability to build a strategic vision for the economy. The government, meanwhile, on Friday asked all ministries to review the appointments of consultants, curtail functions and ban the use of imported paper for printing to rationalise non-priority expenditure. The finance ministry has issued the instructions on expenditure management to improve the quality of public expenditure, ensuring availability of adequate resources for critical priority schemes, the department of expenditure said. The finance ministry on Friday said the country is witnessing a V-shaped economic recovery and attributed the steep 23.9 per cent contraction of in the June quarter to the “stringent lockdown” — or the FM’s Act of God. Further, the report said the country was witnessing a V-shaped pattern of recovery as is seen in various high-frequency indicators such as auto sales, e-way bills and GST revenue and manufacturing PMI. “India enforced the most stringent lockdown as reflected in the Government Response Stringency Index developed by Oxford,” the ministry said in its monthly economic review for August.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-297
05-09-2020||Business||HDFC to raise up to Rs 5000cr by selling bonds||Mortgage lender HDFC Ltd on Friday said it will raise up to Rs 5,000 crore by issuing bonds on private placement basis. The issue size is of Rs 2,000 crore, with an option to retain oversubscription of Rs 3,000 crore, HDFC said in a regulatory filing. The secured redeemable non-convertible debentures will be open for bidding on September 8, 2020, and will close on the same day. The redemption date of the bonds, carrying a coupon of 4.95 per cent to be paid annually, is September 9, 2022. KfW IPEX-Bank, part of German development finance bank KfW, has offered a loan of 10 million euros to Srei Equipment Finance, a wholly owned subsidiary of Srei Infrastructure Finance. The financing is backed by global credit insurer Euler Hermes. The fund will be utilised to finance machinery from German construction manufacturers, including asphalt machines, road pavers and rollers, for use in Indian infrastructure projects. With banks turning cautious on the NBFC sector, several players are facing liquidity constraints for project and equipment finance. “This financing is successful because we are able to rely on a framework cover agreement with Euler Hermes. This enables us to finance technical equipment of a lower value under an international export financing agreement,”" said Andreas Ulfer, member of the management board of KfW IPEX-Bank. “This initiative will help our German and European manufacturing partners to benefit from our strong customer connect in addition to our agile risk understanding in credit buying. We look forward to more such programmes in the future,” said Devendra Kumar Vyas, managing director, Srei Equipment Finance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-297
05-09-2020||Business||Finance panel mulls fiscal deficit range||The economic advisory panel of the 15th Finance Commission on Friday suggested providing a range rather than a number as fiscal deficit targets for both the Centre and states in a report, the commission’s chairman N. K. Singh said on Friday. Singh said as the pandemic has created a more uncertain world, the commission did not brush aside the suggestion. However, a final decision on setting a range for the fiscal deficit target has yet to be taken. “Looking at the uncertainties, I felt that, there was merit at looking at a range than a number... Having a range will be in congruity with what you have in monetary policy with +/- 2 per cent (inflation target) and that we could, no doubt, while giving fiscal number say that the central number is this, and it will be more realistic,” Singh told reporters here. Singh, however, said that providing a range of fiscal deficit would require amendments in the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management (FRBM) Act. “It (providing a range) would mean revisiting the FRBM law which provides for giving a fixed point of fiscal deficit,” Singh said. In the 2020-21 Union Budget, the government had used the escape clause of 0.5 per cent relaxation provided in the FRBM Act for the last year as well as the current financial year, changing the targets for fiscal deficit to 3.8 per cent and 3.5 per cent of GDP, respectively. However, with the Centre borrowing a record Rs 12 lakh crore from the market this fiscal, and states’ borrowing ceiling increased to 5 per cent of their GDP from 3 per cent, the general government deficit is expected to be higher than what was projected in budget before the pandemic. Under the monetary policy framework, the RBI has been mandated to contain inflation at 4 per cent, with a band of +/-2 per cent. Singh said the issue of fiscal consolidation road map, particularly the general government debt-to-GDP target, needs to be revisited and it will be daunting challenge to bring it to the level the FRBM committee had projected. Singh said the 15th Finance Commission will submit its four volume final report by October-end.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-297
05-09-2020||Business||IndiGo may shelve QIP as it hopes to increase capacity in festive season||IndiGo may shelve its plans to raise Rs 4,000 crore from the market as it expects to see an improvement in its financial situation, driven by increased sales during the upcoming festive season. “The plan to raise money through qualified institutional placement (QIP) has a 50-50 chance and the preferred path is to increase sales revenue,” IndiGo’s chief executive Ronojoy Dutta told shareholders at the 17th annual general meeting on Friday. In August, the country’s largest airline operated by InterGlobe Aviation, had announced plans to raise up to Rs 4,000 crore through an issue of equity shares by way of a qualified institutional placement. The announcement was made as the airline needed money to fund its losses, which were mainly because of the two-month long lockdown. He added that the cash burn is down to Rs 30 crore from Rs 40 crore a day when the lockdown started. He said that the airline was at present utilising about 35 per cent of its total fleet because of the various travel restrictions imposed by states that prevented the airline from adding capacity. “We are aggressively adding capacity and hope to take that utilisation number up as fast as we can,” he added. The airline hopes to operate 60 per cent of its existing capacity by Diwali. Unlike last year, both the promoters of the company — Rahul Bhatia and Rakesh Gangwal — were present at the AGM held virtually. Both promoters are involved in a feud which is at present under arbitration before the London Court of International Arbitration (LCIA). IndiGo reported a consolidated net loss of Rs 870.81 crore in the March quarter compared with a profit of Rs 596 crore a year ago. It reported its highest quarterly loss of Rs 2,844 crore in the first quarter of this financial year. Dutta also said there was no plan to hire wide-bodied aircraft and the airline would wait for the XLR delivery, which is scheduled to arrive during the first quarter of 2024. IndiGo, however, was looking to wet lease long-haul aircraft and launch international charter flights but the airline did not go ahead with the plan. Airline companies, which are the worst hit due to COVID19 and the lockdown, are seeing some signs of returning to normalcy after states started relaxing quarantine and entry norms. Rating agency ICRA said in a research report that the domestic aviation industry operated at a passenger load factor of 55 percent in July as against 86.3 percent in the same month last year, when demand had remained poor. “ICRA maintains that H2 FY21 will witness some recovery, with Q4 FY21 witnessing year-on-year de-growth of just 3-14 percent in domestic passenger traffic with improved PLFs (passenger load factor), and overall FY21 witnessing 41-46 percent de-growth in domestic passenger traffic,” it said. The International Air Transport Association (IATA) has said that 2020 is the worst year in aviation history, and airlines in the Asia-Pacific region alone are expected to report losses to the tune of $29 billion. Indian carriers are estimated to lose revenues of $11.61 billion during 2020 compared with 2019, and this is expected to impact 3.06 million jobs. “On average, every day of this year will add $230 million to industry losses. In total that’s a loss of $84.3 billion,” Alexandre de Juniac, IATA’s director general and CEO, said in a statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-298
05-09-2020||Business||RBI tweaks priority lending for better credit penetration||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Friday made key changes in priority sector lending (PSL) guidelines to enable “better credit penetration in the credit deficient sectors”. Under the revised norms, higher weightage has been assigned to incremental priority sector credit in identified districts where credit flow is comparatively low. Expanding the scope of priority sector lending, the central bank allowed funding of up to Rs 50 crore to start-ups, and increased the targets prescribed for “small and marginal farmers” and “weaker sections”. Last month, the central bank had said that it will revise the PSL norms and the focus will be to enable better credit penetration to the loan-deficient sectors even as it also brought start-ups within the PSL ambit. In line with its objective to build an incentive framework for districts with comparatively lower flow of credit, the RBI said that from 2021-22 onwards, a higher weight (125 per cent) would be assigned to the incremental priority sector credit in the identified districts where the credit flow is comparatively lower (per capita PSL less than Rs 6,000). A lower weight (90 per cent) would be assigned to incremental priority sector credit in the identified districts where the credit flow is comparatively higher (per capita PSL greater than Rs 25,000). The RBI has identified 184 districts which have comparatively low PSL credit. There are three such districts in Bengal — Bankura, Jhargram and Purulia. According to Soumya Kanti Ghosh, group chief economic adviser, SBII, the performance of banks in achieving PSL targets has significantly improved. In 2019-20, all the bank-groups (public, private and foreign banks) have been able to achieve the overall target of 40 per cent lending. At present, 18 per cent of the adjusted net bank credit must go towards agriculture. Of this, 10 per cent has been prescribed for SMF. Banks will have to achieve this target by 2023-24 in a gradual manner-8 per cent in this fiscal to 9.5 per cent in 2022-23 and 10 per cent in 2023-24. The central bank also doubled the loan limits for renewable energy to Rs 30 crore which can be provided to borrowers for purposes such as solar based power generators, biomass-based power generators, wind mills, micro-hydel plants and for non-conventional energy based public utilities like street lighting systems and remote village electrification. Further, loans up to a limit of Rs 10 crore per borrower will also come under PSL for building health care facilities including under the Ayushman Bharat in Tier II to Tier VI centres.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-298
05-09-2020||Business||ITC stock undervalued||The growing global trend of investing in a stock by measuring sustainability and the social impact of the investment is hurting the stock performance of ITC Ltd despite a stellar show by its businesses, the management of the company acknowledged on Friday. The theme of ESG (environment, social and governance) investment is weighing down tobacco stocks globally and also impacted ITC, despite the company having a “pretty good” rating, Sanjiv Puri, chairman and managing director of ITC, noted. Responding to shareholders’ questions and suggestions on the  ITC stock, Puri pointed out that the earning per share — a measure of profitability and cue to stock price — has gone up by 40 per cent in the last three years. “However, that (EPS growth) is not reflected in the share price. It is concerning to all of you (shareholders) and the employees because there is performance behind it which is not getting recognised,” Puri told shareholders at the AGM. He went on to explain, “The focus on ESG investing, which has created headwinds for tobacco stocks globally, has also impacted us. This is despite the fact that we have a pretty good ESG rating, which is the highest among global tobacco (companies) and compare favourably (among) many consumer goods companies domestically and globally,” Puri said. While all shareholders lauded the performance of ITC and the decision to pay a hefty dividend, some complained that stock prices are languishing. They suggested that ITC use its cash pile for share buyback or list some of its profitable subsidiaries/segments to unlock value for shareholders. The stock has underperformed over the last three years, going down 34 per cent in that period. It closed at Rs 186.70 on Friday. ITC has been ranked No. 1 globally among its peers and No. 3 overall on ESG performance in the food products industry by Sustainalytics, a global ESG rating company. It has also been rated “AA” by MSCI-ESG — the highest among global tobacco companies. “We have the right positioning there and, therefore, it is painful that particular factor is not being recognised,” Puri added. The CMD pointed out that ITC in the past had apprehended headwinds before tobacco companies and consequently pursued to create multiple drivers of growth such as FMCG, which commands impressive price earning multiples. The non-tobacco segment contributes 60 per cent of the segment revenue in 2019-20 but 77 per cent of segment profit. The management said it would examine the “optimal way” to structure ITC to ensure maximum value for shareholders. It did not explain if such ways would include spinning out matured businesses and listing them separately on the bourses. Referring to shareholders queries on what creates more value — separateness or integration — Puri explained how institutional strength and financial resources of traditional business is leveraged to diversify a company. During the chairman’s address, Puri said the current spate of localised lockdowns was impacting the recovery momentum and the near-term outlook remains uncertain in the backdrop of the unfolding impact of the pandemic and the shape of the economic recovery. The company saw progressive normalisation in most of the segments it operates by the end of the first quarter, except hotel, education and stationery products. Food and personal care delivered robust growth during the lockdown period.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-298
05-09-2020||Business||Reliance Industries eyes $1bn for retail arm||Silver Lake Partners is likely to invest $1 billion in Reliance Retail, valuing the retail venture at $57 billion (Rs 4.2 lakh crore). Reliance has recently acquired the retail and wholesale business and the logistics and warehousing division of Future Group for Rs 24,713 crore. Reliance’s latest fund raising — this time in organised retail — would indicate that promoter Mukesh Ambani is preparing for a major onslaught on this industry. This comes after its digital services arm, Jio Platforms, raised over Rs 1.50 lakh crore from 13 investors. Silver Lake was an investor, pumping Rs 10,202.55 crore (along with co-investors) into Jio Platforms for their 2.08 per cent stake in the company. A report in the  Financial Times said that Reliance is in discussions with Silver Lake for a $1-billion stake sale in Reliance Retail  at a valuation of $57 billion and that it  is looking to raise $5.7 billion by selling a total of 10 per cent in the retail business. Shares of Reliance Industries on Friday closed lower 1.65 per cent, or Rs 34.75, at Rs 2,077.40 on the Bombay Stock Exchange. However, certain brokerages were not impressed by the valuation. “Using the current rupee dollar exchange rate, the deal value of Rs 4.2 lakh crore is 15 per cent lower than the Rs 4.8 lakh crore enterprise value we assign to Reliance Retail in our September 21 target price,’’ analysts at CLSA said in a note. “As this possible stake sale would also include the recently acquired retail business of Future Group for Rs 24,000 crore, this valuation is 18 per cent lower than our expectations. “Interestingly, this is also a massive 30 per cent lower than the rumoured private market valuation of retail,’’ the note added. The brokerage added that unlike the Jio Platform deals, this deal valuation “may be a bit underwhelming” as it does not bring in a new marquee strategic player. Debt is no more seen as a concern, they observed. “Moreover, RIL may now have exhausted its large near-term inorganic triggers even as organic earnings may struggle to deliver big surprises in the current environment. Notwithstanding the long-term opportunity offered by Reliance, large stock upsides may be limited in the near term,’’ the note said. The brokerage has a outperform rating on Reliance Industries with a 12-month target price of Rs 2,250. At its annual general meeting in July, Ambani had disclosed that Reliance will induct global partners into Reliance Retail over the next few quarters. The impact of Covid-19 on the organised retail topline in the June quarter was less severe compared with other segments even though it fell 17 per cent to Rs 31,633 crore from Rs 38,216 crore in the year-ago period. The segment EBITDA showed a drop of 47 per cent to Rs 1,083 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-298
05-09-2020||Business||Vodafone Idea to raise Rs 25,000cr to pay AGR dues||Vodafone Idea said on Friday that it would raise up to Rs 25,000 crore in fresh capital as the telecom operator tries to pay off its hefty dues to the government. The loss-making carrier has been ordered by the Supreme Court to pay roughly Rs 58,000 crore ($6.81 billion) in dues to the government over a 10-year period and it has so far paid Rs 7,900 crore. Vodafone said it would raise up to Rs 15,000 crore through debentures and an equal amount in shares and warrants, but together they will not exceed Rs 25,000 crore. The plan to raise fresh capital also comes as the third largest telecom player in India grapples with an erosion in its subscriber base because of a price war triggered by Reliance Jio. Vodafone lost 4.7 million subscribers in May alone, data from the telecom regulator showed, while its gross debt stood at Rs 1.19 lakh crore as of June end. The joint venture between Britain’s Vodafone Plc and India’s Idea Cellular had last month reported its eight straight quarterly loss and unveiled a plan to reduce costs by Rs 4,000 crore a year over 18 months. The funding plan will be considered at the annual general meeting of the shareholders on September 30, the company said. Friday’s board meeting was keenly watched particularly after the Supreme Court judgment which gave operators 10 years to clear their AGR (adjusted gross revenue) dues with 10 per cent to be paid in this fiscal. Moreover, there have been reports that Amazon along with Verizon may invest up to $4 billion in the company. Analysts are optimistic that Vodafone Idea will stay in the game though they feel it will have to raise huge funds, sell non-core assets and opt for tariff hikes. Vodafone Idea is selling its entire 11.15 per cent in Indus Towers ahead of a merger with Bharti Infratel for Rs 4,000 crore. However, it will have to make a pre-payment in cash of Rs 2,400 crore as part of some payment obligations to the merged tower firm. Only Rs 1,600 crore will be added to its books from the sale. “To meet its enhanced cash flow requirements in 2020-23 (when the moratorium on deferred spectrum ends), we estimate its average revenue per user would need to rise to Rs 170-200,’’ analysts at Citi had said in a recent note. Ahead of the announcement, the Vodafone Idea stock witnessed volatility on the BSE. After gaining more than 7 per cent to hit an intra-day high of Rs 13.45, the stock gave up its gains to end at Rs 12.01— a fall of 4.38 per cent over the last close.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-298
05-09-2020||India||Narcotics Control Bureau arrests member of Sushant Singh Rajput’s personal staff||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Saturday arrested Dipesh Sawant, a member of Sushant Singh Rajput's personal staff, in connection with a drugs probe linked to the actor's death, officials said. With this, the total number of people arrested in this case has risen to six. The officials said Sawant, who was being questioned since morning, has been arrested under sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. A senior NCB officer had earlier said that Sawant's role was that of a "witness" in the case. On Friday, the federal anti-narcotics agency had arrested Showik Chakraborty, 24, Rhea Chakraborty's brother, and Samuel Miranda, Sushant's house manager. The agency said it has now got an "inkling" of the narcotics network and penetration in Bollywood. Showik "dealt in drugs with many others", the NCB told a court here as it obtained his custody along with that of Miranda till September 9. Besides Showik and Miranda, Kaizan Ibrahim, another accused, was also produced before the court. He was remanded in judicial custody. The NCB has also arrested Zaid Vilatra (21) and Parihar (23) in relation to the case. Various angles surrounding the death of the 34-year-old actor are being probed by three federal agencies, including the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). Earlier in the day a CBI team visited Sushant’s flat in suburban Bandra again on Saturday as part of its investigation, an official said. On Saturday, Sushant's family lawyer Vikas Singh said doctors cannot share sensitive information of patients without the consent of their legal heirs. He also said that any doctor who claims to have treated the actor should discuss his medical history with the family first. Sushant was found dead at his flat in suburban Bandra area on June 14.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-687
05-09-2020||India||India records 86,432 infections reported in a day||India's Covid-19 tally sprinted past 40 lakh, just 13 days after it crossed 30 lakh, with a record 86,432 cases being reported in a day, while recoveries have surged to 31,07,223 on Saturday pushing the recovery rate to 77.23 per cent, according to the Union health ministry. The total coronavirus cases rose to 40,23,179, while the death toll climbed to 69,561 with 1,089 people succumbing to the disease in a span of 24 hours, data updated at 8am showed. India's Covid-19 cases jumped from 10 lakh to 20 lakh in 21 days. It took 16 more days to race past 30 lakh and 13 days more to cross the 40-lakh mark. It took 110 days for the Covid-19 cases in the country to reach one lakh while it had taken 59 days more to go past the 10-lakh post. The Covid-19 case fatality rate due to the novel coronavirus infection has further declined to 1.73 per cent. There are 8,46,395 active cases of coronavirus infection, which is 21.04 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 and went past 30 lakh on August 23. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a cumulative total of 4,77,38,491 samples have been tested up to September 4 with 10,59,346 samples being tested on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-687
05-09-2020||India||Now, BCI to vet tweets of  Bhushan||The Bar Council of India has ordered a “thorough study and examination” of lawyer Prashant Bhushan’s two tweets on the judiciary, for which the Supreme Court convicted him of criminal contempt and fined him Re 1. The BCI, the regulatory body for lawyers and legal education, said on Friday that it had directed the Bar Council of Delhi, with which Bhushan is enrolled as an advocate, “to examine the matter and proceed as per law and rules to decide the same as expeditiously as possible”. Under Section 24A of the Advocates Act, an advocate convicted of any offence relating to moral turpitude can be disqualified from legal practice for two years. Under Section 35, the Bar Council of the state where a lawyer is enrolled can take the following actions: ⚫ Reprimand the advocate. ⚫ Suspend the advocate from practising in any court in the country for a certain period. ⚫ Remove the lawyer from the state roll of advocates. The BCI said its general council had discussed and deliberated on Thursday the judgment delivered by the apex court bench of Justices Arun Mishra, B.R. Gavai and Krishna Murari, which convicted Bhushan but decided to show “magnanimity” by imposing the token fine. “The council is of the view that the tweets and statements made by Shri Prashant Bhushan, advocate, and the judgment of the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India need thorough study and examination by the Bar Council,” the BCI said in a statement issued by its secretary, Srimanto Sen. The BCI statement said the examination was needed “in the light of the statutory duties, powers and functions conferred on it under the Advocates Act, 1961, and the rules framed thereunder, particularly, Section 24A and Section 35 of the Advocates Act, 1961, and Chapter II, Part VI of the Bar Council of India Rules”. The BCI said Thursday’s meeting via videoconference was presided over by vice-chairman Satish A. Deshmukh. Bhushan has already paid the fine as directed by the court. Had Bhushan failed to do so, he would have invited a jail term of three months and been barred from legal practice for three years, according to the court order. Earlier this year, the BCI had waded into a skirmish with the Supreme Court Bar Association by “staying” the suspension of association secretary Ashok Arora, who had attempted to get association president Dushyant Dave removed for criticising Justice Mishra’s praise of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-687
05-09-2020||India||Outcry over riot case ‘coercion’||Over 1,000 citizens issued a statement on Friday asking the Delhi police to lay off “coerced ‘confessional’ statements and manufactured evidence’. Several Delhi-based activists who have been under the police’s lens over the February riots that claimed 53 lives too spoke out at a news conference against attempts to criminalise the protests against the new citizenship matrix. The citizens cited news reports that said four chargesheets filed on the riots case showed identical confessional statements by different witnesses. They also cited a recent letter from rights activist and former JNU student Umar Khalid to police commissioner S.N. Srivastava. The letter said an acquaintance of Umar’s had been told to give a statement that Umar had called for blocking roads during the riots or face arrest. Separately, Khalid, named in an FIR on the Delhi riots, told a news conference in New Delhi on Friday: “Thirty seconds — in which I called for protests against the CAA — of a 17-minute speech of mine in Amaravati was first tweeted by the BJP’s Amit Malviya, then telecast by channels, and then used by the police to claim that I had called for riots…. Had they shown the full speech, the people would know that I said that the only two weapons we have are those that Gandhi gave us — ahimsa and satyagraha.” The citizens’ statement said: “We are gravely concerned that Dr Umar Khalid, a young scholar, already vilified and targeted relentlessly by a section of the media, is now being implicated in riots cases on the basis of manufactured evidence. “Umar Khalid is not above the law, and must support any police investigation. But when the process of law is sought to be short-circuited and undermined, then any citizen’s liberty is gravely threatened.” The statement added: “We seek an urgent assurance from the Delhi police commissionerate that practices like extorting ‘confessions’ to manufacture evidence will be immediately ended; that those who indulge in them will be held accountable; and that no action will be taken against Umar Khalid or anyone else on the basis of these so-called confessions and fabricated evidence. “Even these coerced confessional statements do not make for UAPA offences, and invoking this law appears to be done without application of mind to give acts the colour of a conspiracy against the state. We ask the police to drop the application of UAPA in all these cases.” Among the citizens who signed the statement are academics Ramachandra Guha, Zoya Hasan, Partha Chatterjee, Jayati Ghosh, Poonam Batra, Nivedita Menon and Sucharita Sen; former civil servants Jawhar Sircar, Wajahat Habibullah, Madhu Bhaduri, Deb Mukherjee, Amitabha Pande, Sundar Burra and Aditi Mehta; filmmaker Aparna Sen and former governor Margaret Alva. Khalid addressed the news conference on Friday along with former bureaucrat Harsh Mander and political activist Yogendra Yadav — named in chargesheets but not booked for any offence — academic Apoorvanand Jha and student leader Kawalpreet Kaur, who are being probed for their alleged role in the riots. They condemned what they called a police witch-hunt against those who spoke up for the riot victims or criticised the “discriminatory” Citizenship Amendment Act and related laws. “During the protests, some WhatsApp groups were made. Now every word exchanged in these groups is being examined with a defective microscope by the police, their meaning and context deliberately and mischievously misinterpreted, the truth ripped into shreds and re-imagined to create the mythology of a conspiracy of hate, violence and insurrection,” said Mander, a social activist who was an IAS officer. “There were significantly other WhatsApp groups that were indeed actively calling for violence on those dates; none of these are being subject to any investigation of a conspiracy.” Yadav asked: “Is this an investigation into a ‘conspiracy’ or is the investigation itself a conspiracy? Is the entire investigation just a façade to arrive at premeditated conclusions already announced before the investigation had even commenced?” Union home minister Amit Shah had called the riots a pre-planned conspiracy after initially calling them spontaneous. Yadav asked why the police had not taken note of reports against BJP leaders Satya Pal Singh, Jagdish Pradhan, Nand Kishore Gujjar, Mohan Singh Bisht and Kapil Mishra or Right-wing social media sensation Ragini Tiwari. Mishra has been accused by the Delhi Minorities Commission and others of inciting the riots. Yadav further asked why the police had not identified the cops who had beaten a youth named Faizan while forcing him to sing the national anthem. Faizan later died. Kawalpreet Kaur, Delhi president of the CPIML Liberation-backed All India Students’ Association, said: “The impunity granted to the supporters of the ruling dispensation in the clear incitement to violence seems to be a repeat of the impunity that the Delhi police have provided over decades to the political leaders who were involved in inciting and participating in the 1984 anti-Sikh genocide. “However, this time, the Delhi police seem to have gone one step ahead and, while providing impunity to the netas, they have started targeting the students and activists who have been critical of the regime.” The police have not responded to this newspaper’s queries about the charges levelled against the force at the news conference and in the statement by the citizens.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-687
05-09-2020||India||Rajnath meets China minister||Defence minister Rajnath Singh and his Chinese counterpart General Wei Fenghe met for over two hours in Moscow on Friday, hours after the Indian foreign secretary and the army chief publicly acknowledged the gravity of the situation on the Ladakh border. “The meeting between Raksha Mantri Shri Rajnath Singh and Chinese Defence Minister General Wei Fenghe in Moscow is over. The meeting lasted for 2 hours and 20 minutes,” the Indian defence minister’s office tweeted close to midnight. Rajnath and Wei met on the sidelines of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) defence ministers’ meeting in Moscow. This is the first face-to-face contact at the political level between India and China since the Chinese troops opened multiple fronts along the Line of Actual Control in eastern Ladakh and changed the status quo in May. The meeting was apparently sought by Wei, a state councillor and member of the Central Military Commission that controls the People’s Liberation Army of China. “It was a very crucial dialogue to resolve the border standoff in Ladakh,” a defence ministry official said in Delhi. The political intervention comes at a time military-level talks appeared to have remained inconclusive for five straight days. This week, more than 25 hours of discussions had been held between the military commanders of both sides. Taking into account the time spent on translation, it still adds up to at least 12 hours of parleys. Earlier in the day, Indian foreign secretary Harsh V. Shringla described the situation along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China as “unprecedented” and army chief Gen. Manoj Mukund Naravane said it was “delicate and serious”. This is the first time there has been a public acknowledgement at such a high level of the gravity of the situation. This also seems to be part of a calibrated change in the communication strategy. But the foreign secretary underscored the significance in the fact that the two countries have remained engaged both diplomatically and militarily through the most difficult moments of the crisis. The foreign secretary said this while delivering a lecture  organised by the Indian Council of World Affairs. “We haven’t lost any lives on the (China) border in the last 40 years. We haven’t seen this magnitude of amassing of forces on the border also in recent years is something we have to take stock of. What is important is that during difficult moments of this crisis, we have been engaged both militarily and diplomatically with China. The pandemic has not stopped us from engaging.” Gen. Naravane, who arrived in Ladakh on Thursday, said: “The current situation along the LAC is a bit delicate and serious. For our security, we have undertaken some precautionary steps. We are sure that the problem can be resolved fully through talks.” “The morale of the jawans is very high and they are ready to face any challenges. I would like to reiterate, like always, that our officers are the finest in the world. They will make not just the army but the entire country proud,” the army chief added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-688
05-09-2020||India||Odisha  BJP MLA arrested||A BJP MLA from Baripada in Odisha’s Mayurbhanj district, Prakash Soren, was arrested by police on Friday for allegedly assaulting a government engineer. It was alleged that the concerned engineer had refused to award work orders to the supporters of the MLA in various government projects as desired by him. Sources said Soren had asked Ganapati Jena, an assistant executive engineer in the ITDA (Integrated Tribal Deve lopment Agency), to meet him at the Baripada circuit house in Mayurbhanj on Thursday morning. But the engineer met him in the evening. An infuriated Soren and his supporters allegedly misbehaved with him and beat him up. Jena, who is undergoing treatment in a local hospital, had lodged an FIR after the assault.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-688
05-09-2020||India||Puri opens for tourists, govt plans cruise services||The pilgrim town is ready to welcome tourists again after the state government lifted all the restrictions imposed in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. Tourists can now stay in the town for as long as they wish to with no fear of being quarantined for stay beyond 72 hours as was the case earlier. All the checkpoints on the entry routes to the town, known for its beautiful beach and temples, especially the 12th Century shrine of Lord Jagannath, have been removed. The government has also decided to introduce cruise services in the Chilika Lake, the largest brackish water lake of Asia, Mahanadi, Bhitarakanika and Satkosia gorge. Puri collector Balwant Singh told The Telegraph: “There is no bar on tourists from entering Puri. We have decided to open up this sector as we have to take care of the livelihood of lakhs of people who depend on tourism. Hotels have started making bookings and there is no 72-hour stay bar on visitors. Tourists can come and enjoy the different spots of Puri. However, our request to them is to strictly follow all the Covid guidelines.” However, officials maintained that Swargadwara, the cremation ground in Puri, will remain closed to outsiders till the end of this month. As tourism sector contributes 10 per cent of the state’s GDP, the government is now trying to promote it in a big way with steps like introduction of cruise services in lakes and rivers. The service will run in public-private partnership. Officials hope that international players will join hands with the government in promoting the service. Chief secretary Asit Kumar Tripathy said: “Cruise service will be introduced in compliance with Covid-19 guidelines. It will boost economic activities by promoting tourism.” Tourism secretary Visal Dev said: “We have decided in principle to run cruise services in Mahanadi, Chilika and on the national waterway 5 from Dhamara to Paradip. It will also connect the Dangamal reserve forest under Bhitarakanika sanctuary in Kendrapara district. The Inland Waterways Authority has been asked to get all statutory clearances from different authorities. Now we plan to bring international cruise operators to the state so that tourism will get a big boost. We are in touch with three to four international cruise operators.” According to the plan the cruise service in the Bhitarakanika circuit, known for its crocodile and birds, will be of five nights and six days. It will connect tourists spots like Chandbali-Aaradi-Khola. “Chilika circuit, known for birds and Irrawady dolphins, will cover three nights and four days. The cruise service will connect Chilika and various islands like Kalijai, Nalabana-Honeymoon island-Mangalajodi-Satapada-Rajhans island-Satapada and Puri,” official said adding that state PPP cell has been asked to chalk out a plan in consultation with the department of tourism. The state has a long coastline of 482 km, five major rivers, reservoirs and water bodies including Chilika, the largest brackish water lake of Asia. “All these water bodies possess tremendous tourism potential. To unlock the potential, the department is planning to develop day cruises in select water bodies of the state with private sector participation,” said a senior official. Officials maintained that Odisha Tourism Policy, 2016, offers many fiscal incentives for projects like water sports, adventure sports, house boats, cruise tourism projects, aquariums, aqua-parks etc. by way of investment and interest subsidy with an intention to promote private sector investments. “Fiscal Incentives are also available under large revenue generating projects of Government of India like cruise vessels, cruise terminals etc.” The government has already framed Odisha Boat Rules, 2017 to regulate water sports activities in the state. The Centre has recommended Puri and seven other beaches in India to the International Jury of Denmark for global eco-label “ Blue Flag” certification to the sea beaches under the Beach Environment and Aesthetic Management System (BEAMS) programme. Union petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan on Wednesday tweeted, “Thank PM Shri Narendra Modi Ji and Min. Prakash Javdekar Ji for recommending the Golden beach in Puri along with seven other beaches in India to the International Jury for the coveted global eco-label- Blue flag certification in the forthcoming tourist season under the BEAMS Program.” The Chandrabhaga beach near the Sun Temple in Konark was the first in the country to have got the tag in 2019.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-688
05-09-2020||India||Drug cuffs on Kannada actress||A leading Kannada actress and an event organiser were arrested on Friday in connection with a drug racket bust in the city that has thrown up political and movie links. Police arrested actress Ragini Dwivedi, 30, and event organiser Viren Khanna after questioning them through the day over alleged links with drug peddlers, Karnataka police’s central crime branch said. The two have been sent to four days’ police custody. Karnataka police officers had picked up Khanna from his native Delhi and brought him to Bangalore. CCB officers raided the north Bangalore apartment of Ragini, who has also acted in Malayalam and Telugu movies and had made a special appearance in the Hindi film R… Rajkumar, early on Friday after she failed to honour a call for questioning the day before. They also searched the premises. Ragini’s name had been found in the call records of a government clerk arrested last week on drug peddling charges, sources said. Ragini, 30, who was not allowed to make any phone calls, was driven to the CCB office in Bangalore where she was questioned in the presence of senior women officers. Her questioning follows the arrest of Ravishankar, a clerk at the regional transport office, and a real estate developer named Rahul. Both of them are said to have links with several Kannada film stars. On Thursday, Ragini had refused to appear personally for questioning by the CCB. “My advocates have presented themselves before the police, have explained my difficulty in not being able to appear today and have sought time. I am committed to appear on Monday morning before the police,” she had tweeted on Thursday. CCB officials have seized Ragini’s mobile phones and laptops that will be sent for a forensic examination. Bangalore police commissioner Kamal Pant told a news conference on Friday that cops had been tracking the drug network for a month. “The CCB has been following leads on drug peddling. Then we got information about a government employee being a regular participant at parties and that his close contacts were some film actors,” Pant said. “When we finally got him, we found he is a clerk at the RTO in Jayanagar (in Bangalore) and that he used to supply drugs at these parties,” the officer added, referring to Ravishankar. “Based on the revelations made by him, we started our second layer of investigation,” Pant said, adding that more people were being summoned for questioning. The officer said lot of information had emerged during the interrogation of Rahul. “He is into real estate and has regularly travelled abroad to attend such parties,” Pant said. But the police commissioner refused to give more information when asked if another popular actress believed to be close to Rahul would also be questioned. “I cannot disclose anything more since the investigation is on,” Pant said. The Narcotics Control Bureau had raided two premises in Bangalore on August 21 and seized a large quantity of party drugs and arrested the suspected kingpin, Anikha D, and alleged drug peddlers Anoop Mohammed and Rijesh Ravindran. Filmmaker Indrajit Lankesh, brother of slain journalist Gouri Lankesh, had earlier spoken to the media and the police about rampant drug abuse in the film industry. Indrajit has named 15 actors and actresses in his deposition before the police.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-688
05-09-2020||India||SC bins TN judges’ plea on appointments||The Supreme Court on Friday dismissed a petition filed by some district judges of Tamil Nadu challenging Madras High Court collegium’s decision to recommend certain district judges for appointment in the high court by overlooking the petitioners’ claim in terms of overall seniority. Appointment to the high courts are made either by way of direct recruitment of advocates who have a minimum 10 years practice or those who have been district judge for about 10 years. The petitioners had taken the stand that in terms of overall seniority they were senior to the six other respondent judges as their earlier legal practice should also be taken into consideration.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-688
05-09-2020||India||Aligarh Muslim University time capsule update||Aligarh Muslim University is thinking of digging up the 143-year-old time capsule embedded under the campus and burying a new one containing details of the institution’s achievements and an account of contemporary history and current affairs. If carried out, the move will coincide with the centenary celebrations of the university, currently put on hold by the Covid-19 outbreak. Rahat Abrar, director of the university’s Urdu Academy, told reporters the old time capsule was buried on January 8, 1877, the foundation day of the Muhammadan Anglo-Oriental College which later became Aligarh Muslim University in 1920 through an act of Parliament. “According to newspaper clippings from 1877, the capsule contained the records of the donors (towards the establishment of the college) and the struggles of Sir Syed Ahmed Khan, the founder of the college,” Abrar told The Telegraph. “Some gold, silver and copper coins of the time were also placed inside the capsule. But we don’t know what else is there. We want to dig it up to find out, and make the AMU community aware of all that it contains.” He said a “final decision to recover the time capsule” was yet to be taken. “It will be discussed at our next meeting. Nor have we decided yet what to do with the old capsule if it’s dug up --- whether it will be kept in a museum or buried again with the new capsule,” Abrar said. “There’s also a plan to place a new time capsule under a campus building. It will contain the history of AMU between 1920 and 2020 in digital and printed form. It will also mention current affairs. The rest will be decided by the committee formed for the centenary celebrations.” University sources said the new time capsule could be buried under Sir Syed House, Victoria Gate, Kennedy Hall or the library building. According to the Aligarh Institute Gazette, published on January 12, 1877, the old capsule was placed under the Starchy Hall on the campus in the presence of Sir Syed, then king of Varanasi Shambhu Narayan, and then Viceroy of India Edward Robert Lytton. Pictures of the occasion are available in the university archives. The Gazette, launched in 1866, was associated with the Scientific Society, instituted by Sir Syed in 1863 to promote a scientific temper among students.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-688
05-09-2020||India||MPs to need Covid-negative certificate to attend monsoon session||All MPs will need a Covid-negative certificate to be able to attend the upcoming monsoon session of Parliament and have been advised to either get the RT-PCR tests done in their constituencies or take the rapid antigen test at the special counters set up in the Parliament House. Only those members who have Covid-negative certificates or whose rapid antigen test comes clear will be allowed to proceed for the session. In case a member tests negative, but is symptomatic, he/she will have to take the RT-PCR test and go into home isolation while awaiting the result. Those testing positive will be reported and sent to institutional isolation or hospitalised as decided by the doctors. Family and staff members of MPs have also been advised to get themselves tested. Meanwhile, all officers and staff of the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha secretariats, too, have to take the Covid-19 test mandatorily in preparation for the session beginning on September 14. Arrangements have been made for testing personnel attached to the Lok Sabha secretariat on Saturday. Besides the secretariat staff, all others working in the sprawling complex will be tested. This includes employees of the Central Public Works Department, the State Bank of India, NDMC, Railway Reservation Counter, Air India, Post Office and Railway Catering Unit. Similar instructions are also likely to go out to the media and officials accompanying ministers during the session, sources privy to the planning told The Telegraph. Meanwhile, after the row over the scrapping of Question Hour for this session, the government has decided to allow un-starred questions that Trinamul Congress leader in the Rajya Sabha, Derek O’Brien, likened to “throwing crumbs” as it still avoids direct questioning. Unlike starred questions that are replied to on the floor of the House by the ministers concerned followed by supplementary questions which, too, are answered, un-starred questions only get written replies that are laid on the table of the House. Time is never allotted for un-starred questions. It is not just MPs who are disappointed by the government’s refusal to reconsider the suspension of Question Hour. Signature campaigns launched by concerned citizens have found considerable traction and one such letter to the presiding officers of the two Houses noted that several state Assemblies that held their sessions through the pandemic did not suspend Question Hour. “If the state Assembles can put sufficient precautions in place to ensure smooth functioning of the House without suspension of any procedures, then Parliament ought to as well,’’ the letter pointed out; adding that India was not in the league of nations that quickly adapted to the pandemic and enabled virtual Parliament sessions, complete with Question Hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-688
05-09-2020||India||Guard down, infections spiral in a Maharashtra village||The quaint, sugarcane-growing village of Rajewadi in Maharashtra did not have a single confirmed coronavirus case until mid-August. Now one in every four people there is positive for the virus, with police blaming a local religious event for the spread. Such spurts in cases in small towns and villages, where mask wearing and social distancing have nearly vanished and community gatherings are back, explain why India’s infections are now rising faster than anywhere else in the world and why the country is soon set to top 4 million cases. Based on current trends, India will overtake Brazil as the second-worst affected nation after the US in days. The country reported 83,883 new infections on Thursday, surpassing its previous global record for the highest single-day rise. The World Health Organization has said India’s relatively low mortality rate could rise as the virus fans out to the vast countryside, where health facilities are basic at best. In Rajewadi — a small village of around 360 in Maharashtra — authorities launched widespread testing after an elderly resident was found to have died of Covid-19 on August 17, said Aniruddha Athalye, a senior health official in Satara district where the village is located. Since then, 91 people there have tested positive and the village has been sealed off by police. Government officials, police and residents said days before the death — the village’s only fatality from the disease — the person and about 30 others had gathered one night to offer prayers to a local deity. They had dinner together after the rituals, and throughout the function no one wore masks or practised social distancing. Police said almost all those who attended have tested positive. Police have lodged a complaint against the organiser for violating the state’s epidemic act. A person who saw the function but did not attend said “everyone was behaving like coronavirus won’t catch them”. He declined to be named while police investigate the case. The village is now barricaded with bamboo and wood, with a poster describing it as a containment zone. Sanjay Bhosale, a village grocery shop owner whose son has contracted the virus, said residents had grown tired of the virus rules and started visiting each other like before. “A perception was created that coronavirus was just a hype, that it’s not that serious,” Bhosale said. “Normal life had resumed for us. Only after the person died, people took it seriously again, but by then the virus had spread across the village. Now we are taking precautions.” In Satara, total cases doubled between August 6 and August 23, the period in which India added 1 million new infections — the fastest such jump in the world. “In April and May, people were following all the rules but now the mentality has changed. They have become casual and are taking coronavirus lightly,” Satara’s civil surgeon Subhash Chavan said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-688
05-09-2020||India||Chirag Paswan set to bargain hard ||The LJP, like ally BJP, has begun asserting itself to drive a hard bargain for the Bihar elections scheduled later this year, in the process attempting to undercut JDU chief Nitish Kumar who is said to be battling anti-incumbency after three terms as chief minister. Hectic strategising for the year-end polls has begun with the three NDA partners eyeing to bolster their position amid hopes of an easy victory due to the disarray in the Opposition camp. The LJP on Friday put out full-page advertisements in newspapers in Bihar and also in some Delhi dailies, making its presence felt. The ads seek to project Chirag Paswan, son of veteran Dalit leader Ramvilas Paswan, as the face of the community after his father. This comes days after Nitish welcomed another Dalit leader, former chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi, into the NDA fold in Bihar. The move by Manjhi’s party, the Hindustani Awam Morcha, to exit the Opposition “Grand Alliance” and join the NDA is being seen as a plan by Nitish to counter the LJP’s Dalit card. Chirag, who has taken over the reins of the LJP from his ageing father, has been consistently attacking Nitish over governance issues recently. The LJP has only 2 MLAs in Bihar and is not part of the NDA government led by Nitish. “They are fighting to rule over us and we are fighting to feel proud of Bihar,” a line in the LJP ad, which positions Chirag as the “Yuva Bihari”, said. This too was seen as an indirect attack on Nitish, trying to accuse him of being interested only in power. “Nitish Kumar is trying to sideline the LJP but we are determined to prove our worth in Bihar,” an LJP leader said, threatening to even field candidates against the JDU to harm Nitish’s prospects. The LJP has called a meeting of its Bihar leaders next week. Privately, party leaders are claiming that a decision on fielding candidates against Nitish’s nominees could be taken at the meeting. All this, however, is being viewed as part of efforts to bargain hard for a larger share of seats. “We have six Lok Sabha MPs and so we should get at least 36 seats to contest (in the Assembly elections),” another LJP leader said. The LJP had in 2015 contested 42 seats when Nitish had joined hands with the RJD-Congress. The flurry of activity in the LJP comes close on the heels of a similar effort by the BJP. At a meeting of Bihar MPs recently, BJP leaders demanded an equal share of seats. The MPs argued that the Lok Sabha poll formula of the BJP and the JDU contesting an equal number of seats (17) while leaving a fare share (6) for the LJP should be followed. Bihar has 243 Assembly seats. “Brand Nitish Kumar has eroded substantially in Bihar. There is simmering anti-incumbency against him,” a Bihar BJP MP said, stressing that in 2020 Nitish can no longer hope to play “big brother”. There is a perception among a section of the JDU that the BJP and the LJP might be playing in tandem to downsize Nitish. “There is only one ‘big brother’ now: Narendra Modi and the BJP. We want the BJP to sideline Nitish and take the lead in Bihar,” an LJP MP said. The BJP, however, is not ready to hand out such treatment to Nitish just yet, according to sources. Party strategists feel that despite 15 years of anti-incumbency, he still commands substantial support among sections of the lower backwards and Dalits. “At the same time, Nitish should understand the new political reality…. He should also realise that the BJP is no more the party it used to be,” a key Bihar BJP leader said. The Election Commission on Friday again said it was planning to go ahead with the Bihar Assembly elections as scheduled. “Considering that General Assembly Elections of Bihar are also due and required to be completed before 29th November 2020, the Commission has decided to conduct all the 65 by-elections (across the country) and the General Assembly Elections of Bihar around the same time,” the EC said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-688
05-09-2020||India||Cong glare on crores in job test fee ||The Congress has accused the government of collecting hundreds of crores as employment examination fees although it has either not conducted any tests or not handed out appointment letters in years. The Congress on Friday reminded the government that millions of families have been subjected to extreme miseries because of the massive unemployment. Congress spokesperson Gourav Vallabh said: “The Railway Recruitment Board (RRB) brought out a notification for 1,03,760 vacancies in the Group D category on February 23, 2019. It raised the hopes of millions of youths just before the parliamentary elections. The exam dates have not been announced so far in 18 months. The RRB had collected around Rs 500 crore in examination fee from 1.16 crore applicants.” The Congress spokesperson termed the government’s attitude reprehensible. “The RRB issued another notification for 35,277 NTPC (non-technical popular categories) vacancies on February 28, 2019. The exam dates have not been announced yet. Close to 1.26 crore applications were received and the RRB collected Rs 500 crore as fee,” Vallabh said. Giving more examples, he said the RRB had on February 3, 2018, issued a notification to fill up 64,371 vacancies in the posts of assistant loco pilots and technicians. “The examination was conducted and the RRB declared the final results and the merit list on December 12, 2019. Almost nine months have passed but the successful candidates are yet to get their appointment letters and they are waiting to join,” Vallabh said. The Congress spokesperson alleged that candidates who had appeared for the Staff Selection Commission’s Combined Graduate-level Examination in 2018 were also waitingin the wings. “Following the Tier I and Tier II exams, the Tier III exam was held in December 2019. Over 11,000 vacancies in the Group C and Group D categories were to be filled up. But even after nine months, the final results have not been announced,” Vallabh said. Claiming that these were just a few examples, Vallabh asked: “Is this incompetence or ill-intention?” “Most of the aspirants of these examinations do not come from very well-to-do backgrounds. All these combined are 2.15 lakh vacancies. Why were most of these notifications released three months before the elections? Do these jobs really exist or was it just a political gimmick, like the promise of Rs 15 lakh in everyone’s account, to attract voters?” Vallabh asked. He also asked the government why there was no fixed timeline and whether the exams to fill up vacancies this year will be held now or a few years later. The Congress has been highlighting the job crisis for the past few years. Parliamentarian Rahul Gandhi tweeted on Friday: “The Modi government must conduct examinations, declare results and issue appointment letters to solve the problems of youths.” In another tweet in Hindi, Rahul said: “12 crore jobs missing. Five-trillion-dollar economy missing. Common man’s income missing. The country’s security and happiness missing. Answers to questions missing.” Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, the Congress’s Uttar Pradesh in-charge, tweeted a video where job aspirants have spoken about their endless wait for exam results. Asked whether the recruitments were not done because of the miserable financial condition of the railways, Vallabh said: “Why were the vacancies announced then? Remember, these students come from very poor backgrounds. They pay examination fees with great difficulty. Over 64,000 selected candidates are waiting for jobs. The railway minister (Piyush Goyal), who is busy suggesting the sale of Kolhapuri chappals in five-star hotels to boost the economy, should answer this question.” The Congress spokesperson said the economic slump would be far more sharper than the 23.9 per cent fall in GDP if the informal sector was taken into consideration. “We only get hollow rhetoric and excuses from the government. And now they are blaming God for this mess they have created,” Vallabh added. Recalling that the Manmohan Singh government had lifted 14 crore people out of poverty, Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala said in a video message: “The time has come to distinguish between hard work and fraud work. We saw hard work when Manmohan Singh and Sonia Gandhi introduced welfare schemes to empower the poor and boost the incomes of the common man. The fraud work during the current regime has dragged the GDP growth down to -23.9 per cent but the assets of Ambani and Adani have jumped by over 35 per cent. It is time to decide whether you want a government which works for the poor or (one that works for) crony capitalists.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-688
05-09-2020||India||JNU asks PhD students to pay for delay in thesis due to Covid||JNU is seeking tuition fees from end-year PhD students for the extra semester they have been granted to finalise and submit their theses, a process halted by the pandemic-induced closure of universities. Some PhD students said they had protested the university’s decision to extract fees from them over a problem they were not responsible for, but the authorities had not responded. Other leading central universities such as Pondicherry University, Hyderabad University, Jamia Millia Islamia and Delhi University are not charging any tuition fees for the extra six months. While PhD is a four-year programme, the students can be given an extra year if necessary. The fourth and fifth-year PhD students were to submit their theses by June this year. Most of them had almost finished their work when the pandemic struck and closed the institutions with their libraries, depriving the students of the opportunity to use reference material or cross-check data and preventing them from submitting their theses. In April, the University Grants Commission advised all the universities to give an extra six months to research students who were unable to submit their theses because of the lockdown. On Tuesday, JNU issued a notification saying the research students would need to undergo provisional registration for the extra six months. The notice did not mention any fee waiver or relaxation. An official from the JNU administration confirmed that the students would have to pay the tuition fee to secure a provisional registration. The tuition fee per semester is Rs 187 for Indian students and $600 (about Rs 44,000) for foreign students. “This decision to charge a fee is wrong since the delay in submitting the thesis was because of the lockdown and pandemic. The students should not be penalised for no fault of theirs,” said Arnika Ahldag, a foreign student at JNU’s School of Arts and Aesthetics who was in the fifth year in the 2019-20 academic session. Another foreign student described the fee of $600 as “a huge burden”. The JNU official who spoke to this newspaper said the deans of the schools and some of the chairpersons of the centres at the university had discussed the matter but the authorities were against any fee relaxation. An email sent to vice-chancellor M. Jagadesh Kumar on Wednesday has remained unanswered. While the extra six-month period for research students is to end on December 31, it remains unclear when the universities and their libraries will open.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-689
05-09-2020||India||Mortality alert to 15 districts||The Union health ministry on Friday exhorted five states to take steps to lower deaths among Covid-19 patients, citing a surge in new infections and mortality in 15 districts across Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Punjab, Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh. Health secretary Rajesh Bhushan, in a videoconference, urged health secretaries and district health officials in the five states to focus on containment measures, increased testing and the effective clinical management of patients. The states have been asked to limit and eventually break the transmission through  measures such as perimeter control and active house-to-house search for new cases within containment zones. The 15 districts are Chittoor and Prakasam in Andhra Pradesh; Mysore, Bangalore Urban, Bellari, Koppal, Dakshin Kannada and Davanagere in Karnataka; Ludhiana and Patiala in Punjab; Chennai, Coimbatore and Salem in Tamil Nadu; and Lucknow and Kanpur Nagar in Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-689
05-09-2020||India||Covid test rule tweak by ICMR||The Centre on Friday released a fresh advisory for coronavirus disease tests, recommending “testing-on-demand” for everyone who wishes to get tested and tests on all the people living in containment zones, particularly in cities with widespread transmission. The new advisory from the Indian Council of Medical Research formalises “testing-on-demand”, a concept that doctors say has already been in practice since the June 23 advisory that had said anyone with respiratory symptoms may be tested for Covid-19. But the recommendation to expand testing for routine surveillance in containment zones appears to disregard a call this week from top public health experts for targeted testing. Indiscriminate testing would only divert resources from control measures and would not necessarily save lives, they said. The council has iterated its policy to test all asymptomatic direct and high-risk contacts of new lab-confirmed Covid-19 cases once between day 5 and day 10 of coming in contact. All asymptomatic high-risk individuals such as those aged above 65 years or those with underlying health disorders living in containment zones should also be tested, it said. “Ideally, it is suggested that 100 per cent of people living in containment zones should be tested… particularly in cities where there has been widespread transmission of the infection,” it said. Public health specialists said they were puzzled. “We have to ask — what is the purpose of expanding testing?” said Oommen John, a physician and senior research fellow at The George Institute for Global Health, New Delhi. “Many cities with widespread transmission are not in a phase where the infection can be really contained any more — that period is over.” The Indian Public Health Association and two other professional bodies had on Monday urged the government to cease indiscriminate testing and turn attention to preventing deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-689
05-09-2020||India||CBSE optional exams to be held on September 22-29 ||The optional exams for students seeking improvement of marks in their Class XII tests will be held from September 22 to 29 along with the compartment exams for Classes X and XII, the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) said on Friday. “The compartment examination for the two classes will begin from September 22 and will conclude on September 29. All candidates will carry their own hand sanitiser in transparent bottles and (their own) water bottles, and will be required to cover their mouth and nose with mask or cloth,” CBSE exam controller Sanyam Bhardwaj said in an official notification detailing the exam schedule. Earlier in the day, the CBSE had opposed in the Supreme Court a plea seeking the postponement of the compartment exams for Class XII, saying all “necessary” safety measures for students were being taken in view of the pandemic. The court asked the board to justify its stand in an affidavit and posted the matter for further hearing on September 10.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-689
05-09-2020||India||Valley voices Hindi fear ||The Valley’s civil society has woken from a yearlong slumber to oppose a purported central government design to impose Hindi on Jammu and Kashmir and voice alarm at a “learning crisis” triggered by schools remaining shut for 381 of the last 390 days. The Group of Concerned Citizens (GCC) on Friday alleged a ploy in Wednesday’s decision by the Centre to designate five official languages for Jammu and Kashmir, where Urdu had been the sole official language for 131 years. Among the signatories to its statement are two dozen former bureaucrats, retired university vice-chancellors and other academics, retired judges, journalists and lawyers. The development comes at a time minority ethnic groups have stepped up their campaign for official language status for the Gojri, Pahari and Punjabi languages. This follows the Centre’s Wednesday move to include Kashmiri and Dogri — the languages of the region’s two biggest ethnic groups — along with Hindi and English in the list of official languages. “It is feared that this move (having five official languages) may lead to divisive linguistic politics, as competing demands for inclusion of other languages such as Gojri, Pahari and Punjabi have already started cropping up. Even in the case of Kashmiri and Dogri, the question arises as to which of the many dialects of these languages will be adopted,” the GCC statement said. “Moreover, none of the states or Union Territories of India (has) more than two official languages. The group has genuine apprehension that in the confusion that is likely to occur, (the) Hindi language may ultimately be imposed as official language in the Union Territory.” The group has called for the retention of Urdu as the sole official language. The GCC statement comes after the government clampdown on August 5 last year had succeeded in silencing Kashmir’s people, including its leading civil society groups. The only notable resistance had been offered by women from elite backgrounds who took to Srinagar’s streets last October against the August 5 decisions. They spent a night in jail and were released after signing bonds pledging silence. Friday’s GCC statement suggested it was now the men’s turn to speak. Former J&K Public Service Commission chairperson Shafi Pandit, who is part of the citizens’ group, said the GCC was a non-political group and had not issued any statement in more than a year because of the prevailing situation. “We thought we should not hesitate to speak on an aspect that impacts our culture,” Pandit told The Telegraph. He said the Centre had blacked out Urdu from its National Education Policy, 2020, although it was a “modern Indian language listed in the 8th Schedule as per Articles 344(1) and 351 of the Constitution”. “(GCC) deeply regrets not to find the name of Urdu language in the entire document even once…. Not finding its name anywhere raises the suspicion about the future of this great language used very widely across the country by all the communities,” the GCC said. The NEP talks about the teaching and promotion of “Indian languages” as a group without spelling out names except for a single reference to Hindi and multiple references to Sanskrit. The GCC has also expressed fear that the Centre might replace the Persian script with Devanagari for the Kashmiri language. The fear stems from the use of Devanagari instead of Persian by the California-based Unicode Consortium’s Common Locale Data Repository (CLDR) for use in computer applications. Persian has for centuries been the script used for Kashmiri. Citing “the cultural, emotional, religious sensibilities of Kashmiris associated with the Kashmiri language, and its viable and time-tested standard Persian script written in Nastaliq style”, the group has urged the government to take up with the Unicode Consortium the matter of replacing Devanagari with Persian for Kashmiri in the CLDR. The GCC has expressed regret that the Centre has not included Arabic in the list of foreign languages taught at the secondary level in schools. Its statement said that educational Institutions had remained open for just 9 of the past 390 days, first because of the government clampdown and then because of the pandemic. “The closure of educational institutions… has resulted (in) a serious learning crisis. Now with the closure of schools till (the end of) September 2020, the situation is bound to worsen further,” it said. The GCC has called for the restoration of 4G services so that the setback in learning can be made up through online classes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-689
05-09-2020||West Bengal||Govt begins repair of damaged dyke||The irrigation department has finally taken up the job to fix the damaged dyke in East Midnapore’s Sankarpur with black stones since Thursday, the move coming a week after villagers joined hands to temporarily repair the embankment to prevent frequent flooding of the area. Since Thursday, the irrigation department has engaged a huge team of labourers in Sankarpur, a fishing harbour known for its dry fish business, to repair the damaged dyke. Over two days, 100 dumpers have brought in black stones that will be used to repair the dyke. “High tides are expected to hit the area on September 17. The high tides could lead to severe flooding in the area. To prevent flooding in the area, we are repairing the embankment on a war footing,” said BDO of Ramnagar-I block, Bishnupada Roy. An engineer in the irrigation department said a 7km stretch of the embankment between Sankarpur and Tajpur had been damaged. The work will be done in three phases. “In the first phase, we will repair 2.8km of the stretch beginning from Sankarpur to Jalda. Tender for the first phase is complete. It will cost the government Rs 78 crore. The second phase will cover 3km of the embankment from Sankarpur to the confluence in Digha. It will be done for Rs 77 crore,” said assistant engineer of the irrigation department Swapan Mondal. Swapan Mondal said in the third phase, the damaged embankment stretching from Tajpur to Jalda would be repaired. However, funds for the third phase have not been allotted as the sea has intruded into the pine forest that lines the beach. As much of the pine forest has been damaged following intrusion of the sea, it has to be assessed separately and will be done later, an engineer in the irrigation department said. Multiple sources in the Irrigation department said that the people’s initiatives in repairing the embankments was the trigger behind the department’s prompt decision to address the problem. The Telegraph had reported on August 30 that 500 residents, mostly fishermen, in Sankarpur had temporarily repaired a 1km stretch that was damaged when high tides and incessant rain had lashed the area between August 20 and 23. “Repeated pleas to district officials to repair the embankment did not elicit any response. So we thought we must do something to save ourselves,” a villager had told The Telegraph last week as he loaded bags with sand to place them on the top of the dyke that runs along the coastal road from Sankarpur to Tajpur. Trinamul MLA and vice-chairman of the Digha-Sankarpur Development Authority Akhil Giri, however, said: “Fund for repair of the damaged embankment had already been allotted, but work could not start because of the lockdown. The work will be over before the end of monsoon.” The Digha-Sankarpur Fishermen’s Association and the former CPM MLA from the area Swadesh Nayak had helped fishermen in Sankarpur to repair the damage. The involvement of an Opposition leader like Nayak in the initiative forced the local Trinamul leadership to ask the administration to take up the project to repair the embankment on an emergency basis. Asked about the government’s initiative, Nayak said: “The villagers had forced the government’s hands by taking up the job of repairing the embankment on their own. Though late, the initiative will help the poor villagers.” In a related development, five dumpers carrying black stones got stuck on the beach in Digha when waves hit them during the high tide on Friday. Mandal said cranes had been deployed to retrieve the dumpers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-387
05-09-2020||West Bengal||Smuggling cuffs on 3 Bangla youths||The BSF have arrested three Bangladeshis from Sobhapur village, located on the Indian side near the Bangla border, for allegedly smuggling a banned cough syrup. Mehboob Alam, 32, Rabiul Islam, 22, and Sayan Sk, 18, were held after 450 bottles of Phensedyl, a banned cough syrup, were seized from their possession late on Thursday night. The arrested trio are residents of Dudhpara village in the Nawabganj district of Bangladesh. The BSF personnel said they had handed over the three youths to Samserganj police. BSF sources said the three youths were held late on Thursday night while trying to cross over to Bangladesh with a bag of the banned cough syrup. Y. Raghuvamshi, the superintendent of police, Jangipur district, said: “The arrested Bangladeshi youths were produced in the additional chief judicial magistrate’s court at Jangipur on Friday and remanded in police custody for five days.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-387
05-09-2020||West Bengal||Meeting over delayed highway project||State tourism minister Gautam Deb held a meeting with officials of the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) on Friday and took stock of the situation of the ongoing four-lane corridor project that was initiated around 20 years ago to connect north Bengal and the northeast. The meeting, Deb said, was held as per instructions of chief minister Mamata Banerjee who wants the project to be completed at the earliest. The four-lane expressway was planned to connect Porbandar of Gujarat with Silchar in Assam. It enters Bengal along NH31 through Purnia More, the junction of NH34 and NH31 at Dalkhola in North Dinajpur. From there, the road moves through the outskirts of Siliguri, Jalpaiguri, Falakata, Cooch Behar and Alipurduar and enters Assam. “There are a number of stretches along the proposed corridor where the four-laning is yet to be done. While there are land issues in some locations, there are other tasks like shifting of power transmission towers in some places. The chief minister wants the project to finish at the earliest and that is why, we held the meeting to draw a plan so that the pending issues can be resolved,” Deb said after the meeting that was held at Uttarkanya, the branch secretariat of the state in Siliguri. In course of the meeting, the minister also laid emphasis on early completion of the four-lane bypass at Islampur in North Dinajpur. Till now, vehicles move along the two-lane NH31 in Islampur and road accidents are frequent in the town. As a part of the project, it has been planned to build the four-lane road a bypass so that traffic movement can ease in the town. “We have also come to know that between Islampur and Goaltuli, on the outskirts of Siliguri, the road could not be widened as there are some stretches of private land. We will buy such plots and the NHAI will provide the funds. Also, some towers of the state power company need to be relocated,” the minister said. He mentioned that there are at least 11 stretches along the corridor’s alignment in Jalpaiguri district where there were disputes over acquisition of land. “The district magistrate of Jalpaiguri will hold a meeting with all concerned persons on the issue on September 9 to resolve these problems. A similar meeting would be held in Alipurduar on September 18. Further, the NHAI officials have been briefed in detail about the locations where service roads, traffic junctions and bypasses are required,” added Deb.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-387
05-09-2020||West Bengal||Doctor hit over neglect charge by patient kin||Relatives of a patient allegedly assaulted a doctor on duty in the emergency section of the state general hospital at Birpara in Alipurduar district on Thursday night. Doctors, paramedics and other staff of the hospital refused to join duties at the outpatient departments (OPDs) on Friday in protest against the assault. They also held a march and demanded a police camp on the hospital premises. Sources said a patient, who had suffered injuries in a road accident, had been brought to the emergency section around 9.45pm on Thursday. Amalesh Panda was the doctor on duty and was supposed to examine the injured. Alleging that there was delay on his part in attending to the patient, the relatives attacked Panda. Others present at the hospital rushed to the emergency and rescued the doctor. They also brought the situation under control. As other doctors and paramedics learnt about the incident, they got agitated and decided to stop all kinds of healthcare services. The state general hospital serves hundreds of patients and is considered as one of the three prominent state-run health establishments in the Alipurduar district. The other two are the district hospital in Alipurduar and the multi-specialty hospital in Falakata. “The doctor was beaten up without any reason. It cannot be tolerated. The allegation of delay is baseless. All those associated with healthcare are providing their best efforts in the current Covid-19 situation. The administration and police must see such incidents do not recur,” said Debarshi Sengupta, the superintendent in-charge of the hospital. On Friday, the doctors however, decided that they would provide services in wards and emergencies but would not attend the OPDs. As a result, a number of patients who had gone to the OPDs with different ailments had to return without treatment. Panda, the doctor who had faced the attack, has filed a police complaint, said sources. “We are investigating the case. Our men are in search of the attackers. In due course, we will also discuss the issue of setting up a police camp at the hospital,” said Amitava Maity, the superintendent of police, Alipurduar. On Friday morning, the doctors and the staff held a silent rally in Birpara. They also walked up to the police station and handed over the CCTV footage of the incident to officers, the sources said. “We want to make it clear that unless a police camp is set up at the hospital, we will not attend OPDs,” said a doctor.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-387
05-09-2020||West Bengal||TMC-BJP clash after march||The Shanimandir area of Mathabhanga town in Cooch Behar district turned into a battlefield on Friday afternoon as BJP and Trinamul supporters clashed. Both the sides lobbed crude bombs and attacked each other with sticks, iron rods and bricks. Police rushed to the spot and had to burst teargas shells to disperse the mob. Supporters of both the parties have suffered injuries. The police have detained some of them for perpetrating violence, sources said. Since Friday morning, there had been tension in some areas of Mathabhanga as BJP supporters marched from adjoining villages and different wards of the town to subdivisional officer’s office as part of the party’s state-wide protest programmes against the Mamata Banerjee government. At Chalnarpaar near Mathabhanga, a group of BJP supporters allegedly attacked some local Trinamul workers. A youth Trinamul leader and five others were injured in the attack and admitted to the subdivisional hospital of Mathabhanga. Soon, Trinamul supporters started gathering in the Shanimandir area. The BJP supporters converged on a spot and then headed for the SDO’s office. While they were returning from the SDO’s office, an altercation ensued with the Trinamul supporters and soon, it culminated in a clash. Traders downed their shutters and common people s had to run away for their safety. “The BJP supporters were carrying sharp weapons and crude bombs. While they were returning from the SDO’s office, they attacked and assaulted some people. Five persons have been injured in the attack. Earlier, some of our supporters were attacked by the BJP at another location without any provocation,” said Ajijar Rehman, a Trinamul leader of Mathabhanga. The BJP has denied the charges. “While our supporters were entering Mathabhanga town to attend the demonstration announced by our party, Trinamul activists attacked them. We could, however, resist their attack. After we finished our programme at the SDO’s office, we were attacked again by Trinamul supporters. At least five of our party workers are injured,” said Pranab Pal, a vice-president of the BJP in Cooch Behar district. The police said they were in search of some people who had perpetrated the violence. “Our men have been posted in the area. We are also patrolling the town and adjoining areas to prevent any further breach of peace,” said a police officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-387
05-09-2020||West Bengal||NIA arrest on fake note||The National Investigation Agency arrested an alleged peddler of fake Indian currency notes (FICN) on Thursday night. The NIA had announced a reward of Rs 25,000 for help to arrest Enamul Sheikh, who was wanted for over two years for running an FICN racket, mostly in south India. On Friday, he was produced in a court here and sent in a transit remand for four days. Sheikh will be taken to Vijayawada in Andhra Pradesh where he will be produced in the NIA court, said sources. According to a statement issued by the NIA, a case on FICN peddling was registered at a court in Visakhapatnam in 2018. Mohammed Mahaboob Baig, Syed Imran, Firoj Sheikh and Tajamul Sheikh were arrested and a charge sheet was submitted against them. “While Baig and Imran were found guilty and sentenced to rigorous imprisonment for 10 years by the NIA court in Vijayawada, Firoj and Tajamul are still under trial,” the statement said. It has been learnt from NIA sources that while interrogating the four persons, it was learnt that Enamul Sheikh of Mohanpur (a locality in Malda district) was actively involved in FICN peddling and had connections in Bangladesh. In Malda, his native village is also not far from the Bangladesh border. Hence, it is easier for him to receive FICN from Bangladesh and circulate those through his network in south India and in other parts of the country. “Sheikh had a close connection with Beigh and Imran, who had also visited Malda. Sheikh had arranged for their stay,” said a source. Along with these four, there were some others who were later inducted into the network for circulating the FICN. Finding that Sheikh played a key role in operating the racket and was maintaining a nexus with rackets based in Bangladesh, the NIA launched a hunt for him. Mehtab Alam, an assistant public prosecutor in Malda, said a complaint of circulating FICN of over Rs 10 lakh was pending against the accused.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-387
05-09-2020||West Bengal||TMC tea union stirs in hills||A trade union of the Trinamul Congress has intensified activities in over 80 tea gardens in the Darjeeling hills with the attempt bearing hints of an intense political tussle as the BJP also started a membership drive among plantation workers. Although the Cha Bagan Trinamul Congress Mazdoor Union was present in the hills on paper, it always maintained a low profile and took part only in common political programmes with ally, the Binay Tamang faction of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha. However, over the past couple of weeks, the Trinamul union tried to reach out to the tea belt population in the hills and started flagging some of the key issues related to workers, including the demand to reopen some estates. “The union was formed earlier by the party but so far, its programmes were confined to the tea gardens of the Terai and Dooars. However, in the hills, the tea workers and their families have equal problems and there are several pending issues which need to be resolved for their socio-economic development. That is why we have decided to initiate our activities under the banner of the trade union in the hill tea gardens,” said N.B. Khawas, the coordinator of Trinamul’s Darjeeling (hills) district committee. Sources in the party said a meeting had been convened by the trade union at Thurbo Tea Estate in Mirik subdivision of Darjeeling district last week. The union is also focusing on the closed tea gardens of the hills and the adjoining Terai and is coordinating with the state labour department to ensure that all permanent workers in these gardens are provided with the monthly financial assistance of Rs 1,500. “It is significant that Trinamul is introducing its union in the hills. The plan to flag the issues of tea workers — which are no different from those in the Terai and the Dooars — after staying in power for almost a decade is also interesting. It seems Trinamul does not want to leave any space for the BJP in the hill tea belt,” said an observer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-387
05-09-2020||West Bengal||Ganga gobbles up 70 houses in a few hours||Erosion has swept away at least 70 houses on the banks of the Ganga in Murshidabad’s Hiranandapur village late on Thursday night. Forty other families living at the same village under the jurisdiction of Samserganj police station have moved out of their homes and taken shelter at the nearby Madhupur village. Some of the families whose houses were lost to the swirling water of the Ganga have taken shelter at a high school in the adjoining Ali Lashkarpur village. Tasiuddin Sheikh, 55, witnessed his two-storey house being gobbled up by the river overnight. He owns a mango farm, litchi garden and an agricultural field. “There were three rooms, a kitchen and a bathroom on the ground floor. The first floor of the house had three rooms. After sunset on Thursday, large chunks of land near our house started to erode. Hurriedly, our family members joined hands and removed some furniture to safety. Around 9pm, the entire house went into the river in front of our eyes,” said an inconsolable Tasiuddin. “I had built the house from scratch. The house was far away from the river when I had built it 20 years ago. Till last evening, the Ganga was 300m away from my house. I couldn’t imagine that the river would erode so much land within a few hours,” he added. When the erosion began on Thursday, evening had set in and electricity had been snapped. The villagers who feared that their houses might be lost in the erosion risked their lives to remove whatever they could from their homes in pitch darkness. Like Tasiuddin and his eight other family members, those who had lost their homes to the river on Thursday spent the night under tarpaulin sheets provided by the Samserganj block development office. BDO Joydeep Chakrabarty said: “The enormity of erosion at Hiranandapur village is unimaginable. The entire village is facing the threat of being wiped out. The administration is trying to do its best to help the displaced residents. We had informed the irrigation department about the situation. An engineer from the irrigation department visited the spot today (Friday) and said temporary measures to stem the erosion would be undertaken.” A senior engineer of the irrigation department said the river was 40-50ft deep at the moment. “In such a situation, it is difficult to carry out work to permanently protect the banks from further erosion. Such protection work can begin only after the monsoon when the water level will go down. For now, we are using bamboo to shield the area temporarily,” the engineer added. The 70 families who lost their homes include Sahidul Islam, Rabiul Islam and Ataur Islam. Having lost roofs over their heads, they sat under tarpaulin sheds on Friday afternoon as they waited for food to be served. Local Trinamul Congress MLA, Amirul Haq, arranged food for the affected families, but they don’t know from where the next morsel of food will arrive. The region is known for frequent incidents of erosion. Last month, erosion had wiped away a few homes at neighbouring Dhangora village. The families of Dhangora, who had lost their homes to the river, are yet to be rehabilitated. They continue to stay at the Ali Lashkarpur High School.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-387
05-09-2020||West Bengal||Bengal Covid tests spike, active cases fall||Bengal on Friday reported yet another high in daily Covid-19 tests at 45,620, closing in on its next target of 50,000, as the total count of examined samples crossed 20.66 lakh with 22,960 tests per million people. Prior to this, the highest number of intra-day tests had been 45,291 recorded on Thursday. Steady rise in the tests, coupled with relatively lower caseload, improved the positive confirmation rate in 12 days from 8.9 to 8.45 per cent. Deemed a key indicator, the positive confirmation rate is the percentage of positive cases out of samples tested. A decreasing positive confirmation rate is indicative of reducing levels of Covid-19 spread. “From the sixth or seventh spot even a couple of weeks ago, we managed to drop out of the top 10 in the list of states and Union territories with the highest positive confirmation rate. We are 11th now with Puducherry, Maharashtra, Chandigarh, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh in the top five,” said a Bengal minister. For the 12th consecutive day, the state reported a fall in the total number of active patients with 3,305 recoveries and 2,978 new cases being recorded in 24 hours till 9am on Friday. The total active cases on August 23 had been 28,069. The figure was 23,654 on Friday. “We are looking to get the total active cases to less than 20,000 very soon. When we do that, it will be a spectacular achievement for a state as large and densely populated as ours,” said the minister. Bengal now has a total of 1.74 lakh coronavirus patients since the first case was found on March 17. Of the total cases, nearly 1.48 lakh are recoveries and 3,452 are fatalities. “Our recovery rate is 84.48 now, substantially higher than the national rate of 77.23 per cent,” said the minister. Of 58 deaths logged on Friday, 17 were from the city. The state government reported as comorbid 2,983 (86.4 per cent) of the total 3,452 deaths. In a trend that began about a month ago, the five most high-incidence districts of Bengal — Calcutta, North 24-Parganas, South 24-Parganas, Howrah and Hooghly —collectively recorded a fall in the total active cases by 100 on Friday. For instance, from the 7,041 active cases on August 9, the city improved to 4,110 on Friday. The overall mortality rate stayed at 1.97, while the national rate is 1.73 per cent. “But Calcutta’s mortality rate is still over 3 (3.21 on Friday). Reducing that is a top priority. With 1,350 deaths in total, the city has contributed around 40 per cent of all Covid-19 deaths,” said the minister. Bengal reported 32.47 per cent occupancy of 12,275 Covid-19 beds at 90 hospitals. Telemedicine services have been provided to over 1.66 lakh people and 4,275 of them were in the past 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-387
05-09-2020||West Bengal||Truck rams into bike at Digha, 2 tourists die||Two tourists from Calcutta were killed when a dumper truck rammed into their bike head-on while the duo were returning home from the seaside destination of Digha late on Thursday night. A fire broke out in the impact of the crash and both the truck and the two-wheeler went up in flames on NH116B. Kritam Das, 21, was riding the bike, while Uttam Das, 28, was riding pillion. Both were delivery boys of an e-commerce platform. Police sources said Kritam was a resident of Beleghata in Calcutta. Uttam was from Narkeldanga. The bike was hit by the truck head-on around 11pm on the highway near the Digha Bypass. Rushed to the Digha State General Hospital, both succumbed to their injuries soon after. Their bodies were sent for autopsy at the Contai Hospital later. Witnesses said the accident was the fault of the truck’s driver, who was at a “very high” speed. _“There was a loud noise, hearing which I rushed out of my home and saw both the truck and the bike in flames. I informed police immediately and then rushed to the spot to help the injured,” said a resident of Ghersai. “The two men were very badly hurt. We could tell that they might not make it…. Usually, in these parts, it is the bikers whose indiscipline causes such tragedies. But in this case, it was certainly not so,” he added. Police from Digha Mohana Coastal and Digha police stations arrived at the spot. Local resident Ananta Das told the police how it had happened. “The truck was being driven at a very high speed. The fault of its driver caused the accident. It looked like the driver lost control of the vehicle which hit the bike head-on. The bikers were flung and landed with a thud, some distance away, on the road,” Das said later. “With the mangled bike stuck on the truck’s front, the driver tried to flee with the vehicle. But the friction of the bike with the road caused sparks that ignited a fire. Both the vehicles were on fire in a matter of seconds. The driver got off and made a run for it. We couldn’t catch him in the dark,” he added. Police sources said both the vehicles had been completely charred in the blaze. The local residents had tried putting the fire out, but it could be doused only after midnight when a fire-tender was sent. The incident affected traffic for hours on either side of the highway. “Digha proper does not have a fire station. The fire-tender was brought from Ramnagar, 15km away. It took some time. After the fire-fighting ended, the traffic could be gradually normalised,” said Digha Mohana Coastal police station’s officer-in-charge Binoy Manna.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-387
05-09-2020||West Bengal||100 bombs hit panchayat office||Two groups of people, alleged to be rival factions of the Trinamul Congress, clashed over control of the Babuijore gram panchayat in Birbhum’s Lokpur on Friday afternoon. As at least 100 crude bombs exploded against the two-storey building of the gram panchayat office, Trinamul leader and gram pradhan Nabadwip Mondal hid himself behind an iron almirah and desperately sought police help as he feared for his life. There were 17 others present in the panchayat office at the time of the attack. “It was a close brush with death. I, along with 17 others, had to hide behind an iron almirah to save our lives as the bombs were being hurled targeting my room. We had closed the door and window in time and that saved us,” said Nabadwip and added that they felt like suffocating as smoke triggered by the explosion of crude bombs had filled the room. A source said the two Trinamul factions — one headed by Abdur Rahaman and other by Kedar Ghosh — had been fighting over who would control the Babuijore gram panchayat. The source said a group of people had gone to the panchayat office around 1.30pm on Friday. They barged into the pradhan’s room and started ransacking it. Following resistance by supporters of the panchayat chief, the attackers left the office. “The attack was pre-planned and around 100 goons armed with bombs and firearms had gathered outside the panchayat office,” said Nabadwip. Soon after the attackers were driven out of the building and the door was looked, crude bombs began to hit the panchayat office building at short intervals. Seeking to refute charges of delay, Birbhum district police chief Shyam Singh said: “The police had reached the spot on time and brought the situation under control.” The SP said raids were on to arrest those involved in the clash. A car belonging to Nabadwip and at least six motorbikes parked outside the building were vandalised. Local Trinamul president Abdur Rahaman, whose right-hand man Nabadwip helms the Babuijore gram panchayat, said: “The goons were aides to Ujjwal Haque Kaderi who is an accused in several criminal cases. He is trying to take control over the panchayat. It was a fierce attack on us. We have identified a dozen of attackers and will lodge a complaint.” Trinamul leader Kedar Ghosh, who belongs to the Ujjawal Haque Kaderi faction, said: “The clash had nothing to do with political rivalry. A group of people went to the panchayat office demanding a road and they were driven out. Angry villagers had attacked the gram panchayat in retaliation.” A local Trinamul leader owing allegiance to Kaderi, however, blamed the Rahaman faction for the violence. “The incident would not have taken place if bombs were not hurled at us from the panchayat building. They also opened fire at us. It was a narrow escape for many of us,” he said. Trinamul leader Kaderi also rejected the charges about his involvement in the violence. He, however, accused his rival group of corruption in running the panchayat. Bikash Roy Chowdhury, a Trinamul district vice-president and observer of the area, said: “The police would take action against those who were behind the attack on the panchayat office irrespective of their political colour.” The police said they did not find any evidence of bullets being used in the violence. A police officer said no one had been injured in the violence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-388
05-09-2020||West Bengal||Border tension hits study at Cheena Bhavana||A cloud of uncertainty looms over the future of students at Visva-Bharati’s Cheena Bhavana, a centre of Sino-Indian cultural studies in Santiniketan, as the authorities have stopped all communication with its three Chinese counterparts because of the worsening of ties between New Delhi and Beijing. The centre was set up by Rabindranath Tagore in 1937 as part of his vision of the world making its home in a single nest. It has over 200 students enrolled in undergraduate and postgraduate courses on Chinese language and doctoral research on cultural relationship between the two countries. As the Cheena Bhavana has Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with three Chinese universities, it is regarded as among the best in the country to pursue Chinese. “The communication with our counterparts has completely stopped as there are several restrictions. We are not even holding webinars as we need to take permission from Delhi to hold such events,” said a source at Cheena Bhavana. A section of officials and teachers said given the tension in Sino-Indian relationship since the violent stand-off in Ladakh, they were afraid of carrying on with normal academic exchange with the three Chinese varsities, which used to be a regular affair even six months ago. “The UGC has already asked details of all the agreements that Indian universities have with foreign institutions by September 15 and it is clear that they want to know the extent of our association with Chinese institutions…We knew that something like this was coming. No one wants to take any risk,” said another source. In this taut atmosphere, the students are the worst sufferers as academic exchanges between the Cheena Bhavana and the universities have come to a grinding halt. “The MoUs will be in place till 2022. As part of the MoUs, teams from these universities visit us every year and we send our teams of teachers and students to these varsities… We understand that these exchanges cannot take place because of Covid-19. We could have gained through online exchanges, but even that’s not happening,” said a student. Every year, the Chinese universities used to send a teacher to Visva-Bharati who used to teach Chinese language to the students. A week ago, the teacher, who came as part of the exchange programme, left Visva-Bharati as his tenure was completed. “We don’t know when a new teacher would come again,” said a student. Several students, who spoke to this correspondent on condition of anonymity, said communication — both in physical and online forms — with people of Chinese origin was very important for them as it helped them learn various aspects of the language and Chinese culture. “We expected we could attend online programmes with the teachers of these varsities during the lockdown. But that’s not happening,” said an undergraduate student. Some former students of Cheena Bhavana said regular communication with the Chinese varsities helped them rofessionally. “The certificates by Chinese universities helped me a lot to get a job. It is very unfortunate for the present students that they can’t even communicate virtually,” said Ramanuj Baidya, who passed out of Cheena Bhavana in 2018 and is now employed at a multinational company in Bangalore For the past few years, the Cheena Bhavana has been holding at least a dozen programmes annually with Chinese universities or the Chinese Embassy to promote the language in the country and help students get connected with representatives from China. “The department is famous for keeping a good relation with China through its range of activities. We always felt that such activities were boosting Sino-India relationship. If all these activities are stopped, the relationship will get further strained,” said a source. The Chinese government, according to him, was so pleased with the activities of the centre that its embassy in India donated Rs 60 lakh to Cheena Bhavana to renovate two small buildings on the campus. “Chinese products are not being used, Chinese apps are banned… Everything that has a Chinese connection is seen with suspicion. We don’t know what will happen to this centre,” said an official of Cheena Bhavana.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-388
05-09-2020||North East||Assam vigil on Covid offenders||Gauhati High Court has ordered a crackdown on those violating Covid-19 safety norms by directing state police to be “proactive on the streets” and punish those not wearing masks or maintaining social distance. A division bench of Chief Justice Ajai Lamba and Justice Manish Choudhury passed the order on Thursday while acting on a PIL by senior advocate Tanmoy Jyoti Mahanta. The bench said the order was being issued to safeguard the lives of people at a time that hospitals are overflowing with Covid-positive patients and oxygen to treat critical patients is already in short supply. The PIL had contended that the alarming surge in cases had a lot to do with the public not complying with the safety guidelines issued by government and government agencies failing to implement the mandatory use of masks and social distancing in public places “resulting in extensive spread of the pandemic”. Pleading for an urgent need for strict and proper direction to the concerned government agencies, the PIL mooted punitive measures against those not using face masks and maintaining social distance in public and workplaces. The PIL stated that wearing masks and following distance norms were the only measures to check the spread of the virus in the absence of medicines and vaccine. Assam, which detected its first Covid case on March 31, has recorded over 1.1 lakh cases with 330 deaths till Friday night. Health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Friday said the situation was worrying because people were dying after recovering from Covid. A May 8 health department order had made wearing masks or face covers mandatory in public places and those violating the safety norm were made punishable under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of Indian Penal Code. All police officers not below the rank of assistant sub-inspector have been authorised to impose a penalty of Rs 500 for the first, second and third offence and the Rs 1,000 for subsequent violations. The court order said no resident/citizen had the right to put his own life in jeopardy or put the lives of the others at risk. It said various legislations had been made and orders had been issued to check the spread of the virus. However, the orders are apparently being flouted because “punitive action” is “not” being taken against the violators of government orders and notifications. The court then said those violating the face cover norm would be punishable in accordance with the May 8 order to safeguard the lives of the public. The division bench directed district police chiefs, DSPs and OCs to be proactive on the streets and check whether the directions issued vide order dated May 8 were complied with or not. In case the directions are violated, penalty should be imposed on the violators and the amount collected brought to the notice of the court through the office of the senior standing counsel of the health department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-46
05-09-2020||North East||Meghalaya secretariat shut after 6 test positive||The Meghalaya secretariat will remain shut for two days from Saturday after six government officers tested positive for Covid-19, deputy chief minister Prestone Tynsong said on Friday. The government has also decided to request guests intending to visit the secretariat next week to postpone their programme in view of the infections, he said. Three government employees at the secretariat tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. Another three tested positive on Friday, Tynsong told reporters after a review meeting. He said the affected officers are from finance, law and information and public relations departments. Health department officers will carry out sanitation of the entire secretariat, including the additional secretariat here. This apart, the government Teachers Day function scheduled to be held at the Yojana Bhavan here have been shifted to the convention hall of a hotel here, the deputy chief minister said. Meanwhile, 108 people have tested positive for Covid-19 in Meghalaya on Friday, taking the coronavirus tally to 2,734. A total 75 patients recovered from the contagion, increasing the number of recoveries to 1,468, health minister A.L. Hek said. A 59-year-old woman died due to co-morbidity and tested positive for Covid-19 during the day, taking the toll in the state to 14, the minister said. Of the 108 new cases on Friday, 25 of them are personnel of the various armed forces, 10 in West Garo Hills, eight in Ri-Bhoi district and seven in East Khasi Hills district, Hek added. The health department has also collected swab samples from 95,457 persons to verify their Covid-19 status, he added. Officials said over 33,300 persons had entered the state till date since unlock 1.0 began in June. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-46
05-09-2020||Opinion||Game over: PUBG banned in India||Sir — In keeping with its spree of banning applications developed by China, the Indian government has banned another collection of 118 apps, among which is the mobile version of the popular game, PUBG (“PUBG and 117 banned”, Sept 3). While the move comes in the wake of growing tensions between India and China over the border dispute, it must be asked whether disallowing Indian citizens from accessing such gaming apps, especially one that is as widely played as PUBG, will make any real dent to China’s power in the stand-off. It is laughable that the Indian government seems to have no real plan by way of diplomacy or foreign strategy to deal with hostility from its neighbour, and thinks that banning apps will make a difference. More worrying is the fact that the Centre is getting away with this propensity to outlaw anything it disapproves of. In a democracy, it is the job of the State to treat citizens like free individuals who have the power and critical abilities to make decisions for themselves. In fact, such fundamental rights to freedom are enshrined in our forward-thinking Constitution, and the Bharatiya Janata Party-led government has repeatedly displayed a marked disregard for it by regularly denying Indians their right to choose what to eat or read. Civil society should come together to reclaim these freedoms from an authoritarian State. Aranya Chatterjee,Calcutta Sir — India has banned more than 100 additional Chinese apps, including the popular mobile game, PUBG. The government said that the move will benefit innumerable Indians who use mobile phones and the internet, as it will protect their data. As far as PUBG is concerned, the decision to ban it is welcome. The game had become far too popular with children, and was negatively influencing their minds and attention to other important facets of life. They would be glued to their phones and mobile devices for hours on end playing PUBG, sometimes even leading them to defy authority. One hopes that after this ban, teachers and parents will find it easier to discourage children and other young people from being online beyond a healthy limit. Shalini Ganguly,Calcutta Sir — PUBG played a big role in the growth of the gaming industry in India. Now that it is banned, one wonders what kind of innovations Indian gamers will come up with to fill the void, especially during the Covid-19-induced lockdown when people are playing more online games.Amrita Ray,CalcuttaParting Shot Sir — It was fascinating to read that a team of international gravitational wave astronomers have detected the most massive black hole collision recorded till date. This is the first time that a collision has led to the formation of another black hole. Two mammoth black holes — one weighed 85 times the mass of the sun, while the other was 66 times the solar mass —slammed into each other and formed a mass that is 142 times heavier than the sun. Theoretically, black holes with mass ranging between 100 to one lakh solar mass are termed ‘intermediate mass’ black holes. With this discovery, we have been given the first direct observation of such black holes in the gravitational wave window. This is a momentous occasion for scientific research as it offers a whole new line of interpretation in astrophysics. Khushbu Ved,Calcutta Ill omen Sir — It was quite a shock to learn that the Brazilian footballer and the Paris Saint-Germain forward, Neymar Jr, has tested positive for Covid-19. The star player and his club recently lost the Champions League final to the German club, Bayern Munich. The fact that he has fallen ill shows that it is still ill-advised to allow sports tournaments to take place. Even if football and cricket matches take place in empty stadiums, there will still be multiple people present in the same place at the same time, thereby facilitating the spread of the virus. Although Neymar Jr will certainly receive the best of care, sports bodies should see this as a lesson to postpone tournaments. Aritra Sen,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-153
05-09-2020||Opinion||Unseen riches: Notes on Teachers' Day||The terrifying mathematics teacher is now a figure of myth. So are numerous others, whether it is the guru in the pathshala who nods off cane in hand while the pupils struggle with the letters on their slates or the learned and dedicated teacher busy helping indigent students without always being able to afford provisions for his own kitchen. Literature in Indian languages — fiction, memoirs, poetry — abounds in accounts of teachers unforgettable in some way, made somehow unique through the impression stamped on growing young minds. Schoolteachers are most readily remembered in this manner, but teachers of colleges and universities are recalled or described as well, although the latter are usually viewed with greater maturity. The schoolteacher in memory or representation has a peculiar quality of agelessness — stuck in the same age as when the pupil passed through school, as though it is impossible for him or her to develop or change. The abundant presence of teachers in literature is a celebration of their influence on people’s lives, unforgotten sometimes because of fear or hurt, but more often because of love, respect and sheer admiration. The remembrance of things past, however, does little to palliate the realities of the present. The village schoolmaster today often has a tough time economically and socially, and many have lost the enthusiasm for teaching. Understaffing is a major problem in many areas, not just in the villages, on top of which a teacher may have multiple duties, such as keeping track of supplies for midday meals or attending to requirements of data collection for the census or duties at election time. It is not just the unforgettable teacher who is more of a myth today, so also is society’s respect for him. Social desires and goals have changed greatly over the last few decades, and the attitude to teachers, too, has shifted accordingly. The shift is not uniform: it varies, inevitably, from teachers in government schools to those in private ones, from rural schoolteachers to professors in high-profile universities. Will there be a further change, a positive one this time, once the provisions of the National Education Policy 2020 regarding the training of schoolteachers are fulfilled? Teaching must match the New Age syllabi being introduced in schools, hence there is a focus on the details of teacher training in the policy, with certain basic changes being introduced, such as the length of the degree course in education. Developing skills in teaching new subjects and multilingual competence may help bring about changes, but among these, perhaps the emphasis on a teacher’s fluency in the local language is most welcome. Communication with and an understanding of first-generation learners are of overwhelming importance in forming the basis of an educated country. Teachers and students flourish in a relationship of mutual respect. Teachers’ Day is a reminder of that richness; the wealth should not be limited to an annual day alone.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-153
05-09-2020||Opinion||Success story: Ratings for BBC's 'A Suitable Boy'||BBC TV’s six-part adaptation of Vikram Seth’s A Suitable Boy ended last week, with Lata Mehra picking the man her mother, Rupa Mehra, has wanted for her all along — the shoemaker, Haresh Khanna — over her friend from college, the dashing cricketer, Kabir Durrani, or the Calcutta poet, Amit Chatterji. Tanya Maniktala was luminescent as Lata but for me the standout performance was that of Tabu, who played the courtesan, Saeeda Bai. She was understated, dignified and has shown herself, I think, to be the finest Bollywood actress of her generation. I also loved the Chatterjis, especially Meenakshi (Shahana Goswami), with their rhyming couplets. BBC took a huge risk in putting on a Sunday prime-time drama with only Indian characters. Andrew Davies was skilful in compressing Seth’s 1,366-page novel and ensuring it was accessible to the broad mass of British viewers. The director, Mira Nair, and the author helped ‘Indianize’ the dialogue to add authenticity. The drama reflects the communal tension in 1950s India but also deep friendships that cut across religious lines. A big test will come when Netflix shows the series in India, but in the United Kingdom, judging by the reviews and audience reaction, the response to A Suitable Boy has largely been positive (even though some people were disappointed that Lata did not pick Kabir). “Best TV drama I’ve seen in ages!” was a typical tweet from an English viewer. “An enchanting adaptation of such a wonderful novel.” Another said: “Never would have guessed the ending. Great stuff!” Lata is now 20. Next time we see her, she will be 80 and looking for a suitable match for her grandson in the India of the year 2012. That is assuming Seth completes his sequel, A Suitable Girl. Queenly beauty Salman Rushdie is said to have invented the phrase, “naughty but nice”, as a young copywriter. I would adapt it to “haughty but nice” to describe Gayatri Devi, the erstwhile Maharani of Jaipur, whom I got to know a tiny bit as she would spend summers in London. She told me she did not think much of her ghost-written autobiography, A Princess Remembers, so I wonder what she would have made of John Zubrzycki’s fascinating The House of Jaipur: The Inside Story of India’s Most Glamorous Royal Family. I think I took the last photograph of her at an arts event at the British Museum, shortly before she fell ill and insisted on being flown back from a London hospital to Jaipur where she passed away, aged 90, on July 29, 2009. In June the following year, I attended an affectionate service of thanksgiving for “Ayesha” at the picturesque Church of St Michael & All Angels, Sunninghill, Berkshire, which was packed with British aristocracy. Lords and ladies filed out on a perfect English summer’s day to three of the Maharani’s choices when she had appeared on the BBC Radio 4 programme, Desert Island Discs, in 1984 — “Moon River”, “A Nightingale Sang in Berkeley Square” and “My Way”. Afterwards, there was a polo match to remember her and her beloved “Jai”, Maharaja Sawai Man Singh II. She was seen as the last Queen of India, her beauty captured forever by Cecil Beaton.Love blooms Captain Tom Moore, who has turned 100, captured the imagination of people everywhere by raising over £30 million for the National Health Service by repeatedly circling his garden with the help of a walking frame. His autobiography, Tomorrow Will Be A Good Day, reveals that our war hero, who was a motorcycle despatch rider initially based in Poona before moving to Calcutta and then Burma, spent his spare hours in the pursuit of romance. “I must confess to having an ulterior motive for my repeated trips to Bombay,” he admits. “Her name was Sylvia. She was half-Indian, half-French and the pretty younger sister of the girlfriend of a pal of mine. After I met Sylvia, I knew I had to get back to her arms as often as I could. “She was delightful, so lovely that I started rushing the men through their training just so I could get to her every weekend. Sylvia and I would go to a bar for a drink and then out for a meal before returning to the house where she lived.” In July 1944, “I was promoted to Captain... I was owed some leave, so I decided to take a 2,000-mile train and road trip to Gulmarg... On my first night, sitting in the hotel bar, I met a pretty Anglo-Indian lady who reminded me of the lovely Sylvia. Her husband, she told me, was a prisoner of the Japanese and she’d gone to Kashmir to wait for news of him. We started chatting and became friendly. I hadn’t expected to find romance in the mountains, but there it was.” Memorable place The Hotel Shahjahan is a character in Sankar’s memorable 1962 novel, Chowringhee. In London, the Savoy has such status. It is the subject of a new book by Olivia Williams, The Secret Life of the Savoy and the D’Oyly Carte Family. One name that deserves inclusion among its famous past patrons is Jawaharlal Nehru, who treated it as a home away from home. Its American Bar is where editors once plied journalists with Kir Royale in an effort to entice them away from other papers. Footnote It is hoped that William and Harry, who fell out over the former’s alleged disapproval of Meghan Markle, will be reconciled when they attend the unveiling of a statue of their mother, Diana, Princess of Wales, at Kensington Palace on what would have been her 60th birthday on July 1, 2021. The boys were 15 and 12 when she died in 1997. The sculptor, Ian Bank-Broadley, has been working with the princes who want visitors to “reflect on her life and her legacy... our mother touched so many lives”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-153
05-09-2020||Opinion||Man of the world||Katyayani Shankar Bajpai, the veteran diplomatist who died last Sunday, was virtually unique among high-ranking Indians in being able to disagree without being disagreeable. I could not have been more critical of his stint as India’s political officer in Gangtok from 1970 to 1974. Yet, I had to thank him for many small kindnesses. I would have been stranded in Bagdogra on one occasion if he had not instructed the India House jeep collecting the diplomatic bag from the Delhi flight to collect me too for the six-hour drive to Gangtok in a strike-bound Sikkim. It seems blasphemous to recall an envoy to the three countries that matter most to us — Pakistan, China and the United States of America — in connection with what he himself dismissed in moments of frustration as “the Chogyal’s little bailiwick”. But looking back two years ago, when he was 90, Bajpai acknowledged in the Indian Express that the “four years in Sikkim, leading to its merger” were the “most instructive” of his career. He was a man of the world, educated in the US, Britain and Switzerland, steeped in international diplomacy, knowledgeable about classical music, period furniture and colonial art. I doubt if Indian diplomacy has produced (or can produce) another such accomplished renaissance man. But his mission in Sikkim and the obliteration of a tiny but ancient kingdom aggravated India’s relations with China. His demise coincides with a turn of the wheel when the two countries appear to be poised on the brink of an even more catastrophic confrontation. The mystery is that both crises seem utterly inexplicable. He was consul-general in Karachi during the tensions of the 1975 war, in Tashkent with Lal Bahadur Shastri, and ambassador in Washington during Rajiv Gandhi’s crucial visit to Ronald Reagan. It was a mark of the man’s sophisticated élan that he could afford to be light-hearted about weighty responsibilities, regretting from the sprawling villa at 2700 Macomb Street that his father, Sir Girja Shankar Bajpai, had acquired for the Indian government in the Forties, that the visit was so rushed that “he barely had time to find some taragon to add to the sauce” he was whipping up for the prime minister. Cooking was a passion. He enjoyed cooking for friends, especially at times of stress. It was a matter of profound regret that his charming wife, Mira, a diplomat’s spouse to her fingertips, did not think his French onion soup matched up to what Les Halles, the 11th century fresh food market in Paris, served to late-night revellers until it was demolished (like London’s Covent Garden) in 1971. It was some consolation that a Les Halles stall-keeper attributed Mira’s preference not to her husband’s culinary inadequacy but to the market’s nocturnal ambience. Food and wine were skills he shared with the Chogyal of Sikkim. He chided me once for not being sufficiently appreciative of the Chogyal’s recherché tastes. He was similarly respectful of the Gyalmo’s (the former Hope Cooke’s) “educated” appetites. He rubbished Indian suspicions of her alleged links with the American Central Intelligence Agency. People remember his “Shall we dance, Gyalmo, the last tango in Gangtok?” as he seized her at a party at India House. The person he could not stand was the Chogyal’s beautiful, talented and haughty sister, Coo Coo La, Princess Pema Tseuden Yapshi Pheunkhang. She was always “the dragon lady”, immune to the charms of the Last Resident who represented an imperial and imperious New Delhi that nearly deposed Gaekwad Sayajirao III of Baroda for not being sufficiently subservient at the Delhi Durbar. Representing the paramount power, he was adamant Gangtok was not a diplomatic posting but an extension of the Indian scene. Such positions made him appear to be the single-handed architect of what Britain’s liberal Guardian newspaper called “the swallowing of Sikkim”. The Observer doubted that India’s security interests were best served “by acting in a way that excites Chinese hostility and increases the suspicions of all its frontier peoples...” Actually, China may have been more bewildered than furious. The record of a conversation between Deng Xiaoping and Henry Kissinger in Beijing on November 27, 1974 suggests both men were puzzled. Deng told Kissinger he found Indian policy “very peculiar” since Sikkim was already “entirely under the military control of India”. It was even more baffling that India did not increase its troop strength there “after the military annexation”. Kissinger didn’t understand either. “It is incomprehensible,” he said, unable to answer Deng’s question, “Why did they have to annex it?” Over the years I tried to persuade Bajpai, last survivor of the dramatis personae of that operation, to answer that question with his insider’s authority. He promised to write. He said he was writing. He asked for a copy of my book because his was lost. He said he had drafted “something” and sent it to a foreign office mandarin. We lost touch after that but the versions in circulation were about as credible as current pledges by both sides that neither has the least intention of crossing a sacrosanct line of actual control between India and China. The legal fiction was that the Chogyal had requested New Delhi to take over his administration. Gullible Indians were assured that annexation was the only democratic response to a popular demand. Sympathetic Westerners were told that border defence had to be consolidated against China’s military build-up in Tibet. Hints were dropped that the Chogyal was secretly in cahoots with China, his wife with the CIA. For N.N. Jha, a former lieutenant-governor of the Andaman and Nicobar Islands, the Chogyal’s meeting with the Chinese ambassador at King Birendra’s coronation in Kathmandu was the last straw. He reported it to New Delhi. It wasn’t a mere ambassador the Chogyal met: what cooked his goose, according to P.N. Dhar, Indira Gandhi’s principal secretary, was an encounter with China’s vice-premier, Chin-hsi Liu. Perhaps that’s what Bajpai had in mind as we strolled through the National Palace Museum during a visit to Taiwan in 1990. “Do you really think we could have allowed the Chogyal to get away with things?” he suddenly blurted out amidst the museum’s artefacts, apropos of nothing and without elaborating what dreadful “things” the monarch tried to get away with. We know that the sombre figure of R.N. Kao loomed in the background. We do not know if the Research and Analysis Wing acted on Gandhi’s orders or decided on its own (like some US spy agencies) to draw up a takeover blueprint and present it to her. If it was the first, Gandhi’s reasons for changing from warm friendliness to implacable hostility should be explored. If the second, the threat perception that prompted RAW bears examination. But whatever the motivation, and whatever instructions went out to Gangtok, nothing would have been accomplished without the Last Resident’s unflinching sense of purpose. Adapting Marshall McLuhan, the messenger became the message. Was his dedication rewarded? By all accounts his last posting as ambassador to the US came to a bungled end. The ultimate plum of foreign secretary eluded him. The tragedy of catching Covid-19 in hospital bore out his own bleak assessment of India’s administration. Warning in his Indian Express article that India faced more problems than it was even aware of, with the government quite unaware of the deficiencies of the mechanisms it had devised to serve its needs, Bajpai quoted Mohammed Iqbal’s warning, “Na samjho ge tho mitt jao ge, Hindustan walo, tumhari daastan bhi na rahegi daastaon mein (roughly translated: If you fail to understand, Indians, you will be erased, even your history will not remain part of history).” Like Sikkim.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-153
05-09-2020||Jharkhand||24-year-old Hazaribagh woman commits ‘suicide’ in Palamau||A 24-year-old woman, who went missing from Hazaribagh on September 2, was found dead in a lodge in Baralota, Medninagar, in Palamu. Police, who found Salina Yasmeen’s body after a tip-off, spotted poison in the room. Yasmeen’s body was found hanging from the ceiling fan. She was a resident of Pelawal in Hazaribagh town. Her family alleged that she had been raped by the man she was having an affair with and his friends. The police has started an investigation and are on the lookout for the man. Four members of a gang of snatchers were arrested by police in Ormanjhi on Saturday. The men allegedly belong to the notorious Bihar-based Koda gang. The gang members use high-speed motorcycles to swoop in and snatch money from people while they leave bank branches. The arrests followed a case of snatching three days ago. The accused snatched Rs 1 lakh from two persons who had withdrawn money from a HDFC Bank branch. The accused kicked the motorcycle of the victims and when they had fallen down, the accused fled with the money. The police lodged an FIR in the case. Superintendent of police (SP) Chandan Kumar Jha formed a special investigating team (SIT) led by deputy SP Gyan Ranjan. “We arrested Ram Kumar Yadav, Kishan Kumar Yadav, Vikash Kumar Yadav and Ganesh Yadav, all members of the Koda gang, and seized cash worth Rs 1.55 lakh, seven mobile handsets, fake Aadhar cards and driving licences,” said Ranjan. Fifty people were discharged on Saturday from five Covid-19 treatment facilities in Dhanbad: 18 from the dedicated Covid-19 health centre at the Sadar hospital, 15 from the dedicated Covid-19 health centre at Nirsa Polytechnic, 11 from the dedicated Covid-19 health centre at the railway zonal training institute in Bhuli, five from the dedicated Covid-19 hospital in Dhanbad at Jagjivan Nagar and one from the dedicated Covid-19 health centre at PMCH cath lab. All the discharged persons have been instructed to remain in home quarantine for the next 14 days. Meanwhile, 107 Covid-19 cases were detected on Saturday in a special rapid antigen test drive conducted by the Dhanbad district administration. Around 3,700 people were tested during the drive. Civil society outfits, including IPTA, Pargateesheel Lekhak Sangh, Bharat Gyan Vigyan Samiti, Jan Sangarsh Morcha, AISA and Deharee Mazdoor Union, on Saturday demonstrated at Bhagat Singh Chowk in Daltonganj to “save democracy and civil rights and liberties”. IPTA national secretary Shailender Kumar said: “We all gathered today to ask people to rise as there is a deliberate and systematic assault on their rights and their liberties. “On this day three years ago, veteran journalist Gauri Lankesh was killed as she had dared to challenge right-wing radicalism.” The campaign will be on till September 10. Gym owners and trainers, hit hard by the pandemic, on Saturday met Hazaribagh Sadar MLA Manish Jaiswal and requested him to brief the state government about their condition. The owner of Royal Fitness Gym in Hazaribagh, Rajkumar Thapa, said that since March, he has been struggling financially. He said that though the government has allowed several kinds of businesses to reopen, gym owners have been left in the lurch. Abhijeet Guha, of A to Z Gym, said gym owners are having trouble paying off their loans and clearing their bills. Jaiswal assured them that he would take up the matter with the state government. The dead body of a 71-year-old resident of Gend Nawadih village in the Topchanchi police station area was found lying in a pool of blood at his home. Cash and jewellery were missing from Vijay Mahto’s home.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-310
05-09-2020||Jharkhand||Two police officers suspended in Giridih over custodial death||Giridih police on Saturday suspended two of its officers, including the officer in charge of Madhuban police station, following the custodial death of a person who was accused by villagers of stealing goat. Bablu Sonar, 41, and Balwan Mahto, 42, were caught and roughed up by the villagers and handed over to the police around 9.30pm on Friday. The police reportedly put the duo in lock-up. Mahto was found dead on Saturday morning. Sources said that it was possible that the duo was tortured in custody. It was also possible that the police did not give them proper treatment after they were beaten up by the villagers, the sources added. Giridih superintendent of police Amit Renu claimed that Mahto has committed suicide in the lock-up. He hanged himself with a wire. However, investigations are on to find out how he managed to get the wire in the lock-up and why his associate did not notice him taking the step of committing suicide despite being near him. “Mahto died in custody. Negligence on part of the officer in charge of the Madhuban police station, Raut Hanga, and the officer on duty cannot be denied. They are suspended. Sonar’s statement is being recorded,” said Renu. Giridih deputy commissioner Rahul Kumar Sinha has set up a magisterial inquiry. He said: “A report related to Mahto’s custodial death is also being sent to the National Human Rights Commission. A post-mortem was done. And a case of unnatural death has been lodged.” The family members of the deceased have been informed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-310
05-09-2020||Jharkhand||Trust withering between Centre and states, Hemant tells Modi||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the Centre not giving full GST compensation to states, saying this “act of sovereign default” runs against the very spirit of cooperative federalism. In a letter addressed to the Prime Minister, Hemant said this is symptomatic of the “withering trust” between the Centre and states. In the letter dated September 4, Hemant said the states were given assurance that the Centre would compensate the losses they suffer for the next five years, but it has just been three years, and “we find ourselves deserted”. “Reluctance and inability of the GOI to give full compensation to the states is betrayal of the commitment it made in the Union Parliament and also in all the council meetings held so far (sic),” the chief minister said. Hemant, whose JMM heads a coalition government in Jharkhand with the Congress and the RJD, is the latest non-NDA chief minister to come out against the Centre’s offer on the Goods and Services Tax (GST) compensation to states. Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee has also written to Modi, saying depriving states of GST compensation is an “attempt to undermine federalism” and urged him not to belie the trust between the states and the Centre on the issue. Besides the two, the chief ministers of Punjab, Kerala, Delhi, Chhattisgarh, Telangana, Rajasthan and Puducherry have also rejected the Centre’s proposal. Mamata and Hemant were among the Opposition party chief ministers who had participated in a virtual meeting called by Congress president Sonia Gandhi a day before the GST Council meeting. In the 41st meeting of the GST Council on August 27, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had said that the Covid-19 pandemic is an “act of God” which has hit GST collection and ruled out paying compensation to states from its coffers. As per the Centre’s calculations, the compensation requirement of states in the current fiscal would be Rs 3 lakh crore, of which Rs 65,000 crore would come from levy of cess. Of the shortfall of Rs 2.35 lakh crore, the shortfall due to GST implementation is Rs 97,000 crore and the remaining is due to Covid-19 impact. The Centre has given two options to states -- to either borrow the entire Rs 2.35 lakh crore or borrow only Rs 97,000 crore through a special window, which would be provided by the RBI -- to meet the revenue shortfall. Referring to the Prime Minister’s speech at the launch of the GST in July 2017, Hemant said Modi had portrayed the new tax regime as a great example of cooperative federalism that would herald inclusive growth of the nation. “I echo your sentiments but you would agree that India as a nation can grow only if its constituent states also grow and become self-reliant. But reluctance of the central government to fulfil its constitutional obligations regarding GST compensation goes against the interests of the states and the spirit of cooperative federalism,” he said. “... Jharkhand contributes to a compensation fund of nearly Rs 5,000 crore from the mineral sector alone. What we get in return is just a paltry sum of nearly Rs 150 crore as monthly compensation. “And now we are being asked to borrow at a time when the state is hard pressed to fulfil salaries of government servants,” he added. Hemant said that as the state’s economy is in a precarious situation at present, it needs more funds to take care of farmers, migrant workers, those in the unorganised sector and unemployed youths. “At this critical juncture we naturally expected you to give us more than just the admissible compensation. We also expected you to announce that the GST compensation would continue even beyond the original period of five years,” he said. Urging the Prime Minister to intervene in the matter and issue directions to the ministry concerned for the release of the compensation amount, Hemant said it will not only melt away all the apprehensions but also reinforce the trust in the spirit of cooperative federalism.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-310
05-09-2020||Jharkhand||Ranchi hospital dispatches wrong body to Jamshedpur||A hospital dispatched the wrong body of a Covid-19 victim to Jamshedpur on Saturday morning, triggering protests in the steel town which later prompted Ranchi district administration to file an FIR against the erring heal hub located in Irba in Ormanjhi. Md Samid Ansari (60), who was admitted to Asclepius Center for Medical Sciences Hospital, died of Covid on Friday afternoon. Thereafter, his family members sought the permission of the Ranchi district administration to take Ansari’s body to his home in Mango, under Azad Nagar police station, in Jamshedpur. However, when the body was wheeled in at the funeral site on Saturday morning, family members wanted to see him for the last time. To their shock, they found the body to be that of a woman. Thereafter, the family approached the local police station and contacted health minister Banna Gupta to complain about the lapse. One of Ansari’s relatives who lives in Ranchi said, “Ansari was admitted to hospital for age related ailments three days back. But he tested positive. During the course of treatment, he died.” Taking cognizance of the gaffe, the district administration soon swung into action and lodged an FIR against the private hospital. Ranchi SDO Lokesh Mishra said, “The hospital has given a wrong dead body to the family living in Jamshedpur. We have taken cognizance of the lapse and after finding the claim to be true we have filed an FIR against the hospital. Strict action will be taken against those responsible for the lapse. In times of Covid-19, such lapses could be dangerous and the district administration will not shy away from taking action against anyone.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-310
05-09-2020||Jharkhand||Centre’s Covid recce team in Dhanbad, to visit Ranchi, East Singhbhum||A three-member team of experts from the Union ministry of health and family welfare is in Jharkhand to inspect the trend of Covid-19 trajectory in worst-affected districts and spot lapses that could be causing spike in cases, health officials said on Saturday. The team, comprising two members from New Delhi and one from Bhubaneshwar, visited several health facilities in Dhanbad on Saturday, and also interacted with officials and local residents in the district, sources said. The team, during its 10-day stay in Jharkhand, will visit Ranchi and East Singhbhum after completing the inspection process in Dhanbad. “The team will not only inspect containment zones, but also the non-containment zones in the three districts. They will look for patterns in the Covid trajectory and study how there were a higher number of cases reported in some areas,” said State National Health Mission (NHM) director Dr Ravishankar Shukla. “They will also guide us in management of Covid patients at health facilities,” he added. Ranchi, East Singhbhum and Dhanbad are among the worst-affected districts in Jharkhand in terms of Covid-19 infection. As per figures with the health department, Ranchi alone has reported 9,796 of the 48,000-odd Covid cases in Jharkhand, the highest among all the districts. East Singhbhum, on the other hand, has reported 207 of the 455 Covid deaths in Jharkhand, and accounts for more than 45 per cent of fatalities in the state, as per government data. Dhanbad has reported 3217 cases of infection. One of the dirtiest cities of the country, Dhanbad is also one of the largest coal producing districts, which makes people living there susceptible to lung ailments. The team in Jharkhand is one of 50 teams which the Centre has sent to districts where Covid-19 cases have witnessed unprecedented increase, sources said. Similar teams have also been sent to districts in Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal and other states reeling under the Covid-19 crisis, sources said. The team consists of two public health experts and one joint secretary or additional secretary ranked official, who is given the responsibility of finding lacunae at an administrative level, health officials said. After visiting the three districts, the team will hand over a report to state health secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni and also give suggestions on handling the situation in the districts. The team has one doctor each from Lady Hardinge Medical College and Safdarjung Hospital in New Delhi and an official from Regional Medical Research Centre in Bhubaneshwar. As per latest figures with the government, Jharkhand has reported 48,043 cases of coronavirus infection so far with 15,545 patients still battling the virus. More than half of the active cases were in Ranchi, East Singhbhum and Dhanbad. The Covid recovery rate in the state was 66.70 per cent, while the mortality rate was 0.93 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-310
05-09-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad hotels incur huge losses even as they reopen||With almost negligible income and huge overhead expenses like staff salary, fuel and sanitization, the excitement regarding the reopening of hotels from September 1 after a gap of around six months has come to an end. The situation is such that some of the hotels are planning to close their shutters for the time being from next week if the situation does not improve immediately. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Anutosh Bagchi, senior general manager of the 36-roomed Skylark Hotel owned by Johal Group, describing the ‘pathetic’ situation, said they have received only one booking for a customer from Jamshedpur for one night, during the last four days. “We are incurring huge expenses while running hotel services. We deployed our entire staff team to carry out proper sanitization as per the SOPs laid by the state government, but the poor response of customers is very discouraging. We cannot sustain ourselves if this is to continue,” said Bagchi and added that apprehension among the visitors and particularly those coming from other states are is the main reason for poor business. “Nobody coming here from Calcutta on a business trip of two-three days would take the risk of getting quarantined for 14 days,” said Bagchi. On Wednesday, they had to operate the generator for a single customer due to a prolonged power cut even as the generator operation cost is expensive, at a rate of 20 litres per hour. Vinay Singh owner of Ramson Hotel in Dhanbad, who is also general secretary of the Hotel and Restaurant Owner’s Association of Dhanbad echoed sentiments. “The almost negligible income will make it very difficult for us to meet the expenses. A majority of our customers are from outside the state and some people who visit us from Ranchi and Jamshedpur stay at most for a night or two days,” he said. “We met Dhanbad deputy commissioner Uma Shankar two days ago. He assured all help but at the same time stressed on the need to follow the SOPs and instructed us to provide all the details with regard to visitors booking rooms in our hotels,” said Singh. Arka Ghosh, general manager of Sonotel Hotel said, the hotel income is much less than usual, as out of 56 rooms, only four or five rooms are being booked for the last two days. “We are not entertaining customers from outside the state. However, restaurant service is almost as good as before the lockdown period,” said Ghosh and added that they expect the confidence of customers to be restored gradually.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-310
05-09-2020||Jharkhand||Trains cancelled, truncated due to Bengal lockdown||South Eastern Railway has cancelled and truncated several trains in view of a complete lockdown in West Bengal on September 7, 11 and 12. In a circular issued on Saturday, SER said that both the Up and Dn Howrah-Barbil Janshatabdi Special, which travels via Tatanagar, will remain cancelled on all the three days of the lockdown. The Bhubaneswar-Howrah Special and the return train will also remain cancelled on September 7, 11 and 12. As per the notification, both the Up and Dn Shalimar-Patna Special will remain cancelled on September 7 and 11. The circular also announced the withdrawal of stoppages of a few trains. The Bhubaneswar-New Delhi Rajdhani (which goes via Tatanagar) leaving Bhubaneswar on September 6, 10 and 11 will not stop at Hijli and Purulia stations. The return train, New Delhi-Bhubaneswar Rajdhani, leaving New Delhi on those three days (September 6, 10 and 11), will not stop at Purulia and Hijli. The Howrah-Ahmedabad Special, scheduled to leave Howrah on September 11, will originate from Rourkela at 6.35am on September 12. Hence, the train service will not be available between Howrah and Rourkela. Examination specials South Eastern Railway also notified two pairs of special trains for candidates appearing in the National Defence Academy (NDA) and Naval Academy examinations. The first, Balasore-Bhubaneswar Special, will leave Balasore at 5pm on September 6 and reach Bhubaneswar at 9.30pm the same day. While on its way back, the Bhubaneswar-Balasore Special will leave Bhubaneswar at 9.50pm on September 6 and will arrive at Balasore at 1.30 am, the next day. The special train will have 16 sleeper class and four general second class coaches. The other, Rourkela-Sambalpur MEMU Special, will leave Rourkela at 5pm on September 6 and will reach Sambalpur at 7.40 pm, the same day. On its return journey, the Sambalpur-Rourkela MEMU Special will leave Sambalpur at 9pm on September 6 and arrive at Rourkela at 11.45pm, the same day. The special train will stop at Rajgangpur, Bamra, Jharsuguda and Rengali stations between Rourkela and Sambalpur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-311
05-09-2020||Jharkhand||Steel city possible venue for under-17 women's World Cup football camp ||The steel city is being looked upon as an alternative venue for the national camp for the Fifa under-17 World Cup to be held next in India. A recce team led by state sports director Anil Kumar Singh inspected the available facilities in Jamshedpur on Friday. He also held a discussion with officials of Tata Steel sports wing who accompanied the team from Ranchi during the inspection. The team inspected JRD Tata Sports Complex and the ground at Flatlets in Kadma as well as some hotels. Besides sports director Singh,  district sports officer Manmohan Prasad, Jharkhand Football Association president Nazm Ansari, Tata Steel sports wing chief Farzan Heerjee, Jamshedpur FC CEO Mukul Choudhari  were among others who were present while the inspection was underway. Sports director Singh said Jamshedpur was being looked at as an alternative venue for the women’s national camp. “Though the camp is scheduled in Ranchi but we have to also look at other alternative venues. Jamshedpur is an apt venue. A team  from Sports Authority of India (SAI)-Calcutta will also inspect the facilities in Jamshedpur,” he said. Asked when the camp will be conducted, the sports director added it would be held sometime in October. “We are waiting for the government guidelines. The dates for the camp would be announced in consultation with SAI (Calcutta),” the sports director added. Though the JRD Tata Sports Complex has been made a Covid Centre by the district administration, sources at Tata steel sports wing said necessary arrangements can be made for conducting the camp. “Barricading of the ground and a separate area can be arranged at the stadium,” one of the sources said requesting anonymity. “We are prepared to host the camp at short notice. Though the JRD Tata Sports Complex has not been used for five months we can always deck up the venue,” another source at the Tata Steel sports wing said, adding a recce team from SAI (Calcutta) was expected to visit Jamshedpur shortly,” a source informed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-311
05-09-2020||Jharkhand||Private tutors lead silent procession on Teachers’ Day, ask when centres will open||As many as 50 private tutors representing over a hundred coaching centres led a silent procession in Daltonganj town on Saturday under the banner of Palamau Coaching Association, to mark Teachers’ Day by highlighting the condition arising from the shutdown of the coaching centres since the last week of March due to the coronavirus pandemic. Every private tutor had a mask on and social distancing was not amiss. Sources said these teachers have no other means to eke out their living, after families discouraging wards to visit their tutors for classes. Home tuition was popular in the area but there is hardly any locality across the district that has not been a containment area at some point. Parents want children to avoid visiting these localities if their teachers live there. “Bars and pubs have opened. Malls have opened. Barbers’ shops are opened. Auto rickshaws are carrying passengers like stuffed bags. But the coaching centres are shut,” said Ravikant Sharma an office-bearer of the association. “A majority of coaching centres run on rented premises. The rent hasn’t stopped. It is getting difficult for all of us to pay the rent,” he said. Sharma said the electricity bills that are piling up are giving them ‘shocks’, as they are left to wonder how to pay the bills. The state government is mooting to reopen school for seniors in classes 9 to 12. Coaching centres too have demanded to open for senior classes, following all health protocols. There will be smaller shifts of students, and hand wash, masks and sanitizers will be provided at the centre. In rural of Palamau district, private tutors are already up in this business, running their centres with heavy curtains at the door. Locals are happy that their wards are at least engaged for a few hours every morning. A bookseller near Zila School Chowk in Daltonganj said the shutdown of the coaching centres has affected their business too. He said the sale of ball pens, answer books, pencils, instrument boxes etc has declined considerably.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-311
05-09-2020||Jharkhand||Jharkhand: Tana Bhagats withdraw rail blockade after 57 hours||Members of the Tana Bhagat community withdrew their rail blockade in Jharkhand's Latehar district in the early hours of Saturday, following which services normalised, officials said. They started the blockade at Tori station on Wednesday evening, seeking amendment of the Chotanagpur Tenancy Act -- which protects the land rights of the tribals. Several attempts to pacify the agitators over the past three days failed as the members of the tribal community sought a meeting with Chief Minister Hemant Soren at the protest venue. However, after several hours of discussions with the local authorities, the agitators withdrew the blockades around 2 am on the assurance of MLA Baidyanath Ram that the chief minister would look into their demands. The community has been demanding that the provisions of the Chotanagpur Tenancy Act be strengthened through an amendment, and its members be granted a tax waiver on any land they possessed. Freight services resumed in the Barka Kana-Barwadih section around 4.15 am with the first goods train leaving the Tori Junction for Biratoli, Dhanbad's divisional railway manager Anil Kumar Mishra told PTI. Railway services were completely shut in the section for around 57 hours, and the Ranchi-bound Rajdhani Express got stuck at the Daltonganj station on Thursday, following which 930 passengers of the train had to be sent to their destinations in buses, officials said. The agitation hit hard the coal sector as several goods trains were stranded, causing damages worth crores of rupees, they said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-311
05-09-2020||Jharkhand||‘Atma nirbhar’ Ananya tames railways||Like generations of Indians before them, 900-odd passengers of the Delhi-Ranchi Rajdhani Express had meekly submitted on Thursday when railway authorities truncated the trip citing a track agitation and asked them to catch buses. Except for one passenger. Ananya Choudhary, an undergraduate law student, launched a one-woman agitation of her own, singlehandedly bending the Indian Railways to her will after an eight-hour battle of nerves. She got the railways to run the Rajdhani for 300km with her as the lone passenger, even providing her with a Railway Police Force escort. The 25-year-old Ranchi resident on Friday told The Telegraph that the experience had taught her to become “atma nirbhar” (self-reliant) and that the Prime Minister should be pleased. Railway authorities played down Ananya’s fight for her rights, saying the Rajdhani had to be taken to Ranchi anyway at some point so that it could start its return journey on Sunday. The railways had terminated the Rajdhani at Daltonganj station at 6.40am on Thursday, citing a rail roko, and asked the passengers to catch bus rides for the remaining 200km to the Jharkhand capital. Agitations and curtailed journeys being part of the Indian train traveller’s life, few asked any questions. Few except the final-year LLB student of Banaras Hindu University who was returning home after sitting her exams in Varanasi — a Covid-season requirement forced by education authorities that many parents and teachers believe was as irresponsible as the railways’ decision was in Ananya’s eyes. “The Rajdhani was the only train linking Delhi with Ranchi during the pandemic. Unfortunately, the railways, despite knowing in advance about the (rail roko) agitation and announcing a route diversion when I boarded at Mughalsarai (the Rajdhani stoppage nearest Varanasi), did not divert the train, causing it to get stuck at Daltonganj,” Ananya said. “I was aghast at the attitude of the railway authorities who simply told the passengers, without even apologising, that they would have to take buses to Ranchi. I wanted to fight for my rights as a citizen who had booked a Rajdhani ticket with a lot of difficulty.” So she refused to budge from her seat even when official after official derisively told her she hadn’t a ghost of a chance. “Why should I travel in a bus herded with other people when I have paid for the Rajdhani? Why should I suffer for the fault of the authorities?” Ananya told this newspaper. “When I saw people carrying their luggage and getting into packed buses in violation of all standard operating procedures for the pandemic, I decided to stand up and fight even though I was alone and all the rest had taken the easy way out. It was the best way to show our Prime Minister that citizens are becoming atma nirbhar.” She kept talking to officials and tweeting. “I tweeted almost everyone in the railway ministry, including railway minister Piyush Goyal who has a penchant for tweeting about the railways’ achievements. But no reply had come till I last checked my Twitter handle this (Friday) morning.” It was 3pm when the railways gave in. An hour later, the train began rolling with Ananya as the lone passenger, taking a circuitous route to avoid the rail roko, organised by the Tana Bhagat tribal community to assert their land rights. The route diversion increased the distance to Ranchi from 200km to 300km, and for once the Rajdhani kept giving right of way to others. Eventually, Ananya reached Ranchi around 2am on Friday — more than 15 hours after the scheduled arrival time of Thursday 10.45am. Her father Mukesh Prakash Choudhary — a retired employee of Heavy Engineering Corporation Limited, a Ranchi-based PSU — took her on a motorbike to their home in HEC Colony, Dhurwa. Ananya said she planned to seek compensation from the railways for the delay and mental trauma. She added that the past few weeks had been hectic for her. “After the UGC directive (for the conduct of degree exams), BHU had suddenly announced the dates. I managed to travel to Banaras with a lot of difficulty as only one train ran between Ranchi and Delhi during the lockdown, and that too only twice a week (Thursdays and Sundays),” she said. “My final papers were over on August 28 but I only managed to get a Rajdhani ticket for September 3.” Dhanbad railway division spokesperson P.K. Mishra said: “We had to send the bi-weekly train to Ranchi through the diverted Gomoh-Bokaro route as the train was to leave for New Delhi from Ranchi on Sunday, and before that it had to be cleaned and put through technical inspections.” He added: “If the agitation continues till Sunday, the train will again travel on a diverted route via Bokaro-Gomoh towards Delhi.” The agitation by the Tana Bhagats — which began at 5pm on Wednesday near the Tori Junction close to Daltonganj — was continuing on Friday evening. Over 200 Tana Bhagats, a community that professes to follow Gandhian principles, were squatting on the tracks protesting successive governments’ act of charging land rent from them despite the Chotanagpur Tenancy Act purportedly granting them ownership of their land. More than 750 of Ananya’s fellow passengers were taken to Ranchi on private buses arranged by the district administration, while over 150 preferred to rent private cars.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-311
05-09-2020||Jharkhand||Teachers’ plea to President on award ||Two out of the three teachers selected for the National Award from Jharkhand are among the 35 teachers picked for the prestigious award this year to request President Ram Nath Kovind to convene a physical felicitation ceremony once the Covid-19 pandemic ends. “The government (the human resource development ministry) had informed that this year they would not be able to allow teachers to be present at the award ceremony on September 5 because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Instead, the respective deputy commissioners (district magistrates) would give away the awards at the district collectorate while the President would give the award in an online function,” said Smith Kumar Soni, the acting headmaster at Government Middle School in Bano block of Simdega district. “We would not like to miss out on this lifetime opportunity of receiving the award from the President and interacting with the Prime Minister and decided to join nearly 35 teachers in writing to the President to convene a physical felicitation ceremony when the pandemic situation normalises,” Soni added. Soni has played an instrumental role in revamping the infrastructure of the state-owned school in the Maoist-hit area of Simdega district with the help of the local MLA and mukhiya. Significantly, 35 out of the 47 teachers selected for the National Awards to be given on September 5 by the Union education ministry in recognition of their achievements in the field of education have written the letter to the President on September 1. A communique had been sent to the selected teachers on August 25,  informing them about the award ceremony to be conducted virtually in view of the pandemic. On August 31, the ministry had informed the teachers that the certificates and medals would be awarded through deputy commissioners on September 5. “It is a proud moment for all the selected teachers, but when we came to know that the award function will be held on webinar, the majority of the teachers wrote a joint letter to the President expressing our unhappiness at not being able to collect the award in person. “It is a lifetime achievement and we were eagerly waiting to make this one of the best moments of our lives. We have requested the honourable President for an award ceremony or an interaction when the situation improves. Let’s see what happens,” said Ishita Dey, vice-principal of Tarapore School in Agrico, Jamshedpur, who has been selected by the Council for the Indian Schools Certificate Examination for the prestigious award.  Nirupama Kumari, a teacher at Ram Rudra plus two High School in Chas, Bokaro, who was the third teacher from Jharkhand to be picked for the award, has not signed the letter, but admitted that physical felicitation would have been better.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-311
