06-09-2020||Calcutta||Eduguy launches online test on career choice||An online test that will help students determine their career preferences by assessing their interest and aptitude was launched on Saturday evening. Often, students are left “groping in the dark” about making the right career choice, those who conceptualised the test said at a programme attended by students, teachers and principals. The test will give the top-three career choices based on artificial intelligence and machine learning that has been conceptualised and developed by Eduguy, an online platform for career counselling that started earlier this year and IT company IBM. Eduguy is a group company of IIHM. “Sometimes children write all kinds of examinations and choose something where they have qualified without thinking whether it is suitable for them or not. We want to change that mindset,” Suborno Bose, founder and CEO of Eduguy, said. “If somebody’s skill is towards accounting, engineering, data science or cyber security we want to give them suggestions and not force it upon them,” Bose said. The Eduguy Career Predictive Test is a 120-minute test on aptitude, attitude, aspirations and psychometric parameters that will give a report explaining the three career predictions. Joining online was the managing director of IBM, India and South East Asia, Sandip Patel, who said it would give students the right direction. “I think all of us have gone through that predicament… what is the right career… this would be an invaluable tool that would enable all these kids at least to get some guidance,” Patel said. Anyone above Class VIII can take the test. Students can choose to take the test after Class XII as well. The test can be taken by professionals, too, who want to switch careers. “The test is equally relevant for professionals,” Bose said. Patel said: “Skills and renewal of skills, particularly post-Covid, is going to be very critical for everyone.” The test can be taken at www.ecptonline.com. After the test, if a student wants, he/she can speak to career counsellors or psychologists for 25 minutes. This option will be available after three months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-317
06-09-2020||Calcutta||Covid: Tourism investors run into rough weather||Many aspiring entrepreneurs from the plains who had invested in hotels the hills in recent years mostly because of their love for the region are facing a tough call. Since the hotels have been taken on lease, many are finding it difficult to retain the properties and are being pushed out of the business because of the slump in leisure travel whose end seems nowhere near. Indranil Sen gave up his engineering job to feed his wanderlust. After a stint with a travel portal, he took up a homestay in Kalimpong. “It was taken on a five-year contract. But I was forced to let it go in the fourth year itself after income dropped to zero this summer. There is no chance of a turnaround soon,” said the Naihati man. He also runs a 16-room hotel in East Sikkim. “It is at a height of 7500ft.” Since the area is so remote, the hotels have to shop for supplies for the season in advance. “We shopped for March to May from Siliguri. In those initial weeks, Sikkim had no Covid-19 cases. But when lockdown was declared, bookings got cancelled and we had to throw away the fish and meat. The vegetables were given away to locals.” Lake Gardens resident Indranil Ganguly quit his city job in 2015 and leased a 24-room hotel, Tarayana Grand, in Gangtok in 2016 along with a partner. “It was doing well. But with income dropping to nil this summer, we had to let go of eight of our 12 workers. Four have been retained to maintain the property. We are paying them 60 per cent of the salary and a food allowance.” There have been no bookings for Puja holidays which are usually done by August. Even for Christmas holidays, there have not been any enquiries. Ganguly does not see any improvement till end-2021. “Sixty per cent small hoteliers, with eight to 15 rooms, have quit, I hear. They run the business on rolling capital, investing from their income. Such is the situation, they are looking to cut their losses on the working capital,” Ganguly said. He is unsure what he will do. “Our hotel owner has waived the lease amount for six months. But who will do so for two years?” Shibnath Ghosh, an electricity contractor, wanted to turn his passion into profession and took up a homestay in a Kalimpong village in December. “Soon train service halted because of the citizenship protests.  Just as things were returning to normal in February, the lockdown started.” He has also paid to build a property near Mirik. “This is such a blow at the very start in this business that I cannot even stand up.” Pulak Bhadra, vice-president of the Tour Operators’ Welfare Association of Bengal, points out that the pandemic might have crippled local tourism. ”Those who are forced to give up their leased properties now might not be in a position to acquire another hotel anytime soon. There is an initial investment of Rs 5-6 lakh to get a hotel ready. Where will this money come from?” he wonders. A big impediment to business reviving is transport. “There is just one train – a Covid Special -- now running between Sealdah and Alipurduar instead of 15-16 direct ones. But we cannot have tourism based on one train.” Localised lockdowns are another bother. “I sent one family to Darjeeling in June but the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration ordered a 120-day lockdown.” Another problem is resistance from local residents. “They fear that tourists from Calcutta will bring in the virus. A family was supposed to visit a homestay in Pakhiralay but the Gosaba panchayat issued a ban on outsiders.” Bhadra holds out hope for the newcomers. “Quite a few have joined the business in recent years out of love for nature. They might have their back to the wall now but I’d advise them to grit their teeth for six more months. Once trains restart, there would be 20 to 25 per cent business. And so many are fed up of being locked down that there will be no off season for us once the turnaround happens.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-317
06-09-2020||Calcutta||Sunderban arrest lifts lid on deer meat racket||A man was arrested in a Sunderbans village in the early hours of Saturday with deer meat, a forest department official said. The 40-year-old man has confessed to being part of a racket that killed the deer after catching it using a snare in a forest a couple of days ago, the forest official said. The killing took place in the Ajmalmari forest, around 5km from the Kultali Block in South 24-Parganas. In April last year, the rotten carcass of a tiger was found in the same forest. An investigation had revealed it got caught in a similar snare — a trap to catch an animal by using a noose of wires and a bait — and died of starvation. The forest department got a tip-off about a group hunting animals and selling their meat. A raid last week had drawn a blank, the official said. A couple of days ago, a forest department official went to meet the group disguised as a buyer of meat. After being sure of their presence, a house in Baikanthapur village in the Kultali Block was raided early on Saturday. “One person was arrested. We found 13kg of deer meat with him. He is part of a larger group. We are interrogating him for more details,” the divisional forest officer of South 24-Parganas said. The operation was conducted with the help of cops from Maipith coastal police station, he said. Hunting and eating deer meat can lead to three years in jail, a wildlife official said. The killing has brought to the fore the menace of poachers of small animals in villages in the Sunderbans. After the tiger’s carcass was found last year, similar snares were seized from adjoining forests. People of the villages are involved in the racket of selling deer and wild boar meat, a forest department official said. Forest officials often face resistance in trying to arrest someone after a raid because of the involvement of villagers. Forest officials had been assaulted when they had gone to a village to arrest some of the suspects, a fortnight after the discovery of the tiger carcass. The group that had set up the snare comprised mostly villagers. More than 100 villagers had attacked the forest team. A few arrests had followed the assault. “We will arrest all those involved in the killing of the deer. I have spoken with senior police officers. There will be more raids in the coming days,” V.K. Yadav, the chief wildlife warden of Bengal, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-317
06-09-2020||Calcutta||Portal to seek doctor advice launched ||People who are wary of visiting a clinic or hospital for fear of contracting the coronavirus can now consult doctors through a website. The Calcutta Municipal Corporation and the Indian Medical Association jointly launched the site, kmc.janupchaar.com, on Saturday. It has a list of doctors who have volunteered to provide free consultation. A person has to register and create an account, for which an email id is needed. Once the account is created, the user can sign in and find out when a doctor is available. But the facility does not have any telephone number where people can book a doctor’s appointment. Santanu Sen, the state secretary of the Indian Medical Association, said there was no plan to introduce any phone number. “There are a lot of people who have some problems like a frozen shoulder but are afraid to visit a doctor’s clinic or hospital. This website will help them,” Firhad Hakim, the chairman of the CMC’s board of administrators, said during the launch. A similar initiative has been taken up by a group of doctors for residents of Salt Lake, New Town and Lake Town. These doctors have started a helpline (7439596460 and 7439598338) where residents who have fever but haven’t been able to get appointments with doctors can call for help and advice. The doctors, working under the umbrella, Protect the Warriors, will hear them out over phone and then WhatsApp them prescriptions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-318
06-09-2020||Calcutta||Rail ministry ‘nod delay’ held back Metro plan||The Bengal government had told Metro officials more than a month ago to develop technology to control crowd, a senior government official said on Saturday. Metro officials had then apparently cited “the absence of a nod from the Railway Board” to take things forward. Had the carrier started working on crowd control earlier, a system would have been in place by now and services could have resumed from Tuesday, another government official said. “Over a month-and-a-half ago, Metro officials had told us they were willing to resume services if they got permission. We had told them to think about crowd control mechanisms and take the help of technology. But there was no permission from the rail ministry and they did not go ahead with the planning,” the official said. A Metro official confirmed that discussions had been held with the state government in late June for the resumption of services. “The government had offered to depute an agency to develop the technology to control crowd like it is doing now,” he said. “But the Centre did not allow the resumption of Metro services and the technology was not developed.” On June 29, the Union home ministry had issued guidelines that listed Metro among activities that would not be permitted. The guidelines were issued hours after chief minister Mamata Banerjee had said her government would speak to the railways for partial resumption of Metro services to ferry those involved in essential services. The Unlock 4 guidelines announced last Saturday allowed “graded” resumption of Metro services across the country from September 7. Metros in Delhi and Bangalore will resume commercial services from that day. But Calcutta Metro is still to formally announce a date for the resumption of services. The Delhi Metro chief had told Metro on Friday that their infrastructure and crowd control preparations had started long ago and the agency was ready to resume services on a two-day notice before the Centre issued the Unlock 3 guidelines. The lack of such advanced planning has stalled the resumption of Metro services in Calcutta. Even after the Unlock 4 guidelines were announced, Calcutta Metro officials said they could not do anything unless a nod came from the rail ministry, the sole nodal authority of the city’s transport lifeline. Five days after the Unlock 4 guidelines were issued, a meeting took place between state government officials and Metro representatives on Thursday. State home secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay had presided over the meeting. Earlier, Metro officials had said only existing smart card holders would be allowed to access the services. Metro does not have the technology to keep a real-time check on smart card users entering a station. During the meeting, the state government is said to have asked Metro officials to develop a system for crowd control at the main entrance. “Metro officials said they did not have the technology, following which we offered to develop it,” a state government official said. The system will now be designed by a private developer which had earlier developed a transport app for the state government. The state government had in 2017 launched Pathadisha (pathfinder), an app that tracks state buses plying in Calcutta and neighbouring areas. Supported by the World Bank and developed by a private technology company, the app can help a person search a particular route and track an approaching bus. Friday’s meeting between Metro and state government officials was focused on software development for the new system. A QR code that needs to be scanned at the station gates is being billed as a solution. “The code will be generated much before the travel time. It will change colour every 12 hours,” an official said. But the developer has sought a database of smart card users to design the system. Metro has names of smart card users but not their phone numbers or other contact details. “A lot of hurdles have to be cleared before the system becomes operational,” another state government official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-318
06-09-2020||Calcutta||Celebration of Father Roberge’s legacy today||A group of filmmakers will revisit the life and works of Father Gaston Roberge, considered a doyen of film studies in Calcutta, at a virtual assembly on Sunday. The Jesuit priest-turned-film academic died on August 26. He was 85. St Xavier’s College (Calcutta) Alumni Association has organised the webinar on the life, works and legacy of Father Roberge. He had founded Chitrabani, a centre for film studies, with the help of Satyajit Ray, in 1970, as an extension service of St Xavier’s College. He remained its director till 1996. Father Roberge taught in the film studies department of St Xavier’s College. Shyam Benegal, Goutam Ghose, Adoor Gopalakrishnan and Buddhadeb Dasgupta will be part of the webinar, organisers said. Film critic Saibal Chatterjee will moderate the programme. The webinar is scheduled at 6.30pm on September 6, Sunday. “It will be telecast live from our Zoom ID and official Facebook page for greater outreach,” a member of the alumni association said. What: Webinar on the life, works and legacy of Father Gaston Roberge When: Sunday, 6.30pm Where: Zoom and Facebook page of St. Xavier’s College (Calcutta) Alumni Association Participants: Shyam Benegal, Goutam Ghose, Adoor Gopalakrishnan and Buddhadeb Dasgupta, moderator Saibal Chatterjee||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-318
06-09-2020||Calcutta||IIT Kharagpur closed to ‘break Covid chain’||The IIT Kharagpur campus will remain closed from September 6-13 or till further notice following an “increase in the number of Covid cases” on the campus. The rise prompted the authorities to introduce the closure for breaking “the chain of spread of Covid”. A notice signed by the institute’s registrar B.N. Singh on Saturday announced the closure. Following the imposition of the closure, no employee of the institute will be permitted to leave or enter the campus till further orders, except for an emergency. Those employees who are outside the campus have been advised to stay put. The entry and exit of employees who are permanent residents of the campus have been barred because the institute wants to break the chain of spread, an institute official said. The institute had on September 2, through another notification, advised the faculty, members of the staff and others to refrain from moving out of the campus/city. “Given a further spurt in cases in between, now a blanket ban has been imposed on entry and exit,” an official said. Many of the teachers and officials travel between Kharagpur and Calcutta to visit their parents or relatives. Many go beyond Kharagpur to buy things. But such movements will not be allowed now, he said. The OPD of the BC Roy Technology Hospital on the campus will remain closed except for the emergency unit till further notice. Retired teachers and officials of the institute stay in a society outside the campus and they keep visiting the hospital to for check-ups and medicines. “But this is being stopped now,” another official said. No members of the faculty or employees will be allowed to enter the academic campus area. No domestic help and gardener will be allowed to enter the campus. All offices of the institute will remain closed, according to the notice. The first positive case was recorded on the campus on August 19 and the number had shot up to 18 by September 4, a surge that prompted the institute to take steps to breaking the chain of spread, an official said. A professor said the delay in asking students to vacate the campus could be one of the reasons behind the spread. Close to 3,500 students stayed on the campus till June 20 when the first order on vacating the campus was issued. “These students did not leave… this meant an assembly, which was not desirable,” he said. Registrar Singh has sought the help and support of the faculty and members of the staff to make the “campus safe and secure from the Covid-19 pandemic”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-318
06-09-2020||Calcutta||Caste-laced shocker in academia ||An associate professor of Jadavpur University who had said on Facebook that an academic year could not be more important than a student’s life was identified by her “Adivasi” background by a student and told in various ways that she was not qualified to comment on examinations. The student who made the comment is from Bethune College, the first women’s college in Asia established in 1879 and considered by many a beacon of liberal thought. The JU history department teacher told Metro that she wanted to be identified by her name, Maroona Murmu, while narrating how as many as 1,500 comments in support of the student flooded her comment box. “I was shocked. I have stopped checking my profile in the face of the barrage from trolls,” Murmu said on Saturday. So shocked was the head of a department at Bethune College that the teacher felt the need to apologise to the JU associate professor. But the head of the department, Sumita Mukhopadhyay, said that she too was trolled so severely for taking a stand that she had to delete the post. The student could not be contacted by this newspaper. The exchange between Murmu and the student took place on September 2, when most people in the country were debating the government’s decision to conduct exams despite Covid-19. Murmu, commenting on a post,  wrote on Facebook: “One year in this long life cannot be bigger than life itself, no exams this time.” The student, who is due to appear for her examinations from October 1, responded with her own comment: “Maroona Murmu, that’s what surprised me…. How could a professor of JU think like that…. I am astonished…. I don’t want to belittle you, but this is the difference between quota and unquota…. You don’t need to be a so-called professor to understand that life is more important than life’s one year…. … The problem is not about missing a year…. It is about progress because of caste and being disadvantaged for life despite having the ability….” She added: “Some people are getting their salaries sitting at home while some parents are having to step out everyday to provide us our meals.” After the rush of support for her, the student posted on September 3 morning: “This morning, just reminded one ‘Murmu’ Santhali in restrained language that she is an Adivasi…. But some uncles and aunts of her age reminded me that some so-called professors sitting at home have grown a thicker layer of fat.” After the student posted her comment, several social media users trolled the teacher. Murmu, who had studied in Presidency College and did her masters’, MPhil and PhD at JNU, said on Saturday night: “The student carries within her a social psyche that needs to be corrected.  She needs to introspect. It shocks me that the comment comes from a student of Bethune College. But what shocks me more is the fact that a group of persons rallied behind her and started trolling me. As many as 1,500 comments were posted in support of her. The fact that people think that this can be done by a student pains me. An organised force seems to be working behind the scenes.” Bethune teacher Mukhopadhyay was alerted about the posts by a relative. “Then I posted on my profile on September 3 that I am apologising to her (Murmu) on behalf of the student for the abusive comment involving the caste identity of the teacher. Moments later, people started trolling me for opposing her. I had to delete the post and explained to Maroona why I had to do this,” Mukhopadhyay told Metro. A statement signed by Partha Pratim Ray, the general secretary of Jadavpur University Teachers' Association, said: “The association unequivocally condemns, in the strongest possible terms, the vicious trolling and hate attacks being carried out on social media against one of its members, Professor Maroona Murmu, of the department of history.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-318
06-09-2020||Calcutta||Homemaker turns idol-maker after husband's Covid death||A homemaker who had seen her husband make Durga idols from a distance for many years has picked up the paintbrush after decades following his death. Piu Pal’s only motivation — to ensure their children can continue with their studies. She has even bagged orders from Durga Puja organisers who do not want large idols but want it something different this time. And the mother of two sons knows exactly what she has to deliver. Some of these organisers have been placing orders with her husband Arun Pal for years. She would watch them turn up at their Kalighat studio, explaining the themes to her husband and the kind of idols they were looking for. When Pal died of the coronavirus in July, she decided to step in. Their sons are still in school. Avirup is a Class XII student while Antarip is in Class VI. Continuing with their education meant Piu returning to something she had always held close to her heart: being an artist. “When some Durga Puja organisers came looking for my husband, I wasn’t sure what to tell them. I spoke to my sons and realised I had to take the call for them,” she said in between her meetings with puja organisers on Saturday afternoon. “It had never occurred to me that one day I would manage a team of 20 workers, giving shape to Durga idols. It was always Arun’s job. I used to watch from a distance.” On September 4, the family prayed for Pal, exactly two months after his death. In this period, she has received orders from at least 30 puja committees, including Ballygunge Cultural, Adi Ballygunge, Durgabari, Vivekananda Sporting Club and Behala Friends. On Saturday, Piu, in her early 40s, had held a few rounds of meetings with her team of workers and Pal’s studio had come alive with the familiar sight of Durga idols being made. Pal hailed from a family of artisans. His father Amar Nath and brothers still work on idols. A few years after their marriage in 2002, Pal moved out of the joint family and set up his studio in Kalighat’s Patuapara. Piu started assisting her husband, shuttling between Behala where they stayed in a rented accommodation and Kalighat. “Till 2016, I used to accompany him to various puja pandals to understand their themes. “From the pandals I would head home and he would return to the studio,” Piu said. “Now when my sons wait at home I try explaining that it’s for them.” This year, as organisers started pouring in, Piu realised the pandemic had forced everyone to cut down on budget. The allocation for idols has been drastically  reduced. “People are saying they want smaller idols that would be easy on their budgets. Ora bolchhey kuri tey kuri (They said 20 in 20),” Piu said. “The challenge is to make Durga idols within Rs 20,000. It’s a near impossible task.” Every day Piu sits down with her team to work on various shapes according to the themes. Everything, from deciding on measurements to building structures using straw, mud and bamboo is discussed in detail before work begins for the day. Late in the evening, when Piu heads home to Behala for dinner with her sons, she knows what she has delivered for the day. “Piu has picked up Arunda’s style very fast. We have always been a Arun da loyalist and it feels great to see his wife build the idol for us this year,” Sandipan Banerjee of Behala Notun Dal puja committee said. “This year, it will be a mother’s tribute to the Goddess mother for us.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-318
06-09-2020||Calcutta||I have a nightmare||A blind girl sits on a raft made of discarded plastic bottles floating in depressing green waters. One end of the raft has a rope affixed. A woman who might be the girl’s mother — there is no way of knowing for sure as there is no dialogue or text on screen — pulls along the rope even as she braves the waters to move through a cityscape. The viewer will recognise the outline of Howrah Bridge, of Victoria Memorial, the stretch that is Park Street. The familiar markers in an unfamiliar and the most extraordinary state achieve the same effect as apocalypse films. According to Kalp Sanghvi, 26, who has made Wade with Upamanyu Bhattacharyya, 28, the 10-minute animation film belongs to the genre “climate change horror” or “ecological horror”. The storyline is simple: pushed by climate change, the rising sea has taken the city hostage. Human beings have been driven out of their habitat and so have the tigers. And when they come face to face, a tussle for survival breaks out. A quiet urgency imbues the animated characters. The man who leads the humans has a mask covering the back of his head; it is meant to trick the tigers into thinking they are being watched. The soundtrack enforces the doomsday effect. Bhattacharyya reasons, “We wanted it to be like a horror film where climate change is the ghost or villain.” According to Wade’s creators, the trigger for the film was a 2015 newspaper report on the sinking and shrinking Ghoramara islands of the Sunderbans and climate-change refugees. Says Bhattacharyya, “It shocked us to know that the islands were beginning to go under water because of climate change and not because of tidal activities. People were being displaced and rendered homeless. People being forced to move as a direct result of climate change is worrisome.” Sanghvi adds, “We thought it is already happening, Calcutta is next.” The film is at once a creative exercise and a red flag. The attention to flesh out the locale is deliberate; it is meant to enforce the urgency of the situation. “Park Street is such a happening part of the city. Imagine it being under water... The pink board of Flurys is a reminder of all the happy times,” says Sanghvi. Frames change. A pack of tigers appears out of the water taking the humans by surprise. The humans counter with knives and sharp-edged sticks. The leader of the man-pack is killed. An infant bawls and for fear that the noise will draw the attention of the tigers, it is drowned. The baby struggles a bit and then goes still. A tigress delivers a cub. A tiger is killed and the humans cut its limbs and eat the flesh. To work out the consequences of the imagined state of the city, the duo read books, surveyed the city on foot, photographed it extensively. The film was ready by November 2019 after a crowdfunding campaign wherein Bhattacharyya and Sanghvi achieved their target of Rs 4.5 lakh in under three days. For the next three months, they travelled with Wade all over the country for screenings at private venues for a select audience. In May 2020, it premiered at Germany’s Stuttgart Trickfilm International Animated Film Festival. Audiences, however, seem to have taken note of Wade only post the supercyclone Amphan that ravaged Bengal in May. It seems many sent in photographs of the post-Amphan scene and pointed out the similarities with the film. The visuals from Wade show how the bustling metropolis has been reduced to a silent swamp. Garbage all around. Crocodiles lurking on the main thoroughfares. Frogs in front of the Metro station. Crows cawing ominously, buildings overgrown with shrubbery, waterlogged streets, abandoned railway stations and deserted tram depots. Says Sanghvi, “People think they have enough time to figure out (climate change) just because it is not visibly affecting us. One does not realise that time is passing, climate change is creeping into our lives and soon we will have to face the consequences.” Would they reimagine the film if given a chance, post Covid-19 and the cyclone? The duo says, “We wouldn’t, because people haven’t changed much even after it.” In the film, a snake slithers past an electricity box plastered with torn posters that read, “Climate change is a lie, AC install.” Bhattacharyya calls both the virus and the supercyclone “tips of the iceberg”. He says, “It is inevitable. You may disagree about sea level and by how much it is expected to rise, but what cannot be contested is that people are going to lose their homes, their livelihoods and be forced to move.” He adds, “We know an animated short film cannot alter the way people think about climate change, but it is time to wake up.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-318
06-09-2020||Business||Vinkesh Gulati is new FADA president||The Federation of Automobile Dealers Associations (FADA) on Saturday announced the appointment of Vinkesh Gulati as its new president. Gulati, director of United Automobiles, based out of Allahabad and Faridabad, takes over from Ashish Harsharaj Kale and his tenure will be from 2020 to 2022, FADA said in a statement. Gulati’s appointment was approved at the 298th governing council meeting of FADA, which was held immediately after its 56th annual general meeting, it added. FADA said the council also elevated Manish Raj Singhania as vice-president of FADA.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-297
06-09-2020||Business||Looking for opportunity in adversity||Many companies in China are relocating or setting up plants in other countries to cover geopolitical risks and the auto and components sector must bring those investments or tie up with them to produce in India, Kenichi Ayukawa, newly elected president of the Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers (Siam), said on Saturday. Speaking at the annual Acma convention, Ayukawa, who is the managing director and CEO of Maruti Suzuki India, said he would make efforts to organise some business exploration meetings with firms in Japan to push manufacturing in India. Similar steps could also be taken up with South Korea, the US and European countries, while asking components makers to go for “maximum localisation of inner parts and raw material. “There is opportunity in adversity. Many companies in China are setting up plants in other countries... We should bring those investments to India or tie up with them to produce in India,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-297
06-09-2020||Business||Taxman prefers direct link||Officials of the Central Board of Direct Taxes are in favour of taxpayers sharing their own email addresses instead of their tax consultants’ with the income tax authorities. The CBDT anticipates more frequent communication with the taxpayers using digital means, following the widening of the scope of form 26AS and the introduction of faceless assessment. The income tax department has revised the form 26AS, which besides offering information to the taxpayer on TDS and TCS will now also show specified financial transactions, including information pertaining to property and share transactions. According to income tax officials there could be a potential mismatch between what the tax assessee files in his return and what the department has collected in 26AS, which subsequently requires the assessee to file a revised return. S.K. Gupta, member, taxpayers services and systems at CBDT, said it is in this context, taxpayers need to be aware of any communication from the department. “Many times the taxpayers do not give their own email and instead the id of the tax practitioners are given. The notices and alerts go there. Taxpayers must realise that they should give their own email so that they can see and respond faster or at least alert the tax practitioner who may miss it because he has so many clients,” said Gupta at a seminar organised by Assocham. “If the taxpayers get a reply (from the department) they should not ignore. They should respond because any non compliance is likely to escalate the issue which could be resolved right at the beginning,” said Gupta. Taxpayers should a precise reply to the department along with supporting evidence in case of any mismatch. Gupta said the move to widen the scope of 26AS has been introduced to encourage voluntary compliance. “There could be some mismatch between what the assessee shows in the return and what is there in 26AS. This information would be sent to the taxpayer. In case he has missed it, the revised return can be filed,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-297
06-09-2020||Business||Vehicle scrappage  policy to be announced in a month||The government on Saturday said it will announce an incentive-linked scrappage policy for the automobile industry within a month. The auto industry has been demanding the scrappage policy along with a GST reduction to 18 per cent from 28 per cent to kick start demand ahead of the festive season. Speaking at 60th annual convention of the Association of Auto Component Manufacturers’ Association (Acma), Niti Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant said the scrappage policy was at a “very very advanced stage” of inter-ministerial discussions. Union minister of road, transport and highways Nitin Gadkari stressed on the importance of developing infrastructure such as roads,  which would have a direct spinoff on the auto industry. Railway minister Piyush Goyal said to help the auto industry with affordable logistics options, Indian Railways is ready to reduce its freight rate. “This will also save diesel and trucking cost for the industry,” he said. Suzuki Motor Corporation chairman Osamu Suzuki said its group companies in India will make best efforts to recover production and sales to reach pre-Covid -19 levels. “I am confident that your country will surely revive and grow furthermore,” Suzuki said. Mahindra & Mahindra managing director Pawan  Goenka said auto makers were committed to reducing imports by half in the next four to five years. According to him,“Unfavourable FTA is playing havoc on the competitiveness of the auto industry. Power tariff and logistic costs also add to the industry’s burden.” Tata Motors MD and CEO Guenter Butschek called for a collaborative approach among suppliers, strategic partners and original equipment manufacturers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-297
06-09-2020||Business||Andhra Pradesh aces business reforms||Andhra Pradesh retained the top spot in the ranking of states and Union Territories based on the implementation of the Business Reform Action Plan, according to a report released by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Saturday.The new methodology of user feedback system dragged down the performance of several states as their claims did not align with feedback from users. The ranking of Uttar Pradesh vaulted to the second position from 12th in the previous round under the new methodology, while Telangana dropped to third in the rankings from the second position a year ago in ease of doing business for 2019, according to the report prepared by the department for promotion of industry and internal trade (DPIIT). Bengal ranked ninth in the report, up one rank from last year. Several states such as Haryana (16th from 3rd), Karnataka (17th from 8th) and Odisha (29th from 24th) saw their ranks dip significantly as the latest Business Reform Action Plan is based on user feedback, ignoring the reform claims by state governments. The ranking, which was introduced in 2015 with 285 action points, expanded to 372 measures in 2017-18 spread across 12 areas, including registering property, paying taxes and labour regulation enablers. Sitharaman said the ranking makes states and Union Territories a better place to do business. The parameters include areas such as construction permit, labour regulation, environmental registration, access to information, land availability and a single-window system. The DPIIT conducts the exercise for all states/Union Territories under the Business Reform Action Plan. The ranking is based on the implementation of this plan. Sitharaman said the fact that the rankings were linked 100 per cent to user feedback indicated that the government was committed to take the benefits down to the grassroots. “The competition will get healthier and more reforms will come rolling out in the years to come,” she said. “The ranking per se does not reflect that one is superior to the other. It captures the effort that states are making to better their ranking,” pointed out commerce and industry minister Piyush Goyal. It is a competitive ranking and if a state has done good work and another does better, it can jump up the ranks, added Goyal. “With a unique model of competitive and cooperative federalism and diligent work by all states, India is succeeding in emerging as an attractive investment destination as is seen in the recent surge in FDI,” said Chandrajit Banerjee, director-general of the Confederation of Indian Industry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-297
06-09-2020||India||Covid-19: India sets global record with 90,000 new cases in a day||India's Covid-19 tally of cases mounted to 41,13,811 with a record 90,632 people being infected in a day, while the death toll climbed to 70,626 with the novel coronavirus virus claiming 1,065 lives in a span of 24 hours in the country, data updated at 8 am showed. With a record 73,642 patients having recuperated in a day, India's Covid-19 recoveries have surged to nearly 32 lakh, pushing the recovery rate to 77.32 per cent while the case fatality rate, one of the lowest globally, has further dropped to 1.72 per cent as on date, the Union Health Ministry said on Sunday. There are 8,62,320 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country accounting for only 20.96 per cent of the total caseload, it highlighted. "The spike in the daily recovered Covid-19 patients continues in the country. For the second successive day, India has clocked a record recovery of more than 70,000 patients in a single day," the ministry said. A total of 73,642 patients have recovered and been discharged from either home or facility isolation or hospitals in a day, according to health ministry data updated at 8 am. "With this surge in numbers of patients getting recovered on a daily basis, India's recovery rate has been further pushed upwards to 77.32 per cent," the ministry said. Sustained efforts by the Centre, state and union territory governments have substantially resulted in higher number of people getting identified at an early stage for the infection through very high levels of testing, it underlined. This has enabled their timely treatment, guided by the Standard Treatment Protocol for both home or facility isolation and hospitalisation. The Centre, in collaboration with the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), New Delhi has led the process of continuous upgradation of clinical management skills of the ICU doctors in the dedicated Covid hospitals across the country. "These measures have resulted in saving more lives. India's Covid-19 case fatality rate, one of the lowest globally, continues to further compress. It is pegged at 1.72 per cent as on date," the ministry said. The recoveries exceeded active cases of the infection by 23,18,545.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-685
06-09-2020||India||Arjun Kapoor tests positive for Covid-19||Arjun Kapoor has tested positive for Covid-19, the actor announced in an Instagram post on Sunday, according to a report by the NDTV. Sharing an update about his health, Arjun Kapoor wrote that he is "feeling okay" and is "asymptomatic." The actor also revealed that he has "isolated" himself at his home and will be "under home quarantine" till his recovery. In a note, Arjun wrote: "It is my duty to inform all of you that I have tested positive for coronavirus. I am feeling ok and I'm asymptomatic. I have isolated myself at home under the advice of doctors and authorities and will be under home quarantine. I thank you all in advance for your support and I will keep you all updated about my health in the days to come." "These are extraordinary and unprecedented times and I have faith that all of humanity will overcome this virus. Much love, Arjun," he added. Arjun Kapoor is the son of film producer Boney Kapoor and Mona Shourie. Earlier in May, a member of Boney Kapoor's domestic staff tested positive for Covid-19. The filmmaker issued a statement, an excerpt of which read: "My children, our other staff at home and I, all are fine and none of us are showing any symptoms. In fact, we haven't left our home since the lockdown started."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-686
06-09-2020||India||Covid-19 tally in India crosses 41 lakh mark||India's Covid-19 tally of cases went past 41 lakh with a record 90,632 people being infected in a day, while 31,80,865 people have recuperated so far pushing the national recovery rate to 77.32 per cent on Sunday, according to the Union Health Ministry data.  The total coronavirus cases mounted to 41,13,811, while the death toll climbed to 70,626 with the novel coronavirus claiming 1,065 lives in a span of 24 hours in the country, the data updated at 8 am showed.  The Covid-19 case fatality rate due to the coronavirus infection has further declined to 1.72 per cent.  There are 8,62,320 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which comprises 20.96 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated.  India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and it went past 40 lakh on September 5.  According to the ICMR, a cumulative total of 4,88,31,145 samples have been tested up to September 5 with 10,92,654 samples being tested on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-686
06-09-2020||India||Trump offers to act as an intermediary to help resolve India-China conflict||US President Donald Trump on Friday repeated his offer to help over the “very nasty” India-China border situation, adding that Washington had been talking to both countries. Responding to questions at the White House, he described the situation as “very nasty” and said: “We stand ready to help with respect to China and India. If we can do anything, we would love to get involved and help.” Asked if China was bullying India, Trump said: “I hope not... but they are certainly going at it... much more strongly than a lot of people even understand.’’ A US government source told Reuters the US assessment is that neither China nor India are interested in pushing the dispute to the point of war.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-686
06-09-2020||India||Covid patient denied cashless treatment as he had 'mild symptoms'||A Covid-19 patient who had been admitted to the intensive care unit of a private hospital in Calcutta has said his claim for cashless treatment was rejected by the insurance company because it felt he had only mild symptoms. A resident of Baguiati, Mukesh Singh, who consented to being identified in this report, said he had gone to the hospital with breathlessness and was sent to the intensive care unit. However, during the admission process, when the hospital forwarded the documents for cashless facility, the insurance company rejected the request. “We have scrutinised your request for approval for cashless treatment of the above insured patient for the diagnosed disease of Covid+ positive. Kindly note since patient has only mild symptoms, afebrile (not feverish) and well oriented and hemodynamically stable, as per AIIMS, central government guidelines, such patient can be well managed under home quarantine itself. Hence we deny the approval for cashless treatment of the above diagnosed disease,” Star Health and Allied Insurance Co wrote to Charnock Hospital. Singh said he had got admitted to the hospital on July 28 and was discharged on August 7. “I had had fever and headache from July 24. On the night of July 27, I started having respiratory distress. The doctor asked me to get a pulse oximeter and measure the oxygen level in my blood,” Singh said. “The level was fluctuating between 89 and 92. The doctor said I should not take any chances — I should get admitted to hospital and get a Covid-19 test done.” Doctors connected neither with Singh’s treatment nor Charnock Hospital said that although the central government guidelines recommended home quarantine for patients without symptoms or with mild symptoms, if a patient’s oxygen saturation level ranged between 89 and 92, he did qualify for hospital care. Under the health ministry’s standard clinical management guidelines, a level below 94 would qualify a patient for classification as a “moderate” case and transfer to a dedicated Covid-19 care facility to receive oxygen therapy. A Bengal health department official, too, said that if a Covid patient suffered from respiratory distress or their oxygen saturation level was low, they should get admitted to a hospital or a satellite unit. The doctor treating Singh at Charnock wrote to the insurance company explaining why he needed admission: “The patient was admitted with fever and mild SOB (shortness of breath) which warranted O2 support. He was advised IV (intravenous) steroid as per protocol which required institutional case, hence needed admission.” Officials at Charnock said Singh’s condition was serious enough to not only admit him but shift him to the ICU. “If his oxygen saturation level were not lower than normal, we would not have admitted the patient to the ICU. The patient needed special monitoring,” said Ipshita Kundu, CEO of Charnock Hospital. The insurance company felt that many patients were getting admitted to hospital out of panic. Prabir Mukherjee, regional head of medical officers, east, Star Health and Allied Insurance Co, said: “I am unable to comment on a particular case. If the patient is asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic, then, as per government guidelines, that person need not be admitted to hospital. Nowadays many people who have tested positive for Covid-19 are getting admitted out of panic.” In the letter denying the cashless facility, the insurance company had added that “the insured may however submit the documents to us seeking reimbursement of the expenses incurred relating to the treatment of the above disease”. But the reimbursement offer defeats the objective of the cashless facility, which is to avoid the hassle of coughing up a substantial sum during a medical emergency. Singh, the cured patient, said that almost a month after his discharge from the hospital, he had still not been informed by the insurance company whether his claim for reimbursement would be accepted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-686
06-09-2020||India||Private hospitals overcharging Covid patients, alleges General Insurance Council||The coronavirus pandemic has prompted India’s health insurance industry to flag, for the first time in a court, concerns about arbitrary overcharging of patients by private hospitals and to caution that such practices could increase annual premiums. The General Insurance Council, a body of public and private insurance companies, has sought the Centre’s intervention to regulate treatment costs for Covid-19 patients at private and corporate hospitals across India. The council, in an application to the Supreme Court, has said health insurance companies had by mid-August received more than 100,000 claims for Covid-19 treatment and noted that patients with insurance cover are charged considerably higher than uninsured patients. Private hospitals are “charging exorbitant amounts of money from insured patients”, the council said. It cited instances from different cities where hospitals had initially sought payments two to five times the amounts they accepted after objections by insurance companies. One private hospital had billed a patient Rs 282,782 for a 10-day stay of which Rs 200,000 was charged under the head “PPE (personal protection equipment) kit ward”. The insurance company objected and asked the patient to ask for a revised bill as an uninsured patient and then seek reimbursement. The hospital reduced the bill to Rs 49,973 after “considerable haggling”, the council said in its submission. Another private hospital had submitted a bill of Rs 14 lakh but reduced it to Rs 449,849 after objections from the insurance company. In another instance, a hospital revised a bill for Rs 211,812 to Rs 112,782 after “serious objections” from the insurance company. In many instances, though, when the insurance company refuses to cover the entire hospital bill and pays only a part of it, the patient has to pay the balance out of their own pocket. Overcharging of insured patients is making it increasingly difficult for insurance companies to settle claims, the council said in its application. It pleaded to be allowed to join a petition filed earlier this year by an independent lawyer seeking government regulation of private hospital charges. Insurance industry executives say that health insurance companies have always taken up specific cases with hospitals whenever there has been suspicion of overcharging. However, the pandemic and the arbitrarily higher charges on insured patients have amplified these concerns. Amid India’s rising Covid-19 counts, insurance analysts expect the number of claims to continue to rise. India on Saturday recorded 86,432 new Covid-19 cases, raising the total number to over 4.02 million of whom 3.1 million have recovered, over 846,000 are under medical supervision and 69,561 have died. The vast majority of patients have no symptoms or only mild symptoms and do not require hospital care. The Union health ministry said on Friday that less than 7 per cent of the active patients need oxygen, intensive care or ventilator support. “It’s interesting that the insurance industry itself has highlighted this longstanding and unresolved issue,” said Anant Bhan, a bioethics researcher and adjunct professor at the Centre for Ethics at the Yenepoya Medical College, Mangalore. “Covid-19 has likely accentuated these concerns. Covid-19 is a new infection and given the uncertainties over what works and what does not and how exactly to treat the illness, it is possible that some healthcare providers might find ways to inflate bills.” Several states have fixed standard rates for Covid-19 treatment at private hospitals, but there are “variations and inconsistencies” across the states, the council has said. Some states such as Karnataka and Telangana have specified that the fixed rates do not apply to insured patients. Such discrimination is “unreasonable” and could be abused by some private hospitals, the council said. The insurance policy should not become “a tool for profiteering” by private hospitals, which would only increase the claims outgo and result in higher premiums, it said. Another intervention application filed in the Supreme Court by a New Delhi-based lawyer, Manisha Karia, underlines that the price caps imposed by some states do not adequately safeguard patients from overcharging on medicines or diagnostic tests. Healthcare industry representatives have long asserted that private hospitals cannot be expected to operate under losses. A senior executive with the Association of Healthcare Providers of India, a body representing private hospitals, had earlier this year said the price caps imposed by the states need to take into account the operating costs of private hospitals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-686
06-09-2020||India||Drug companies against political rush to release vaccine||A group of drug companies competing with one another to be among the first to develop coronavirus vaccines are planning to pledge early next week that they will not release any vaccines that do not follow rigorous efficacy and safety standards, according to representatives of three of the companies. The statement, which has not yet been finalised, is meant to reassure the public that the companies will not seek a premature approval of vaccines under political pressure from the Trump administration. President Donald Trump has pushed for a vaccine to be available by October — just before the presidential election. (In India, the Indian Council of Medical Research, the country’s apex health research agency, had suggested in July that clinical trials on home-grown candidate vaccines should be fast-tracked for a possible launch by August 15. The council clarified within a day that the directive was merely intended to cut red tape and not to bypass necessary scientific processes, adds our Delhi bureau.) The manufacturers that are said to have signed the letter include Pfizer, Moderna, Johnson & Johnson, GlaxoSmithKline and Sanofi. Regulators at the US Food and Drug Administration have been discussing making their own joint public statement about the need to rely on proven science, a move that would breach their usual reticence as civil servants. Three companies — Moderna, Pfizer and AstraZeneca — are testing their candidates in late-stage clinical trials. Pfizer’s chief executive said this week that the company could see results as early as October, but the others have said only that they plan to release a vaccine by the end of the year. If the competing companies are among the first to bring a successful vaccine to market, they could earn major profits and help rehabilitate the image of an industry battered by rising drug prices. But if a vaccine turns out to have dangerous side-effects for some people, the fallout could be catastrophic. It could also broadly undermine trust in vaccines, one of the great public health advances in human history.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-686
06-09-2020||India||China finger at India over border unrest in Ladakh||The no-intrusion declaration by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on June 19 appears to have remained as the elephant in the room where India and China met for talks on Friday. “The cause and truth of the current tension on the border are very clear, with the responsibility lying entirely with India,” the Chinese state-run Xinhua agency quoted defence minister General Wei Fenghe as telling his Indian counterpart Rajnath Singh on Friday in Moscow during the first face-to-face bilateral contact at the political level since the bloodshed in the Galwan Valley on June 15. Less than 24 hours after the talks, India and China blamed each other for the border standoff and escalating tensions, appearing to indicate their defence ministers had failed to achieve a breakthrough. Either side confirmed that the other had expressed a desire to resolve the issues peacefully. Without mentioning the Indian Prime Minister, China is still echoing what Modi told an all-party meeting on June 19, four days after the border clash in which 20 Indian soldiers and an unspecified number of Chinese troops were killed. At the all-party meeting, the Prime Minister had asserted that no one had entered Indian territory or captured any Indian post. The government later claimed he was referring to the post-June 15 situation, which would suggest that Indian soldiers had thrown out any possible intruders. Since then, satellite imagery and unofficial accounts of ground-level assessments have suggested the Chinese had ensconced themselves and built structures inside India-claimed lines at multiple locations in Ladakh. The foreign ministry as well as the Indian Army have publicly acknowledged that the situation is grave along the Ladakh frontier. Foreign minister S. Jaishankar has said this is the most serious border situation with China since 1962. It is against this backdrop that Rajnath and Wei had met for over two hours on Friday on the sidelines of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation defence ministers’ meeting. Shortly afterwards, Xinhua put out the statement that laid the entire blame at India’s door. “China cannot lose one inch of its territory,” Xinhua quoted Wei as telling Rajnath. “The Chinese military is fully determined, capable, and confident of safeguarding national sovereignty and territorial integrity.” Wei was quoted as saying: “The two sides should earnestly implement the important consensus reached by President Xi Jinping and Prime Minister Modi and stay committed to resolving the issue through dialogue and consultation.” The statement by Xinhua, quoted in Chinese media, appears to have been primarily aimed at the domestic audience there although the authoritarian regime does not usually bother too much about public opinion. Later, a statement issued by China’s state-controlled broadcaster CGTN and put up on the Chinese defence ministry website asked India “not (to) make provocations or deliberately hype and spread negative information”. India’s defence ministry said China’s actions, including its “amassing of large number of troops... aggressive behaviour and attempts to unilaterally alter the status quo”, violated bilateral agreements. It stressed New Delhi’s determination to protect its sovereignty and territorial integrity and asked Beijing to respect the Line of Actual Control. A veteran said Wei’s comments, as reported by the Chinese media, implied that China was not in a hurry to pull back from the friction points — the Pangong Lake, Hot Springs and the Depsang Plains — where it had altered the status quo since May. “India has been demanding full restoration of status quo ante. The Chinese comments suggest they are sticking to their line and that the talks have failed to resolve the impasse,” the veteran said. The broadcaster CGTN’s statement on the Chinese defence ministry site said: “Wei said both India and China should abide by the consensus reached by their leaders and solve problems via dialogue and consultation.” The statement added: “India should strengthen management and control of its frontline troops and not make provocations or deliberately hype and spread negative information. Wei also reaffirmed to Singh China’s commitment and ability to safeguard national sovereignty and territorial integrity in the meeting.” It added: “Singh stressed the importance of a peaceful border relation with China, saying both sides should keep the channels of military and diplomatic dialogue open. He told his Chinese counterpart that India agrees to work toward full disengagement of frontline forces as soon as possible and push the relations between the two countries and armies back on track.” An Indian statement said Singh had met Wei at the Chinese general’s request and had “frank and in-depth discussions” about the border standoff as well as bilateral relations. Singh had “categorically conveyed” India’s position on the developments at the border friction points, including the Galwan Valley. Rajnath had “emphasised that the actions of the Chinese troops, including amassing of large number of troops, their aggressive behaviour and attempts to unilaterally alter the status quo were in violation of the bilateral agreements and not in keeping with the understandings reached between the Special Representatives of two sides”, the statement said. The Indian minister had “stated clearly that while the Indian troops had always taken a very responsible approach towards border management, but at the same time there should also be no doubt about our determination to protect India’s sovereignty and territorial integrity”. “The Chinese defence minister conveyed that (the) Chinese side too desired to resolve the issues peacefully,” the Indian statement said. It said Rajnath had advised Wei that it was important that the Chinese work with the Indian side for complete disengagement at the earliest from all friction areas, including the Pangong Lake, as well as de-escalation in border areas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-686
06-09-2020||India||DU teachers’ association observes ‘Black Teachers’ Day’ to protest delay in grants||Shalu Mahajan, an assistant professor of Acharya Narendra Dev College, began Teachers’ Day with a protest at the institution and later joined a dharna at Delhi University before being detained by police. “Today we have no basic human rights. Our right to survival has been denied. When we have not got salary for the past four months, what respect do we have in society?” she said. The Delhi University Teachers’ Association (DUTA) on Saturday observed “Black Teachers’ Day” to protest the delay in grants to 12 DU colleges fully funded by the state government, which has held up the payment of salaries to over 1,000 teachers and more than 500 non-teaching staff since April-May. Their plight has been aggravated by the pandemic and its crippling economic fallout. The AAP dispensation and the university are locked in a tussle over the formation of governing bodies at 28 colleges, including the 12 institutions. All important decisions are ratified by the governing bodies, in the absence of which the college principals are running the show. The state government has also begun an audit of the accounts of these colleges following allegations of financial irregularities, intensifying the standoff. “I pay EMI on a home loan and also have to pay school fees every month. We are managing with huge difficulty. We are being penalised for no fault of ours,” said Mahajan, whose husband teaches at the same college. On Saturday, the teachers held a protest at the DU arts faculty. Over 100 teachers were detained and taken to Maurice Nagar police station. The police said the teachers did not have permission to protest. They were later released. The DUTA has threatened a boycott of classes if the salaries are not released soon.“Whatever may be the issue of the university or the managements of the colleges, the teachers’ salaries should not be stopped. The teachers are feeling discouraged to carry out their work. If the stalemate continues, the teachers will be forced to boycott classes,” said DUTA president Rajib Ray. The protests came amid suggestions from the Union education ministry and the University Grants Commission to celebrate Teachers’ Day by organising programmes to honour current and retired teachers. The UGC had written to all universities to celebrate Teachers’ Day online and make social media comments with the hashtag “Our Teachers Our Heroes”. DU executive council member Rajesh Jha said it was ironic that the central and state governments were conducting programmes on Teachers’ Day but were not allowing teachers to protest against non-payment of salary. Retired DU teachers, who have not been receiving the revised pension although it was cleared two years ago, joined Saturday’s protest. “The government has notified (the increased pension). But the university is not processing our cases. Many retired teachers will die without getting what they deserve,” a retired teacher said. Also, more than 500 teachers have not been able to migrate from Contributory Provident Fund (CPF) to General Provident Fund (GPF) despite Delhi High Court ruling in their favour in 2016. GPF is free from market considerations, hence the amount received by an employee is more. These teachers had not been able to migrate when the facility was made available intermittently from 1987. DU has challenged the high court’s decision before a bigger bench. An email and a text message to DU vice-chancellor Yogesh Tyagi for comment on the non-payment of salaries did not elicit a response. An email to Delhi education secretary H. Rajesh Prasad asking about the delay in releasing government grants also went unanswered. Delhi education minister Manish Sisodia did not respond to a text message.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-686
06-09-2020||India||Donald Trump flaunts Narendra Modi rallies as support ||US President Donald Trump on Friday appeared hopeful that Indian-Americans would vote for him during his second run for the White House, referring to the two rallies hosted for him by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, first in Houston and then in Ahmedabad. Asked if he thought Indian-Americans are voting for him, Trump said at a press conference in the White House: “I do’’. Immediately he went on to say: “We had an event in Houston... It was a fantastic event. I was invited by Prime Minister Modi... It was incredible. It was actually incredible. The Prime Minister could not have been more generous. “We have great support from India. We have great support from Prime Minister Modi and I would think that Indian people would be voting for Trump. I also went to India just prior to the pandemic setting in because India has been hit very hard, left reeling. About a week before that. We had an incredible time...’’ The question was in relation to the Trump campaign using clips from both rallies for an official campaign video released a fortnight ago. Prior to this, after the HowdyModi event, members of the Trump campaign had billed the rally as an endorsement for the President. But India had ignored this and rolled out the red carpet for Trump — with a Make America Great Again style rally — in Ahmedabad with an over 1 lakh gathering that is bigger than the biggest gathering he will address in the US. The external affairs ministry has maintained a studied silence on the Trump campaign using the two rallies as an endorsement for the President’s re-run.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-686
06-09-2020||India||Chinese soldiers accused of kidnapping five Arunachal Pradesh villagers||The Arunachal Pradesh government has begun an investigation into the allegation that Chinese soldiers have “kidnapped” five villagers who might have gone near the disputed border on a hunting expedition. The state government has dispatched a police team to the remote area in Upper Subansiri district after media reports on Saturday about the alleged kidnapping on the Sera 7 border route, which is patrolled by both Indian and Chinese troops. The Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China is a 10 to 12 days’ trek from the Nacho subdivision under which the village, which the administration is trying to identify, is located. Army sources, however, said people sometimes lose their way on the mountainous and forest terrain while on hunting trips. The media reports have claimed that the villagers could have bumped into Chinese People’s Liberation Army soldiers. China claims Arunachal Pradesh to be a part of South Tibet. The alleged kidnappings have come at a time when tension is rife along the India-China border in eastern Ladakh. However, army sources said the “situation is normal” along the LAC in Arunachal Pradesh. Arunachal Pradesh home minister Bamang Felix, director-general of police R. Upadhaya and Upper Subansiri deputy commissioner Kanto Danggen told The Telegraph that the government had launched a probe. They said nobody had filed a missing persons diary. State BJP president Tapir Gao and senior Congress MLA Ninong Ering have tweeted about the “reported kidnappings”, urging the Centre to take a tough stand against such activities by the PLA in the frontier state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-686
06-09-2020||India||BHU student missing for six months after being picked up by cops||A Banaras Hindu University student has been missing for over six months since Varanasi police picked him up from the campus gates, his father has told Allahabad High Court. Pradeep Trivedi, a farmer from Madhya Pradesh, told reporters in Varanasi on Saturday that the high court had slammed the police for making misleading comments and threatened a CBI probe if they failed to produce his son, but not set a deadline. Second-year BSc student Shiv Kumar, 24, was picked up by a team from Lanka police station from the BHU gates on February 12 night, Pradeep said. He never returned to his hostel, BHU has confirmed in writing to the police. “After my son failed to answer calls for two days, I arrived in Varanasi on February 16. But the Lanka police rebuffed me – they filed a missing-person complaint only after BHU authorities intervened the next day,” Pradeep said. Pradeep has since then been shuttling between the Prime Minister’s constituency and his home 360km away at Brajpur village in Panna district, fighting an uncooperative police to find out what happened to his son. He has pledged to move barefoot and eat only once a day until he finds Shiv. He has sold a part of his farmland to pay for his long periods of stay in Varanasi, from where he has been travelling to Allahabad for the court hearings. “The police told me they had detained my son on February 12 night and let him off the next morning as he was unwell. Since then, they have been changing their statements every day – even in court,” Pradeep said. While the police have after a couple of flip-flops accepted in high court that they had detained Shiv in February, they have failed to explain why or say what happened to him. “The high court, which began hearing the case on August 25, said there was something fishy in the police report and that the case could be transferred to the CBI if my son was not produced soon,” Pradeep said. Saurabh Tiwari, a Varanasi-based advocate who has been fighting the case free of charge, said some BHU research scholars had brought Pradeep to him on August 17. “On August 25, the bench of Chief Justice Govind Mathur and Justice Saumitra Dayal Singh suggested a possible CBI probe and asked the Varanasi senior superintendent of police (SSP) whether the force was trying to turn Uttar Pradesh into a police state,” Tiwari told The Telegraph over the phone. “Initially, the police admitted picking up Shiv but claimed he was released the next day. They also admitted Lanka police had committed an offence by failing to register Shiv’s detention in the form of a general diary. At the next hearing, they said they had actually detained a 45-year-old man called Shiv and not the 24-year-old Shiv.” Grilled by Tiwari, the police later agreed that the 45-year-old was not Shiv but a mentally unsound man whom they had admitted to a mental hospital, the lawyer said. The police again accepted that they had detained the student Shiv. “Varanasi SSP Amit Pathak submitted a sealed envelope to the court on September 3 stating the police had ordered an inquiry and that one or two cops involved in detaining the BHU student had been shifted to the police lines (taken off duty) as punishment. The court observed there was nothing relevant about the case in the SSP’s affidavit,” Tiwari said. On September 3, the matter was heard by the bench of Justices Shashikant Gupta and Shamim Ahmad, to whom the case had been transferred. The next hearing is on September 22.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-687
06-09-2020||India||Centre robbing youth to help friends, says Congress||Rahul Gandhi on Saturday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi was using the pandemic as an excuse to push for privatisation to rid central government offices of permanent staff and help “friends”. The Congress leader tweeted in Hindi with a smattering of English: “Modi government’s thinking: Minimum Govt, Maximum Privatisation. Covid is just an excuse. The intention is to free government offices of permanent staff, steal the future of youths and help ‘friends (mitron)’ progress.” The Congress MP was responding to the finance ministry’s circular on Friday night elaborating on measures to curtail expenditure in the wake of the unprecedented economic slide post-lockdown. Rahul, who has been relentless in keeping up pressure on the Prime Minister by accusing him of working for crony capitalists, also shared a news report on the decision. The Congress has formally demanded the withdrawal of the circular, which freezes the creation of new posts and even filling of vacancies. The circular addressed to all ministries and departments says: “There will be a ban on the creation of new posts, except with the approval of the Department of Expenditure, in Ministries/Departments, Attached Offices, Subordinate Offices, Statutory Bodies and Autonomous Bodies. This ban will cover all creation of posts under powers which have been delegated to any organisation regardless of the source of such authority or power. “If any posts have been created after 01.07.2020 under delegated powers or authority, without approval of the Department of Expenditure and have not yet been filled, then such posts shall not be filled.” The Congress expressed shock at the circular. Party spokesperson Rajeev Shukla said at a news conference that the government was stopping recruitment instead of creating more jobs. On Friday, the Opposition party had accused the government of collecting crores in recruitment exam fees although it has either not held any test or not given out appointment letters in years. Rahul has now offered another perspective to the finance ministry’s decision by linking it to a purported plan to maximise privatisation. There has been a storm of protests against the plans for privatisation, particularly in the railways and the Life Insurance Corporation (LIC). The management of many key airports and railway platforms are also being handed over to private entities. While the Congress has expressed anger at the proposal to sell profit-making public sector units such as Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd, LIC, Air India, Shipping Corporation of India and the Container Corporation of India, party chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala on Saturday tweeted: “A new list of what Modi wants to sell is ready: national highways, main lines of Power Grid, pipe network of Gas Authority of India and Indian Oil Corporation, Delhi Metro, Calcutta Metro, Freight Corridor, BSNL-MTNL towers, tourism, railways… All the assets built over the last 70 years will be sold.” The disinvestment targets have not been met in the past few years but the massive dip in GDP growth may compel the government to push this agenda with greater force. While the mismanagement of the pandemic, massive dislocation of migrant workers, rising employment and the Chinese intrusions have indisputably generated much unease across the country, even the states are unhappy with the Centre over its inability to offer financial assistance.  The Prime Minister’s resilience could be tested in the days to come as he intends to push for privatisation. The hail of “dislikes” and hostile comments to the Prime Minister’s videos over the past few days is a measure of the simmering anger across the country. Many had alleged that the “like-dislike” buttons on certain BJP and government-linked social media platforms had been disabled for some time, with people viewing this as an indication that the party was on the back foot for the first time in six years. Former Union minister Jairam Ramesh told The Telegraph: “Modi’s arrogance is a mask to cloak deep insecurities.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-687
06-09-2020||India||Sangh seeks ban on book Modi released ||Social media forwards of excerpts from a central government-published book eulogising a rebel against British rule who the Right wing describes as “anti-Hindu” has caused embarrassment to the Sangh parivar, more so because the compilation had been released by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Dictionary of Martyrs of India’s Freedom Struggle (1857-1947), jointly published by the ministry of culture and the Indian Council of Historical Research, portrays Variyamkunnath Kunjahamed Haji, the most prominent leader of the 1921 Mappila Rebellion or Malabar Rebellion in north Kerala against the British colonial forces, in a positive light. The book, chronicling the freedom movement from the Sepoy Mutiny to Independence, was released in 2019 by Modi, who had then spoken about the need to “honour” and “remember” those who had shaped the nation’s history. The Malabar Rebellion essentially began as an uprising against the British and the feudal system, but the history of this important event in India’s freedom struggle is complex as many oppressive Hindu landlords, who had been aided by the colonial forces, were killed by the peasantry. Variyamkunnath Haji is generally celebrated as a patriot who fought the British till he was shot and killed. However, it is also believed that he had killed Hindu landlords who committed untold miseries on the so-called lower caste peasantry of Malabar, or north Kerala. The controversy surrounding the Malabar Rebellion got a new lease of life this June when two film projects were announced on Variyamkunnath Haji, one hailing him and the other seeking to portray him in a negative light. Over the past few days, excerpts from Dictionary of Martyrs of India’s Freedom Struggle that have glorious references to Variyamkunnath Haji have been doing the rounds on social media along with news reports from 2019 on the Prime Minister releasing the five-volume compilation. Caught off guard, Hindutva groups have written to the Centre demanding a ban on the sale of the book. However, what has ironically stopped these outfits from going the whole hog is the fact that Modi had himself released the book. The outfits are now trying to make the point that the book had been commissioned during the UPA era. “We were aghast at the contents but then realised it was a UPA project,” Hindu Aikyavedi president K.P. Sasikala told The Telegraph. The Sangh parivar views the Malabar Rebellion as an anti-Hindu pogrom. “We have asked the government to stop the sale of the book as it contains positive references (to Variyamkunnath Haji), because it was the UPA government that started the project with an aim of including Hindu haters like him,” she said. “This book has not weakened our argument since the people understand what we have been saying on this issue,” she said. A page from the book circulating on social media states gives a brief description of Variyamkunnath Haji, who was born at Ernad in south Malabar to Moideen Haji and Aminakutty Hajjumma. The book describes him as a “close associate and relative of Ali Musaliar”, another Malabar Rebellion hero. It states that Variyamkunnath Haji and his father had been exiled for a short period to Mecca for anti-government activities. “Thereafter, they came back and continued with their anti-British demeanour. He became a significant leader in Manjeri and Nilambur and led the attack on the British army at Kallamala, as well as on the Gudalur Police Training Camp,” the excerpts from the book say. Variyamkunnath Haji was captured in January 1922 and shot dead days later on January 20 after a summary trial. Modi’s official website, narendramodi.in, mentions in a report on the release of the book in New Delhi: “The Prime Minister asserted that a nation that does not honour and remember those who created, or are an important part of its history, often does not have a secure future. In that sense, he added that this effort, is not just a way to cherish the past, but is also a way to secure the future. He said that youth should especially be made aware of this effort.” “The Prime Minister said that the effort of the Union Government is to nurture and recall the brave deeds of the heroes of our freedom struggle. He said this has a positive influence on the future generations, and inspires them to think of ‘India First’,” the website added. Kerala lawmaker K.V. Abdul Khader of the CPM said on Saturday that the demand to withdraw the book needed to be seen in the light of the government’s decision to remove chapters on secularism from school textbooks. “This is the exact agenda of the BJP. They want all references to secularism and pluralism to be removed,” Khader said. Former MP and veteran Congress leader C. Haridas, who is a native of Ponnani in the heart of Malappuram where the rebellion played out, rubbished the Hindu Right wing “propaganda” against the historical event. “I live in Ponnani, which I often term as ‘Little Mecca’ in my speeches. It’s saddening that the Sangh parivar is portraying such a rebellion against the British as a massacre of Hindus,” he told this newspaper. “Today’s generation goes by WhatsApp forwards to judge everything, including history. My advice to all those who spread lies against Variyamkunnath Haji is to read history books,” he added. Filmmaker Ali Akbar, a BJP fellow traveller, had earlier this year launched a rival project to “expose” Variyamkunnath Haji and the “real intent” of the Mappila Rebellion. Before him, noted filmmaker Ashiq Abu announced a film on Variyamkunnath Haji, starring superstar Prithviraj in the title role, reigniting the debate on the controversial figure and the movement he played a key role in. Speaking to this newspaper, Ali suggested that it was not a rebellion because the participants had largely gone unchallenged while executing their agenda before the British army arrived. “This ICHR book has not weakened my argument. Mine is a film of antagonists,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-687
06-09-2020||India||Nitish Kumar offers job to the kin of SC/ST murder victims||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar announced on Friday that if any person belonging to the Scheduled Castes or Scheduled Tribes was murdered, then a member of the deceased’s family would be provided a job. The announcement, which came at a review meeting of the state level vigilance and monitoring committee constituted under the SC and ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, is being widely considered as a masterstroke to woo the Dalits (SCs), who comprise around 16 to 17 per cent of the electorate, in the run-up to the Assembly elections. Nitish, who is also the national president of Janata Dal United (JDU), asked the officials to immediately formulate the appointment rules in this regard. He also directed them to dispose of all pending cases under the Act by September 20 by expediting investigation. Nitish’s populist move rang sharply across the horizon of the poll-bound state and came as a jolt to the Opposition, which hurried to give their reactions and announce steps to counter its ramifications on the elections. In fact, it attracted a sharp response from Bahujan Samaj Party leader and former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Mayawati. Her party has contested a large number of seats in every Assembly poll in Bihar over the last two decades, and is expected to do so again this time. “The present government in Bihar is once again trying to lure the people belonging to the SC and ST categories by giving various assurances ahead of the Assembly elections despite ignoring or neglecting them throughout its entire reign. The time has come to bring them to book,” Mayawati tweeted on Saturday. Mayawati also exhorted the people belonging to SC and ST communities not to be swayed by the false promises made by the Nitish government. As the day progressed, Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader and Lalu Prasad’s younger son Tejashwi Prasad convened a press conference at the state party headquarters to take on Nitish over his announcement. “Since the election is near, Nitish has announced jobs for the family members of those Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes people who are killed. But why jobs are not being given to the family members of people belonging to other backward castes (OBC) and general category? Nitish’s move is like encouraging the murder of SC and ST people,” Tejashwi said. Tejashwi, who is the leader of the Opposition in the legislative Assembly, hurried to announce that he would fill 4.5 lakh vacancies in various government departments if his party comes to power. He also promised to create vacancies according to the population of the state. The Congress also attacked Nitish over his latest announcement. The party’s Bihar in-charge Shaktisinh Gohil termed it a false promise at a time when the present government is poised to lose power. “Everybody knows that polls will be announced in Bihar in a few days and no work will happen, but Nitish is showing his love for the Dalits. He stayed in power for 15 years but did not do anything, but is now trying to win the elections using this issue,” Gohil said. Poll experts said that Nitish’s latest pro-Dalit move is also intended to counter ally Lok Janshakti Party (LJP), which takes pride in showcasing itself as a party of the SCs, and is currently flexing its muscles under the leadership of Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan’s son and Lok Sabha member Chirag Paswan. The LJP has even threatened to field contestants against JDU candidates if the situation arises. Nitish could proudly flaunt his latest move if this happens. Nitish has already brought former Dalit chief minister and Hindustani Awam Morcha Secular leader Jitan Ram Manjhi under the NDA fold to counter Chirag’s barbs on him.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-687
06-09-2020||India||Eight Odisha migrants killed in a bus accident in Chhattisgarh||Eight migrant labourers from Odisha’s Ganjam district were killed when the bus carrying them to Surat in Gujarat met with an accident near Raipur in Chhattisgarh on Saturday. The labourers, who had returned to Ganjam during the lockdown, were going back after failing to find work at home. They were earlier employed in the spinning mills of Surat. Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik announced an ex gratia of Rs 2 lakh for the next of kin of the deceased labourers. Officials said the bus which came from Surat to take back the migrant labourers had started its journey from Ganjam around noon on Friday with 64 labourers from different parts of Ganjam district. “The bus met with an accident while overtaking a truck at Cheri Khedi near Raipur,” said Gagan, a labourer who was travelling in the bus but was lucky to survive. The accident took place around 3.30am. Odisha labour minister Sushant Singh who rushed to the spot on the direction of the chief minister, told The Telegraph: “ It seems the driver of the bus hit the truck while trying to overtake it. The driver might have dozed off. The bus had two drivers and both of them fled after the accident. The exact cause of the accident would be known only after an inquiry. Such was the impact that the part of the bus on the opposite side of the driver’s cabin was completely damaged.” “As per the direction of the chief minister, the injured are being given free medical treatment. While eight died in the accident, two are undergoing treatment. Two buses have been arranged to take the remaining 54 passengers back to Odisha. These buses will leave for Odisha in the evening,” he said. Nearly 4 lakh labourers from Gujarat had returned to Odisha during the lockdown. After the lockdown was withdrawn, the migrant labourers who failed to land jobs started returning back to the states where they had earlier worked. Their employers in various parts of the country have been sending buses to ferry them back as factories have now reopened. Workers from Ganjam are considered to be the backbone of the spinning and textile mills in Surat. The bus which met with the accident was sent by the owners of one of the spinning mills, sources said. Family members of Biswanth Nath Gouda, one of the labourers who lost his life in the accident, are shattered. Gouda’s son said, “I had asked my father not to go back to Surat but he was adamant as we had no income. Since he was unable to go by train, he took the bus. Around 4am this morning, we received a phone call from one of his co-passengers Basant Bhai about the accident. Though he initially did not reveal about my father’s condition, around 9am, we were informed that he was no more.” Similar is the story of Sushant Swain, another labourer who died in the mishap. His 74-year-old mother was inconsolable. “Sushant promised to come back after 4 months. All his savings had been exhausted during the lockdown. He told us that the factory in Surat had started production again and those who go back to work will get good money. Since our economic condition is not good I agreed to his proposal but I had never thought that it was the last time I would be seeing him,” said mother Keshari Swain.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-687
06-09-2020||India||Odisha to set up bulk drug park||The Odisha government plans to set up a bulk drug park in the shape of a special purpose vehicle (SPV) with an investment of Rs 1,500 crore. The park is likely to generate employment opportunities for around 5,000 people. “The details of the park will be finalised within a fortnight. It will come up in Tata SEZ (Special Economic Zone) at Gopalpur. It received the government’s approval in principle,” a press release issued by the government said. According to the decision, a SPV will be formed involving IDCO (Odisha Industrial Infrastructure Development Corporation) as lead promoter and TSSZEL (Tata Steel Special Economic Zone limited) co-promoter to carry forward the project proposal. Principal secretary, Iindustries, Hemant Sharma said, “The park would have all the advanced infrastructure facilities including central effluent treatment plant (ETP), solid waste management, warehousing, dedicated power distribution system, steam generation and distribution system, common cooling system, advanced testing laboratories, center of excellence, technology business incubator, intellectual property right services and the like. The land parcel of around 1000 acer required for the park is available in this SEZ. The land is well connected with NH-16 which is considered as the spine for proposed Odisha Economic Corridor.” The project would be implemented through financial support both from the centre and state government. The spot is well connected with port and railway. It is less than two hours from Biju Pattnaik International Airport, Bhubaneswar.  “There is also an air strip at Gopalpur which can be utilized for required communication,” said the press release.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-687
06-09-2020||West Bengal||Date for talks ends worker fast||The workers of the Longview tea garden, on the outskirts of Siliguri, on a relay hunger strike at the tea garden for two weeks to demand full payment of last year’s Durga Puja bonus, withdrew their fast on Friday evening. Representatives of the workers’ union said that a source in the state labour department assured them of a tripartite meeting among the management, union and administration on September 9 in Siliguri to discuss their demand. “We had a meeting with officials of the labour department at Siliguri on Friday. During the meeting, we asked the department to intervene and resolve the workers’ problem in the tea garden (Longview). The workers failed to get last year’s complete Puja bonus so far. During the meeting we got an assurance from the department that next week a tripartite meeting would be held. After that we withdrew the movement,” Harihar Acharya, the vice-president of the Darjeeling Terai Dooars Plantation Labour Union (DTDPLU), said on Saturday. As this year’s Durga Puja is approaching and a meeting to fix the bonus is expected next month, workers had organised the relay hunger strike to get last year’s dues. They stopped working since August 10 over pending dues. The management on August 21 announced suspension of work.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-385
06-09-2020||West Bengal||‘Custody death’ case on five cops||Itahar police have started inquiry against five police personnel of Raiganj police station over the alleged custodial death of a BJP worker, after his mother filed a complaint at the police station against the cops on Thursday. Anup Roy, 23, who had joined the party six months ago, died on Wednesday, a few hours after his arrest in an earlier case of snatching. Biswajit Lahiri, president of BJP North Dinajpur district committee, alleged: “He was beaten to death in custody.” On Thursday, Anup’s mother Geeta Roy lodged a complaint at Itahar police against five policemen of Raiganj, Nihar Ranjan Das, Md Murtaza, Prabir Ghosh, Sandip Chakraborty and Uttam Modak. Geeta also appealed to the Raiganj district court for a fresh post-mortem of her son’s body in the presence of the magistrate with videorecording. On the basis of her appeal, the court ordered a repeat of the post-mortem, which was conducted on Saturday. Anup’s body was handed to Geeta after the second post-mortem. Lahiri added: “Police arrested our party worker Anup Roy from his residence at Itahar on September 2 (Wednesday) for his involvement in a snatching case. On the evening when he died, police said his death was because of brain haemorrhage. They did the post-mortem without informing the deceased’s family.” Jaspreet Singh, additional superintendent of police of Raiganj, said that based on Geeta’s complaint, a case had been started against five policemen under Sections 363 (kidnapping), 302 (murder) and 34 (acts done by many persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code. He said that the police arrested three men in the snatching case, and during their interrogation, came to know that Anup Roy, a resident Nandangram of Itahar, was the “mastermind”. “Police arrested him from his home on September 2. Later he started feeling unwell in custody and was admitted to Raiganj Government Medical College & Hospital and died in the hospital because of brain haemorrhage.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-385
06-09-2020||West Bengal||Two Trinamul warring leaders arrested||Police on Saturday arrested nine persons, including two local leaders of Trinamul’s warring factions, for their involvement in the attack on a ruling-party-run gram panchayat office in Birbhum’s Khoirasole on Friday. Sources in Birbhum police said six persons were arrested for their direct involvement in the clashes and the two local Trinamul level leaders — Abdur Rahaman and Ujjwal Haque Kaderi — were arrested in two other cases. “This is the first time that leaders of two Trinamul factions were arrested within 24 hours of a clash in the district,” said a source. “The clash exposed the internal rivalry and the ruling party wanted to send out a strong message to the rival camps and that's why these arrests were made,” the source added. Two groups of people belonging to two rival factions of the Trinamul Congress clashed over the control of the Babuijore gram panchayat in Birbhum on Friday afternoon. At least hundred crude bombs were hurled at the two-storey panchayat building during the clash. Sources said the factions were allegedly led by Rahaman and Kaderi, presidents of the party in neighbouring Babuijore and Borrha gram panchayats, who have been at loggerheads over the last couple of years over the control of the area. Police sources said that Kaderi was arrested from Suri under the Narcotic Drug and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act as drugs were recovered from him. Rahaman, along with his one of his aides, was arrested under the Arms Act as a firearm was recovered from the duo. “The two leaders were produced in Suri district court... Kaderi was sent in police custody for five days and Rahaman for four days,” said a source. The other six who were produced in Dubrajpur court were sent to eight days of police custody.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-385
06-09-2020||West Bengal||Ferry shut, commuters in choppy waters||The closure of the ferry link between East Midnapore’s Haldia and Diamond Harbour in South 24-Parganas across the Hooghly since the start of lockdown has forced commuters for over five months to spend more time and money to travel between the two destinations. The ferry service covers 20km in 40 minutes between Haldia’s Kukrahati jetty and Diamond Harbour. However, if a commuter decides to travel between Haldia and Diamond Harbour by road the person has to cover 160km. The cost by road is also far higher as the ferry service charges only Rs 15 for a one-way ticket. The ferry service that connects the two districts is run by the Diamond Harbour Municipality. Though the service was stopped after India went into lockdown mode in March in the wake of Covid-19, Cyclone Amphan dealt an additional blow to the service by damaging the jetty at Kukrahati. The chief executive of Haldia Development Authority, Panicker Harishanker, said: “The damaged jetty has been repaired. The ferry service between Kukrahati and Raichak started recently and we expected the link between Haldia and Diamond Harbour to resume soon.” Administrator of Diamond Harbour Municipality and SDO Sukanta Saha said: “We were waiting for Haldia authorities to repair the Kukrahati jetty...we expect to start ferry services soon.” Arindam Samanta, a Diamond Harbour resident who works in a factory in Haldia, said he used to take the ferry every day. “Though our factory reopened after lockdown, I cannot afford to hire a car every day to office, it is too expensive. The ferry service used to cost me Rs 15 for a one-way ride. The travel to office is so costly that I am staying on rent in Haldia.” When told about the plight of commuters like Samanta, Saha said: “If all goes well, the service will be back from September 8.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-386
06-09-2020||West Bengal||Bulk of ATM cash found, case with CID  ||Birbhum police have recovered around Rs 60 lakh of the Rs 86 lakh that an ATM cash van driver had fled with from Jagaddal in North 24-Parganas on August 26 evening, but certain inconsistencies in the probe have prompted the state police directorate to hand over the case to the CID. A source in Birbhum police said that some civic volunteers attached to Rampurhat police station had intercepted the van when it was making several rounds of the town. While carrying out a search of the van, they stumbled on the cash. Though the van was seized, prime accused Raj Halder and his friend Tanmay De managed to flee leaving the vehicle behind. The police later arrested the duo from an undisclosed hideout. Deputy commissioner (Zone-1) of Barrackpore police commissionerate Ajay Kumar Thakur confirming the arrest of the duo. “The major amount of the looted cash had been recovered from the van after the accused abandoned it in Rampurhat and fled. Later we also arrested the accused duo. We have got some leads from them during interrogation and are trying to recover the balance amount as well,” Thakur added. A source said that as several inconsistencies had cropped up over the seizure of the cash and the subsequent arrests, and it involved two police districts, the case had been handed over to the CID for investigation and recovery of the remaining amount. On August 26, the driver of the cash van had fled with it when one of the employees of the cash management firm was refilling an ATM kiosk of the Punjab National Bank at Atpur in Jagaddal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-386
06-09-2020||West Bengal||‘Deprived’ teachers fast on Teacher’s Day||Part-time and whole-time contractual teachers of Cooch Behar University BT & Evening College, which is affiliated under North Bengal University, organised a daylong hunger strike on Teacher’s Day, Saturday. These teachers were demanding to be approved as State Aided College Teachers (SACT). A part-time teacher, who did not want to be named, said: “We chose to raise our voice on the very special occasion (Teacher’s Day) to highlight how we are deprived.” “There are 21 of us working in the college here as part-time or contractual teacher for the past couple of years,” Biswajit Dey, general secretary of the college’s part-time and guest lecturer association, said. On why they were protesting, Dey explained: “Chief minister Mamata Banerjee in August 2019 declared that all teachers in government colleges and government-aided colleges, who are working as part-time or contractual teachers, will be approved as SACT. But despite working as contractual teachers, we are yet to get that approval. This prompted us to organise the hunger strike.” The teachers also said that on July 3 this year, they had demonstrated on the college campus for the same demand. “We withdrew the demonstration after the college authorities assured us of taking necessary steps (to regularise their services). But still our demand has not been fulfilled,” Dey said. The SACT meeting qualifications set by the UGC and with over 10 years of experience would get Rs 30,000 a month, and those with qualifications but with less than 10 years’ experience Rs 26,000, the CM had said in August. The teachers not fulfilling the UGC criteria but with more than 10 years experience would get Rs 20,000. Those with up to 10 years’ experience would get Rs 15,000.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-386
06-09-2020||West Bengal||Trinamul, Cong stand by erosion victims||Leaders of non-BJP parties made a beeline to stand by the 200 erosion victim families in Baishnabnagar, Malda, who lost their homes recently because of the apparent apathy of the Farakka Barrage Project (FBP) authorities, a central government outfit. The first to reach the area, around 40km from district headquarters, wasTrinamul’s district president and Rajya Sabha MP Mausam Noor, who distributed relief materials to victims, launched a vitriolic attack on the Centre and urged victims to join her in a movement to ensure proper anti-erosion initiatives along the Ganga by the Centre. As the FBP authorities are responsible for protection work in areas where the river is engulfing land on its left bank, Noor trained her guns at the Centre’s faulty planning. “Apparently some anti-erosion work is going on, but the preventive work is done where there is no human habitation. Such work fails to address the real crisis. Highly populated areas are still exposed to the risk of erosion. The central government cannot escape its responsibility,” she said. Noor, a new inductee in the Trinamul camp, also used the opportunity to inform erosion victims how Bengal’s ruling party was trying to arrange suitable rehabilitation for them before prodding them to join the anti-BJP movement. “If you support Mamata Banerjee, it will be easier to organise a movement against the BJP government in the Centre and bring an end to your perennial problem,” she said. Congress MP A.H. Khan Choudhury (Dalu) on Saturday led a delegation of MLAs to the office of Malda district administration seeking suitable rehabilitation of erpsion-hit families. The Congress demanded that the state and the central governments work together to address erosion in Kaliachak-III block that has virtually ruined hundreds of families. “I visited those areas and experienced their catastrophe. This is not the time to pass the buck to each other. I have written to the chief minister and Prime Minister urging them to work together to save the people,” said Choudhury.’ The state irrigation department and district administration have also taken up the matter with FBP authorities. Two persons were arrested with fake Indian currency notes (FICN) to the tune of Rs 3 lakh from Englishbazar here on Friday night. Alok Rajoria, the superintendent of police, Malda district, said: “Abu Bakkar, 19, and Dalu Mia, 18, were arrested following a tip-off and FICN amounting Rs 3 lakh — all in denomination of Rs 2,000 — were seized from their possession. The duo have been taken into custody for further grilling.” The police sources said the duo was trying to hand over the FICN to some other peddlers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-386
06-09-2020||West Bengal||Rajbanshi council in Assam impacts Bengal||The BJP-ruled Assam government’s decision to set up an autonomous council for its Rajbanshi community prised open many long-standing demands of the community in neighbouring Bengal. The Assam Assembly passed three Bills to create separate autonomous councils for the Rajbanshi community, along with Moran and Matak communities, in the state. Within 24 hours, ripples of the decision in Assam were felt in Bengal, as the Rajbanshis play a crucial role in north Bengal politics. Atul Roy, leader of the Kamtapur People’s Party (KPP) said: “We have congratulated our leaders in Assam. It is too early to say what the Bengal government will do about our demands. But our movement will continue till we are given our constitutional rights like the right of mother tongue.” Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has formed a Rajbanshi development and cultural board and a Rajbanshi Bhasha academy. These steps did help the Trinamul please a section in the community, but others wanted more. The disgruntled section played a major role in the BJP’s growth in north Bengal. Bangshibadan Barman, a prominent Rajbanshi leader, told The Telegraph that the state government should consider making an autonomous council in Bengal for the development of the community. Nikhil Roy, president of the other faction of KPP said that they would start their statehood movement afresh as the academy and boards set up by the state government failed to meet their expectations. “An autonomous council is much more powerful than any board or academy as the council gets fund allotment and it has the power to create jobs... It’s natural that the Rajbanshi community would now press for a council here,”said a political analyst. Minister-in-charge of north Bengal development Rabindranath Ghosh said the government was against the idea of division of the state before iterating that Nabanna was committed to the development of the community. “We formed Bhasha Academy, Development boards for Rajbanshi and Kamtapuri people. A university has been set up in Cooch Behar in the name of the scholar of Rajbanshi community Panchanan Barma,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-386
06-09-2020||West Bengal||NBMCH  to get cardiology department ||The North Bengal Medical College and Hospital (NBMCH) will soon get a dedicated cardiology department and a catheterization laboratory soon. Sources said the work of the new under construction super-specialty building had been pending for a long time and a new agency was recruited to speed up the construction of the super-specialty block. “Catheterization laboratory also known as cath-lab is a room with diagnostic imaging equipment and other heart-related facilities. In this lab, interventional cardiological-measures like angioplasty, angiography, installation of pacemaker and other heart related diseases will be treated. The cardiology department will come up at the seventh floor” said a source. “The NBMCH has three cardiologists now. As soon as the super-specialty building gets ready, more doctors and technicians will be recruited to run the completely modernised while more departments like neurology and nephrology will be added along with the cardiology department,” the source added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-386
06-09-2020||West Bengal||The Adivasi Does More Than Dance||Once when Satyacharan Sardar was travelling by local train, he heard a child ask his mother, “What does a tribal look like?” The mother replied, “Ashobhyoder moto”. Meaning, like the uncivilised. Satyacharan, an Adivasi and a government schoolteacher, is talking about the enduring typecasting of tribal people. He continues, “To date, during Durga Puja, it is the asur or demon who is shown to be killed. Do you know Asur is the name of one of the tribes? Durga’s asur also has a physical resemblance to the tribal man.” On the other end of the spectrum is the idea of tribals as emblematic of pastoral life, creatures of the wild who dance and sing and drink hadiya and make merry. Nawa bihan means notun shokal or new morning in Sadri, which is the most spoken language among the tribals of south Bengal. In 2001, Parimal Sardar, along with some others from the community — Sambhunath Sardar, Dilip Sardar, Rajkumar Sardar, Tapan Sardar, Satinath Mahato, Gour Chandra Sardar and Prafulla Sardar — decided to float an annual magazine named Nawa Bihan. Other than Prafulla, who was at the time employed with the Indian Railways, all the others are schoolteachers. “The purpose of the group was to spread awareness among our own community — about who we are, what our culture is, what our faith is. And this we decided to do by writing about our socio-cultural background,” says Parimal. Today, Nawa Bihan has assumed the shape of an organisation working to correct the perceptions about tribals. The group works primarily in the South 24-Parganas, which is home to the Munda, Bediya, Bhumij and Oraon tribes. Recently, they have also started reaching out to the people of north Bengal. Satyacharan is also a member of Nawa Bihan. There are 40 Scheduled Tribes in Bengal. According to the 2011 Census, West Bengal has a tribal population of 52,96,963, which is about 5.8 per cent of the population of the state. Says Parimal, “Education reached our community rather late, almost three decades after Independence. In the 1980s, the number of tribal students appearing for school-leaving examinations was not even one in a hundred.” Those in the community who received education, according to him, now felt embarrassed of their own community and preferred to keep their distance. The need to mingle with the mainstream drove them to do different things — have Brahmins officiate over birth rituals, weddings and deaths; participate in Durga Puja and Kali Puja; traditional mores began to wear, spoken tongues — Sadri, Mundari — fell to disuse. Two decades later, there seems to be a change of heart. Some of those who had gone to school and received higher education, such as the members of Nawa Bihan, decided to make amends. Points out Parimal, “By this time, more children from the community had started going to school. We decided to tell our own people how rich our culture was. It is not achal or redundant, it is not something they could not be proud of.” And what did Nawa Bihan achieve with the patrika they brought out? The magazine was meant to chronicle community narratives as well as community dialogues and perceptions from within the community and outside. “Since 2001, we have had articles in Bengali and Sadri alike. But now that we want Sadri to be accepted as one of the mainstream languages, we are encouraging people to write in Sadri mostly,” says Satyacharan. The 2019 edition was an all-Sadri edition. Some of the titles from it are: A Commission for Adivasis by Umapada Panigrahi, The Culture of the Adivasis of the Sunderbans by Satyacharan Sardar, The Untold History of Adivasis by Prafulla Sardar. The magazine is distributed free of cost in the Sunderbans, various places in the South 24-Parganas, Bankura, Purulia, and more recently Darjeeling by members of Nawa Bihan. They have also made a list of their own who are now recognised members of the mainstream. Copies are distributed at festivals and gatherings. “The reaction has been mixed. Some people want to be identified as Scheduled Tribes only to reap the benefits of reservation; this kind ignored our efforts to reach out. But the school-going, college-going lot welcomed it.” Next, they began reaching out to those on the ground and they started with teenagers. “We tried to attract them through sports,” says Parimal. He continues, “We would organise football tournaments, but the selection did not hinge on who played well. We would interview the candidates and ask them questions about their own culture, talk to them in Sadri and only those who knew the answers were picked. Those who did not know could go home, ask their parents about their roots, read the magazine, and again submit to a selection process.” The third thing that the group did was to co-opt community elders. This programme, called Baikal Ghari Kahati, which roughly translates to wisemen speak, was meant to be an exercise in recounting community wisdoms and practices. The tribals had come to believe that they are Hindus. Now, the elders spoke to their young about their animistic faith and corresponding rituals. How their forefathers would build thaans, or small mounds, of mud to represent the forces of nature and celebrate them in their own way. There was no idol worship as is common today. Says Parimal, “Our rituals are quite different. In a few days it will be Manasa Puja. Hindus too celebrate this festival but their rituals are different. In our culture, we take a duck and worship it, we feed it rice grains and then sacrifice it. The community consumes the cooked meat as prasad.” The Baikal Ghari Kahati sessions brought to light other treasures. How in the old days whenever there was a wedding, people would extend financial help to the family concerned. Satyacharan speaks of how people would bring their own food and have a community feast instead of having any one family host the entire community. He adds, “Similarly, if someone from a poor family died, it was customary to let the family fulfil all obligations to society by serving only one house in the neighbourhood.” From birth to marriage to death, the tribal community observes many a ritual. Says Satyacharan, “In the tribal set-up, there is no concept of Brahmins overseeing milestone social functions. And there is no particular class in the tribal society earmarked to act as priests.” Parimal explains, “Anybody who has learnt the rituals can become a pahan or purohit in our community. It is the knowledge that matters.” And so the struggle, or as Parimal puts it, “Our laadai continues.” He pauses and then adds, “Our laadai to overcome a mountain of shame.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-386
06-09-2020||West Bengal||Bengal’s active Covid cases dip  to 23,390 ||Bengal on Saturday pulled off yet another impressive Covid-19 testing performance, with 45,781 tests, which took the state past 21 lakh. In 24 hours till Saturday 9am, Bengal also logged 3,042 new infections, 3,248 recoveries and 58 deaths. Eighteen of the deaths were reported from Calcutta. With this, total cases now number over 1.77 lakh, of which recoveries are nearly 1.51 lakh. The total number of deaths, since the onset of the pandemic, is 3,510 now. For 13 consecutive days, Bengal has reported a fall in its total of active cases, with more recoveries than new cases found in the 24-hour window. The total number of active cases on August 23 was 28,069, and on Saturday, it stood at 23,390. Bengal’s recovery rate, therefore, is 84.86 per cent, much higher than the national rate of 77.3. “While keeping recoveries high, we want to lower new cases and deaths, prioritising that over the next few weeks,” said a minister. Having begun testing in early February, it took Bengal six months to get to 10 lakh tests, on August 5. Exactly a month later, the state has performed 21,12,185 tests in all. The tests per million is now 23,469, which was 11,145 even a month ago. Daily testing has nearly doubled in that period, from 24,047 to 45,781. “In just these five days of September, we conducted 2.25 lakh tests. By the end of the month, we will have achieved 15 lakh, at least. In August, we conducted 10.18 lakh tests,” said the minister. From early February, Bengal took over three-and-a-half months to conduct 1 lakh tests, on May 19. Over the next 109 days, it conducted over 20 lakh tests. With the surge in testing, and the relatively less new cases found over the past 13 days, the positive confirmation rate improved from 8.9 to 8.41 per cent. Of the total deaths, 3,033 or 86.4 per cent were reported comorbid by the state government. The overall mortality rate stayed at 1.97 per cent while the national rate is 1.72 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-386
06-09-2020||West Bengal||They, the people||Samtali Chaudhuri takes a few seconds to recall the name of her elder son. “Sambhu,” prompts someone, as Samtali looks this way and that absentmindedly. It is not easy to have a conversation with her, not because she is uncooperative, but because of her general air of resignation. Her standard response to any question seems to be: “How would I know?” We are in Malda’s Shukurullapur. Three hundred years ago, one Shukurulla Sheikh had arrived in this part of Bengal from Motihari in Bihar, purportedly in search of new fishing opportunities. More people from the Bind community followed Sheikh to Malda and there they remained and their successive generations too. Samtali speaks in Bengali, but her accent betrays the olden tether. Sambhu, her eldest son, was a migrant labourer. The mother cannot say for sure where exactly her son took up a job. “Perhaps Delhi. Or was it Haryana? Some place that side,” she says. It turns out Sambhu had tagged along with some relations. Those same relations later informed Samtali about his death. “They told me he was returning home from work. He had gone to the marketplace with a little boy and then they said he was no more,” Samtali continues. Was Sambhu’s body sent home? Samtali shakes her head. “No.” Did the family receive any compensation from the employers? “No,” she says, this time forcefully. “Who would have brought the body home from that distant land? Who would have paid? We didn’t even get to know if he fell off a building or someone did away with him. The thikadar (middleman) here said, ‘Your son is no more’.” Samtali and I are sitting in the open and talking, just behind us is a bamboo contraption, some teenage boys are sitting on it, hanging around it, chatting. I am told they are home from their different job stations in other states. Sambhu had gone away when he was that age. News of his death came five years ago. Soon after that Samtali’s younger son also left, in search of a living. *** In North Dinajpur’s Mandipara neighbourhood, they thrust before me a rain-drenched photocopy of a voter ID card. It belongs to a Gandu Soren. In 2005, he was 45 years old. Soren had left home in search of work. He has been missing for the past three-and-a-half years. His wife believes he is alive. She has been told so. Where did your husband go, I ask. She replies, “The thikadar from Pratappur told me, ‘Your husband has gone away in search of work’. Where to, he didn’t tell me.” Soren’s three children crowd around me. What I gather from their loud lamentations and constant questions is that their father went missing before he could reach wherever it was that he was headed for. There was no point pinning blame on the local thikadar as he was responsible for the daily wagers only up to Malda; thereafter, they had been handed over to another thikadar. Soren had disappeared into thin air and what was left with his family was a voter ID card wrapped carefully in plastic and a worn-out photocopy. *** Shaji Mohammed’s house is at the other end of Raiganj, barely three kilometres away from the Indo-Bangladesh border. The sons and daughters of this household start work as daily wagers in distant lands from early childhood. One son left years ago and never returned; the others have. The daughter was barely eight when she was sent away to Punjab where she works as a household help. Shaji Mohammed too had gone away to Mumbai; when he returned, he had a kidney missing. According to Shaji’s wife, her husband fell ill after someone fed him something. The thikadar had him admitted to the hospital. He was told he needed to get a blood test. Fast forward many weeks. Shaji was back home and keeping poor health. When he went to see the local doctor, he prescribed an ultrasonogram and that was how he came to know that he was missing a kidney. He was missing his full wages as well — had been paid only Rs 20,000 of the promised Rs 1,40,000 by the thikadar. That was 15 years ago. At the time of my visit, Shaji was not there to tell his story. He was away in Delhi, where he was employed at a construction site. After all, a kidney is not like a missing hand or leg; it does not come in the way of mixing cement and hauling bricks, neither is it needed to scale heights.   *** A 50-something Rabindranath Debsharma sips tea as he tells me his story. His refrain is, “They died, but I managed to survive.” Debsharma had left his home in South Dinajpur when he was 18 and travelled to Haryana to work as a stone crusher at “kresher” mill. A crusher is one where stone is crushed and mixed with cement to make concrete. A lot of men and boys from these parts worked in the mill those days. Debsharma and all of the others knew it was a risky job, crushing stones; led to a premature and painful death by haemorrhaging — a natural corollary of tuberculosis. The bodies of labourers were always disposed of. Others returned home to die. Like an incantation, Debsharma names his dead mates — Jayanta, Rupa, Shankar, Sukumar... Rajbangshis all. All of them died within three or four years of starting work at the mill. The men of house No. 2 of Satjeliya Island in the Sunderbans spent long years working in the Andamans and neighbouring islands. A lot of them were there when the tsunami struck in 2004. Nicobar, Diglipur, Kamota, all these places had been decimated by the tsunami. Homes, offices, courthouses, everything had been wiped out; everything would have to be rebuilt. Those days, thikadars would scour the Sunderbans for cheap labour.  According to Paritosh Sardar, there was also a need for labour to clear the piles of dead bodies. The labourers bargained with the thikadars to let them return home at the end of two months, but way before that they started to die like flies, of infection brought on by the contaminated water and rotting bodies all around. *** Urun Murmu, 52, has only half a left arm; the forearm is missing. He lives in Kanot in Malda district. We are standing at a spot with bamboo groves behind us. The bamboo branches sway in the wind and Urun too swings his half arm as he narrates his experience as a “tower worker”. Urun lays out high tension voltage cables. He tells me about the time he was on the job in some place near the Sone river, close to Allahabad. He was in his early 20s those days. He and a whole gaggle of men from Malda had left home to make a living while they were still in their late teens. As the high-tension wires zig-zagged through Haryana, Lucknow, Benares, Urun journeyed with them. Urun describes his work through a patchwork of phrases — “transmission lines”, “11,000 volts”, “shut-down work”. He explains that whenever he and the other men would climb the electric towers, someone on the ground would shut off the electric supply. The handle of the transmitter had to be pul-led down and then it had to be locked till the work was over. If one kept to the rules there was no problem. But that particular project had been contentious from the start. The people of the village, where the tower was being installed, had been promised a payout by the power company. Urun was on the job, which was supposed to last three days. The first two days remained uneventful. The third day brought with it unrest. The villagers hadn’t received any payment from the company and were fuming. Urun climbed the tower. The power company man hollered from below, “Shutdown ho gaya. Ab pilot pass kar lo.” Urun kept climbing the tower, the wire coiled around the palm of his left hand and covering a fair portion of his arm right up to the elbow. Urun refers to the man from the company as “saheb”. He tells me, “Saheb made a mistake that day. He forgot to lock the transmitter when he left his station to buy a packet of gutka.” Urun’s voice holds no rancour, no bitterness. Angry villagers went to the unattended transmitter and pushed the handle up for two to three minutes and then brought it down again. In their eyes Urun too was part of the power company that had cheated them of their payout. The live current pierced the fingers of Urun’s left hand, travelled down the arm making his whole body tremble. He fell from the tower and on to the sandy bank of River Sone. When help arrived, he was still unconscious. He was unconscious when he was packed into a boat which carried him to Benares. After the seven-hour ride, when they finally reached the hospital, the arm had turned septic. Urun still works with power companies, journeys to other states. He has learnt to do the job with his one-and-a-half hands. *** On March 28, 2020, the sight of thousands and thousands of labourers at Delhi’s Anand Vihar Bus Terminal catapulted an otherwise invisible people to the middle of public consciousness. It elicited sustained media coverage, government announcements and public outrage. Truth is, when lockdown is over and corona can be conquered with a shot in the arm, even then the march of the migrants will continue. There will be new stories of disappearance and silence, painful deaths and missing organs. But most likely they would have ceased to make headlines then.  Saha is the author of the Bengali books Borderey Meyera (2017) and Chhotoder Border (2018), on the lives of women and children of Bengal’s borderlands. She is currently working on a book on migrant labourers titled Labour Train||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-386
06-09-2020||West Bengal||Jungle Mahal gets 3 CRPF companies||The Union home ministry sent three companies of the CRPF back to Jungle Mahal on Saturday and told the state government that more forces were on their way, a relief for Nabanna amid intelligence reports of Maoists regrouping in the area over the past few months. The Bengal government had objected to the Centre’s decision of pulling out 20 companies of a total of 49 from Jungle Mahal in two phases last year, first ahead of Lok Sabha polls and then immediately after Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir was revoked. “Three companies of CRPF personnel have returned from Jammu and Kashmir today (Saturday). We have sent them to Purulia where they took over charge of two camps,” said Pradeep Kumar Singh, inspector-general of CRPF in Bengal. Two companies of CRPF have taken positions in two camps in Purulia and the third company comprising women is at Jhargram. “Presence of central forces in the area is important as we want to ensure that the Maoist problem does not rear its head in the state. We are continuing our communication with the Centre to get more central forces in Jungle Mahal. We expect to get back a few more companies in near future,” said a senior Nabanna official. Sources in the state home department said that Maoist activities were causing concern for the Bengal government with reports that the banned outfit was trying to regroup in Jungle Mahal by crossing over from Jharkhand. As the state is headed for a key election next year, there are chances that the Maoists would try to make their presence felt through subversive activities, said an intelligence source. “These groups generally try to create unrest ahead of polls... So, security has to be intensified in areas where they have traditionally been active,” said the source. According to intelligence reports, on September 3, some tourists noticed a group of seven suspected Maoists, including three women, near Dhangikusum village in Belpahari. The suspected Maoists were reportedly carrying firearms and had their faces covered. Virendra, director-general of police, visited Jhargram on Saturday to take stock of the ground situation. “It is clear that the state administration has taken up reports of Maoists entering the areas seriously. In a situation like this, additional central forces would help the state in dominating the areas in an efficient way,” said an official. Sources in Nabanna said that the Bengal government has repeatedly urged the Centre to send central forces. “The repeated communication with the Centre seems to have worked and it is expected that more companies of CRPF could be sent back to the state in next few days,” said a source. A senior CRPF officer said that at least two more companies were on their way back to Jungle Mahal from Jammu and Kashmir and they would be sent to some camps in Purulia, which are being manned by the state police these days. Not only in Jhargram, Maoist activities have been reported from several other places as Maoist posters have been seized from different areas of Purulia and West Midnapore as well. There were intelligence inputs that the Maoist held several meetings for fresh recruitments ahead of Independence Day this year. “Cross-border activities by the Maoists are the main cause of concern now. The CRPF can do this work properly as they are trained for such work. We hope that the CRPF personnel can prevent their activities," said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-386
06-09-2020||Opinion||They do it with tea||There is a dark Russian witticism that goes: “Drink the vodka, not the tea.” One day last month, hugely popular Russian Opposition leader Alexei Navalny ordered a cup of tea at Tomsk airport in Siberia. He and his team from The Smart Voting Project --- the name explains itself --- had just finished shooting a corruption video there. This was around the time when Russia’s neighbour, Belarus, was roiling, with people demanding the current president resign and fair elections be held. At home, in Khabarovsk, there was anger over the arrest of a popular governor, supposedly indicative of the Kremlin's whimsies. “Putin resign,” demanded protestors. Navalny boarded the flight to Moscow, but took ill and collapsed in the bathroom of the aircraft. He now lies in a clinic in Berlin and Germany has confirmed that he was poisoned with a nerve agent, novichok. In the last few years, the poison has found other Putin critics too. In 2018, Pyotr Verzilov, a Russian opposition activist, suddenly lost sight, hearing and mobility and slipped into a coma. That year, Sergei Skripal, a former Russian military officer and double agent for the UK's intelligence services, and his daughter, Yulia, were poisoned in Salisbury. In 2015, a leader of Russian Opposition Vladimir Kara-Murza was poisoned. He recovered and was poisoned again in 2017. In 2006, former Russian spy Alexander Litvinenko died three weeks after he had tea with former Russian agents in a hotel in London. It was later revealed that the tea was laced with the radioactive polonium-210. Among other things Litvinenko had been looking into the assassination of investigative journalist and staunch Putin critic, Anna Politkovskaya. In 2004, Politkovskaya had been poisoned on a domestic flight. She wrote later: “The plane takes off. I ask for a tea. It is many hours by road from Rostov to Beslan and war has taught me that it's better not to eat. At 21:50 I drink it. At 22:00 I realise that I have to call the air stewardess as I am rapidly losing consciousness.” She recovered, but two years later was shot dead. It is said Navalny is so popular that Putin cannot bear to pronounce his name. In the past he has reportedly referred to Navalny as “a poor excuse for a politician”, “a certain political force”, “the character you mentioned” and “this gentleman”. Around the time of the 2018 presidential elections, a pro-Kremlin film portrayed Navalny as a reincarnation of Hitler. Since then, the 1952-born Putin has ordered constitutional changes to allow for him to rule till 2036. Days after Navalny’s poisoning, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov briefed the press about “the patient”. When a journalist asked if it was not time to break the tradition and name the patient, he said, “He’s a patient and he’s sick. That’s what we’re calling him. And we still wish him a speedy recovery.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-153
06-09-2020||Opinion||Poor balance: can India help its women?||A self-reliant India would naturally have women who are atmanirbhar. As the young law student from Ranchi declared after she had asserted her rights vis-à-vis the Indian Railways, the prime minister should be pleased. No doubt he is equally pleased when he hears of schoolgirls asserting their rights to study instead of getting married, alerting teachers, activists and the local administration to the danger from their own families. Yet women have been self-reliant in India since time immemorial: they could not have survived in a misogynistic society otherwise. The self-reliance may have been more emotional than economic, although that, too, is changing rapidly, and at all levels of society. The problem is that women earning outside the home are still not a large enough number and, ironically, earning women are often not independent within the boundary of their families. The institutional and cultural devaluation of their status is a barrier difficult to surmount for women trying to assert their rights from a persistently unequal ground. Is India a mirror for much of the world in this respect? The data released by the United Nations Women and the United Nations Development Programme indicate that the Covid-19 crisis will increase the poverty rate for women and widen the gap between poor men and women. The largest percentage of the world’s poor women live in sub-Saharan Africa, and the pandemic will be rough on them, but South Asia will be experiencing the impoverishing of more women too. By 2030, for every 100 men between 25 and 34 living in poverty, there will be 129 women. Since women take on the major share of household duties and care for the old and young in the family, they tend to have less secure jobs, if at all, and are often paid less. Their jobs are 19 per cent more at risk during the pandemic than men’s. A large segment of women work in the domestic sector and food services — an International Labour Organization report says that by June 2020, 72 per cent of women domestic workers had lost their jobs worldwide because of the pandemic. Of the 96 million people being pushed into extreme poverty at this time, 47 million are women. Women everywhere, and certainly in India, are looking at new hurdles erected by the pandemic. As it is, the lockdown has led to women having to shoulder more housework because the entire family, including schoolgoing children, has been at home. Insecurity, lost livelihoods, strained resources, fear of starvation made home-life difficult, and it is no wonder that domestic abuse has grown. There would be some hope of amelioration if restorative policies of the government pay special attention to women’s immiserization in order to close the gender gap. But history suggests that is unlikely. Indian women will have to rely even more on their own strengths to survive and win.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-153
06-09-2020||Opinion||How About An Act Of Dog?||Depends on which. Local dog? Or vocal dog? Biting dog? Or barking dog? Or dogs that are capable of both? Local dogs that are also vocal dogs? You’d know these. If you grace the nights long enough, you’d know. They do not allow the nights to be nights any more. If you live where most of us live, you’d know. They do not let you live as you would any more. They are local. Nothing you can do about that. They are vocal. Nothing you can do about that. They represent, well, ActsOfDog; nothing can be done about such things. Or little. Try someday. But don’t blame me for inspiring you. Statutory Warning: The risk is all your own, bark or bite or consequence. But there are more kinds than just those that bark or bite or do both. Now tell me about them. Ha! You know what I am talking about. No? I shall explain. There are dogs and there are dogs. Try calling a dog “kutta” or “kukur”. Try screaming: “Kuttayyyyy!” Now tell me. Go on, pat your favoured canine, let him, or her, have a lavish lick where he or she would prefer to lick, pull him or her into your lap or couch or bed, snuggle up, canoodle as you never canoodled, and tell me. How does “kuttayyyy!” sound? Or “kukur”? Don’t be offended, that is not the intention. We don’t intend to offend love. Love what you will. But tell me how that sounds. We are not on your favoured nouns, those lovely, esoteric, or desi names you chose to bestow on your loved ones. Tommy, oh what am I saying, whoever calls them Tommy anymore? Rum? Goonda? Doshi? Bindiya? Khukri? Katari? Whiskey? Rani? Chaaku? Panjaa? Claw? Bhookha? Daaku? Peg? But we are not on them, not on your darlings that you smooch and brush and shampoo and powder and cuddle and feed and disinfect and de-odour more than you did any living being around you ever in your life. It’s your thing, hai naa, your pet, your slave, your beholden one, creature of your command, sit, squat, go, fetch, no, yaaaaees, good dog, bad dog. Yours. Owned. Mine. Without signing onto or off anything; I mean you never have to worry about, you know, claims etcetera of the legal or illegal kind, and you still have a relationship. Me. My dog. My love. Now take me to court over it. If there is a bark, or a bite, you’ve deserved it. ActOfDog. Can’t blame the dog. Like you can’t blame an ActOfGod on the god, whichever your chosen one is. Like that. But we return to the question. How does “kuttayyyy!” sound? Or “kukur”? Or plain “kutttaaa”? Think. “Kuttayyyyy, main tera khoon pee jaaooonga!” Or, “Kutta kahin kaa, ek number kaa kuttaaa hai!” Or, “Kukur to, aar kee?” How does it sound? Somewhat like an expletive in the language employed here and its translation into desi, does it not? Imagine a... well just let that be, there may be children trying to read this paper, or at least we hope so, we need them to have a good education as they grow up, don’t we? Just roll all or some of that discreetly in your head, your frequent and favoured abuses, and translate them into your native and tell me. Tell me, then, about dogs and kuttas. At the end of the day, they are pretty much the same, well-groomed Ghungroo and street-corner pie, when they come to barking or biting. They are dogs. Or they are... no we shall not utter or print that word. Of course not. But you know. Those that beget more dogs. Mother dogs. One bit me. And she barked before she bit. I carry on my person an indelible ActOfDog. Never mind. Where the origin of this lay Was not in local pedigree Oh how I’d wish to agree If it hadn’t begun with pillay.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-153
06-09-2020||Opinion||Blind spot||On September 3, The New York Times published an extraordinary article that detailed Richard Nixon’s loathing of Indians, especially Indian women. Its author, Gary Bass, who had earlier written The Blood Telegram, a book-length critique of US diplomacy during the 1971 war, based his piece on tapes recently declassified by Nixon’s presidential archive. In them, Nixon is heard saying at various times that Indian women are the most unattractive women in the world, that they are sexless, that they turn him off and there’s a particularly entertaining bit where he wonders how Indians reproduce at all, given how repulsive their women are. What are we to make of these revelations? The first thing to be said is that they shouldn’t be a great surprise. Tapes released more than 20 years ago established that Nixon was an equal-opportunity bigot. He was energetically anti-Semitic, for example. He used to complain that Washington “is full of Jews”, that “[m]ost Jews are disloyal” and that “...generally speaking, you can’t trust the b*****ds.” He was also racist and the tapes brim over with casual prejudice about minorities. Perhaps the more interesting revelation is Henry Kissinger’s complicity in Nixon’s bigotry, given the fact that Kissinger is Jewish and had been at the receiving end of Nazi racism himself. Annoyed by the assistance offered by Indira Gandhi to Bengali nationalists in East Pakistan in June 1971, Kissinger described Indians variously as “a scavenging people”, as “masters of subtle flattery”, as a people whose “...great skill is to suck up...” It’s fascinating how fluently Kissinger uses the stock phrases WASPs once used to disparage Jews (subtle, flatterers) to denigrate Indians. This great practitioner of realpolitik was happy to use second-hand colonial clichés about sub-continental types to characterize desis. So if Indians were clever suck-ups, Pakistanis were a “fine people but... primitive in their mental structure”. To students of diplomacy, the lesson of Nixon and Kissinger’s loathing of India and Indians might be that personal chemistry (or the lack of it) can seriously shape policy. Nixon’s generalizations about Indians and Indian women in particular, were based on a sample of one. He hated Indians because he loathed Indira Gandhi; she wound him up to a point where he became incoherent with rage. This was only partly because India’s tilt towards the Soviet Union and hostility towards Pakistan got in the way of Nixon’s strategic objectives. He also just hated her. Which might explain why someone as peculiar-looking as Nixon would even venture a view on the ugliness of other people. Say what you like about Indira Gandhi’s politics, in the looks department she was Rita Hayworth to his W.C. Fields. Bass has a marvellous story about the origin of this detestation. After losing to Kennedy in 1960, Nixon was in the political wilderness for the best part of a decade. He ran for governor in California and lost. In 1967, when he was plotting a comeback, he called on the Indian prime minister in Delhi. Twenty minutes into their meeting, a visibly bored Indira Gandhi asked an aide in Hindi when her ordeal was going to end. According to Bass, “Nixon had not gotten the precise meaning, but he sure caught the tone”. To be fair to Nixon, he wasn’t alone in his dislike of her. Ten years earlier, when Indira Gandhi had accompanied her father to Kennedy’s White House, Jacqueline Kennedy hosted a ladies lunch for her. It didn’t go well. Indira wanted to be by her father’s side listening in on affairs of State and the First Lady resented that. In an interview recorded in 1964 but published much later, she didn’t hold back: “She liked to be in with the men. And she is a real prune — bitter, kind of pushy, horrible woman. You know, I just don’t like her a bit. It always looks like she’s been sucking a lemon”. Both Jacqueline Kennedy and Nixon disliked Indira Gandhi for getting above herself, for not being ‘womanly’ enough. By the time Indira attended that unsuccessful ladies luncheon, she had already served as the President of the Indian National Congress. Given that Jacqueline was happy to admit that “I get all my opinions from my husband” and that her avowed purpose in life was to “...become the kind of wife that you can see that your husband wants,” it isn’t hard to see why she disliked the ambitious dynast she was hosting. It is to Indira Gandhi’s credit that she was detested for being herself by two people as different as Richard Nixon and Jacqueline Kennedy. She was also in good company. In the same set of interviews, the former First Lady called Martin Luther King a “phony”. Outrage apart, the sobering lesson of Bass’s revelations is how peripheral India was to American calculations in 1971 and how peripheral it remains today. Nixon might have loathed India and Indira but he loathed them in passing. India wasn’t important enough to be detested for its own sake. Nixon’s attitude towards the Bangladesh war was shaped by his strategic focus on China. Since Yahya Khan was helping him with the Chinese, he tilted towards Pakistan. China had to be reckoned with; India wasn’t important enough economically, politically or militarily to matter in itself. It was a sideshow in a great game being played out elsewhere. This is India’s geopolitical tragedy. It is consistently cast by the great powers as an attendant lord, who, in Eliot’s words, will do to “swell a progress, start a scene or two”. In its own mind, though, India is, if not Hamlet, at least a considerable player. There is no way of reconciling the roles India reads for and the roles it is cast in. India was a passing annoyance in 1971 because Nixon was trying to make up to China. Half a century later, India is of passing interest to Donald Trump because he’s reversing the United States of America out of the relationship with China that Nixon pioneered. The growing belief that this phase in the US-China relationship has given India a ticket to the top table in the shape of the Quad is a happy delusion generated by comfortable think tanks. The US, Japan and Australia are amongst the three most affluent nations on earth. There is a solidarity and camaraderie about being rich together that draws wealthy countries into club-like alliances. In the looser frame of the Quad, India’s designated role is that of the poor relation who might do the heavy lifting that the others can’t or won’t do. The truth is that as far as our borders with China are concerned, our circumstances haven’t changed since Nehru: we’re still on our own. More generally, it’s harder than ever to see Nixon’s prejudices and profanities as relics of some bygone era. Nearly 50 years after electing one bigoted, profane and misogynistic president, Americans elected another one. If Trump’s private conversations were taped and transcribed, they’d be unprintable. America might have changed but given Trump, it’s hard to believe, with Martin Luther King, that the arc of America’s history bends towards justice. It seems, instead, to zigzag between high piety and rank prejudice. If Trump takes the next election, it’s going to be a very long zag. mukulkesavan@hotmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-153
06-09-2020||Opinion||Fatal fashion||Sir — The price of human desires is steep; but humans rarely pay this price. An alligator-skin handbag from a boutique in France worth $26,000 has been destroyed because it was imported without a permit. But what about the alligator that was killed and skinned for the sake of fashion only for the bag to be destroyed? Many fashion brands are going ethical; yet as long as designs that use faux fur and leather exist, there will always be a demand for the real stuff. Each and every animal is a key part of the earth’s ecological balance; without them, no amount of emission cuts can save us. Roshni Sen Calcutta Sir — Sankarshan Thakur must be lauded for speaking the hard truth in his article, “Compliant and complicit” (Sep 2). Indeed the series of brutal and heartless incidents taking place in New India — the bringing down of the iron fist in Kashmir, the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, ministers telling people “goli maaro sa***n ko” — have not been imposed upon us; rather it is the ordinary Indians who have voted and re-elected this regime with the goal of exercising muscular majoritarianism. This is why this regime dares to indulge in laying the foundation stone of the Ram Temple amidst a pandemic that is killing thousands every day. Yet, instead of being criticized for it, the government is applauded by the people. People should have asked why the government was busy entertaining Donald Trump and putting up a grand show for him, imposing unnecessary, divisive laws and toppling an elected dispensation in Madhya Pradesh when it should have been ensuring that the coronavirus pandemic did not spread in India. But they chose instead to bang pots and pans at the clarion call of the prime minister at a time when the pandemic was tightening its grip on the nation with millions of poor Indians on the streets following the lockdown. Have we lost all sense of what is right and wrong that we are dancing to the rhetorical tune of certain individuals without questioning either their authority or their motives? Just because the government of the day is pandering to the Hindutva constituency — this seems to comprise large pockets of India — all scandals and failures of the regime are being condoned in spite of its horrendous record in tackling any problem, whether it is the sovereignty of India or its economy. People do get the government they deserve and we are compliant and complicit with those who are causing untold damages to India and Indians. Kajal Chatterjee Calcutta Sir — The article, “Compliant and complicit”, zeroes in on some of the most dismal aspects of present-day India. Sankarshan Thakur elaborates on numerous instances which show that we are living with lies wantonly piled upon us by a regime that will not stop at anything to consolidate power. At the bidding of the prime minister we clap, turn off lights and believe in unbelievable, absurd fantasies. We watch him feed a bird before going on to narrate a rather well-crafted ‘mann ki baat’ where he speaks of the virtues of native dog breeds, toy-making and food and nutrition at a time when the country has failed in all aspects — political, social, economic, administrative, judicial and diplomatic. Jahar Saha Calcutta Sir — In his article Sankarshan Thakur has rightly analysed how the current political dispensation is keeping us in the dark about its failures by spreading lies. He has rightly remarked that “we are a living parade of the compliant and the complicit”. People are blindly following what they are asked to do without thinking of the consequences. It looks as though they have been hypnotized and have lost all sense of scepticism. Instead of asking questions we are applauding every useless act and unnecessary decision of the current establishment. Both social and mainstream media have played a vital role in sweeping the failures of the government under the carpet by diverting people’s attention from real issues. This attitude is not good for democracy. The media must play its role sincerely and honestly. Yousuf IqbalCalcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-153
06-09-2020||Opinion||Play defence: BJP speaks up for Kangana ||The Bharatiya Janata Party was initially shocked when the actor, Kangana Ranaut, compared Mumbai to ‘Pakistan-occupied Kashmir’. The party wanted to stand beside Ranaut because of her clear pro-BJP positions but could not figure out how to do so. One member of the legislative assembly from the BJP in Maharashtra even put out a statement that he does not agree with Ranaut comparing Mumbai to PoK. The Central BJP leaders, however, were not ready to give up so easily. The party has been frustrated of late with what it calls the ‘Left-Congress cabal’ beating it on social media platforms. It wants its electoral domination to reflect on social media too. After a brief lull, members of the Central leadership jumped to Ranaut’s defence, without, however, referring to her comment equating Mumbai to PoK. “When you tell you feel unsafe in India you are a celebrity [sic],” said the BJP general secretary (organization), BL Santosh, in a tweet, referring indirectly to Aamir Khan’s comment in the past. “If you tell Mumbai is unsafe you are hounded day in & day out. This double standards has discredited the left liberal eco system [sic],” Santosh added. He and some other BJP leaders also sharply criticized the Maharashtra chief minister, Uddhav Thackeray, for trying to deflect attention from the state government’s failure to tackle the coronavirus by targeting “individuals”. They conveniently forgot that their government at the Centre has been using a similar tactic to shift focus from the Covid-19 mess in the country and the recession caused by the Centre’s pre-pandemic actions. Amid growing concern over the surge in Covid-19 cases in Assam, there was also something to cheer about as two political arch-rivals — the Congress veteran, Tarun Gogoi, and his one-time blue-eyed boy-turned-bête noire, Himanta Biswa Sarma — used the unprecedented health crisis to convey that politics need not come between personal relationships. Sarma has gone all out to ensure that the Covid-19-infected former chief minister receives the best treatment available at the Gauhati Medical College and Hospital: from having a doctors’ team monitor Gogoi’s health 24x7 to personally visiting him thrice in complete PPE gear. Gogoi, too, has publicly acknowledged Sarma’s gesture; burying the bitterness of the past even if only momentarily. Assam’s popular singer-composer, Zubeen Garg, is back in his anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act groove following the controversy triggered by the agriculture department’s announcement last month about roping him in as its brand ambassador. Garg’s fans and admirers reacted strongly to the announcement. They felt that Garg, who was at the forefront of the anti-CAA protests last year, has gone soft on the government and the contentious legislation that is seen as a ‘threat’ to Assamese culture and identity by those opposed to it. Garg made it clear this week that he would not take up the agriculture department’s offer and would continue to raise his voice against the CAA. The BJP ecosystem might have hyped up the Sushant Singh Rajput case keeping the Bihar election in mind but the ultimate political gains and losses will have to be calculated by observing the entirety of the controversy. The markedly high level of interest shown by the Nitish Kumar government in the case made it clear that the motive was to whip up Bihari sentiment. But the leaders from the ruling combine in Maharashtra believe that the BJP badly damaged its prospects in the state, as a majority of the people in Mumbai and other places did not appreciate the aggressive campaign against the Shiv Sena leadership. The condemnation of the Mumbai police and the transfer of the case to the Central Bureau of Investigation also hurt local sentiments. The attempt to drag Aditya Thackeray’s name into the controversy also appears to have boomeranged, forcing the former Maharashtra chief minister, Devendra Fadnavis, to offer clarifications. Interestingly, Aditya Thackeray has a clean image and leaders across political parties vouch for his integrity and character. The controversy had an unintended benefit: it brought the three allies — the Shiv Sena, the Congress and the Nationalist Congress Party — closer than ever before. One Congress minister said, “The BJP and its pet TV channel committed a blunder by dragging Aditya’s name into the controversy... People are going to teach the BJP a lesson in the next Maharashtra election. They will be wiped out if this alliance survives till then”. The Union power ministry had grandly launched an Atal Distribution System Improvement Yojana — ADITYA — a while back as an effort to help power distribution companies pare down losses and ‘effectively monitor’ consumption and its patterns. When the Shiv Sena broke ties with the BJP and crossed the floor to form the government in Maharashtra with the Congress and the NCP, the name of the scheme was suddenly dropped. Some reckon it was because the Centre wanted no reflection of the Thackeray scion in its schemes. The scheme apparently continues to run, but is yet to get a new name. From the day Sonia Gandhi airdropped Shashi Tharoor as the nominee for Thiruvananthapuram around 11 years ago, the local leaders were unhappy. But when his Lok Sabha colleague, Kodikunnil Suresh, called him a ‘guest artist’ and ‘immature’, the party was forced to rally behind Tharoor. Even those who refused to campaign for him went against Suresh’s diatribe. But party veterans will not give the new-found unity much of a chance, especially since the state polls are just months away.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-153
06-09-2020||Jharkhand||With short pandals, idols, Durga Puja to be low-key in Dhanbad||Office bearers of about 200 community puja committees of Dhanbad met at the Saraidhela ground, the site of Saraidhela Sri Sri Sri Durga Puja Samiti’ annual puja, on Sunday. In consultation with the district administration, the committees have decided to keep the celebrations low-key with smaller pandals, and 4-5 feet-high idols instead of the usual 8-12 feet-high ones. Speaking with The Telegraph Online, Vikash Sao, member of the Satyam Shivam Sundaram Samiti of Jharkhand Maidan, said, “Our puja is known for the accompanying fair, but we have not to hold a fair this year to maintain social distancing norms. The pandal will also be of much lesser height, compared to previous ones of 50-60 feet.” “Community pujas are dependent on fund collection. At a time when the economy is the worst hit due to the pandemic, the market is severely deprived of liquidity. Hence it is impossible to install huge pandals bearing an investment of Rs 5 to 10 lakh, ” Sao added. Shyamal Sen, founding member of the Navyuvak Sangharsh Samiti, which organizes the puja at Manaitand, said, “The basic aim behind the smaller idols of four to five feet is to avoid huge gatherings during immersion.” “Our volunteers will be deputed outside the puja pandal to avoid any violation of social distancing norms. Wearing of masks by visitors, as well as committee members will be mandatory,”said Sen. He also informed that office bearers of the newly constituted committee would soon be meeting with the Sub divisional officer of Dhanbad to finalize various details. More than 300 large and small community Pujas are organized in different parts of the district, spread over 11 blocks including Nirsa, Egyarkund, Kaliasol, Govindpur, Tundi, Purbi Tundi, Baghmara, Dhanbad, Baliapur and Topchanchi. About 100 of these pujas usually constitute a budget of Rs 10 lakh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-309
06-09-2020||Jharkhand||Shibu Soren beats Covid, will stay on in Delhi to take RS oath||Rajya Sabha MP and JMM supremo Shibu Soren is learnt to have defeated Covid-19, adding to the list of VIPs to have done so in the state since the virus outbreak. Soren, whose second test turned out negative on Sunday, was released from Medanta Hospital in Gurugram, JMM sources said. Guruji was admitted there on August 25, days after he tested positive for the virus. JMM’s general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharjee said, “Guruji has overcome the virus and is doing fine. However, he will currently continue to stay put in Delhi for a few days.” Former chief minister Soren, who is suffering from multiple ailments, was taken to Medanta via train from Bokaro last month after doctors advised him to avoid air travel owing to chances of breathing problems. He was accompanied by a team of medical professionals along with security personnel. Before his departure, Soren was also administered about 500 ml plasma of B+ blood, donated by a police jawan. Sources in the party said that Soren will stay put at Rajmahal MP Vijay Hansda’s official residence in Delhi under the watchful eyes of medical professionals for some time, before returning to Ranchi. JMM sources added that Soren, who was elected to the Rajya Sabha on June 19, will formally take oath as MP during his stay in Delhi. Ever since the virus made its presence known in Jharkhand in the last week of March, over a dozen legislators, including three ministers—Mithilesh Thakur (water resources) and Banna Gupta (health) and Badal Patralekh (agriculture) _ tested positive for Covid-19. Many politicians, including the three ministers, have defeated the virus while others are undergoing treatment. They include, MLAs Mathura Prasad Mahato (Tundi), C.P. Singh (Ranchi), Sudesh Mahto (Silli), Deepika Pandey (Mahagama) and Lambodar Mahto (Gomia). Several other MLAs have tested positive and are under treatment in isolation. They include Amba Prasad (Barkagaon), Sashi Bhushan Mehta (Panki), Neelkant Singh Munda (Khunti), Vinod Singh (Bagodar), Randhir Kumar Singh (Sarath) and J.P. Bhai (Mandu).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-309
06-09-2020||Jharkhand||Jamshedpur FC sign seasoned English defender Peter Hartley||Jamshedpur FC continued its string of signings and announcements under head Coach Owen Coyle with the addition of 32-year-old Peter Hartley. The Englishman put pen to paper with the club on Sunday for the Indian Super League (ISL) 2020-21. The robust defender comes at the back of a highly successful season with Motherwell FC in the Scottish Premiership. He captained the team to 3rd place in the league, only behind Scottish legacy teams – Celtic and Rangers, thus qualifying Motherwell for the UEFA Europa League 2020-21. Hartley has played 418 matches in his stellar career since his senior team debut in 2007, keeping 122 clean sheets and scoring 37 goals. Delighted at joining Jamshedpur, Hartley said: “I’m honoured to be given an opportunity to sign up for Jamshedpur, a club with ambition to win. I certainly didn’t have to think twice about playing for Owen Coyle, a manager held in high regard. “I promise to give 110 per cent every single day in order to bring success and silverware to the Jamshedpur supporters. At every club that I have played for, my goal has always been to add glory to my jersey number till the day I depart.” Hartley is a Sunderland AFC Academy product. The left-footed centre-back was scouted into the Sunderland AFC youth system as a 12-year-old in 2012 and rose up to the ranks with his impressive performances. He played and trained with the former English Premier League side’s senior team too and made his debut in 2007 versus Leicester City under Roy Keane’s tutelage. The defender has played in prestigious tournaments in England like the FA Cup and the League Cup where he represented his clubs against the likes of Chelsea and Everton, Sheffield United, Wartford and Wigan Athletic. He has played versus Burnley in 2009, which was then under the management of Owen Coyle. Owen Coyle was thrilled to have Hartley in the squad. Underlining the importance of signing the defender, Coyle said: “Hartley is a massive signing for us. He brings in so much experience from playing in the English leagues and the Scottish Premiership. He is a central defender with great capability and a born leader. He is a fighter who is mentally strong and a fierce competitor. Hartley hates conceding goals and that’s the attitude I need from my centre-back.” Hartley will don the Jamshedpur jersey with the number 29.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-309
06-09-2020||Jharkhand||Inaugural Jharkhand Premier League T20 from Sept 15||Bereft of action for over five months due to the Covid-induced nationwide lockdown, Jharkhand willow-holders now have an opportunity to warm-up for the upcoming season starting September 15. The inaugural Jharkhand Premier League T20 at the JSCA International Cricket Complex Stadium in Ranchi will be a platform for players from six different zones to display their prowess with the bat and ball. The tournament will be the first live sports event in the country since the nationwide lockdown began on March 25, said JSCA secretary Sanjay Sahay. The event will comprise of 33 matches to be played across 17 days. “The six teams representing six zones include Ranchi Raiders, Dumka Daredevils, Dhanbad Dynamos, Singhbhum Strikers, Jamshedpur Jugglers and Bokaro Blasters. The teams shall comprise only of players who are registered with the JSCA from the state of Jharkhand. Nearly 100 players will be part of the tournament. There will be no franchises or team owners,” Sahay added. The state association has partnered with TCM Sports, a sports marketing firm, to efficiently conduct the event. TCM will be responsible for all commercial rights related to the tournament, end to end operations and management of the league. The firm holds exclusive ground rights across various cricket stadia in India and abroad. “The Association is humbled and offers its deepest gratitude to the state government for its proactive support in these despairing times, to kick-start sporting activities in Jharkhand,” said JSCA president Nafees Akhtar Khan. JSCA and TCM have plans to make the tournament an annual affair to ensure twin objectives of focussing on the development of the sport in the state and eventually taking it to deeper pockets of Jharkhand. The event will be sans some top crickets, including Ranji Trophy skipper Saurabh Tiwary, Varun Aaron, Ishan Kishan, Shahbaz Nadeem, Virat Singh, Monu Kumar and Anukul Roy to name a few. These cricketers are currently in Dubai for the Indian Premier League (IPL) beginning September 19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-309
06-09-2020||Jharkhand||Five highly polluted cities of Jharkhand not in clean air initiative ||The world is set to observe the first ever International Clean Air for Blue Skies Day on Monday, but at least five highly polluted cities of Jharkhand are yet to make it to the non-attainment list of the Centre’s National Clean Air Programme (NCAP) which environmentalists see as a stumbling block in the state’s fight against air pollution. Dhanbad, Sindri, Jamshedpur, Saraikela-Kharsawan, Ranchi and Barajamda were found to have higher air pollution levels than the upper limit set by the union ministry of environment, forest and climatic change last year, a report by Greenpeace India highlighted in January. However, only Dhanbad was added in the NCAP as a non-attainment city, the report stated. A former Jharkhand State Pollution Control Board (JSPCB) official, who held an important position in the board in 2019, said that only Dhanbad was selected for the NCAP as PM10 level in the city was high. “The pollution level was high in some places and low in other places. This is why we had to install machines to check air pollution levels and identify the areas which were worst-affected only in Dhanbad,” said the official. The fourth version of Airpocalypse report by Greenpeace India highlighted in January that Jharia, in Dhanbad district, was the most polluted city in India in terms of particulate matter (PM)10 – extremely small particles in the air that contribute to pollution. Jharia’s PM10 levels were five times higher than National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS), the report revealed. Greenpeace India identified 231 of 287 cities for monitoring under National Ambient Air Quality Monitoring Programme (NAMP) – an initiative of the ministry of environment. Under the programme, the cities are expected to reduce air pollution levels by 20 per cent to 30 per cent by 2024 in comparison to the 2017 levels. However, the Airpocalypse - IV report highlights that Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) has identified only 122 non-attainment cities and 102 of them are included under NCAP till now. These 122 cities are spread across 28 states and nine union territories. There are 116 more cities exceeding 60 µg/m3 limit prescribed by NAAQS, according to 2018 annual data, and should be included in the non-attainment category, the report said. “All the non-attainment cities of Jharkhand should be included in the NCAP programme. NCAP can help curtail pollution levels only if all highly-polluted cities are included in it, and active measures are taken to check air pollution,” said Greenpeace India Climate Controller Ashish Chanchal. As per the official website of World Health Organisation (WHO), the United Nations General Assembly adopted the resolution to hold an International Day of Clean Air for blue skies on December 19, 2019, during its 74th session and invited the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) to facilitate the observance of the International Day, in collaboration with other relevant organizations. The Climate and Clean Air Coalition (CCAC) worked with UNEP and the Republic of Korea to advocate for the day in the lead up to the decision.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-310
06-09-2020||Jharkhand||Monsoon takes a breather, discomfort index rises across state||Monsoon has taken a pause in the state with high humidity pushing up the discomfort index by several notches on Sunday. The weakening southwest monsoon is unlikely to bring any rain relief in the next four days at least, weathermen said on Sunday. "The weather will be humid for the next few days, resulting in discomfort. Monsoon has taken a brief pause. A good spell of rain is expected only after the next four days," said Abhishek Anand, deputy director of IMD's Ranchi Meteorological Centre. Heavy rainfall, triggered by a low-pressure zone last week, left behind lots of moisture in the air, which in turn has spiked the humidity levels. Ranchi and Jamshedpur recorded a RH (relative humidity) of around 90 per cent while Daltonganj was more stifling at 95 per cent. The RH in Bokaro and Dhanbad was close to 85 per cent while many places in southern, central and north-eastern parts of the state also recorded 90 per cent. The average discomfort index, measured on the basis of temperature, humidity and wind pattern, was as high as 64 degrees, nine degrees above normal, on Sunday. The index in Jamshedpur was 65 degrees, 10 degrees above normal, and in capital Ranchi 64 degrees, nine degrees above normal. Daltonganj recorded a discomfort index of 65 degrees, 10 notches above normal. In several other districts like Dumka, Ramgarh, Hazaribagh, Pakur, Godda, Latehar, Chatra and Simdega, the index breached 60 degrees. The axis of the monsoon trough at mean sea level passed through Amritsar, Meerut, Bahraich, Muzaffarpur and Jalpaiguri. Director of Ranchi Meteorological Centre S.D. Kotal said the southwest monsoon was weak over Jharkhand for the past 48 hours, resulting in the dry spell. "We are expecting generally cloudy sky in most parts of the state during the next three-four days. A few places are likely to experience thunder and lightning accompanied by light rain," he said, adding that no downpour warning had been issued for Jharkhand for the next five days. In the absence of widespread rainfall the rain deficit figure witnessed a  rise of three per cent during the last 48 hours. According to statistics, so far Jharkhand has received rainfall of 780.3 mm against a normal of 876.9 mm, a deficit of 11 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-310
06-09-2020||Jharkhand||Poacher held in Betla range of Palamau Tiger Reserve, muzzleloader seized||A poacher identified as Bijay Singh of Rabda village, Jharsewa has been caught trespassing into the forests of the Betla range of the Palamau Tiger Reserve (PTR), and was arrested on Saturday. His muzzle-loaded gun, concealed in a Chilbil tree, was seized on Sunday. “A camera installed by us in the Betla range recorded his an image of him which our range officials scanned thoroughly,” Kumar Ashish deputy director North division of the tiger reserve told The Telegraph Online on Sunday. “The features of this man were studied. His body built, height etc. noted. Our moles informed us of a similar-looking man at the village in Rabda,” said Ashish, adding that his team was not mistaken. “The man identified himself as Bijay Singh and also confessed to have sneaked into our forest with a muzzle-loaded gun for hunting either wild boar or deer,” said the deputy director. “The man was oblivious to the fact that a camera was spying on him,” said Ashish. Satbarwa police played a big role in his nabbing. Singh is not a lone poacher, and there are 10 others about whom he has given information to the Betla range officials. “We have been telling people in and around the PTR not to harm wildlife, even birds, but for some do not listen because of their taste buds and face legal action,” said the deputy director of the north division. With the festive season weeks away, forest patrol in the PTR has been stepped up to protect its wildlife. Sources said the river Auranga that passes through the PTR is a haven for poachers who take great advantage of the area.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-310
06-09-2020||Jharkhand||Teachers walk 4km uphill everyday to reach school in remote Jharkhand village||Irrespective of the pandemic, Teachers’ Day is just another day for these two teachers who cross a hill on foot everyday to reach their makeshift school in Jharkhand. “We walk 4km on a hilly track to reach the school and also return the same way everyday,” said Martin Soy as his colleague Barju Soy nodded in agreement. They both are para-teachers who have been teaching in an upgraded primary school at Tutkora village in Arki block in Khunti district. The village, located around 100km from state capital Ranchi, has only 30 households and 26 children are enrolled in the primary school comprising a single hall made of wooden poles covered with corrugated tins and polythene sheets. “The state government sanctioned funds for construction of a school building but that had to be returned,” said Martin. He said some building materials had to be brought from outside but those could not be carried over the hill for want of a proper road. “I have been teaching here since 2003 and Barju joined when the primary school was upgraded in 2006,” he said. Martin said they both were para-teachers working for a consolidated monthly salary of Rs 12,000. They both come from other villages and get some transport up to a certain point and then start walking through the forested hill, he said. “We don’t face any difficulties,” they replied when Sunny Sharad, a local reporter who accompanied them to the school recently, pointed out that the area was considered as extremist-hit. Their school, like any other in the state, is also closed. They laughed when Sharad asked them if they also resorted to online teaching during the lockdown. “We could not do that even if we wanted to,” Barju replied, explaining the students did not have smart phones and those would not work even if they had because the area has no mobile network coverage. “He was right as I also couldn’t get network from around 20km before reaching the school,” Sharad said. “There was no school earlier and no child would study as they could not to a distant one crossing the hills,” Martin said, adding all the children were now attending school. “Many of the children I taught are now attending high school and even college,” he said, describing that as their achievement. “That’s right. These teachers may not be highly qualified as teachers but are doing a great service to the society by educating a village,” said Ajay Sharma, another local reporter who accompanied Sharad. Sharma added that no politician or official visit the village.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-310
