07-09-2020||Calcutta||Murder arrests from within family||Two family members of the 30-year-old man who was found dead in his room earlier last week in Topsia have been arrested in connection with the murder. The two accused are the victim’s uncle Chandan Rajak, 49, and sister-in-law Priyanka Rajak, 29. Police said the two had different motives for the murder. On Tuesday morning, Abhijit Rajak, 30, who worked in a hotel, was found murdered in his home on Gobra Goroshthan Road, where he lived in a joint family. He was found dead on his bed with injury marks on his head. A blood-stained shovel was found in the room. Investigators said it was apparent that the family members who were home when the youth was murdered were aware of the crime but had initially kept quiet. “Findings of our investigations suggest that more than one family member was involved in the crime. We came to know during a prolonged interrogation that the victim’s uncle, Chandan Rajak, had a property dispute with the victim’s father. Later, Chandan admitted that he wanted to eliminate Abhijit because the youth would have inherited their ancestral property had he been alive. Chandan wanted the entire property for himself,” said an officer of Topsia police station. “Priyanka, wife of Abhijit’s cousin Somnath, has also confessed to the crime. Priyanka alleged that Abhijit used to give indecent proposals to her and other women members of the family. The allegations are yet to be verified.” The police said that after committing the crime, Chandan threw two cycles of the family into an adjoining water body to make it look like a “murder for gain”. The cycles were recovered on Friday. Chandan and Priyanka have been booked for murder, voluntarily causing hurt for robbery and common intention.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-316
07-09-2020||Calcutta||IIEST survey lays bare digital divide ||A section of students at the IIEST could not attend online classes in the last semester because of poor Internet connectivity at home, says a survey conducted by the authorities of the Shibpur institute. The authorities launched the survey to collect information about the students’ ability to attend online classes in the autumn semester on the basis of their experience in the previous semester. The feedback from 1,830 of the total students reveals that as many as 15.5 per cent of them could not attend online classes in the last semester and 18.3 per cent faced problems because of “poor” Internet connectivity at home, said an official of the institute. The responses from a group of 1,200 students showed that 13.2 per cent of them could not download lectures from the institute’s website and 29.8 per cent could download only partially. Apart from poor connectivity, a section of the 1,200 students cited lack of a smart device as a reason for not being able to download lectures. A group of 917 students responded to the query “How do you rate your experience of online teaching?”. An official said 10.1 per cent of the students rated online teaching as “poor”. The institute has been following a combination of live online classes and letting students download recorded lectures and study materials from the institute’s website in the autumn semester, which started on August 24. This model is being followed as classes cannot be held on the campus because of the Covid-19 pandemic. As students of the institute come from a wide spectrum of geographical locations across the country and Net connectivity is not always up to the desired level, the institute felt the need to carry out the survey. “As students had vacated the hostels in mid-March, before the start of the lockdown, some of the classes in the previous semester were held online. The students last month were asked to fill in Google forms to share their experience of attending classes online,” he said. IIEST director Parthasarathi Chakrabarty said the institute was speaking to teachers to chalk out what remedial measures could be taken. “We could buy the poor students devices such as tablets. As long as the institute will continue to hold online classes, the students will not have to pay Rs 17,500 as mess advance, Rs 3,000 as mess entrance fee, Rs 1,000 as seat rent and Rs 800 as electricity and water charges. They can buy a high-speed data pack with the saved amount,” said Chakrabarty. The institute is also trying to contact telecom service providers to help out students who are struggling with poor connectivity at home, said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-316
07-09-2020||Calcutta||Tiger claims third victim in four days||A fisherman who was part of a team that had ventured inside the Sunderbans forests to catch crabs died after being attacked by a tiger while he was cooking on the bank of a creek on Sunday morning, a forest official said. This was the third death from tiger attack in the Sunderbans in four days. The official said Gopal Baidya, 57, and two other men had left Satjelia village in the Gosaba block, South 24-Parganas, on a small country boat to catch crabs in the narrow creeks of the mangrove delta. Baidya was killed by the tiger in the Jhila 6 forest. Two other men lost their lives in the same forest area after being mauled by tigers on Thursday and Friday. Forest department officials said the body of Baidya could not be recovered as the tiger had dragged him deep inside the mangroves. “The tiger attacked Baidya from behind. The other fishermen tried to scare the animal off but it dragged Baidya deep inside the forest,” an official said. V.K. Yadav, the chief wildlife warden of Bengal, said: "We are tracking the developments closely and taking all measures. Fishermen have been alerted and we always ask them not to get off their boats and step on banks or embankments,” said Yadav. The Sunderbans field director, Tapas Das, said the men, like others, had ventured into a narrow creek to catch crabs. According to Das, the forest department carries out regular awareness drives and requests those venturing out into the forest not to catch fish or crabs in the creeks as the tigers can easily swim across and attack them. “The creeks offer more in terms of catch but fishing or trapping crabs there is extremely risky,” said Das.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-316
07-09-2020||Calcutta||Covid: 2-week comorbidity survey starts today||A survey to identify Calcuttans with comorbidity will begin from Monday. The Calcutta Municipal Corporation will complete the survey in its 144 wards in 14 days, a CMC official said on Saturday. The surveyors will visit households on Sundays and on days of total lockdown and on holidays, too, the official said. The surveyors will record a person’s name, age, contact number, and if he/she has cancer, diabetes, heart or kidney disease, hypertension, respiratory disease, liver disease or tuberculosis. The surveyors will carry forms with them to mark if a respondent has any of these diseases, the official said. If the respondent has any other disease, he/she can mention that. “We will not take any other details like how long a person has had the disease. The surveyors will only check the box against the disease a person has,” the official said. These diseases impact the working of vital organs and a new infection can create more trouble for a person, Anirban Dalui, a public health specialist, said. “Some of the diseases that are not mentioned in the form can be psoriasis that impacts the joints and rheumatological diseases. Respondents should tell surveyors about their chronic diseases, if any.” Metro had on Wednesday reported that the CMC would conduct a comorbidity survey from next week. The start date had not been decided then. On Friday, a webinar was held to discuss the modalities of the survey and the start date was finalised. Medical officers in charge of the CMC’s health services in each of the 144 wards attended the webinar. “Since more people stay at home on holiday or lockdown days, we felt there is no point taking a break on these days. On a weekday, we may not get all members of a family,” said an official. The CMC will deploy over 3,000 health workers for the survey. Once the survey is over, the records will be digitised. The records will be available with the state health department as well as the doctors of the CMC. When information about someone testing positive for Covid-19 reaches the borough health officer or the ward medical officer — both of whom are doctors — they will check the database to see whether the person has comorbidities, the official said. “When someone with comorbidity tests positive, the ward medical officer will be extra cautious. If it is found that the person is aged over 70 and has comorbidities, the medical officer may advise hospitalisation,” a CMC doctor said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-316
07-09-2020||Calcutta||Mosquito traps in New Town||The New Town authorities are installing four “mosquito magnets” in open public places in all three action areas in an attempt to bolster their efforts to fight dengue, an official of the New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) said. Such a device releases a mix of propane and carbon dioxide to attract female mosquitoes and trap them. The NKDA had conducted a pilot study by installing a device in a park in the township. “A vector control team and an entomologist constantly monitored the device. It was found that the device was quite effective in keeping the mosquito population in check. After that we decided to install more such devices,” the official said. One of the four mosquito traps has been set up in Eco Park. The others will be installed in the open-air theatre of Nazrul Tirtha, the lawn of Rabindra Tirtha and in Eco Urban Village. “All these are open public places. We do not want visitors to these places to be inconvenienced by mosquitoes and exposed to the threat of being infected by the dengue virus,” the official said. The dengue virus is spread by the Aedes aegypti mosquito. NKDA chairman Debashis Sen said they had embarked on the project as newer technology needed to be adopted in the fight against dengue. “The fight against Aedes aegypti mosquitoes is quite difficult as they can breed in very small pools of water. We need all the help we can get and these devices have proved to be quite effective,” Sen said. An entomologist at NKDA said the device released small bursts of carbon dioxide at fixed intervals. Female mosquitoes get drawn by the smell of carbon dioxide and head towards the device, which has a concealed net attachment. "Once they fall inside the net attachment, they die,” the entomologist said. Propane acts as propellant for carbon dioxide. The NKDA is also clearing vacant plots of garbage and bushes and cleaning drains regularly to bolster the fight against the winged menace, an NKDA official said. A daily report on plot-by-plot survey, cleaning of canals, spraying of larvicides and awareness campaign is being filed by vector control teams and their supervisors.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-317
07-09-2020||Calcutta||Jadavpur University plans home reach to bridge divide||Jadavpur University is planning to deliver question papers of end-semester exams to and collect answer scripts from the homes of students who lack a smart device or Internet connectivity, an official said. The other students will receive the questions through group email or WhatsApp and send the answers through these services. The possible models were discussed at the faculty council meeting of arts and science on Sunday. “The models will have to be approved by the university’s exam board, which will meet this week,’’ the official said. The Supreme Court in a recent judgment set aside academic institutes’ decision to publish results on the basis of weightage to the performance in previous semesters and scores in internal assignments. The court upheld the UGC’s directive that graduating students have to write an examination. Since students could not be asked to come to the campus to write the test because of the Covid-19 pandemic, JU is thinking of innovative models such as sending employees to the houses of students struggling with poor Net connectivity to deliver question papers and collect answer scripts. “The exams will have to be held overcoming the digital divide,’’ the head of a department said. JU vice-chancellor Suranjan Das said: ’The exam board is likely to meet on Monday or Tuesday. An elaborate arrangement will be made so the students do not face any problem writing their papers.” A student may not have access to a computer or smartphone because of financial constraints or may have connectivity issues in the aftermath of Cyclone Amphan, which flattened large stretches of the Sunderbans and other places in south Bengal, a JU official said. The university could send men in vehicles to the houses of students living in adjacent districts such as North and South 24-Parganas to deliver question papers and collect answer scripts. If a student lives in far-off places like Birbhum or Bankura, employees will travel by train. The university has students from Kashmir, which has been facing problems over Internet connection since it lost its special status in August last year. Those who have access to the Internet will receive questions by email and WhatsApp and have two hours to write the answers. The answers will have to be sent back the same way. “They will have another hour to send the answers through the same services. If required, a student can write the answers on a script and get the copies scanned or take photos of the scripts on the mobile camera and send them through email or WhatsApp. That’s why an hour is being given to send the answers,’’ a teacher at the university said. Jadavpur University is planning to deliver question papers of end-semester exams to and collect answer scripts from the homes of students who lack a smart device or Internet connectivity, an official said. The other students will receive the questions through group email or WhatsApp and send the answers through these services. The possible models were discussed at the faculty council meeting of arts and science on Sunday. “The models will have to be approved by the university’s exam board, which will meet this week,’’ the official said. The Supreme Court in a recent judgment set aside academic institutes’ decision to publish results on the basis of weightage to the performance in previous semesters and scores in internal assignments. The court upheld the UGC’s directive that graduating students have to write an examination. Since students could not be asked to come to the campus to write the test because of the Covid-19 pandemic, JU is thinking of innovative models such as sending employees to the houses of students struggling with poor Net connectivity to deliver question papers and collect answer scripts. “The exams will have to be held overcoming the digital divide,’’ the head of a department said. JU vice-chancellor Suranjan Das said: ’The exam board is likely to meet on Monday or Tuesday. An elaborate arrangement will be made so the students do not face any problem writing their papers.” A student may not have access to a computer or smartphone because of financial constraints or may have connectivity issues in the aftermath of Cyclone Amphan, which flattened large stretches of the Sunderbans and other places in south Bengal, a JU official said. The university could send men in vehicles to the houses of students living in adjacent districts such as North and South 24-Parganas to deliver question papers and collect answer scripts. If a student lives in far-off places like Birbhum or Bankura, employees will travel by train. The university has students from Kashmir, which has been facing problems over Internet connection since it lost its special status in August last year. Those who have access to the Internet will receive questions by email and WhatsApp and have two hours to write the answers. The answers will have to be sent back the same way. “They will have another hour to send the answers through the same services. If required, a student can write the answers on a script and get the copies scanned or take photos of the scripts on the mobile camera and send them through email or WhatsApp. That’s why an hour is being given to send the answers,’’ a teacher at the university said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-317
07-09-2020||Calcutta||Foreign flight plan for Calcutta||Several airlines have scheduled international flights to Calcutta following the state government’s approval to operate non-chartered flights from other countries, provided only those who test negative for Covid-19 are allowed to board the aircraft. In July, the Bengal government had asked the civil aviation ministry to stop evacuation flights from international destinations after hundreds of passengers had refused to go to a paid quarantine centre after landing in Calcutta and gone home instead. Any flight from an international destination needs a no-objection certificate from the state government. “The state government is giving approvals to airlines applying to operate incoming international flights with the condition that passengers have to test negative for Covid-19 within 96 hours before departure. Once all passengers are booked and their test results available, the airline has to upload the data on the state government portal,” said an official of a private airline. “Several airlines are applying for slots…. Our infrastructure in the international section is ready,” said airport director Kaushik Bhattacharya. Airport and airlines officials said the state government was giving approvals for evacuation as well as air transport bubble flights. SpiceJet and Emirates have opened bookings for flights between Calcutta and Dubai under the air-transport-bubble arrangements, said airport officials. Air transport bubbles are temporary arrangements between two countries to restart commercial passenger flights because regular international flights are suspended as a precaution against Covid-19. A civil aviation ministry official said to book a seat on an evacuation flight under the Vande Bharat scheme, mostly operated by Air India, passengers need approval from the central government. “But in air-transport-bubble flights, anybody can book a seat,” said the official. “We have opened bookings for flights under air-transport-bubble between Calcutta and Dubai on September 17, 19, 24 and 26. We are expecting good bookings,” said Debjit Ghosh, regional sales head (east), SpiceJet. Airport sources said Emirates airline, too, had applied for slots for three flights in September. Metro had in August reported that airlines and travel agents’ associations had appealed to the state government to allow resumption of international flights. Initially, the state government was allowing chartered flights to operate. “Tickets on chartered flights are expensive and many cannot afford. A seat on a chartered flight from Dubai to Calcutta would cost around Rs 70,000. But on a flight on the same route under air transport bubble, the one-way fare is around Rs 25,000 and on some days, even less,” said Anil Punjabi, chairman, east, Travel Agents Federation of India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-317
07-09-2020||Calcutta||Waste split order for Calcutta complexes||All housing complexes in the city have to segregate waste at source or pay a fine, says solid waste management bye-laws for Calcutta that the state government notified last month. The bye-laws also make it compulsory for anyone organising a gathering of 100 or more people in an “unlicensed place”, which can be a house or a ground in the locality, to inform the Calcutta Municipal Corporation about the event. Community halls are not on the list of “unlicensed” places. The organisers of such events must ensure that waste is segregated before it is handed over to municipal solid waste cleaners. The residents’ welfare associations of housing complexes, with help from the CMC, have to create a mechanism for waste segregation, a civic official said. The civic body will implement the bye-laws. “All resident welfare and market associations shall, in partnership with KMC, ensure segregation of waste at source by the generators, facilitate collection of segregated waste in separate streams, handover recyclable material to either the authorised waste pickers or the authorised recyclers,” says Chapter III of the bye-laws. The waste has to be segregated into three categories and put in different bins -- biodegradable or wet waste in green bins, non-biodegradable or dry waste in blue bins and domestic hazardous waste in black bins. A housing complex that does not segregate waste will be fined Rs 300 the first time, Rs 500 the second time and Rs 700 for every subsequent violation. “We will not fine a complex without giving it the time and opportunity to introduce the segregation culture,” a CMC official said. Any individual who holds a gathering of 100 or more people and does not segregate waste will be fined Rs 200 the first time, Rs 300 the second time and Rs 400 for every subsequent violation. Biodegradable waste will be collected by CMC teams every morning. “Agencies empanelled with the state pollution control board will collect domestic hazardous waste and non-biodegradable waste. We will provide contact details of the agencies to the residents’ welfare associations,” the official said. “Only a handful of complexes segregate waste. The rest dump all kinds of waste together,” the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-317
07-09-2020||Calcutta||Saviour recounts tale of horror||Deep Satpati, a private firm employee, his wife Nilanjana Chatterjee and their daughter were returning to their home in a residential complex on the EM Bypass near the Prince Anwar Shah Road connector crossing on Saturday night when they heard a woman screaming from inside a Honda City car. Deep stopped his Maruti Suzuki Alto car, blocking the way of the Honda City, while Nilanjana got down to see what had happened. Nilanjana, who is in hospital with a fractured shin bone,  and Deep narrated their experience to Metro on Sunday: Nilanjana Chatterjee When I heard a shrill voice crying for help at that hour of the night, I realised it was a woman. It immediately made me think of my daughter, seated with us in the car. She is 23 years old and we have brought her up with lots of love and care. I realised that as a mother, I had to help someone who is not much older than my daughter. I asked Deep to stop the car at any cost. It was coming from behind us. At that hour, Anandapur didn’t have too many people on the road. The headlights seemed to blaze through the darkness and as the car caught up, the screams of help became more loud. It was a Honda City and a woman was shouting from inside the car. Deep pulled back and parked the Alto across the road. The Honda City stopped and one of the front doors was flung open. A woman was pushed out and she fell on the road. When I reached her, she held me. The woman was weeping and she  kept saying “amake baachaan”. I realised I had to protect her as a mother. I think I will be back on my feet again. But at least I have been able to save the dignity of someone who is almost like my daughter. That is the only solace for me despite the excruciating pain in my leg. After dumping the  woman, the driver suddenly pulled back and took a U-turn. The left front wheel struck my wife’s shin bone and the car’s bonnet hit her head. Nilanjana slumped on the road. Her head had a deep gash and it was bleeding. By the time I could gather myself and I was about  take down the car's number, the Honda City had sped away. Both the women were crying in pain. I dialled 100 and was connected to Anandapur police station. A police team reached. I realised I had to carry my wife and the woman to a hospital. So I ran to Ruby General Hospital, the one that was nearest to me at that hour. At the hospital gates, the guards said they did not have any ambulance to help me. I re-dialled 100 and broke down. I told the officer, crying, that my wife and another woman needed to be admitted to a hospital and there was no ambulance in sight. The officer then connected to a sergeant of Kasba Traffic Guard. He arranged for an ambulance — KARMA (Kolkata Accident Rescue and Medical Attention) — from Parama Island. I admitted the two to Ruby Hospital. The shin bone has suffered a compound fracture and Nilanjana has received  stitches on her head. Late on Sunday evening, doctors told me she has tested negative for Covid and her operation is slated around 11 on Monday morning. The woman told me she worked in a private bank in Calcutta. She said: “Aami aapnake shob rokom sahajjyo korbyo. Kintu amar identity ta reveal korben na, please (I will help you in every way). Please don’t reveal my identity).” Even as I tried pacifying her, I realised that it could have been my daughter. If, as a daughter’s father, I don’t come forward to help another woman, who will? Nilanjana and I have this habit of reaching out. Around four years ago, we had gone out for a drive at night. While driving down near VIP Bazar opposite Calcutta International School, we found a car stuck on the divider on the Bypass. We stopped and reached the driver. The man said he was chased by a car and his car smashed into the divider. Even as he was stuck there, some miscreants snatched his bracelet and other valuables. We reached the man to his house in Triangular Park. The next morning, he called up and said: “Please forget the incident. Nothing had happened to me.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-317
07-09-2020||Calcutta||Neglected lights put Salt Lake at theft risk ||Five theft attempts at Karunamoyee Housing Estate in Salt Lake’s ED block over the past few nights have left residents jittery. While three theft attempts took place on Saturday night, two were reported on the night of August 31. Residents said the street lights damaged by Cyclone Amphan on May 20 are yet to be repaired or replaced. The neighbourhood plunges into darkness at night, making it easier for thieves to strike. On Saturday night, Soham Chakraborty, a resident of ED block, said he saw a man with a backpack climb over the main iron gate of a building that his flat overlooks. He said he was talking on his cellphone while standing near a window of his third-floor flat when he saw the man try to jump over the locked gate. “I immediately started shouting and the man ditched his attempt at scaling the gate and ran,” Chakraborty said. Another resident said she saw a man with a backpack slung over his shoulder scale the boundary wall of the complex and run away. Around midnight last Monday, corporate trainer Neena A. Ghosh Roy heard a noise and got up to investigate. Ghosh stays in a flat that is undergoing renovation. “Although it was dark, I could see that one of the windows of the room facing the elevator shaft was open and a man was peering inside. I immediately started shouting and the man disappeared. It was very scary,” said Ghosh. Alerted by her screams, Ghosh’s daughter and husband rushed in and called the police. When cops arrived and looked around the flat, they found a couple of slippers near the landing of the elevator shaft. “In all likelihood the man had climbed up the bamboo scaffolding put in place to facilitate construction work,” said an officer of Bidhannagar East police station. Later the same night, Sanghamitra Mukherjee, 69, heard a rustling sound coming from outside the bedroom of her ground-floor flat in an E Block building of Karunamoyee Housing Estate. “I woke up and walked out. The construction of a new wing along with an elevator is on at our building and I saw that somebody had been pulling out plastic sheets covering the scaffolding. I raised an alarm but the person ran away,” said Mukherjee, a former principal of Lady Brabourne College. She said they were living in fear as the area around their building has been plunging into darkness after sundown since Amphan damaged street lights on May 20. Sudhir Saha, the mayoral council member in charge of lights and parks of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation, said the contractor who repaired lights in the area had fallen sick. "Besides, most of his men have gone back home to Bihar. We are making do with very few people. I will ensure that the lights are repaired in the next few days," said Saha. The police are probing the theft attempts but have not been able to ascertain whether it was the same person or gang behind all. Several residents said police patrolling inside the housing estate was lax. “There is a police barracks on top of the Karunamoyee Municipal Market but... there is no patrolling at all,” said a resident who did not wish to be named. A senior officer of the Bidhannagar Commissionerate said that they would intensify patrolling inside the housing complex.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-317
07-09-2020||Calcutta||Family rescues woman molested inside car||A 31-year-old woman was allegedly molested by an acquaintance inside his car late on Saturday night and then thrown out onto EM Bypass, police said on Sunday. A mother travelling in another car with her family responded to the cry for help from inside the car at 11.50pm and got off to help the victim, a bank employee. But Nilanjana Chatterjee, the woman who had stopped to help, was left with a fractured leg and gash in the head when the assailant’s Honda City hit her during his hasty bid to flee. The bank employee, allegedly molested in the car near the Ruby intersection, had a swelling in the head from a wound and face injuries. Nilanjana was returning home with husband Deep Satpati and their daughter from her mother's birthday dinner at the Abhyudoy Housing Complex off EM Bypass at Anandapur. When the couple heard a woman scream for help from a car behind them on an otherwise deserted stretch, Satpati pulled over. “I realised that as a mother, I had to help someone who is not much older than my daughter,” Nilanjana, who is in hospital, told The Telegraph later. Satpati had positioned his Maruti Alto in a way that the Honda City would be forced to slow down. “Probably realising he was trapped, the man opened the front door and pushed the woman out,” a police officer said. “The road was deserted," Satpati recalled. “Nilanjana got off and walked to the left side of the Honda City, where the woman had been thrown out. As the Honda City made a U-turn to escape, one of its front wheels passed over Nilanjana’s left leg and the car’s nose hit her head, leaving her with a deep cut.” Satpati added: “Everything happened so fast that I couldn’t note down the car’s number.” Officers said the victim had told the police she had recently met the accused, who had introduced himself as Amitabha Bose, and had gone out for a drive in his car on Saturday night. Investigators have detained a man in connection with the case. The police have learnt that the woman hails from north Bengal and lives in rented lodgings in the city. They said she had told the police that trouble began when she asked to be dropped home. “According to the woman’s statement, she could sense danger when the man refused to take her home right away. As the vehicle was passing in front of the Abhyudoy Housing Complex, the woman again sternly asked him to drop her home,” an officer at Anandapaur police station said. The man then allegedly molested her and hit her, prompting her to cry out for help. Nilanjana said the victim was shivering in fear as she held her tightly. “I tried consoling her even after the car ran over one of my legs.” With both women crying in pain, Satpati dialled 100 to alert the police. Officers from Anandapur police station arrived quickly, while a traffic sergeant arranged for an ambulance. Sources said footage from the spot purportedly shows a Honda City passing a housing complex in one direction and, about a minute later, passing it again from the opposite direction at high speed. An official at the Ruby General Hospital said doctors had recommended that the woman undergo a CT scan and an X-ray but she refused and was allowed to leave in the presence of the police. He said Nilanjana had suffered fractures in her left tibia and fibula and would need surgery.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-317
07-09-2020||Business||GDP situation alarming, time for govt to act: Raghuram Rajan||Terming the 23.9 per cent fall in economic growth in June quarter alarming, former Reserve Bank Governor Raghuram Rajan has said bureaucracy should come out of complacency and take meaningful action. The current crisis requires a more thoughtful and active government, he said, adding unfortunately, after an initial burst of activity, it seems to have retreated into a shell. "The sharp decline in economic growth should alarm us all. The 23.9 per cent contraction in India (and the numbers will probably be worse when we get estimates of the damage in the informal sector) compares with a drop of 12.4 per cent in Italy and 9.5 per cent in the United States, two of the most Covid-19-affected advanced countries," Rajan wrote in a post on his LinkedIn page. He further said the bureaucracy needs to be frightened out of their complacency and into meaningful activity. "If there is a silver lining in the awful GDP numbers, hopefully it is that''. Rajan, currently a professor at the University of Chicago, said the Covid-19 pandemic is still raging in India, so discretionary spending, especially on high-contact services like restaurants, and the associated employment, will stay low until the virus is contained. The eminent economist pointed out that the government's reluctance to do more today seems partly because it wants to conserve resources for a possible future stimulus. "This strategy is self-defeating," he opined. Citing an example, Rajan said if one thinks of the economy as a patient, relief is the sustenance the patient needs while on the sickbed and fighting the disease. "Without relief, households skip meals, pull their children out of school and send them to work or beg, pledge their gold to borrow, let EMIs and rent arrears pile up, Essentially the patient atrophies, so by the time the disease is contained, the patient has become a shell of herself," he noted. Rajan stressed that the recent pick-up in sectors like auto is not an evidence of the much awaited V-shaped recovery. "It reflects pent-up demand, which will fade as we go down to the true level of demand in the damaged, partially-functioning, economy," he noted. Rajan pointed out that because of the pre-pandemic growth slowdown and the government's strained fiscal condition, officials believe it cannot spend on both relief and stimulus. "This mindset is too pessimistic, but the government will have to expand the resource envelope in every way possible, and spend as cleverly as possible," he said adding it also has to take every action that can move the economy forward without additional spending. "All this requires a more thoughtful and active government. Unfortunately, after an initial burst of activity, it seems to have retreated into a shell," the former RBI Governor added. Noting that India needs strong growth, not just to satisfy the aspirations of country's youth but to keep its unfriendly neighbours at bay, Rajan said temporary half-baked reforms , such as the recent suspension of labour protection laws in a number of states, will do little to enthuse industry or workers, and give reforms a bad name. He also suggested that reforms can be a form of stimulus, and even if not carried out immediately, a timeline to undertake them can boost current investor sentiment. "The world will recover earlier than India, so exports can be a way for India to grow," he opined. The government in May announced nearly Rs 21 lakh crore stimulus package to help the nation tide over the economic crisis induced by the coronavirus and subsequent lockdown. India's economy suffered its worst slump on record in April-June, with the gross domestic product (GDP) contracting by 23.9 per cent as the coronavirus-related lockdowns weighed on the already-declining consumer demand and investment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-296
07-09-2020||Business||Profitability eludes Indian unicorns||The profitability of Indian unicorns — start-ups with a valuation of more than a billion dollar — remains a distant dream even as their numbers are on the rise. A study by Hurun Report India shows that the top 10 unicorns of the country make up 78 per cent of the total value of Indian unicorns. Although behind the US, China and the UK, the number of unicorns is also on the rise with around six firms crossing the $1-billion threshold between March and August this year. However, the majority are yet to turn profitable. A study by Inc42 shows that from a sample set of 30 Indian unicorns, around 70 per cent of them have negative EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortisation) which means that they are losing money on a unit economic basis. According to industry observers, factors both deliberate and external are behind the dichotomy between high valuation and low profits. “Most companies don’t choose to be profitable as for them deploying capital to gain more market share and expand is a better use of the capital as in the longer term it helps them to achieve better unit economics of operations. The high valuation factors in the future potential of the business in terms of both profitability and scalability,” said Parthiv Neotia, director of Ambuja Neotia. Anas Rahman Junaid, MD of Hurun Report India, said that most of the established start-ups in the country are focussed on increasing the revenue per customer even if it means burning existing capital. This is being achieved through a combination of new customer acquisition, adding more services to expand the offerings and managing pricing. Despite losses, these firms are able to attract private equity and venture capital investors. “Private equity investments in start-ups are mostly based on higher valuations. However, actual profitability depends on ground realities and the execution of the projections and plans,” said Arindam Sarkar, partner, Khaitan and Co.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-296
07-09-2020||Business||Airtel, Jio in broadband tariff war||Telecom operator Bharti Airtel on Sunday launched “unlimited” category broadband plans starting at Rs 499 per month which will come bundled with subscription to video entertainment apps and high definition set-top box (STB) against refundable deposit. Airtel has enhanced high speed data usage limit (fair usage policy) by up to 23 times in the revised plans to 3,500 gigabytes. The move from Airtel comes within a week of its competitor Reliance Jio revising broadband plans with unlimited data usage and bundling subscription fee of video entertainment apps in them. The new and revised plans will be rolled out September 7 onwards across 125 cities where the company has operations, and in new cities where it will gradually expand its footprint, Airtel said in a statement. The new plans will comprise an entry level plan of Rs 499 with promised speed of 40 megabits per second and revised Rs 799, Rs 999 and Rs 1,499 plans with data limit of up to 3,500GB at promised speed in those plans, it said. The JioFiber entry level plan comes at Rs 399 with unlimited data and download and upload speed of 30 megabits per second. The offer comes with the Netflix subscription and is valid from September 1. Telecom regulator Trai has granted additional time, till September 8, to Vodafone Idea to reply to its show-cause notice on priority plan, after the company sought more time to respond. The Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (Trai) last month slapped a show-cause notice on Vodafone Idea Ltd  over its pay-more-for-priority  mobile plan, saying the tariff offer “lacks transparency” and is “misleading” and not in compliance with the regulatory framework.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-296
07-09-2020||Business||Queries on BPCL staff retention ||The government will provide guidance on employee protection, asset stripping and business continuity in Bharat Petroleum Corp Ltd (BPCL) to potential acquirers of the company only at a later stage of bidding, according to privatisation rules issued by the disinvestment department. The government is selling its entire 52.98 per cent stake in the country’s second-largest fuel retailer and third-biggest oil refiner. Preliminary expressions of interest (EoIs) are due on September 30, which will be followed by qualified bidders being asked to submit financial or price bids. The department of investment and public asset management (Dipam) has issued clarifications on queries raised by potential bidders for the government stake in BPCL. On a query on restrictions relating to employee protection, asset stripping, business continuity and lock-in of shares, Dipam said, “This information shall be provided to the qualified interested parties (QIPs) in the RFP/ SPA (request for proposal/share purchase agreement).” Labour laws are said to be one of the many considerations that will guide bids, particularly those from foreign firms. A potential acquirer of BPCL may want to shed excess workforce as well as strip some of the non-essential assets such as land and buildings. BPCL will give the acquirer access to 15.33 per cent of India’s oil refining limit and a 22 per cent market share in the world’s fastest-growing fuel market. While the acquirer of government stake will have to make the mandatory open offer to buy 26 per cent from minority shareholders of BPCL on the same terms, the government advised the bidders to consult their legal counsels on the issue of such offers becoming mandatory for listed entities where BPCL may hold a stake.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-296
07-09-2020||Business||Fitness points in health cover||Health insurance holders can now win reward points for keeping to a pre-specified “wellness regime” that will enable them to win discounts on premium and in availing themselves health-specific services. The Insuance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI) has come out with the guidelines on wellness and preventive measures, a step that formalises a long pending request from the insurers in a competitive market. “As part of promoting a wellness and preventive regime, insurers may offer reward points to those policyholders who comply with or meet a set of criteria of wellness and preventive measures,” the regulator said. Health specific services to get discounts include outpatient consultations or treatment, check-ups and diagnostics, and pharmaceuticals. Insurers can offer  redeemable vouchers to obtain health supplements and membership in yoga centres, gymnasiums, sports clubs and fitness centres. The can also offer discounts on premiums and/or increase the sum assured at the time of renewals based on the wellness regime followed by policyholders in the preceding policy period,  provided the increase is not linked to any cumulative bonus. In the case of more than one reward, the policyholder has to choose one. Insurers, however, will have to meet certain criteria. They will have have to file the methodology and criteria used to calculate the reward points. The pricing impact of wellness and preventive measures have to be disclosed upfront. Insurers cannot promote products or services of any third-party service providers. Other than the monetised value of the reward points redeemed by the policyholders, no payment shall be made by the insurers to the third party merchants. Insurers in turn shall not also receive any consideration amount from the third-party merchants. The reward points cannot be linked to any dynamic factor such as interest rates and have to specify in the policy contract whether the accrued points can be carried forward or not.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-296
07-09-2020||Business||HDFC offers rate subsidy||HDFC on Sunday said it has approved home loans of over Rs 47,000 crore to more than 2 lakh buyers belonging to the economically weaker groups under the government’s credit-linked subsidy scheme (CLSS). HDFC said it has passed on interest subsidy of more than Rs 4,700 crore to these beneficiaries under this Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY) programme. Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana is the flagship housing scheme of the government. CLSS was introduced in June 2015 under PMAY for home loans to customers from the economically weaker section (EWS), low-income group (LIG) and middle-income groups (MIG) from January 2017. According to the scheme, borrowers are eligible for interest subsidy of 6.5 per cent per annum for loans up to Rs 6 lakh for EWS and LIG category (annual household income up to Rs 6 lakh). Borrowers in the MIG 1 category (annual household income between Rs 6-12 lakh) will get an interest subsidy of 4 per cent for loans up to Rs 9 lakh. The MIG 2 category (annual household income between Rs 12-18lakh) will get interest subsidy of 3 per cent for loans up to Rs 12 lakh. The benefit are for a maximum tenure of 20 years. The effective subsidy to customer is in the range of Rs 2.30-2.67 lakh on a 20-year term, receivable upfront. The schemes for MIG categories have been extended till March 31, 2021 and those for EWS/LIG are valid up to March 31, 2022. Renu Sud Karnad, managing director of HDFC Ltd, said, demand for housing will pick up gradually as the economy emerges out of the current difficult period and confidence in the economy is restored. “One must not forget that structural demand for housing for India will always be strong due to factors such as improved affordability, government’s thrust on affordable housing, favourable demographics, increasing urbanisation and rising aspirations,” Karnad said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-296
07-09-2020||Business||Tax caveat on PUBG clones ||Gaming companies looking to profit from the ban on PUBG with their alternative offerings need to be aware whether their product comes under the ambit of gambling  that will make them taxable. Games such as HitWicket, World Cricket Championship (WCC) or mythology-based games such as Raji are expected to take advantage of this opportunity and there’s a need for the government to recognise and promote such segments in India, said Lokesh Suji, director, Esports Federation of India. India is among the top five mobile gaming markets in the world and with Covid-19 this trend of more users and more time being spent on games is only multiplying. The three key segments of online gaming are — real money games (RMG), mobile-centric/casual games and e-sports. Within the RMG genre, the further sub classifications include rummy, poker, daily fantasy sports and quizzing. However, developers have to be wary of  the Public Gambling Act, 1867, adopted by several states. Though skill-based games do not come under gambling but analysts said they are open to wide interpretations under the rules. “Gaming companies should be careful regarding whether their model could be considered gambling or not. The rate of GST could change from 18 per cent to 28 per cent if it is gambling,” Meyyappan Nagappan, leader, digital tax, Nishith Desai Associate, said. “Other tax issues that can come up in real cash games is that tax authorities typically claim that GST has to be paid on the whole cash amount and not just the service fee part. Some of these aspects are pending before courts and considering the huge impact on revenues this could have, companies should tread carefully and seek proper legal advice,” Meyyappan added. “E-sports and other forms of real money skill gaming are different genres and one should not be confused with the other. Developers looking at innovating to bridge the void that PubG has left, should keep in mind compliance with content laws as well as intellectual property laws,” Ranjana Adhikari, co-head, Gaming, Nishith Desai Associates said. The ban on PUBG Mobile presents a great opportunity for indigenous home grown game development studios to showcase their talent and create exciting game formats, said Roland Landers, the CEO of All India Gaming Federation. “We are confident that games like Rogue Heist, a multi-player online shooter game, designed and developed in India, will fill the need gap,” Landers said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-296
07-09-2020||Business||Centre wants air fare refund||The Centre has informed the Supreme Court that all domestic and international airlines were bound to refund money to passengers who had cancelled their domestic and international travel plans during the lockdown period from March 25 to May 3 because of the unprecedented pandemic situation — a move which is likely to bring cheers to lakhs of air passengers across the country. Though the airlines shall “immediately” refund the amount under the existing rules, however, in view of the financial crunch faced by the airlines, the Centre has suggested that it has agreed to give the option of “credit shell” to such passengers till March 31, 2021. If not utilised by that time, the airlines shall refund immediately thereafter. In an affidavit filed before the apex court, the ministry of civil aviation has said the refusal of the airlines to refund the amount would involve various punitive measures against such errant operators and has accordingly formulated a refund schedule by the airlines for the approval of the Supreme Court which is expected to take up the matter on September 9. The airlines shall refund all statutory taxes and user development fees, airport development fees, passenger service fee (PSF) in the case of cancellation or non-utilisation of tickets or a no show. This provision shall also be applicable to all 10 types of fares offered, including promos/special fares and where the basic fare is non-refundable. The affidavit has been filed by O.K. Gupta, director of the directorate general of civil aviation, in compliance with a directive issued by the court on June 6 to explain the stance on the refund of cancelled air tickets, in a PIL complaining about the refusal of the airlines both domestic and international to refund the cancelled tickets during the lockdown period. “The existing legal regime which is governed by Civil Aviation Requirements (CAR) recognises the rights of air passengers to seek refund of their air tickets. The said CARs are to protect the interest of air passengers so that in case of any violation of the provisions of the applicable CARs, appropriate enforcement action can be taken against the violator and the violation can be treated as deficiency of service and the passenger may also approach appropriate legal forum for availing legal remedy and redressing his/her grievances. “The policy of the central government is that every individual passenger has a right to seek refund of those tickets, the flight for which was cancelled without any fault of his/her. It is stated that non-refund of such fares amount to violation of provisions of the CAR. The said CAR is necessary to protect the interest of air passengers,”the affidavit filed through advocate V. Balram Das stated. Accordingly, the Centre has suggested the following formulations for approval by the apex court: If the domestic tickets have been booked during the first lockdown period, that is 25th of March, 2020 to 14th of April, 2020 for the journeys to be undertaken in both the first and second lockdown period, that is from 25th of March, 2020 to 3rd of May, 2020, in all such cases, full refund shall be given by the airlines immediately. For all other cases, the airlines shall make all endeavours to refund the collected amount to the passenger within 15 days. If on account of financial distress, if the airlines are not able to do so they shall provide a credit shell equal to the amount of fare collected.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-296
07-09-2020||Business||Marginal growth on the horizon||A small positive economic growth in 2020-21 may not be ruled out as sectors such as agriculture and essential goods and services were fully operational in the first quarter despite the coronavirus-induced lockdown, according to a paper co-authored by former RBI governor C. Rangarajan. Rangarajan and India EY India chief policy advisor D. K. Srivastava in a paper titled “India’s Growth Prospects and Policy Options: Emerging from the Pandemic’s Shadow” stated that the story of the Indian economy as it unfolds under the impact of Covid-19 is disquieting. The paper noted that although many national and international agencies have projected a sharp contraction in the GDP in 2020-21, ranging from the World Bank’s projection of 3.2 per cent to SBI’s 6.8 per cent, there are reasons to believe that the outcome may be better than these strong contractionary prospects. “We may note that some key sectors such as agriculture and related sectors, public administration, defence services and other services may perform normally or better than normal given the demand for health services,” the paper said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-296
07-09-2020||Business||ITC gets a new CFO||ITC Ltd is going to have a new helmsman to steer its finances. Supratim Dutta, a lifer at the company, has been elevated as the chief financial officer (CFO) of the company. Following Dutta’s appointment from September 5, Rajiv Tandon will relinquish the role of CFO he held for close to a decade. Tandon will, however, continue to remain on the board of ITC as a wholetime director. Dutta will report to him. In the annual general meeting of the company on Friday, shareholders approved Tandon’s reappointment on the board of directors for one year with effect from July 22, 2021. Before joining the ITC board on January 22, 2016, Tandon, 66, was the CFO of the company. He continued to hold the post till the elevation of Dutta, who was designated as the corporate finance controller of ITC before the management shake-up. Dutta, 53, joined ITC on November 1, 1990, soon after qualifying as a chartered accountant and cost accountant. “He has wide ranging experience in the company for nearly 30 years, covering various aspects of finance, including planning, treasury, M&A, accounting, taxation, IT, investor relations and business strategy,” ITC said in a filing to the bourses. He was also the chairperson of the finance and banking committee of the Bengal Chamber of Commerce & Industry. Abneesh Roy, executive vice-president of Edelweiss Securities, termed the organisational restructuring as positive for ITC. “The average age of the top management continues to reduce, started earlier by the appointment of Sanjiv Puri as the chairman. He is quite accessible to the investors,” Roy said. In March this year, Vikas Gupta became the divisional chief executive of education and stationery business, while Rajnikant Rai was made the divisional chief executive of the agri business in July 2020. During the AGM, at least one shareholder had commented on the age of the board of directors. However, chairman and managing director Sanjiv Puri, who is 58, said age was not a factor to look at. “You should judge the effectiveness of a board and quality of governance, result and stakeholder management. And you will agree in all these respects, it has been exemplary,” Puri had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-297
07-09-2020||Business||Some number crunching on which tax regime should work best for those with home loans||From 2020-21, you have the option of planning your taxes based on one of the two tax regimes. The new tax regime, for which you will file your returns in AY2021-22, allows you to pay a lower rate of tax. But to avail it, you must forgo your tax deductions such as those under Sections 80C, 80D, and 24B. You could, of course, claim those deductions by remaining in the old regime but you’ll have to pay a higher tax rate there. At lower levels of income, the choice may be straightforward. You don’t need to pay any income tax if your taxable income is Rs 5 lakh or less. Even at a slightly higher income, if you don’t want the hassle of tax savings and want to enjoy a higher disposable income, the new regime may be the one for you. However, if you have committed to tax-saving measures, such as a home loan, life and health insurance, provident fund, NPS and others, the choice is more complicated. Some of these instruments are critical to your finances because they serve a larger function than just tax deductions. Giving them up isn’t an option. At the same time, is remaining in the old regime in your best interest? After all, your tax outgo may be simply lower in the new regime. How do you decide? The old regime with its higher tax rates is for those committed to various tax-saving measures. A home loan is one of the easiest ways to get sizeable tax deductions. All taxpayers are eligible for deductions up to Rs 1.5 lakh under Section 80C and up to Rs 2 lakh under Section 24B for principal and interest paid, respectively. Eligible borrowers can get further deductions for their home loans under Sections 80EE or 80EEA. Given that your home loan may be providing you deductions of more than Rs 2 lakh a year in many cases, and upwards of Rs 4 lakh in some rare cases, there may be a case for you to remain in the old regime. To make the case, you must do the math. To simplify the decision making process of the old versus new regime, you can apply the 20 per cent formula. Check if all your tax deductions combined are 20 per cent of your income. So, for example, if your income is Rs 10 lakh, your various deductions combined should be at least Rs 2 lakh. Even before you take a home loan, buy insurance or make tax-saving investments such as PPF, you may be eligible for several deductions. For example, all individual tax-payers are eligible for a standard deduction of Rs 50,000. Apart from this, you may claim deductions for such items as your office PF contributions, children’s tuition fees or rent. All put together, do your deductions reach 20 per cent of your income? If so, you should remain in the old regime. As Table1 demonstrates, at all levels of income, the old regime is better if you can get 20 per cent deductions. Do note this is merely a rule of thumb. You must refer to your particular income numbers to understand what is best for you. Use an online tax calculator to understand the numbers. Your home loan provides you a way to streamline your tax deductions. With it, you can get a large deduction of up to Rs  3.5 lakh under 80C and 24B. If you can hit the Rs 1.5 lakh limit under 80C with your principal paid, you don’t need additional tax-saving investments — and, therefore, you can also avoid the often messy trail of paperwork and proofs. If you’re falling short of the 80C limit with your principal payments, you could simply prepay your home loan to that extent. Your home loan deductions put together with your standard deduction (16IA) health insurance (80D), NPS (80CCD1), LTA [10(5)], education loan (80E), donations (80G) and others may bring your total deductions to 20 per cent. If you’re falling short, you can invest higher. If you cannot invest higher, you may be better off forgoing all deductions and opting for the new regime. At higher levels of income — let’s say upwards of Rs 20 lakh — the caps on deductions may make it difficult to reach the 20 per cent mark. Even home loan deductions taken to the fullest may fall short. But this can only be ascertained once you’ve done the math by calculating your tax liabilities in either regime. You may find that the new regime works best for you despite the heavy contributions you are making towards your home loan. Picking the right regime could save you thousands of rupees. When in doubt, speak to a tax adviser. The writer is CEO, BankBazaar.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-297
07-09-2020||India||ED arrests former ICICI Bank CEO Chanda Kochhar's husband on money laundering charges||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Monday arrested Deepak Kochhar, husband of former ICICI Bank CEO and MD Chanda Kochhar, in connection with the ICICI Bank-Videocon money laundering case probe, officials said.  They said Deepak Kochhar was arrested in Mumbai under sections of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) and the agency is expected to produce him before a local court on Tuesday to seek his custody.  Officials said Deepak Kochhar was placed under arrest as the agency wants to put him under custodial interrogation to obtain more details about some fresh evidence gathered in this case, that was filed under the criminal sections of the anti-money laundering law in January last year.  The ED had filed its case after studying an FIR registered by the CBI against the couple, Videocon Group promoter Venugopal Dhoot and others.  It slapped money laundering charges against the Kochhars and their business entities for "illegal sanctioning of loans amounting to Rs 1,875 crore to the Videocon Group of companies".  The ED had earlier said an amount of Rs 64 crore, out of the loan amount of Rs 300 crore sanctioned by a committee headed by Chanda Kochhar to Videocon International Electronics Limited, was transferred to Nupower Renewables Pvt Ltd (NRPL) by Videocon Industries Limited on September 8, 2009, just a day after disbursement of the loan by ICICI Bank. NRPL was earlier known as NuPower Renewables Limited (NRL) and is a company of Deepak Kochhar.  The agency had alleged that the "net revenue of Rs 10.65 crore was generated by NRL from these tainted funds".  "Therefore, proceeds of crime amounting to Rs 74.65 crore were transferred to or to say generated in NRPL," the ED had claimed.  The ED, early this year, also attached assets -- including a Mumbai flat where the couple lived, land, and plant and machinery of a wind farm project based in Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra -- valued at Rs 78 crore "in possession of" Chanda Kochhar, Deepak Kochhar and the companies owned and controlled by him.  It had said Chanda Kochhar and her family "acquired" the Mumbai apartment, owned by one of the Videocon Group companies, by way of "acquiring that company through her family trust at a nominal price and by creating book entries".  The couple has been questioned by the central probe agency multiple times in the past at its offices in Mumbai and Delhi.  The CBI, in its FIR, had named Chanda Kochhar, Deepak Kochhar, Dhoot and his companies -- Videocon International Electronics Ltd (VIEL) and Videocon Industries Limited (VIL).  It also named Supreme Energy, a company founded by Dhoot, and Nupower Renewables, a company controlled by Deepak Kochhar, in its FIR.  The CBI slapped sections of the Indian Penal Code related to criminal conspiracy, cheating and provisions of the Prevention of Corruption Act on all the accused.  The CBI alleged that Dhoot had invested in Deepak Kochhar's company Nupower through his firm Supreme Energy, a quid pro quo to loans cleared by ICICI Bank after Chanda Kochhar took over as the CEO of the bank on May 1, 2009.  The ownership of Nupower and Supreme Energy changed hands through a complex web of shared transactions between Deepak Kochhar and Dhoot, the CBI had alleged.  During its preliminary enquiry, the CBI found that six loans worth Rs 1,875 crore were sanctioned to the Videocon Group and companies associated with it between June, 2009 and October, 2011 in alleged violation of laid-down policies of ICICI Bank.  "Existing outstanding in the accounts of these private group companies were adjusted in Rupee Term Loan of Rs 1,730 crore sanctioned by ICICI Bank under refinance of domestic debt under consortium arrangement on April 26, 2012," a CBI spokesperson had said.  The loans were declared non-performing assets in 2012, causing a loss of Rs 1,730 crore to the bank, it had alleged.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-684
07-09-2020||India||Kangana Ranaut to be given Y-plus category security||Kangana Ranaut has been given Y-plus category security and will be protected by about 10 armed commandos, the Union Home Ministry said on Monday, prompting the Bollywood actor to thank Home Minister Amit Shah and declare that no one could crush a patriot. The decision to provide 24X7 security comes two days before Ranaut, who is in her home state Himachal Pradesh and had likened Mumbai to Pakistan occupied Kashmir, plans to visit Mumbai on September 9. Ranaut, whose comments led to a spat with Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut, had said she felt unsafe in Mumbai after the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput and also spoke of drug use in a section of the film industry. Describing the Queen star as a daughter of Himachal Pradesh, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur issued a video statement on Monday welcoming the decision to provide her with CRPF security. He said the Central and the state governments are providing security to the actor and would do whatever necessary for her security. "I have got information that an 11-member commando team of the CRPF has been provided by the Ministry of Home Affairs for her security yesterday. I welcome this decision and also express my gratitude to union home minister... her security is important for us", he said. A Union Home ministry official explained that Y-plus category central cover entails the deployment of about 10 armed commandos who will work in shifts around the clock, he explained. Ranaut, often in the eye of the storm for her provocative comments, went on Twitter to express gratitude for the security being provided to her. "This shows that no one can crush a patriot in the country. I am thankful to Home Minister Amit Shah," she said. "Had he (Amit Shah) wanted, he would have told me to visit Mumbai later but he respected India's daughter and acknowledged my self-respect. Jai Hind," Ranaut added. In his statement, the Himachal Pradesh chief minister said state police would provide security at the actor's Manali residence and he had directed the director general of police to assess the security threat. If it is necessary, Himachal Pradesh is ready to provide her security during her tours, he said. On Sunday, he said his government decided to provide the actor security after her father and sister sought protection for her. BJP leader Ram Kadam recently asked the Shiv Sena-led Maharashtra government to provide police protection to Ranaut since "she wanted to expose the Bollywood drug nexus". Responding to Kadam's tweet, the actor said she feared Mumbai Police more than the "movie mafia", and would prefer security either from Himachal Pradesh or the Centre. Reacting strongly to her comment, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut purportedly said, "We kindly request her not to come to Mumbai. This is nothing but an insult to Mumbai Police." Hitting back, Ranaut tweeted, "Why is Mumbai feeling like Pakistan-occupied-Kashmir?" The actor also tagged a September 1 news report on Raut asking her not to return to Mumbai if she was afraid of the city police. In a tweet stating that she would be returning to Mumbai on September 9, Ranaut had dared anyone to stop her. Sena MLA Pratap Saranik hit back with a slap threat and said she should be arrested for sedition. Ranaut also asked Raut to apologise for his remarks against her. Raut on Sunday said he would consider doing so only if she apologises for her "insulting" remarks against Mumbai and Maharashtra.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-684
07-09-2020||India||India-made hypersonic technology demonstrator vehicle successfully tested||India on Monday successfully flight-tested the indigenously-developed hypersonic technology demonstration vehicle (HSTDV), joining a select group of countries having the capability to develop the next-generation hypersonic cruise missiles, officials said. The HSTDV, based on hypersonic propulsion technologies and developed by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO), will help India develop futuristic space assets like long-range missile systems and aerial platforms, they said. The HSTDV is capable of powering missiles to attain a speed of around Mach 6 or six times the speed of sound, the officials said, adding only a very few countries like the US, Russia and China have such a capability. "The DRDO has successfully demonstrated the hypersonic air-breathing scramjet technology with the flight test of hypersonic technology demonstration vehicle at 1103 hours from APJ Abdul Kalam launch complex at Wheeler Island, off the coast of Odisha today," the defence ministry said in a statement. The HSTDV operates on a scramjet engine, as against the ramjet engine which is used on most missiles. The ramjet engines operate at supersonic speeds of up to Mach 3. The ministry said all the performance parameters have indicated a resounding success of the mission. The successful test comes over a year after a similar attempt did not provide expected results. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh congratulated the DRDO over the successful test-flight of the HSTDV, calling it a "landmark achievement". "I congratulate DRDO on this landmark achievement towards realising PM's vision of Atmanirbhar Bharat. I spoke to the scientists associated with the project and congratulated them on this great achievement. India is proud of them," he tweeted. A DRDO official said that with the successful test flight of the HSTDV, India has demonstrated capabilities for highly complex technology that will serve as the building block for next-generation hypersonic vehicles in partnership with the domestic defence industry. The defence ministry said the parameters of launch and cruise vehicle, including the scramjet engine, were monitored by multiple tracking radars, electro-optical systems and telemetry stations. "The scramjet engine worked at high dynamic pressure and very high temperature. A ship was also deployed in the Bay of Bengal to monitor the performance during the cruise phase of hypersonic vehicle," the ministry said. With the successful test, it said many critical technologies such as aerodynamic configuration for hypersonic manoeuvres, use of scramjet propulsion for ignition and sustained combustion at hypersonic were proven and validated. It said the hypersonic cruise vehicle was launched using a proven rocket motor, which took it to an altitude of 30 kilometres where the aerodynamic heat shields were separated. "The cruise vehicle separated from the launch vehicle and the air intake opened as planned. The hypersonic combustion sustained and the cruise vehicle continued on its desired flight path at a velocity of six times the speed of sound," the ministry said. It said the critical events like fuel injection and auto ignition of scramjet demonstrated technological maturity and that the scramjet engine performed in a "textbook manner".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-684
07-09-2020||India||Collective responsibility to implement NEP in letter and spirit, says PM||The new National Education Policy (NEP) policy focuses on learning instead of studying and goes beyond curriculum to focus on critical thinking, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Monday asserting that it is a collective responsibility of all stakeholders to implement the policy in letter and spirit. In the NEP, first since 1986, the pressure on students for taking specific streams have been removed, he said. "Our youth will now be able to learn according to their interests," he said while addressing the inaugural session at the 'Governors' conference on the Role of NEP in Transforming Higher Education'. Earlier, students used to pick a stream beyond their aptitude and they would realise it much later, and these problems have been addresses in the NEP, the prime minister said. With vocational exposure right from early age, our youth will get better prepared for life, he said, adding that their participation in the global job market and employability in India will increase with practical learning. The prime minister said that the education policy like defence and foreign policies is not of the government but of the country. India has been ancient centre of learning, and the government is working to make it hub of knowledge economy in the 21st century, he said. "It is our collective responsibility that the policy is implemented in letter and spirit. The more teachers, parents, students are associated with education policy, the more relevant and broadbased it will be," the PM added. The prime minister said that new policy has paved way for international institutions to set up their campuses in India. The NEP approved by the Union Cabinet in July replaces the 34-year-old National Policy on Education framed in 1986 and is aimed at paving the way for transformational reforms in school and higher education systems to make India a global knowledge superpower.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-684
07-09-2020||India||New Delhi Metro service resumes||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-684
07-09-2020||India||Seer, whose loss was India’s win, is no more||Kesavananda Bharati vs State of Kerala (Case citation: AIR 1973 SC 1461). Kesavananda Bharati, whose name generations of Indians would have come across while reading legal news reports, passed away in Kerala on Sunday. He was 79. The seer was the principal force that unwittingly set the stage for the landmark Supreme Court judgment that laid down that Parliament cannot alter the basic structure of the Constitution. Hailed as the case that saved Indian democracy, it was heard by a record 13-member bench for 68 days and the 7-6 verdict was delivered on April 24, 1973. Ironically, Bharati, the pontiff of Edneer Mutt in Kasaragod in north Kerala, did not win the case. The judgment had shocked many then because it assumed that elected representatives cannot be trusted with sweeping powers. But the tide turned in two years when Indira Gandhi declared the Emergency and passed the infamous Clause 4 of the 39th amendment that sought to keep the offices of the President, Vice-President, Prime Minister and the Speaker outside the purview of the courts. The provision was eventually struck down and “the doctrine of basic structure” restored. Many credit Nani Palkhivala, the legendary jurist who represented Bharati, with extending the ambit of the case that led to the landmark judgment. The verdict has gained added relevance in contemporary India, arming the apex court with a powerful weapon should it choose to fight against majoritarianism. The 1973 judgment is “an ideological and theoretical weapon against majoritarianism and electoral populism. It is a safeguard against the majoritarian onslaught that tries to destroy the very base of Indian democracy,” senior advocate Kaleeswaram Raj told The Telegraph on Sunday. “I would call the judgment the first predominant instance of judicial activism in India,” Raj, who practises in the Supreme Court, said while speaking on the passing of Bharati. “It added something very important to the text of the Constitution — the basic structure. Neither in the Constituent Assembly debates nor in the draft of the fundamental law would one find such a phrase. The Constitution of India lacked such a phrase, or omitted it wilfully, as many believe.” Bharati had challenged Kerala’s land reform laws after his ashram lost land. Senior advocate Arvind P. Datar recalled that Bharati had moved Kerala High Court. However, Parliament adopted the 29th constitutional amendment, giving protection to the Kerala laws. The seer then moved the Supreme Court. The apex court ruled that the 29th amendment was valid and held that the two Kerala land acts included in the Ninth Schedule were entitled to the protection of Article 31B (validation of certain acts and regulations) of the Constitution. The verdict held that although Parliament had the power of amendment under Article 368 of the Constitution, it lacked the power to emasculate the Constitution’s basic features. While the seer did not get the relief he wanted, the case became a milestone as it led to the clipping of Parliament’s wide powers to amend the Constitution and simultaneously gave the judiciary the authority to review any amendment. “By way of a judicial synthesis, the verdict in (the) Kesavananda Bharati (case) said that the Constitution has a basic structure that takes in the fundamental rights, republicanism, independent judiciary, etc, within its umbrella,” said Raj, the Supreme Court lawyer. “It said that even if Parliament has the power to amend the Constitution under Article 368, it cannot destroy the basic features.” Sounding a word of caution, Raj said: “Even after the verdict, the Indira Gandhi regime altered the Constitution by way of structural amendments.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-685
07-09-2020||India||Contradictory stands that riot book author took||At least one of the authors of a book on the Delhi riots who are protesting against its withdrawal by the publisher had earlier helped fight a lawsuit against another book that led to its recall. The riot book’s three authors met police commissioner S.N. Srivastava on Thursday and lodged a complaint against British publisher Bloomsbury for shelving their book, and against several authors, publications and activists who had urged a boycott of the volume. Bloomsbury withdrew the book — Delhi Riots 2020: The Untold Story by lawyer Monika Arora and Delhi University teachers Prerna Malhotra and Sonali Chitalkar — last month following allegations that it falsely portrayed the riot victims as the perpetrators. This has led to a public debate over the freedom of expression. But one of its authors, Arora, had argued differently when the question of pulling another book had come up. Arora had earlier represented Hindutva activist Dinanath Batra who had waged a legal battle from 2010 to get Penguin Books India to withdraw American scholar Wendy Doniger’s The Hindus: An Alternative History. In 2014, the publisher agreed to withdraw the Indian edition and pulp all its remaining copies rather than risk punishment under Section 295A of the Indian Penal Code that criminalises insults to religion. Since Bloomsbury’s pullout of the riot book last month, supporters of the authors have been invoking the freedom of expression to attack the book’s critics. Little prevents Arora from representing any client, and the arguments put forth on behalf of the client need not reflect the personal views of the lawyer. However, the tone of a statement Arora had issued as the advocate for Batra after the settlement of the Penguin India case in 2004 stands out now. “This lynch mob and intolerant pseudo-secularists in the name of freedom of expression are crying from rooftops and demanding freedom of defamation.... This intolerant section has one motto, damn everyone who does not agree with them in the name of freedom of expression,” the statement had said. Arora, who contested as a BJP candidate in the 2003 Assembly polls, had not respond till Sunday evening to a query from The Telegraph on the contrast between her arguments on book withdrawals in 2014 and 2020. The book on the Delhi riots is based on a fact-finding report Arora, Malhotra and Chitalkar had authored at the initiative of the Group of Intellectuals and Academicians (GIA), which was submitted to the home ministry in March. The report blamed the riots, which claimed 53 lives, on the protests against the new citizenship regime that began last December. The GIA had previously prepared a controversial report on the gang rape and murder in 2018 of an eight-year-old girl in Kathua, Jammu, where the accused were Hindus and the victim a Muslim. Its authors, who included Arora and Chitalkar, had claimed that it was not a gang rape and that the suspects had been tortured and local people harassed by police. The police had rebutted the charges and cited the girl’s post-mortem report that confirmed gang rape. In 2019, three of the accused were convicted of gang rape and murder and three others of destruction of evidence. News of the launch of the riot book last month had led to several authors previously published by Bloomsbury dissociating themselves from the publisher. Bloomsbury then withdrew the book on the ground that the authors had organised its online launch without informing it, “with participation by parties of whom the publishers would not have approved”. At the virtual launch, BJP national general secretary and Rajya Sabha member Bhupendra Yadav had “released” the book along with party leader Kapil Mishra, accused by the Delhi Minorities Commission as the main provocateur of the riots. The authors have disputed Bloomsbury’s claim of ignorance of the launch event. In their police complaint, which Srivastava received in person in an unusual move, the authors have said: “A venomous campaign emerged on social media especially Twitter when this group of individuals/ propagandists widely known as the ‘Urban Naxal Gang’ conspired and went all out to kill the book by pressurising, intimidating, bullying and blackmailing the publisher.” They accused Delhi University sociology professor Nandini Sundar of “illegal receipt and retention of stolen property” —a reference to the text Nandini had read and found fault with. Nandini had earlier sent the authors a notice for allegedly defaming her in the book after unknown sources freely circulated the manuscript within the academic community. In her notice, Nandini had cited the following sentence as an example of the alleged falsehood the book propagates: “Professor Nandini Sundar, a well-known protagonist of break India, had told Karan Thapar in an interview on now-defunct Tiranga TV channel that she stood for the breaking of India into smaller independent states premised on ethnicity and religion.” Nandini had written on Facebook: “I have never given an interview to Karan Thapar on Tiranga and nowhere said that I support the breaking of India into smaller independent states based on ethnicity and religion.” On Thursday, quoting the charge levelled against her in the authors’ police complaint, Nandini wrote on Facebook: “There have been tweets and news reports about the contents of the book since August 22, when the chief guest of the launch function himself tweeted: ‘The book is public now’. Monika Arora, who was best situated to judge whether these reports were based on ‘stolen property’, has chosen to keep quiet about it till now.” Nandini added: “If Arora or Bloomsbury have not complained about any ‘stolen property’ (till Thursday), what business is it of mine ‘to take any appropriate legal measures to bring it to the notice of authorities’?” The police complaint, tweeted by the authors, says Nandini should have brought her receipt of the “stolen property” to the notice of the authorities. In Thursday’s Facebook post, Nandini had underlined that Arora had till then not responded to the notice or denied its contention. “Significantly, Ms Arora does not deny that the ‘stolen’ book contains inaccurate statements about myself that infringe the law. Yet, as a restrained measure, I just brought it to their notice. This reaction (police complaint) is laughable,” Nandini wrote.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-685
07-09-2020||India||China sends more troops, tanks to Ladakh ||An “aggressive” China has deployed additional troops and tanks at multiple friction points in Ladakh since the latest confrontation on the Pangong Lake’s south bank in late August, sources in the security establishment said. With both countries sticking to their positions during Friday night’s one-to-one meeting between their defence ministers, disengagement appears “difficult” for now, defence ministry officials and military veterans suggested. “High-resolution satellite images suggest that the People’s Liberation Army has further strengthened its position at the standoff points. They are building more military structures, besides deploying more soldiers and tanks,” an Intelligence Bureau official said. A veteran said: “What we are noticing is heightened territorial aggression by China although it has been talking about carrying forward the dialogue for a complete disengagement from the standoff points. Their actions do not match their words.” The Chinese have dug in 8km inside India-claimed lines on the northern bank of the Pangong Lake, besides grabbing land at the Hot Springs and on the Depsang Plains. On August 29 and 31, the Chinese had made provocative moves and tried to alter the status quo unilaterally on the Pangong Lake’s south bank but were foiled by Indian soldiers, army sources have said. Later, Indian soldiers occupied key ridges on the lake’s south bank, an area claimed by both sides. “Tensions are soaring near the latest flashpoint as the Chinese have continued to deploy more men and machines,” a defence ministry official said. “Amid the heightened aggressive posture from the Chinese, India’s army too has increased its strength to counter any threat.” The official said any disengagement seemed “difficult” at this time. “Right now we are holding on to our ground and the focus is on ensuring they do not ingress further,” he said. Another veteran said the result of the ongoing talks seemed to be “zero”. “So far, there are no visible actions on the ground. (Defence minister) Rajnath Singh did send a strong message to his Chinese counterpart saying India is determined to protect its territorial integrity,” he said. “His problem is that our Prime Minister said (on June 19) that there was no intrusion.” Rajnath has asked China to respect the Line of Actual Control, not try to unilaterally change the status quo, and work with India towards complete disengagement from all the friction areas in eastern Ladakh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-685
07-09-2020||India||Covid surge prod to 35 districts||The Union health ministry on Sunday pointed to surges in new coronavirus disease cases and high mortality in 35 districts, including four in Bengal, and has deployed central health teams to Chandigarh and Punjab that are also displaying worrying trends. Health secretary Rajesh Bhushan, in a videoconference with state and district officials, underscored the need for local authorities to scale up testing, containment measures and door-to-door surveillance to achieve early diagnosis, effective case monitoring and hospitalisation if required. Calcutta, Howrah, North 24-Parganas and South 24-Parganas are among the 35 districts that also include Mumbai, Pune and Thane among 17 districts in Maharashtra, 11 districts in Delhi, Surat in Gujarat, Puducherry, and East Singbhum in Jharkhand. The health ministry had on Friday named 15 districts in Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Punjab, Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh with similar troubling trends of surges in daily new cases and high mortality. Sections of public health specialists believe the emergence of the surges or the spikes in mortality more than six months into the epidemic suggests health systems’ responses are not what they should ideally be in many places across the country. The health ministry has since March circulated multiple guidelines and standard operating protocols for the public as well as health systems’ responses required. “But states haven’t been learning from each other as efficiently as they could have,” said Jugal Kishore, a professor of community medicine at the Safdarjung Hospital, New Delhi. Districts across the country should take lessons from what large cities have experienced. The health ministry has asked state authorities to improve monitoring of patients placed under home isolation so that they can be quickly transferred to hospitals if their oxygen levels fall. The central health teams heading to Chandigarh and Punjab will assist local authorities in managing the surge and high mortality there. Similar teams have earlier visited other states such as Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh and Odisha. “Sometimes states request teams, sometimes we send teams on our own if we see certain parameters changing,” a senior health official told The Telegraph. The daily number of new cases, the absolute numbers of deaths, and early mortality within 24 to 72 hours of admission to a hospital are key parameters that the health ministry uses to mark trouble spots. Early death within 72 hours of diagnosis is possibly the result of delayed diagnosis or delayed recognition of deteriorating disease, the health official said. In such circumstances, the health teams provide guidance to local authorities for early detection and effective case monitoring. The central teams typically include epidemiologists from the National Centre for Disease Control and doctors who have managed Covid-19 patients from central hospitals such as the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, the Safdarjung Hospital, Lady Hardinge Medical College, and Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital in New Delhi. India on Sunday recorded 90,632 new Covid-19 cases, its highest yet single-day rise, raising the cumulative number of cases to over 4.11 million, of whom more than 3.18 million patients have recovered, over 862,000 are under medical supervision and 70,626 have died.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-685
07-09-2020||India||Another Banaras Hindu University student missing||A second Banaras Hindu University student has been reported missing from the campus, with his father fearing “this could be something more serious” while urging police to be more proactive in their search. Shiblu Ali, 20, a first-year BA student who had come to BHU from his home in Kaimur district in Bihar to submit some documents on August 27, has been missing since then, his father Sirtaj Ali said on Sunday. A day earlier it had emerged that another BHU student, Shiv Kumar Trivedi of BSc second year, has been missing for the past six months after being picked up by the police outside the campus gates on the night of February 12. Sirtaj, a grocer, told reporters that he lodged a missing persons diary with the local police with the help of the BHU authorities after arriving at Varanasi with his elder son on August 29. “He had arrived in Varanasi from our village at Karamnasa in Kaimur district on August 27 to submit some documents to the university. The university had asked every hostel inmate to submit their health certificates and some other documents. Shiblu could have sent it by post but he preferred to visit the university personally,” Sirtaj said. “Shiblu had called his elder brother Naushad Ali at 4pm on August 27 from a friend’s cellphone and informed him that he would be back home after two days. After that, we didn’t receive any information from him. His mobile was initially unreachable and later it was switched off,” the father added. Naushad is also a student of BHU, enrolled in a master’s programme in Hindi literature. The brothers had returned home after the pandemic-induced lockdown shut physical classes. “The friend has told me that Shiblu asked for his phone as Shiblu’s cellphone had no network. The friend has told me that he had not seen Shiblu since then,” Sirtaj said. Shailesh Kumar Mishra, the sub-inspector of Lanka police station just outside the BHU main gate, said posters bearing a picture of Shiblu have been put up across Varanasi along with police contact details seeking information on the missing student. “We have already put up posters of Shiblu across the city with our phone numbers, seeking the help of people to look for him,” Mishra said. Sirtaj alleged that the police were not taking the cases of the missing students seriously. “The police should take my son’s and Shiv Kumar’s cases seriously as this could be something more serious. I think the police have shrugged off their responsibility by putting up posters of Shiblu in the city. I fail to understand why they are not tracking my son’s mobile phone and looking for him more proactively,” he said. This newspaper could not contact any senior BHU official for comment on the missing student. Shiv Kumar, who hails from Madhya Pradesh, never returned to his hostel after the police picked him up on February 12, BHU had told Allahabad High Court. His father, Pradeep, has informed the court that the police had told him that his son had been released the next day as he was unwell, and that cops have made various claims since then. Pradeep, a farmer from Madhya Pradesh, told reporters in Varanasi on Saturday that the high court had slammed the police for making misleading comments and threatened a CBI probe if they failed to produce his son, but not set a deadline.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-685
07-09-2020||India||Ex-MLA killed in Uttar Pradesh||Nivendra Kumar Mishra, 75, three-time MLA from Nighasan in the past, was allegedly beaten to death by  “armed” men on Sunday. The former MLA was attacked near his house in Lakhimpur Kheri, 130km north of Lucknow, when he had gone to see a plot with his son. Mishra’s son Sanjeev was  attacked when he tried to save his father and is in hospital. Satyendra Kumar, superintendent of police of Lakhimpur Kheri, said: “The former MLA fell on the ground and suffered a heart attack during a minor scuffle ....It is wrong that there were armed people who assaulted him.” However, he didn’t reply when asked how Sanjeev suffered injuries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-685
07-09-2020||India||BJP dons Sushant mask in Bihar ||The BJP’s culture wing in election-bound Bihar has released stickers and masks bearing Sushant Singh Rajput’s photographs, drawing allegations that the party is trying to milk the actor’s death for political gain. The stickers bear the slogan “Na bhoole hain, na bhoolne denge” (have neither forgotten, nor will allow to be forgotten) with a smiling picture of the actor, the hashtag ‘Justice for Sushant’ and the lotus, BJP’s electoral symbol. The masks bear photographs of the actor. The stickers and masks have been spotted in Patna in large numbers since Saturday. Many BJP workers were seen pasting the stickers on shops, auto-rickshaws, vehicles, and kiosks just as political parties do during election campaigns. The BJP art and culture cell’s state convener, Barun Kumar Singh, told The Telegraph that 25,000 stickers and 30,000 masks were made, but denied that it had anything to do with politics. Barun said: “This has been an emotional campaign for us. It has nothing to do with politics. We had started it on June 16, two days after Sushant’s death to ensure that justice is done in the case. We were the first to demand a CBI inquiry and our senior leaders had met the actor’s father.” Sushant was found dead in his flat in Mumbai on June 14 in what was suspected to be a suicide. His father later filed an FIR with the Bihar police accusing the actor’s girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty and others of abetment of suicide. Then he levelled murder allegations. The CBI, Enforcement Directorate and the Narcotics Control Bureau are now probing the case. The Patna-born actor hails from the influential Rajput caste, which makes up 5 to 6 per cent of Bihar’s electorate. BJP spokesperson Nikhil Anand denied the party had any hand in the Sushant masks and stickers. “It has not been done by the BJP. It is a work of the art and culture forum of the party,” he said. But the Opposition accused the BJP of using the dead for politics. RJD spokesperson Mritunjay Tiwary said: “We had been saying since the very beginning that the BJP was least bothered about justice for Sushant or his family, and was trying to politicise the actor’s death. The stickers and masks have proved this now.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-685
07-09-2020||India||Domestic strife hits MP and actress||Odia actor-turned-politician Anubhav Mohanty, who had proved to be an asset for the ruling Biju Janata Dal in the last elections, and his actress wife Varsha Priyadarshini have filed cases against each other. Varsha has filed a domestic violence case against her husband in the sub-divisional judicial magistrate (SDJM) court, Cuttack. On the other hand, the Kendrapara BJD MP has approached the principal judge family court in Delhi, seeking divorce and alleged that Varsha had failed both as a wife and daughter-in-law. He said that she denied him his conjugal rights. The court at Cuttack will hear Varsha’s case on Monday. Anubhav’s case in Delhi is scheduled for October 7. Varsha’s case was filed under Section 12 of the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act against the MP for allegedly assaulting and harassing her. Varsha also asked for a compensation of Rs 13 crore besides Rs 2 crore towards medical expenses and monthly maintenance of Rs 50,000. Anubhav and Varsha were the most popular couple and they had a large following in Odisha. “Both Varsha and Anubhav acted in several of films. We pray that the issue is amicably settled and their followers are not heartbroken,” said eminent film critic Surya Deo. The couple tied the knot in February, 2014. The issue has come in handy for the Opposition to target Naveen Patnaik for whom Anubhav had served as one of the star campaigners in 2014 and 2019 elections. Immediately after the 2014 general elections Naveen had sent Anubhav to the Rajya Sabha. Naveen had fielded Anubhav as the candidate against two-time MP from Kendrapara, Baijayant Jay Panda in 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Anubhav defeated Jay Panda by more than 1 lakh votes. However, Anubhav’s marital life has been in doldrums for the last one year. Varsha in her petition alleged that Anubhav is a drunkard who tortures her mentally and physically. She also accused him of beating her under the influence of alcohol. The actress alleged that Anubhav had extra martial affairs. She said during lockdown she remained alone in Cuttack while Anubhav was in Delhi. On the other hand in his petition, Anubhav denied these allegations and accused her of denying him a conjugal life. “Whenever tried to have physical touch or make relation with the respondent (Varsha), she never allowed for the same,” the petition said, adding that she failed as a daughter-in-law and always “tried to give him mental and physical agony”. In a press statement, Anubhav said, “My marriage has been in a bad shape since long. I have tried my level best to reason, to explain, to understand, and to make amends; unfortunately, things did not shape up as expected. Hence, it seemed the best way to part ways amicably. I and my family sincerely tried our best for a mutual separation just because we were concerned about each other’s social image and dignity.” He also said how he wanted that his petition did not leak as it was a case of marital discord. He appealed to all not to resort to rumour mongering. “It’s always said that marriages are made in heaven but they fail quite several times. And my marriage is not the first one or the last one to fail,” he said, adding that he deeply respects Varsha for the successful woman she is. As Anubhav is a high profile leader, the issue has acquired political colour. “Naveen Babu used to say that we must respect women and he wants everyone to respect Maa (Mother) and Mati (Soil). But here his party MP is torturing a woman and he is silent,” said senior Congress MLA Tara Prasad Bahinipati. Former minister and senior BJD MLA Aurobinda Dhali said: “The issue is personal. It should be settled amicably. The issue is in the court. The party has nothing to do with it. Our leader enjoys a clean image.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-685
07-09-2020||India||East Sikkim officials help defence aspirants||Pandemic protocol coupled with a landslide could have barred scores of candidates from north Bengal from appearing in the entrance tests of National Defence Academy and Indian Naval Academy in Gangtok on Sunday, but for the proactive efforts of the East Sikkim administration. As many as 217 candidates from north Bengal had reached Rangpo, an entry point to Sikkim en route to Gangtok, to write their papers at three different centres. However, because of the landslide at Singtam, 12km from Rangpo and 28km short of Gangtok, on the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday, candidates had to be transshipped with help from the administration. The Telegraph received a frantic call from a guardian of an examinee at 7am Sunday. “My brother is stuck in Rangpo, the bus is yet to come and we are told there has been a landslide somewhere between Rangpo and Gangtok because of which traffic is held up. The exams will begin at 10am,” he said. The 40km drive from Rangpo to Gangtok normally takes an hour. Alive to the plight of candidates, East Sikkim administration was busy clearing the debris of foliage, mud and stones on the highway. “There is a massive pile of debris, including bamboo plants. We are hoping to clear it by 9am to ensure examinees reach centres on time,” said Rangpo subdivisional magistrate Himmat Rai a little after 7am while personally supervising the work. Raj Yadav, the district collector of East Sikkim, told The Telegraph that eventually the candidates had to be transshipped because of the time taken to clear the slide. “In all, 217 candidates reached the check post (at Rangpo) and we arranged for buses. All the candidates reached their exam centres. Where candidates were late by a few minutes, extra time will be allotted to them as this was a natural calamity,” Yadav said. In all, 1,025 candidates from Sikkim and north Bengal had registered to sit for the exams, but students from outside Sikkim were not allowed to cross Rangpo in advance because of the strict Covid protocol. They were asked to reach the Rangpo check post by Sunday 6am and Sikkim National Transport buses were supposed to have ferried them to exam centres in Gangtok. “We are indebted to the Sikkim government for the wonderful arrangement for candidates from outside. Despite the landslide, my son could reach his centre in time,” said Subha Tamang, father of candidate Gyalbo Tshering, from Badamtam tea estate in Darjeeling. Kanak Nandi, elder brother of candidate Bhaskar Das from Bhatibari in Alipurduar, echoed Tamang. “We are really grateful, especially to Himmat sir,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-685
07-09-2020||West Bengal||Most TMC MPs aged over 65 yrs likely to skip Parliament session||A majority of TMC MPs above the age of 65 years are likely to skip the upcoming monsoon session of Parliament to avoid the risk of contracting Covid-19, party sources said. Although there has been no official communication by the party leadership in this regard, the sources said MPs over 65 years of age have been advised not to attend the session. Sudip Bandopadhyay, the 67-year-old Lok Sabha MP from Kolkata Uttar, said he would coordinate from here with his party colleagues in the Lower House. "I won't be attending the Parliament session as I am above 65, and vulnerable. I will be coordinating with my party colleagues in the Lok Sabha," he said. TMC chief whip and party's Rajya Sabha MP, Sukhendu Sekhar Roy, too, said he won't be attending the session. Roy cited the Unlock-4 guidelines by the Union home ministry, which advised persons aged above 65 to stay at home except for emergencies, to make his point. "I won't be there as I am 71 years' old. I will abide by the Unlock-4 guidelines. I have already written to the Rajya Sabha chairman informing him about it," he said. Senior TMC leader and Dum Dum MP Saugata Roy, however, did not want to give the parliamentary proceedings a miss. "There is no blanket rule from the party. If anybody above 65 years is willing to attend, he or she can.... I will attend the session," Roy said. The Parliament's monsoon session will begin on September 14 and continue till October 1. Hectic preparations are underway for the session with several first-time measures being taken because of the Covid-19 pandemic, such as testing of MPs, staggered sitting arrangements in the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha and use of both chambers and galleries to accommodate the members.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-384
07-09-2020||West Bengal||Birbhum cops to host live FB meet for public today||Birbuum district police will host an open online session via Facebook live on Monday evening to raise awareness on police functions and hierarchy, and clear people’s “misconceptions”. Police sources in Birbhum said the online session would strengthen police-public relations, something chief minister Mamata Banerjee also stressed the need for in several recent meetings. The event was to be held on the eve of Police Day celebrations on September 1, but was deferred as former President Pranab Mukherjee died on August 31. The online session will start at 7pm on Monday on the official Facebook page of Birbhum district police, where seven senior officers, including women, will answer questions. “In many cases, we found that misconception and bad ideas about the police start after they talk to a constable or a junior officer at a police station, and they don’t know where to go further (who else to talk to). We will explain the details of police administration, including how we work,” said Birbhum police chief Shyam Singh. “It will help us strengthen the bond between police and the people.” “We will give an idea about uniforms and how people can understand the designation of the cop in front (of them). Many people seem to think that more stars on a uniform means more seniority,” said Singh. Police will reply to queries on steps to take if anyone faces trouble at local police stations, and development of cases. A senior officer said some people think they need to pay police to file a complaint, but they need to know that the police service is “completely free”. “The aim is to minimise, if not eliminate, misconceptions.” As part of Police Day celebrations, Covid-19 warriors of Birbhum police will also donate their plasma.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-384
07-09-2020||West Bengal||Paddy-on-road protest for dilapidated roads ||A group of residents in Bhatakhana under the town’s ward 2 sowed paddy on a waterlogged road as a mark of protest on Sunday. The incident created ripples in the town as such paddy-on-road protests are usually seen in rural areas. “We are ashamed to introduce ourselves as residents of a town. It is hard to believe that we don’t live in a remote village but in a civic area and headquarters of a district. The state of roads in our area is pathetic. For many years now, no repairs have been carried out on the road that connects our locality. That is why we sowed paddy seedlings in protest against the apathy of the civic body and district administration,” said Ranjit Roy, a Bhatkhana resident. In 2015, Trinamul had bagged the civic board in Jalpaiguri. However, in ward 2, a CPM candidate had won. As of now, the municipality is being run by a board of administrators. “A number of times, CPM candidates have won from this ward. Unfortunately, they did nothing for the basic development of the area,” said Krishnendu Guha, a resident. Sandip Mahato, a member of the BoA of the civic body, blamed the immediate past CPM councillor of the ward. “It is true that we were in power at the municipality for past five years. But we never received any proposal from the ward councillor for construction or repair of the road. Instead, the councillor instigated residents to resort to movements against the civic body,” Mahato said. Former councillor Durba Banerjee denied these charges. “I never got any cooperation or assistance from the civic board. Several proposals were sent to the civic board and Siliguri Jalpaiguri Development Authority to improve the infrastructure of this area, but were ignored,” Banerjee said. Local BJP leaders said they supported the people. “Residents of the ward are deprived by the former councillor and civic board. Dilapidated road apart, there is no streetlight and the drainage system is in a shambles. We support what the residents did today,” said Tapati Tantra, a BJP district committee member.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-384
07-09-2020||West Bengal||Forest guards fatally shoot tea worker ||A young tea garden worker died after he was allegedly shot by forest guards on patrol on Saturday evening at Sukna, some 10km away from here, leading to tension in the area. Residents of the tea estate demonstrated in front of the Sukna forest range office for over four hours till 3pm on Sunday, demanding stringent steps against the forest guards concerned and compensation for the victim’s kin. Ranjan Sarkar, president of Trinamul’s Darjeeling (plains) district, and the party’s trade union leaders rushed to the spot to meet forest officials. They then assured the people that the victim’s family would be duly compensated. It was after this assurance that the demonstration — on since 11am — was withdrawn around 3pm. Foresters of Darjeeling wildlife division have said that an appropriate investigation of the case would be done. Sources said Ajit Sauria, 28, a worker of the Mohorgong-Gulma tea estate near Sukna, went in search of his cow in the tea garden on Saturday evening. A team of forest guards patrolling in the adjoining forest area allegedly fired from pellet guns. Ajit sustained serious injuries and died on way to hospital. “Ajit had returned home from work (at the Mohorgong-Gulma tea estate) and could not find one among his cattle, so around 7.30pm he went out in search of the animal. Forest guards who had been patrolling at that area suddenly fired at him and left the spot,” said Rajesh Toppo, the vice-president of Cha Bagan Trinamul Congress Mazdoor Union. “When Ajit did not return home, his family members got worried and started searching for him. They found him in a deserted location of the garden. They had been taking him to hospital when he died on the way,” added Toppo On Sunday morning around 11am, hundreds of residents of the tea garden went to the forest office in Sukna for a demonstration and confined the foresters to office. Around 2.30pm, Trinamul leaders from Siliguri met with the foresters in Sukna, and then assured the demonstrators that necessary compensation would be given to Ajit’s family. “We have demanded stern steps against the guards who shot the worker. The forest department should also provide a job to the deceased’s wife. I will inform the entire incident to the state forest minister. We will also provide some financial assistance to the bereaved family on behalf of our party,” Sarkar said. J. Jesper, the divisional forest officer of Darjeeling wildlife division, said they would conduct the necessary investigation in the case. No one has been arrested in the case so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-384
07-09-2020||West Bengal||BSF guns down Bangladeshi ‘smuggler’ ||A Bangladeshi youth was gunned down by BSF personnel near the border in Malda district on Saturday night. This comes within three weeks of Bangladeshi foreign secretary Masud Bin Momen flagging his country’s concerns over killings on the border. State police sources said the deceased was Badsha Sheikh of Bangladesh’s Chapai-Nawabganj district. There was, however, no confirmation. Malda SP Alok Rajoria only said that a Bangladeshi national was killed in BSF firing. BSF sources said some Bangladeshi smugglers were waiting for a cough syrup consignment from their Indian counterparts. Sources said BSF 24th battalion tried to thwart the bid, when the Bangladeshi smugglers injured a BSF jawan with a sharp weapon. It was then that a jawan fired and a Bangladeshi smuggler died. Others fled from near the fencing, the source said. The incident once again brought the BSF under scanner as a number of such killings have been reported from parts of the India-Bangladesh border. Bangladeshis being shot by the BSF, which the security force claimed happens in retaliation or during attempts to stop illegal activities, have been time and again flagged by human rights groups in Bangladesh. It is also considered one of the reasons that at times strains bilateral ties. Last month when Indian foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla visited Bangladesh, his counterpart raised the issue during the bilateral meeting and urged the BSF exercise “maximum restraint.” It was also decided that the issue would be discussed during the DG level talks between BGB (Border Guards of Bangladesh) and BSF. But BSF officials, who did not want to be named, said smugglers were active on the India-Bangladesh border. They become active especially during monsoon when attempts to smuggle cattle through swelling rivers are quite common, and also smuggle fake Indian currency notes, brown sugar and cough syrup, an official said. It has been learnt from police sources that Bangladeshi smuggler Mohammed Momin was arrested by Englishbazar police in August last week. He came to Malda from Naogaon district in Bangladesh to finalise a contract of cattle-smuggling with his Indian counterparts. “We got some crucial information while interrogating him, and we are verifying those,” a police officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-384
07-09-2020||West Bengal||Embezzle charge against BJP MP, nephew||Police have started a case against BJP’s Barrackpore MP Arjun Singh and his nephew Sourav Singh, accusing the duo of embezzling Rs 9.21 crore during the MP’s tenure as chairman of Bhatpara municipality. “Misappropriation took place through a fictitious savings account that he had opened in a private bank in the name of ‘Chairman’s Relief Fund’,” said a police source “We are conducting  the probe on the basis of a complaint filed by Bhatpara civic board’s former chairman and current administrator Arun Kumar Banerjee,” added the source. Based on the complaint, the police have charged Singh and Sourav with theft, misappropriation of property, criminal breach of trust, cheating to create loss, forgery for cheating, and using forged documents as genuine, under the relevant clauses of the Indian Penal Code and the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988. Singh, who quit Trinamul to join the saffron party before Lok Sabha polls in 2019, said he was “least bothered” about the complaint or case, as “there was no corruption”. “All payments from the fund were made through cheques to help people in distress.” “On a number of occasions, the fund was used to pay the salary of the municipality’s employees, as the state government failed to provide funds to meet the salary needs,” said the MP of the industrial suburbs north of Calcutta. The parliamentarian added: “I belong to a family that has been living in Bhatpara for over 140 years and we have no dearth of money. So I have no need to cheat people to satisfy personal interests.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-384
07-09-2020||West Bengal||Corona warrior soldiers on, braving ostracism||Conducting Covid tests for 14 hours every day, 25-year-old Gopa Biswas has willingly given up on weekly leave, her favourite food, television, even music. What has come as a shock is that she has also had to give up her lodgings three times in less than a month and a half — because neighbours wouldn’t stand a Covid lab employee living close to them. But the medical technologist at the Suri district hospital isn’t discouraged. Rather, she’s proud of being one among the 10,000-odd healthcare workers at the forefront of the battle against the pandemic in the around 100 government and private establishments in Bengal. Gopa, who helps conduct about 600 Covid tests daily, says she can’t find the time to cook her favourite dishes and has been eating the same meal of egg curry and rice twice almost every day. For over two months, she hasn’t taken a single day off to go and meet her parents at Madanpur village in Chakdah, Nadia, 215km from Suri. “The life of a medical technologist at a Covid testing lab can’t be the same as that of others.… We can’t afford to relax during a pandemic,” said the young woman whose life revolves around the RT-PCR machine at the hospital lab that tests swab samples of suspected Covid-19 patients. Gopa is what chief minister Mamata Banerjee calls a “Covid warrior”. But landlord after landlord had refused to rent rooms to Gopa when she first arrived in Birbhum in the first week of July from Nadia. Her first address was a garage, which she had to quit after a few days, mostly under neighbourhood pressure. She then somehow managed to secure a room but the landlord threw her out after a few days, and she landed up at a government nursing hostel. “But I couldn’t stay there long as the kitchen was closed,” Gopa said. The mess was shut because most of the trainee nurses had left after the lockdown started. So, in the little time her backbreaking work at the hospital left her with, Gopa’s house-hunting continued. “The next landlord served me with a notice to leave within four days.… He cited ‘personal problems’ but I knew the reason,” Gopa said. A colleague helped her find new lodgings in Suri town and Gopa moved in on August 15. The accommodation problem seems to have been solved for now, but daily life — the better part of it spent sweating and suffocating inside the personal protection equipment (PPE) — remains difficult. Gopa says she gets so tired after 14 hours in PPE that all she can do is rustle up some egg curry and rice before hitting the sack. She eats the same egg curry next morning before leaving for work. “It takes 35 minutes to get into the PPE before work every day, and 50 minutes to get out of it afterwards (while maintaining all safety protocols). One doesn’t feel like cooking delicacies after that,” she said. “Trust me, I never spent so much time getting ready even for a wedding,” the daughter of a primary school teacher smiled. Gopa had earned her diploma in medical technology from the College of Medicine and JNM Hospital, popularly known as Kalyani Medical College, in Nadia in 2015. She then got a temporary job as a laboratory assistant at a rural hospital in Chakdah. After the pandemic struck, she got a job with the Suri hospital as a permanent employee. “A temporary employee gets around Rs 20,000 a month while a permanent employee earns around Rs 10,000 more.... I grabbed the offer as I have to look after my old parents,” Gopa, whose elder sister got married a few years ago, said. “I have to call my parents twice every day as they constantly worry about me. I tell them we are well protected and that regular tests are conducted on us. But at times, they refuse to understand and tell me to leave this job.” Gopa, though, is committed to her work and finds the challenge stimulating. “It would be a disaster if a Covid-positive person is declared negative. So, even while sweating inside the PPE, we can’t afford to lose our concentration,” she said. But her oppressive schedule means she has no opportunity to “chill” afterwards. She does not have the time to watch television or listen to music — among her favourite pastimes in the pre-Covid days — nor can she go out with friends during weekends. “All this can wait but our work can’t,” Gopa says as she gets ready to leave for the laboratory for another gruelling day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-384
07-09-2020||West Bengal||PWD in a fix over funds to repair 39 bridges in south Bengal districts||At least 39 bridges in five south Bengal districts — North 24-Parganas, South 24-Parganas, Howrah, Nadia and Murshidabad — are in need of urgent renovation or replacement, a report prepared by the public works department has revealed, but the authorities don’t know how to raise funds for the upkeep the structures. A source in the PWD said estimates suggested the repairs and restoration would require Rs 140 crore. But at a time when all other expenditures barring Covid-19 related activities have been put to a stop by the finance department, he wondered how the PWD would get the necessary funds. “The cause of concern is the report is of bridges in five districts only. I don’t know how many bridges need urgent repairs throughout the state right at this moment. Arranging for funds for the repairs would be a challenging job,” said a senior PWD official. Senior Nabanna officials said the government was contemplating releasing funds for emergency works like repair of roads and bridges as the state’s revenue generation had marginally increased over the past one month or so. But a section of the officials has said funds need to be released immediately as most of the damaged bridges are in bad shape after the onset of the monsoon. Over the past few months, the sources said, the PWD had conducted a health audit of nearly 1,800-odd bridges it maintained across the state. Now, the reports are being submitted by different zones. The first such report was submitted by the south zone, which made it clear that several bridges were in real distress and some needed immediate replacement by erecting new bridges. For example, the report says construction of a new bridge is urgently required to replace Lalpole bridge at Diamond Harbour in South 24-Parganas at the cost of Rs 11.79 crore. “We have listed only the bridges that require urgent repairs or replacement. If the number of distressed bridges in five districts come at 39, I don’t know what will be the total number of distressed bridges in the state. Bridges in north Bengal would require more attention, I guess, as these were not maintained over the years,” said an official. The PWD has started looking for ways to raise funds for the urgent repairs considering that additional financial assistance might not be available right at the moment. The PWD’s restructuring, which might have required Rs 250 crore, has been put on hold for an indefinite period. “Several questions were already raised over the restructuring process as it involved a huge expenditure. The department felt it would be safe to defer the plan as the PWD needs a handsome amount to repair bridges right at the moment,” said a senior official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-385
07-09-2020||West Bengal||India-Bangladesh trade halts after exporters allege corruption||Border trade between India and Bangadesh through the Mahadipur land port in Malda came to a halt for four hours on Sunday following allegations of delay in the installation of a power generator and acts of corruption levelled by the Mahadipur Exporters’ Association and Mahadipur Clearing & Forwarding Agents’ association. The trade resumed at noon after customs officials assured the exporters lobby of looking into their grievances. Sunday’s suspension of the border trade was a consequence of the events that took place on Saturday when only 50 per cent of the goods-laden trucks could cross the border because of power cut between 10am and 4pm. “The computers went kaput following prolonged power cut and the necessary challan and other documents for export could not be generated. This meant only 50 per cent of trucks could cross over to Bangladesh,” alleged Bhupati Mandal, the secretary of carry-forward agents’ association. Members of the two associations held protests on Sunday against the halt in the trade on the previous day. The protests led to the disruption in the export for four hours on Sunday. “The 10 computers at the customs office do not function during power cuts. The customs department had brought a generator about three months back, but for some reason, it is yet to install it. About 300 trucks carry goods to Bangladesh every day barring Friday,” said an exporter. The other grievance was that the customs authorities allow some truckers to jump the queue. “Some customs officials allow trucks at the back end to jump the queue. We have been protesting against this for some time, but to no avail,” alleged an exporter. N.K. Naskar, the assistant commissioner of customs, who met the exporters and the C&F agents on Sunday, said their grievances were being looked into. Sources have said goods worth Rs 18.33 crore are exported from the Mahadipur land port every day. “The disruption in the trans-border trade for two consecutive days has resulted in a loss of nearly Rs 20 crore,” said an exporter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-385
07-09-2020||West Bengal||Sunderbans fishermen look for safer life and better wages||Several fishermen from North and South 24-Parganas, who lived off the fish netted from rivers and creeks adjacent to the Sunderbans, are migrating to Kerala and Tamil Nadu, driven by tiger attacks and depleting catch at home. Thousands of fishermen from Hingalganj, Basanti, Kakdwip, Kultali, Mousuni, Gosaba and Namkhana, among others, look southward for a safer life and better wages. The threat of tiger attacks is a constant. On Sunday, fisherman Gopal Baidya, 54, was mauled by a tiger in Jhila-Jungle (number 6) of Gosaba in South 24-Parganas. Baidya, a resident of Satjelia-Thakurantala, was eating in his boat when a tiger pounced on him and dragged him away into the forest. He remains traceless. In the past week alone, at least four fishermen were mauled to death by tigers. Right now, around 3 lakh people from these two districts are involved in catching fish with trawlers and mechanised boats. But that the trend of migrating fishermen was very much in vogue came to light when some thousand fishermen from the southern states contacted the district administrations for help to return home in the early stages of the pandemic-induced lockdown. A member of the Dakshinbanga Matsyajibi Forum said: “We don’t have an exact number of such fishermen (who have migrated). But it appears to be around 10,000. They have been working in the same profession in Kerala, Tamil Nadu, and even Odisha.” Rakib Biswas of Hingalganj and Shyamal Das of Kultali, along with hundreds like them from the Sunderbans migrated to Kerala to work with marine fish catchers. Das, 42, said: “Repeated tiger attacks forced many of us to quit fishing here.” “There is also an increased level of salinity in rivers and creeks of the Sunderbans (causing fish shoals to deplete)…. These factors, besides better wages, encouraged us to move,” added Das, who left in February after selling off his mechanised boat. “Now I earn around Rs 15,000 a month. I never made half of that before I left for Kerala.” Fishermen said the commonplace fish varieties such as parshey, bhangal, bekti, tangra, khorkul, kashkel, foli, chela and datney, once available in abundance, have depleted “alarmingly”. Tanmay Sannyal, an expert in fisheries and limnology teaching in the zoology department of Krishnagar Government College, explained why rivers and creeks were more salty and inhospitable for fish. “The many cyclones caused tidal waves, resulting in hyper-salinity of the water in creeks and rivers in the Sunderbans. Fish normally available in these rivers and creeks have natural salinity resistance. But tidal waves turned water hyper-saline, making it difficult for fish to survive,” said Sannyal. “Such hyper-salinity, coupled with the felling of trees, damaged the plankton community on which the fish survive.” “Pollution in the rivers has also seriously hampered the reproduction of fish besides damage from the use of micro-hole nets resulting in the catch of juvenile fish.” Acknowledging the crisis, Hingalganj’s Trinamul Congress MLA Debesh Mandal said: “We will try to explore alternative scope for fishermen to earn a living. Otherwise, such migration will only turn bigger in the future.” Bankim Hazra, chairperson of the Gangasagar-Bakkhali Development Authority, said: “We will talk in detail and try to find a way out for the fishermen here.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-385
07-09-2020||West Bengal||Lowering mortality rate ‘top priority’ ||Bengal on Sunday reported 3,087 new Covid-19 cases, 52 deaths and 3,207 more recoveries. With this, the total number of cases in Bengal — the first was found on March 17 — is nearly 1.81 lakh, of which over 1.54 lakh are recoveries and 3,562 are deaths. Of the 52 deaths on Sunday, eight were from Calcutta. Of the total deaths, 3,078 (86.4 per cent) were reported comorbid by the state government. Bengal’s mortality rate stayed at 1.97, national rate being 1.71. “Lowering mortality rate further is our foremost priority now, but that’s not been easy. Despite best efforts, the daily toll has not fallen below 50 in weeks,” said a minister. Bengal was sixth among states with the highest mortality rates, and seventh on the list of states with the most deaths. The recovery rate crossed the coveted mark of 85 to touch 85.19 per cent, far ahead of the national rate of 77.48. Bengal remained fourth on the list of states with the highest recovery rates, after Bihar, Tamil Nadu and Delhi. “We have been doing well in terms of recoveries...but lowering the number of new cases found daily is also a goal, which has remained elusive,” said the minister. Bengal crossed the 46,000 mark in daily testing, recording a new high of 46,505. Bengal now has nearly 21.59 lakh tests, at 23,985 tests per million. Steady rise in testing, coupled with relatively lower new cases lowered the positive confirmation rate in 14 days from 8.9 to 8.37 per cent. A decreasing positive confirmation rate is indicative of reducing levels of Covid-19 spread. For the 14th consecutive day, Bengal logged a fall in total active cases, from 28,609 on August 23 to 23,218 on Sunday. Bengal reported 33.99 per cent occupancy of 12,355 Covid-19 beds in 91 hospitals, and 14.09 per cent in 11,507 beds of the 200 safe homes. Telemedicine services have been provided to nearly 1.75 lakh, 4,250 of them in the past 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-385
07-09-2020||West Bengal||Teacher at Toto school receives national award||Misha Ghosal, the headmistress of Dhaniram Toto Memorial High School at Totopara in Alipurduar district, received the National Teachers’ Award from Surendra Kumar Meena, the district magistrate of Alipurduar, on Saturday. Ghosal is among the two recipients of the award from Bengal which traditionally is given by the President of India on Teachers Day at Rashtrapati Bhavan in New Delhi. However, because of the Covid-19 pandemic, the ceremony could not take place this year. ‘It was a great day for me yesterday (Saturday), but it would have been much better had I received the award from the President in New Delhi as it happens every year,’ rued Ghosal, adding that the award was not just her personal achievement but that of the entire school and the local people. The school Ghosal teaches is in Totopara which is home to one of the most primitive tribe’s of the country: Totos. Totopara is under Madarihat-Birpara block of Alipurduar bordering Bhutan. All 47 awardees from different parts of the country were, however, congratulated by President Ram Nath Kovind through video conference earlier. Ghosal had joined the school, which is perched on a hill 22km from Madarihat town, 12 years back. ‘In my initial years, students were very irregular in attending classes. Girls in particular remained engaged doing domestic chores, instead of coming to school. I subsequently learned the Toto language and introduced learning through music in order to connect with the students. Those little things seem to have worked,’ she said. The school at present has a student-strength of 250, but only seven teachers. After much effort, the higher secondary section was also opened this year. Ghosal has also worked on the conservation of Toto folk culture and has written a book on it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-385
07-09-2020||West Bengal||BJP worker beaten and shot at in Noapara||Criminals allegedly backed by the Trinamul Congress beat up and shot at BJP activist Ashutosh Singh, 25, at Noapara in North 24-Parganas on Saturday night. Singh, a resident of Ichhapur’s Aurobindo Pally, is the nephew of a BJP mandal president. He survived the attack as the bullet grazed his chest. Singh was admitted to the B.N. Bose Subdivisional Hospital with multiple injuries. Trinamul said BJP’s internal wrangling had led to the attack. The incident occurred around 11.30pm at Aurobindo Pally while Singh was chatting with his friends near his home after dinner. Local sources said a group of around 20 miscreants had arrived on motorcycles, singled him out and thrashed him with iron rods. Before leaving, the criminals shot at Singh also. The miscreants escaped when some local residents rushed to the spot. Family members have said Singh is popular and known for his organisational abilities. The relatives said alleged Trinamul-backed goons had threatened the BJP worker on a number of occasions. Noapara police began a probe and detained two persons in connection with the alleged attack. A police team was deployed in the area. Local MLA Sunil Singh, a Trinamul turncoat who is now in the BJP, said: “Trinamul leadership in the Noapara Assembly constituency has been afraid of losing its support base. They do not like Ashutosh and threatened him repeatedly.” “The miscreants were engaged by Trinamul bosses to kill him only because he is a BJP activist. This is commonplace across the state now as the ruling party has become desperate. It seeks to scare people, especially youngsters, for being BJP sympathisers,” said the MLA. Rejecting the allegation, Trinamul Noapara town unit chief Gopal Majumder said: “The attack on the youth was the fallout from an internal feud in the BJP.” “The BJP has turned into a party of miscreants, busy in internal bickering. None from Trinamul was involved in the attack,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-385
07-09-2020||West Bengal||Virtual meet on Sept 15 on Durga Puja bonus in tea sector||Tea planters in the Dooars and the Terai will hold a virtual meeting with trade union leaders on September 15 to discuss the rate of annual bonus to be paid to workers ahead of Durga Puja. The trade unions, which apprehend that the planters might offer less bonus this year citing losses from the lockdown and inclement weather, have decided to hold talks among themselves ahead of the September 15 talks. According to sources, the Consultative Committee of Plantation Associations, the apex body of tea planters in the country, wrote to all working trade unions in north Bengal, mentioning that the meeting on the bonus for workers as well as the staff and sub-staff would be held on September 15. “In view of the Covid-19 pandemic and associated safety protocol, it will not be possible to hold a physical meeting this time. Therefore, the meeting will be held on a virtual platform by way of video conference,” said a source. In the letter, the convener of the CCPA requested the trade unions to nominate a group of 10 to 12 spokespersons collectively for the meeting. It will enable better interaction and adherence to social distancing norms during the meeting, the CCPA has pointed out. This is the first time in the history of the tea industry that the bipartite meeting on bonus will be held virtually where only 12 trade union representatives will be present. The planters also urged trade unions to refrain from organising demonstrations in tea gardens as such activities affected production. The letter from the CCPA has made the Joint Forum, the apex body of 23 tea trade unions, convene a meeting of the constituents on September 10. “The spokespersons would be selected and the common stand would be taken at the meeting,” said Ziaul Alam, the convener of the forum.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-385
07-09-2020||North East||PLA contacted on missing 5: Kiren Rijiju||India’s army has contacted its Chinese counterpart over Friday’s alleged abduction of five young men from the Arunachal Pradesh district of Upper Subansiri that borders China, Union minister Kiren Rijiju said on Sunday. “The Indian Army has already sent hotline message to the counterpart PLA establishment at the border point in Arunachal Pradesh. Response is awaited,” the minister of state for sports and youth affairs tweeted. Media reports have claimed the Chinese army kidnapped the five villagers who may have got close to a disputed border point, Sera 7, on a hunting expedition. The area where the abduction took place falls within Rijiju’s parliamentary constituency of Arunachal West. His tweet came amid a demand from the influential All Arunachal Pradesh Students’ Union (Aapsu) for the government to ensure the safe release of the five. Aapsu general secretary Tobom Dai told The Telegraph: “The state government and central government should ensure safe release of all the civilians who have been taken captive.” The incident comes amid tensions on the India-China border in eastern Ladakh. Army sources said the “situation was normal” along the Line of Actual Control in Arunachal. Arunachal’s 1,080km border with China is porous and disputed. China claims the frontier state is part of its territory of South Tibet. Arunachal home minister Bamang Felix told this newspaper that a police team had gone to the spot and that it would take a few days to get a clear picture. “Five boys have reportedly gone missing and we are concerned about their safety. Our team is looking into it and will return after two-three days,” Felix said. “But wherever they (the youths) are, they should be safe. Nobody has lodged any missing (person) complaint so far.” Sources said that people from the area in the Nacho (administrative) circle where the alleged abduction happened often went to the mountainous and forested border to hunt or fish, or to look for medicinal plants. They said the village where the five youths lived was about 3km from the Nacho township and 120km from district headquarters Daparijo. The Nacho circle has 20 to 25 villages and a population of around 5,000. From the Nacho township, it takes two or three days to reach some villages within the Nacho circle while the trek to the LAC takes 10 to 12 days. “It (the Nacho circle) is a very far-flung area; there’s no network connectivity and the roads are in a shambles,” Aapsu leader Dai said. “Our unit in the district has asked some of its members to go to Nacho and collect exact information, but it will take two to three days for them to relay back the information.” Dai said the repeated incidents involving the Chinese army and people living near the border were “acts of aggression” that undermined peaceful coexistence.Indian Army sources said the Chinese had captured a 21-year-old man, Togley Singkam, from the Nacho circle on March 19 and released him on April 7 after negotiations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-46
07-09-2020||North East||New regional party taking shape in Assam||Assam could witness the birth of a “strong and inclusive” regional political party this month. The ball for the formation of the regional alternative, backed by the two leading youth organisations of the state — All Assam Students’ Union (AASU) and Asom Jatiyatabadi Yuba Chatra Parishad (AJYCP) — will be set rolling by September 10 or 11. The AASU and the AJYCP will on either of these dates, everything remaining equal, will make public the 45-page report of the 16-member advisory committee they had set up on August 19 to “suggest measures and the mechanism for their implementation” for “securing” the future of Assam and the Assamese people. The 16-member Assam Paramarshadata Committee (advisory committee) has eminent citizens such as former Asam Sahitya Sabha president Nagen Saikia and author Arup Kumar Dutta as advisers. The committee met twice in Guwahati with some members participating in discussions online. Though the content of the report has not been disclosed, those in the know told The Telegraph that the committee has suggested a strong and inclusive regional political force. “We are looking at a September launch for this regional political force. Talks with like-minded organisations/parties for pre-poll alliance, constitution and organisational base will be ready by December so that it could have at least have 3 months at its disposal to campaign vigorously for a change in the 2021 Assembly polls,” one of those in the know said. According to them, the party will be trying to accommodate all regional forces and make it as broad based as possible to take on the might of the ruling BJP-led coalition government which is not only well entrenched but has continued with its outreach activities despite the Covid-19 pandemic. “There will be space for everyone, for the indigenous groups as well as those who came from other parts of the country. If Assam can accommodate Bangladeshis who came till 1971, it can definitely accommodate those who came from other parts of India but made Assam their home in the true sense. Ours will be an inclusive party in the true sense,” one of them said. The need for an inclusive and joint effort to unseat the ruling dispensation has been highlighted at various fora since the idea of a regional front started doing the rounds during the peak of the protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act in November. The AASU and the AJYCP leaders have said the situation triggered by the CAA, the decades of “injustice” meted out to the people of Assam by both the central and state governments and the Asom Gana Parishad (AGP) “losing its regional character” are the factors driving the need for a new regional party. The AGP, an offshoot of the six-year-long AASU-led Assam Movement against influx, is seen by those pushing for a regional party as the “B team of the BJP”. The “imposition” of the CAA by the Centre in January despite widespread protests strengthened the hands of those pushing for a strong regional front. The CAA, which provides citizenship to non-Muslims who have entered India from Bangladesh, Pakistan and Afghanistan till December 2014, is seen as threat to Assamese culture and identity. It is also considered to violate the 1985 Assam Accord, an outcome of the Assam Movement, which had fixed March 24, 1971, as the cut-off date for the detection and deportation of illegal foreigners. The AASU, the AJYCP and the Krishak Mukti Sangram Samiti (KMSS) were at the forefront of the anti-CAA movement. Among the political parties, the Congress too has been vehemently opposed to the CAA within and outside Parliament. On Thursday, Assam PCC president Ripun Bora said in Guwahati that they will withdraw all cases against anti-CAA activists if they come to power in 2021. The Congress has also made public its interest in aligning with all anti-CAA and anti-BJP forces. KMSS president Bhasco De Saikia told this newspaper that though it has announced the launch of a party, it was open to an alliance of regional and anti-BJP forces. The AASU, the AJYCP or the KMSS will remain apolitical even if they back the formation of a “strong and inclusive” regional force.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-46
07-09-2020||North East||IPS officer with medical background treats people||A young IPS officer is winning hearts in Assam by treating people during the coronavirus pandemic, thanks to his medical background. Barpeta superintendent of police (SP) Robin Kumar is performing the dual duties of a corona warrior — a police officer and a doctor — as the district is witnessing a spike in Covid-19 cases. Kumar, a 2013 batch IPS officer, is a specialist in medicine (MBBS, MD) which has helped him respond to the call of duty and provide treatment to the needy during the ongoing medical emergency. Besides heading the district’s police department, Kumar is at present running a 50-bedded Covid care centre with four ICUs in Barpeta Police Reserve for police personnel and their families and is also planning to hold health camps for women and elderly people. “I am fortunate to dedicate myself in both the roles of district police chief and a doctor. It gives me immense satisfaction,” Kumar told PTI over phone. The SP has also held a health camp for those police personnel who are 50 years or above in Barpeta. After joining Assam Police, Kumar, a native of Ghaziabad in Uttar Pradesh, first organised a health check-up camp at Tezpur during his previous posting in Sonitpur district a few years ago. “When the pandemic struck, I took permission of Assam DGP Bhaskar Jyoti Mahanta to open a Covid care centre for the police personnel in Barpeta. Now, we are running the centre smoothly,” he said. The Covid care centre has four ICUs, 32 general beds and 14 after care beds. Kumar’s service earned laurels from different quarters. Chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal described the SP’s act as “great gesture of service to humanity”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-46
07-09-2020||Opinion||Elusive justice: The media trial of Rhea Chakraborty||Sir — It is a sad truth that bad news grabs more eyeballs than good news. But rarely has a tragic event attracted so much attention as the death of the actor, Sushant Singh Rajput. The case is being accorded a disproportionate amount of media attention. While the whole world is preoccupied with the coronavirus pandemic and the response to it, Indian news channels, with a few honourable exceptions, are obsessed with excavating and expatiating on the circumstances surrounding the actor’s death. They have reduced the pandemic to a footnote. The entertainment this case seems to be providing, one is forced to conclude, is almost making up for cinema closures. Fervid television anchors are spinning the viewers a yarn to suit their needs. They have taken it upon themselves to conduct a trial and pronounce guilt. Devoid of humanity and gladiatorial, they are baying for blood. The case is spiced up with new twists each day for the TV-watching public to devour with relish. At first it was alleged nepotism in Bollywood that was linked to Rajput’s death. Then it was brought to light that there was no love lost between the actor’s girlfriend, Rhea Chakraborty, and his family. When it could not be substantiated that Chakraborty had siphoned off crores of rupees from Rajput, the plot shifted to drug peddling and use. The story has transitioned from nepotism to narcotics. As if this was not bad enough, things get worse from here. All kinds of information extracted during official interrogations reach select media outlets as ‘inside scoops’. This speaks poorly both of investigative agencies and media houses. This matter should now be put to rest, at least by the media. G. David Milton,Maruthancode, Tamil Nadu Sir — Women, it seems, will be blamed for everything — from the original sin to the suicide of an actor. The persistent hounding and persecution of Rhea Chakraborty by the media and the public is sad and shameful. All this because society refuses to acknowledge mental illness and the debilitating effect it can have on a person suffering from it. Whether or not Sushant Singh Rajput and Chakraborty smoked cannabis — why must the woman be blamed for what an adult man chooses to do? — is not relevant to this case; the fact is that it could not have pushed the actor to take his life. Even while the country obsesses over the suicide of Rajput, data released by the National Crime Records Bureau show that a total of 1,39,123 suicides were reported in India in 2019 — an increase of 3.4 per cent in comparison to 2018. Of these at least 2,851 persons killed themselves owing to unemployment. One can assume that given the pandemic-induced lull in the film industry and the impact that the recession will have on the purse-strings of producers, Rajput — less established than big stars who may have nest eggs to fall back on — could not but have been distressed. Have prime-time news divas considered this possibility before incriminating a girl without any solid evidence? Yashodhara Sen,Calcutta Sir — The endless speculations about and character assassination of Rhea Chakraborty by a large section of the media even before she has been pronounced guilty by the court are problematic on various counts. The leaked chats between the actress and various other people being flashed on news channels are a violation of the right to privacy. It is also shameful that the entire episode has been hijacked by politicians in an effort to eclipse the failures in governance before the Bihar elections. The aforementioned circumstances call for a court-monitored, independent and time-bound investigation into the whole incident to ascertain the truth. In the meantime, the media must stop playing the role of the jury-cum-investigative agency and shift its focus to more vital issues affecting the country. Chandan Kumar Nath,Barpeta, Assam Sir — When we should be addressing the mental health crisis in India and interrogating the power structures of Bollywood, we are faced instead with medieval misogyny and cultural chauvinism. Rhea Chakraborty has received rape threats, been accused of murder and called a ‘Bengali witch’ because her boyfriend committed suicide. What we are witnessing is the most predictable reaction of a deeply dysfunctional, patriarchal society — blaming the woman. It has happened before with Anushka Sharma who is abused every time her cricketer husband has a bad day on the pitch and Sania Mirza who has been trolled on numerous occasions for the successes and failures of her husband who hails from Pakistan. Kangaroo courts and mob verdicts have become par for the course in India. Shreya Basu,Delhi Size matters Sir — It was exciting to see the picture of the blue whale that was spotted off the coast of Sydney for possibly only the third time in almost 100 years. They are not often seen because they tend to live very far out into the ocean, their populations are widely dispersed and there is limited data on their migration and critical habitats. The blue whale belongs to the category of “charismatic megafauna” — a rather unattractive way of describing those animals which capture the public imagination and help drive environmental and biodiversity campaigns. But this often means that the fate of creatures with less obvious appeal is overlooked. Rima Roy,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-152
07-09-2020||Opinion||Blank noise: Make in India and Atmanirbhar Bharat||While hearing a case on tender requirements for ground-handling operations in regional airports, the Delhi High Court made a remark about the Centre’s policies on ‘Make in India’ and ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’. The court called them hypocritical because there were no efforts to promote domestic production and entrepreneurship. This remark could not have been nearer to the truth. The policies reflect a long-standing culture of the political class saying something and not doing anything about it or, worse, doing exactly the opposite. Make in India and Atmanirbhar Bharat represent instances where announcements were made with much fanfare and media applause without clarity on what the strategies meant and how they would be implemented. Indeed, a little reflection reveals that the two policies are self-contradictory. Anybody can make in India, such as foreign firms and multinationals. Atmanirbhar implies self-reliance. It can have different meanings. It could imply that the nation manufactures and grows everything it can and imports only those goods that are essential but not available in adequate quantities, like petroleum. Firstly, all production should be carried out by Indian producers since foreigners producing in India would have the right to exit. Unless this right is granted they would not come to India in the first place. Secondly, even if the nation has to import oil because there is just not enough found at home, it is dependence of a high order for a critical input. Thirdly, what the prime minister meant perhaps was to produce as many things as we can and not import non-essentials like toys from China. Here, there is an important economic issue at stake. What if the toys India can make are more costly and less attractive than the ones the Chinese produce? Should India still manufacture at higher costs? Should India not import specific food items like onions or lentils if the need arises from a crop failure? Should India refrain from looking at the world market for the weapons best suited for the nation’s armed forces by compelling all defence items to be manufactured in India? Is the nation headed back to the 1960s? Or are these words, as the high court pointed out, mere sound and fury? The nation needs to know.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-152
07-09-2020||Opinion||Hope Again: Dr Kafeel Khan released||India seems to have grown used to the culture of arrests. Detention is followed by denial, often repeatedly, of bail. Yet the Supreme Court had in 1978 enunciated the principle that bail is the rule and jail the exception. This principle, however, seems to operate rarely nowadays. Those arrested two years ago in the Bhima Koregaon case, for example, detained still without trial, have been refused bail even on medical grounds, whether grievously ill like Varavara Rao, or vulnerable to the Covid-19 infection, such as Sudha Bharadwaj. Therefore it is indeed reassuring that the Allahabad High Court has ordered the release of Kafeel Khan, the doctor detained for seven months under the National Security Act for allegedly trying to promote hatred in an anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act speech in Aligarh Muslim University last December. The court dismissed the allegation, reportedly saying that the speech was a call for national unity and integrity. Selected references from the speech had been used to formulate the charge while its intent had been ignored. This was “bad”: the court asked the Uttar Pradesh government to release Mr Khan “forthwith”. The Allahabad High Court’s pronouncements on Mr Khan’s detention matter greatly in the context of the use of law by different authorities against those who displease them. Mr Khan was first arrested in 2017 when he was charged with irregularities in the conduct of his duty in trying to save children in Gorakhpur’s Baba Raghav Das Medical College by arranging for oxygen when cylinders fell short. The efforts of Mr Khan and his colleagues exposed the negligence of the authorities. There can be little doubt, especially after the court’s ruling, that the government’s displeasure led to the doctor’s further detention in a different case. The Delhi High Court, too, granted bail to the student and Pinjra Tod activist, Devangana Kalita, charged with criminal conspiracy for allegedly instigating women of a particular community in northeast Delhi. The court said the material submitted by the police did not establish the charge. Although a similar charge against her remains to be heard, the decision for bail is important in the present atmosphere of fear.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-152
07-09-2020||Opinion||Portal for profit: e-NAM needs redesigning||Agriculture and the allied sector employ 54.6 per cent of total workers. Yet, the estimated growth rate for 2019-2020 is 2.9 per cent. India’s agricultural markets are regulated by state legislation and fall under the purview of local market committees. Consequently, the sector is characterized by fragmentation across geographical regions, abysmal competition, price manipulations, inefficiency and the presence of middlemen. Then there are the additional needs for logistics and infrastructure. Furthermore, the past decades have witnessed a collapse of farm gate prices across commodities. In its budget of 2016-2017, the Centre had proposed to double farmers’ income by 2022. The National Agriculture Market Portal was launched in 2016 to connect mandis across India. The aim was to increase transparency, thereby improving market conditions. The common electronic platform sought to permit farmers to sell their produce to buyers, promote contract farming and facilitate the direct sale of products to consumers. E-NAM 2016 sought to improve competition and efficiency in markets, eliminate the presence of middlemen, realize better prices for producers and competitive prices for consumers. During the Covid-19 induced lockdown, such new features as Farmers’ Producer Organizations trade modules, logistic modules, and the electronic negotiable warehouse receipt-based module were introduced on the e-NAM platform to strengthen agriculture marketing. E-NAM has networked with 585 Agriculture Produce Market Committee mandis in 16 states and two Union territories. However, the government’s goal faces several impediments. Of the existing 585 mandis, only 252 have shown proof of engagement with the online portal. While the programme wants to reach out to the masses, its successful implementation has been deterred by an information asymmetry, especially among marginalized groups. There is also the absence of a nationwide legal framework; most of the decisions regarding agriculture and allied activities fall under the purview of state legislation. Licensing varies among states and there is no single point for levying of mandi charges. It is collected at several points, facilitating the inclusion of middlemen. Time and cost overrun due to delays in facilitating exchange prevent mandis’ progress towards high-volume commodities. Additionally, e-NAM is used only once a week or during the off-season. New design The scheme needs redesigning. Establishing an online portal market requires an approach that is context-specific and is capable of fostering a deeper engagement with physical mandis and the faulty conditions under which they function. Region-specific market requirements are necessary; this implies decentralization and enhanced institutional capacity-building. What is also necessary is greater coordination among several stakeholders. Statutory restrictions must be removed and the bargaining power of farmers improved with the help of competition in local wholesale markets. The dissemination of information must be ensured. The states have to open up the marketing system for better competition. This might lead to a fall in the MSP but it will ensure the quality of the produce. Further, agricultural production needs to be diversified to keep up with the competition at the global level. Although this looks difficult, it can be achieved with public investment and training. A comprehensive framework backed by science and technology, institutions, and policy support may enable the Centre to tap into the potential of e-NAM, which, with context-specific implementation, may prove beneficial during Covid-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-152
07-09-2020||Opinion||Shifting faith||In 1979, Pakistan changed the name of its third-largest populated city, Lyallpur, located on the banks of the river, Chenab, in Pakistani Punjab to Faisalabad in honour of the late King Faisal of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. Lyallpur was the name given in honour of the then British lieutenant-governor of Punjab, James Broadwood Lyall, in the early 20th century. The KSA gave money for the construction of the picturesque Faisal mosque in Islamabad, again named in honour of the late king. The relationship between the KSA and the Islamic Republic of Pakistan has often been cast in terms of ties between two fraternal Sunni Muslim majority countries. One was the country where Islam was founded and another was created in the name of Islam. So the Pakistani foreign minister, Shah Mehmood Qureshi, surprised many by publicly admonishing the KSA leadership for its failure to convene a foreign ministers’ meeting of the KSA-led 57-member Organisation of Islamic Cooperation. “If they will not play their role, then I will ask Prime Minister Imran Khan to go ahead with or without Saudi Arabia.” This was preceded by Pakistan repaying the KSA’s loan of $1 billion (USD) out of $3 billion with China’s help before the maturity period. The reason cited was that the KSA was facing financial difficulties because of the recent decrease in oil exports owing to the ongoing pandemic. The reason didn’t convince many as the KSA has several hundred billions parked in foreign assets and a sovereign wealth fund was established to diversify its investments. The loan to Pakistan was at an interest rate of 3.2 per cent. In addition to this, an old agreement signed between Pakistan and the KSA for the provision of $3.2 billion worth of oil on deferred payments per annum by the KSA was not renewed after May, 2020. Given the manner in which the two countries have locked themselves in the last few decades, this was a rare instance of criticism of the KSA leadership. The KSA, being one of the financial benefactors, has often shaped political developments in Pakistan. In a deal that was believed to be brokered by the KSA, the former prime minister, Nawaz Sharif, was allowed to leave Pakistan by Pervez Musharraf a year after the general had deposed Sharif  in a military coup. In the late 1970s and the 1980s, the KSA and Pakistan became the most important frontal allies of the United States of America in its bid to bleed and defeat the Soviet Union. The KSA, along with the US, provided funds to Pakistan’s military to train and arm the mujahideen in Afghanistan. In fact, as is widely known, some KSA nationals, including Osama bin Laden, had fought alongside the Afghan mujahideen. After the retreat of the Soviet Union and the defeat of the local groups it supported in Afghanistan, the victorious mujahideen coalesced to form the Taliban and took advantage of the political vacuum. Only the KSA, the United Arab Emirates and Pakistan recognized the Taliban leadership when they took power in Afghanistan. The relationship has other aspects. Pakistani troops have been deployed in the KSA at various critical moments, including the Gulf war in 1991, as part of a strategy to deter any potential Iraqi attack. The KSA had helped Pakistan to weather international sanctions after the 1998 nuclear tests in the form of a “four-year deferred oil financing facility worth roughly $3.4 billion”. Although the KSA, officially, is a non-nuclear-weapons state, its public commitment hinges on whether or not its regional foe, Iran, acquires the nuclear bomb. It is widely believed that nuclear-armed Pakistan may be one of the countries that will enable the KSA to acquire nuclear capability. Pakistan’s singular obsession with raising the Kashmir issue and the KSA’s desire to remain equidistant from the Indo-Pak rivalry seem to be the trigger behind Qureshi’s outburst. That may not be all. In the last year or so, Pakistan’s foreign policy has put itself in the cross hairs of the renewed rivalry between the KSA and Turkey. This rivalry has its roots in the four-centuries’ old Arab-Ottoman animosity as the Ottomans had colonized vast tracts of present-day Middle East. Pakistan’s prime minister, Imran Khan, has lavished praise on the Turkish president, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, and encouraged Pakistan’s State media to broadcast the famous Turkish show, Ertugrul, and dub it in Urdu. Khan stated that in contrast to Hollywood and Bollywood, Turkish television shows are more in conformity with Islamic and family values. Musharraf used to refer to Kemal Atatürk, the founder of modern Turkey, as his role model. Atatürk, the polar opposite of Erdogan, secularized the country’s polity with an iron hand. The KSA-Turkey animosity has acquired topical salience in the last few years. Turkey’s decision to deploy more troops in Qatar, which was facing a blockage from the KSA, exacerbated the tensions between the KSA and Turkey. In July 2020, Erdogan visited Qatar to further cement the strategic relationship between the two countries.  The KSA and Turkey are following divergent foreign policy goals in many places. For instance, in Libya, Turkey is backing Libya’s Government of National Accord to push back Khalifa Haftar’s Libyan National Army, which is supported by the KSA. The tensions had become more apparent after the killing of the Saudi journalist, Jamal Khashoggi, in the KSA’s Istanbul consulate in 2018. The facts presented by the Turkish authorities hinted at the direct involvement of Crown Prince Mohammed Bin Salman in the killing. A trial had already started in Turkey that accused 20 KSA citizens in absentia; the KSA has declined to extradite them. There is a counter-reaction sweeping within the KSA as the leadership has decided to refer to the Ottoman rule over its territory in the context of colonialism and revise textbooks. In Riyadh, a sign bearing the name of the Ottoman sultan, Suleiman the Magnificent, was reportedly removed from one of the main streets. The global challenge to the KSA’s leadership in the Muslim world is at play. In December 2019, Erdogan along with the former Malaysian prime minister, Mahathir Mohamad, had taken the initiative to organize an Islamic summit in Kuala Lumpur. This initiative was seen by the KSA monarchy as a threat to replace the Jeddah-headquartered OIC, which is under Saudi Arabia’s de facto leadership. In a statement, the OIC secretary-general, Yousef al-Othaimeen, had said, “It is not in the interest of an Islamic nation to hold summits and meetings outside the framework of the (OIC), especially at this time when the world is witnessing multiple conflicts.” Although Malaysia and Turkey supported the position of Khan on Jammu and Kashmir-related issues in the context of the developments after August 5, 2019, the KSA leadership convinced Pakistan’s prime minister not to attend the summit. The deference is not unexpected. Apart from financial support, at least 2.6 million Pakistani nationals of all professional classes work in the KSA and they are the biggest source of remittances to Pakistan. At a time of a grand contestation taking place between the two big powers of the Islamic world, Pakistan faces a choice between the KSA, which is expected to invest $20 billion in Pakistan as part of a memorandum of understanding signed between the two countries in February 2019, or join hands with Turkey, the KSA’s arch rival in the Muslim world.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-152
07-09-2020||Jharkhand||Auto-rickshaw driver’s body found hanging from Sunsunia rail bridge ||The body of a 65-year-old man was found hanging from a railway bridge near Sunsunia rail gate on the Burmamines-Sakchi road on Monday morning. The deceased was later identified as Jogender Singh, a resident of East Plant Bustee in Burmamines, a kilometre away from where his body was found. Singh, an auto-rickshaw driver, was undergoing financial problems owing to the lockdown. The police said this seems to be a case of suicide from preliminary findings. A plastic rope used for hanging has also been recovered along with the body. The body has been sent to the MGM Medical College Hospital at Sakchi for a Covid test. It will be shifted to the medical college mortuary at Dimna for autopsy on Tuesday. Assistant sub-inspector Ravi Kant Singh said the deceased had left his house at about 9 pm on Sunday, but did not return home, leading the family members to search for him throughout the night. "The man might have died by hanging himself past midnight, after commuters had stopped passing through the road.  Had he attempted to hang himself earlier, someone would have noticed, as this is a busy thoroughfare," the ASI told The Telegraph Online. Jogender’s son Pritam Singh said he committed suicide due to depression. "My father was an auto-rickshaw driver and would drive on the Burmamines-Station route regularly.  After lock down was imposed in April, he had to sit idle at home.  In the next two months, the family’s financial condition deteriorated as all sources of income had depleted.  For the past few weeks, my father had started showing  signs of  depression.  He had also stopped talking to family members.  Last night he left the house without eating dinner, and did not return home. We all searched for him in the locality throughout the night, but in the early morning someone informed us that his body was found hanging near the Sunsunia railway bridge in Burmamines," Pritam said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-308
07-09-2020||Jharkhand||NEP pro-privatisation and discriminatory, says Hemant||Chief minister Hemant Soren expressed the fear that National Education Policy (NEP), if implemented in its current form, may not offer a level playing failed to many deserving candidates from poor backgrounds. Hemant, who attended the “Governors Conference on the Role of NEP in Transforming Higher Education” earlier on Monday, also said that the Centre should have consulted states before framing the policy, as education features in the concurrent list of the Constitution. Pointing to several “drawbacks” in the NEP, Hemant described it as pro-privatisation and wondered why the Union government did not take into confidence all the state governments and major political parties before drafting the policy. Stating that the Centre’s move was yet another attempt at hurting cooperative federalism, Hemant questioned Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the BJP for changing their earlier stand against privatisation in education. Monday’s virtual meet on NEP saw the presence of President Ramnath Kovid, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union HRD minister Ramesh Pokriyal, among others, from Delhi. Governor Droupadi Murmu, along with Hemant, represented Jharkhand as did other constitutional heads, chief ministers and education ministers of other states. The policy does not mention clearly how students from tribal communities and marginalised sections would benefit from its provisions, he said during his address at the meet. "Only those languages that figure in the eighth schedule of the Constitution have been included in the list of classical languages in NEP. That leaves out several other languages spoken by different cross-sections... Injustice is being done to them," Hemant contended. "India is a diverse country, and each state has its unique requirements. The Centre should have held consultations with each of these states with an open mind. No state should feel that the policy was being imposed on it," he explained. Hemant also accused the Narendra Modi-led dispensation of taking unilateral decisions in matters of education, GST and commercial mining. "The Union government is inviting international institutes to the country, as part of the policy. However, NEP does not say much about how it would be safeguarding the interests of the marginalised sections," he added. Three days ago, the CM had written to the prime minister, highlighting the "withering trust" between the Centre and the states over GST compensation payment. Hemant requested the PM to intervene and “reinforcing the trust” in the spirit of cooperative federalism. The NEP, approved by the Union Cabinet in July, replaces the 34-year-old National Policy on Education framed in 1986 and is aimed at paving the way for transformational reforms in school and higher education systems. Modi, during his address, said "maximum flexibility" has to be shown in implementing the policy. The PM also said that it is natural for stakeholders to have questions about various aspects of the policy and "we are all working to address all these questions".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-308
07-09-2020||Jharkhand||Steel city Puja watchdog meets organisers for feedback  ||The Jamshedpur Durga Puja Kendriya Samity (JDPKS) has started zone- ise meetings with puja organisers ahead of the festival scheduled to be held from October 22 to 26. The meetings are being organised with the intention of taking feedback from puja organisers vis-à-vis restrictions imposed by the samity in view of the pandemic. This time, the samity wants all organisers to do away with dhakis, bhog, lighting, decoration, small idols and big budget pandals in an effort to minimise risks. Organisers of community puja at flats and housing societies have been asked to do away with idols. Instead, they have been asked to use photographs of Goddess Durga. “We have started meetings with puja organisers for taking their feedback and suggestions on the restrictions. It is necessary to take stock of the mood of the organisers as we want a risk-free and peaceful celebration without hurting the sentiments of people,” samity general secretary Rambabu Singh said. Speaking to The Telegraph Online, he said they have already taken a decision on keeping the Pujas a low-key affair this time and it was important to remind the organisers about the restrictions once again. “We are also noting down the requirements of the organisers who have different needs,” Singh said, adding a total of 320 pujas spread over 32 zones are held under the banner of the samity. Some puja organisers are keen to limit the occasion to  just "kalash sthapna". According to him, they were giving a re-look to bhog distribution which is an important element related to the Pujas and is very much attached to the emotions of devotees. “We are looking at the logistics of bhog distribution to see how it can be distributed among devotees by maintaining social distancing. It is very early to say anything at this point of time as we have already omitted it from our list. We are taking suggestions from puja organisers in this regard,” Singh said. The samity is also focussing on how to maintain social distancing. “Though we are sure very few members will be coming out of their homes during the Pujas, we cannot take a chance. We don’t want to be lethargic in maintaining social distancing. Adequate number of volunteers will be deployed to help maintain it,” one of the JDPKS functionaries said. According to him, they will hold more zone-wise meetings and after taking feedback and suggestions from puja organisers, will meet the district administration. “We have already announced the list of Covid-related restrictions for Pujas and it is possible that the administration may add some more. This will be known once we meet officials in the administration,” the member added. Meanwhile, the mood among people is far from exciting. Steel city markets are not crowded with puja shoppers. The usual happiness is missing and people seem to have accepted that revelry and pandal-hopping would be a thing of the past this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-308
07-09-2020||Jharkhand||University exams in Dhanbad from September 21 ||After successfully conducting the JEE mains examination, Dhanbad is now gearing up to hold university examinations. Binod Bihari Mahto Koylanchal University, which has already secured the nod of state Higher, Technical Education and Skill development department, is now busy making arrangement to conduct the sixth (final) semester examination of all undergraduate courses (BA, B Sc, B Com) from September 21 in adherence to examination related SOPs of Ministry of Home affairs. Notably, more than 30000 students are to appear for the sixth (final) semester exam scheduled at 37 centres spread across Dhanbad and Bokaro. Talking to The Telegraph Online today, Anjani Kumar Srivastava,  BBMKU vice chancellor, said  “there will be foolproof arrangement at the all the 37 examination centers. Instead of the usual practice of three students seating on each bench, only one student will be accommodated at one bench. We will also see to it that sufficient space is maintained between two benches at the examination hall” “We have increased the number of examination centers to 37 from 14 in order to maintain social distancing. At the same time, we have also made provision of holding the examinations at the home centers, meaning students wll appear for the examination at their college to maximum possible extent in order to avoid travelling difficulties to the students to distant examination centers due to lack of transport" added Srivatava. “ In case of lack of availability of space at home center, examination will be held at the nearest centre from their college” said Srivastava and added that the examination will be of two hours instead of three hours and will be held in two seatings from from 9 am to 11am and again from 1 pm to 3 pm or 2 pm to 4 pm. “The gap between the two seatings will be used for carrying out proper sanitization of the examination centres” said Srivastava, adding that full sanitization of premises would also be carried out before the examination. Wearing masks would be mandatory for all the examinees and staff. “We are also considering the option of holding the other, smaller (in terms of students) examination before September 21 for which we have also obtained the sanction” said Srivastava. He also said that post graduation fourth (final) semester examination will be held after September 30 while the publication of results will be ensured before October 15. Notably, the post graduation admissions in BBMKU are also pending due to the pending  final semester examination of undergraduate courses although the undergraduate courses admissions are under progress and likely to completed before September 15 as the publication of plus two results of CBSE, ICSE and JAC were held in July itself. BBMKU, earlier on July 22 issued a notification for holding semester exams of undergraduate and post graduate course besides various professional courses except for the final semester exams from August 4  but again postponed the examination in view of repeated protest by the students and protests in apprehension of spread of Covid infection. The university finally on August 6 decided to promote the students of semester I and III of post graduation course and semester III and V of the undergraduate course on basis of internal examination marks and previous semester examination performance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-309
07-09-2020||Jharkhand||Hazaribagh’s Covid hospital has 24 ventilators, but none to operate them||Hazaribagh Medical College and Hospital (HMCH) now has 24 ventilators in its ICU, a key element in treating serious Covid patients, but lacks the manpower to operate them. HMCH superintendent Sanjay Sinha said he had written to senior officials of the district administration and the health department a number of times to draw their attention to the peculiar problem. “There is a lack of skilled manpower to operate ventilators. There are four more ventilators and when these are installed, the total number of ventilators will be 28,” he told The Telegraph Online on Monday. Of the 24 that are installed, eight were given by NTPC, four were procured with funds from the district mineral foundation trust and the rest were given by the health directorate in  Ranchi. NTPC is understood to have spent Rs 58.8 lakh from its CSR funds to donate eight ventilators to HMCH. HMCH is the biggest Covid hospital of the area that, like elsewhere, has seen a rise in the number of Covid cases. Hazaribagh district has recorded more than 2,000 Covid cases. Of these, 1,346 have recovered. In all, 19 Covid patients have died. Sinha said they had three assistant doctors looking after Covid patients. But they needed more skilled hands to operate the ventilators. “So far, we have not had to treat a Covid patient who needed to be put on the ventilator,” he added. The ICU of HMCH where the ventilators have been set up is a 12-bed facility. “We have four more ventilators and soon engineers will come to install them. Ventilators need to be operated by skilled personnel. And that is why I have written to officials a number of times,” Sinha said. Doctors here admit that to have so many ventilators in the hospital was a big achievement for the district which till recently, lacked proper facilities in its ICU. Several critical patients have had to be referred to Ranchi because of this.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-309
07-09-2020||Jharkhand||Few takers for app that facilitates online medical help ||The Centre’s initiative to encourage online medical consultations through an app has found few takers in Jharkhand despite the state government’s push amid an unprecedented rise in Covid-19 cases, health officials said on Monday. As per data with the National Health Mission (NHM), around 1,500 people consulted doctors using the esanjeevani OPD app in Jharkhand since it was launched on May 1. However, the number of patients using the app for medical consultations has halved since the end of May, said doctors spearheading the initiative. The nodal officer of the esanjeevani initiative in Jharkhand, Dr. LR Pathak, said around 600 consultations were registered in May, and only 900 more consultations happened in June, July and August. “Patients have started visiting hospitals in person for minor ailments. This practice shows residents aren’t availing of the benefits of easy online consultations, and also puts them at risk of contracting the coronavirus infection,” Pathak said. The esanjeevaniOPD initiative is aimed at providing free of cost online medical consultation to avoid overcrowding at OPDs of government hospitals. The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare in August said that over 2 lakh consultations were provided through the app across India. This means that less than 1 per cent people of Jharkhand availed of the benefit. Pathak attributed the fall in online consultations to relaxations of lockdown curbs and lack of awareness among people. “A majority of the people who sought medical consultation through the app were from urban clusters of Ranchi, East Singhbhum and Bokaro. We need to make the rural populace more aware of the facility, so they don’t rush to the nearest government hospital for regular check-ups or minor ailments,” he said. In Jharkhand, free medical consultation is provided through the app from 11am to 1pm and from 3pm to 5pm, from Monday to Saturday. Consultation by psychiatrists is offered from 1pm to 2pm, while specialists provide consultations from 2pm to 3pm. “People who need consultation with specialists can log-in between 2pm to 3pm, while the ones in need of psychiatric help may log in between 1pm to 2pm. Around 200 people have consulted psychiatrists through our platform so far,” said Pathak. In Jharkhand, the government also started providing free generic medicines at public healthcare centres for patients who seek medical consultations through the app. “At our level, we decided to provide free medicines available with government facilities here to ensure that more people opt for the online consultation,” said Pathak.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-309
07-09-2020||Jharkhand||Number of Covid recoveries surpass fresh cases ||The Covid-19 recovery rate in Jharkhand jumped over 70 per cent on Sunday as the number of people recovering from the deadly virus surpassed the number of fresh cases surfacing in the state for the second consecutive day, figures with the state health department stated. As per a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) on Sunday late night, as many as 1854 Covid patients overcame the viral infection in 24 hours, while 1246 people were found to be infected during the same time period. At least 14,410 people were yet to recover from the viral infection in Jharkhand, the bulletin further stated. Despite the improvement in the recovery rate, the Covid tally in Jharkhand crossed the 50,000 mark on Sunday, while the toll reached 469 after seven patients died of the viral infection in the state on Sunday. As per government data, at least four of the seven Covid casualties occurred in East Singhbhum, a district which accounts for nearly 50 per cent of the 469 Covid deaths in Jharkhand. The district has reported 215 Covid fatalities so far. The number of active cases also reduced in Ranchi and East Singbhum on Sunday as both the districts reported more than twice as many recoveries as fresh cases found on the day. As per the NHM bulletin, 349 people were found infected in Ranchi on Sunday, while 708 Covid patients recovered. In East Singhbhum, 328 Covid patients recovered from the infection and 102 fresh cases surfaced. As per government data, as many as 36,184 of the 51,063 Covid-infected people have overcome the virus in Jharkhand so far, helping the state achieve a Covid recovery rate which was close to the national recovery rate. The national Covid recovery rate on Sunday was 77.32 per cent, while the rate of recovery in Jharkhand was 70.86 per cent. The Covid mortality rate also dropped to 0.91 per cent in Jharkhand on Sunday, the NHM bulletin highlighted. The government has so far collected swab samples of 11.17 lakh people and tested 11.05 lakh of them. On Sunday, health workers tested swab samples of 13,057 people and 11,811 of them came negative. Ranchi continues to be the worst-affected district in Jharkhand in terms of the number of active cases of Covid infection. As per latest government data, there were nearly 4000 active Covid-19 cases in Ranchi, and the tally in the district was close to 11,000.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-309
07-09-2020||Jharkhand||Bokaro to have more facilities to take on Covid||The Bokaro administration will develop more Covid-19 care centres in Bermo and Chas with the number of active cases in the district reaching 800. The total number of beds in the district will go up from 400 to 900 after the care centres are established. While a 250-bed Covid-19 care centre will become functional at the new Bermo block office this week, another 250-bed isolation centre will come up in Chas in the coming weeks. There are more than 200 micro-containment zones in the district. Currently, most of the beds are in the Chas subdivision, including the 100-bed Covid-19 care centre near the Sadar hospital, 90-bed Covid ward at Bokaro General Hospital (BGH) and 110 beds in a few private hospitals. The Bermo subdivision has only a 100-bed care centre in Jainamoad, which is not operational yet. Civil surgeon Dr A.K. Pathak said the Jainamoad facility was almost ready and would become operational by Monday. “People who test positive in Bermo will be admitted there. In Chas, the institutional isolation centre will be made functional later this month,” he said. The district health department is segregating patients according to their symptoms. The symptomatic or serious patients are being admitted to BGH while asymptomatic patients are being sent to care centres run by the health department. Approval for quarantining at home is being provided by deputy commissioner Rajesh Kumar Singh after an assessment. The next few days may witness a bigger spike in cases as the administration plans large testing drives. However, the administration feels the number of beds is enough. “Many people are getting released every day. Currently, the number of available beds is sufficient in accommodating patients. But we are keeping ourselves prepared for any spike in cases,” Singh said. On Sunday morning, the number of positive patients was 2,059. Of them, 800 are active. There have been 16 deaths so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-309
07-09-2020||Jharkhand||Protesters block road over Hazaribagh woman’s death ||Police in Hazaribagh on Sunday baton-charged around 300 demonstrators, mostly women, demanding the death sentence for a youth who they said was responsible for the death of a 24-year-old woman in Palamau. Salina Yasmeen’s dead body was found hanging from a ceiling fan at a lodge in Palamau. She had gone missing from her home in Pelawal on September 2. It appeared that she had eloped with Garhwa resident Prince Yadav. The protesters feel that Yadav was responsible for her death. They blocked the Hazaribagh-Chatra road in Romi. Sadar subdivisional officer Megha Bhardwaj, who reached the spot, tried pacifying them without success. The Ramgarh cantonment board plans to charge four-wheelers a fee for entry into the town. Checkpoints will be erected at four points for this purpose. For light vehicles, the proposed fee is Rs 20, whereas for heavy four-wheelers, it is Rs 200. The fees will be used to shore up the board’s revenues and accelerate development of the town. The 80 priests of the ancient Bhadrakali temple at Chatra on Sunday wrote to chief minister Hemant Soren to demand that the shrine be opened on the lines of Babadham in Deoghar and Basukinath in Dumka. The priests said their financial condition had deteriorated because of the restrictions. They also highlighted the plight of the owners of shops and hotels near the temple. A team led by Dr Amrendra Mahapatra of ICMR Bhubaneswar on Sunday inspected the dedicated Covid-19 health centre at Nirsa Polytechnic in Gopalpur. The team instructed the doctors at the facility to counsel patients. Dr Mahapatra told the nodal officer of the health centre, Dr Vikash Rana, to reassure patients and their relatives. A contractual worker at BCCL’s Ena colliery was caught by employees and handed over to police allegedly for bursting crackers. The worker maintained that he was bursting the crackers as a joke. The colliery was in the news for tension between supporters of Jharia MLA Sanjeev Singh and those of his cousin, Guddu Singh. On August 29, some motorcycle-borne persons had opened fire at the colliery.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-309
