08-09-2020||Calcutta||Partha Chatterjee airs NEP worry||The Centre should give priority to Covid-related matters during the pandemic instead of holding discussions to implement the National Education Policy, education minister Partha Chatterjee said on Monday. The policy “tries to dilute the country’s federal structure”, Chatterje said after taking part in a virtual interaction on the policy with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, President Ram Nath Kovind and Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal among others. “It maybe appreciated that in the current pandemic situation, Covid-related issues should get utmost priority. At a time Covid-19 is raging, they (Centre) are giving emphasis on discussing the National Education Policy,” he said. “But they are not giving any priority to how the spread of Covid-19 can be prevented. They are not giving any priority to how loss of lives can be prevented and the health of common people protected. This should have been discussed first. We have told the President it was high time that discussions were held on Covid-19.” The policy is centralised in nature although education comes under the concurrent list, minister Chatterjee said. “It tries to dilute the federal structure of the country, which is guaranteed in our Constitution, by trying to prescribe almost everything centrally.” Minister Chatterjee wondered whether the 6 per cent of the GDP would be adequate to meet the goals set in the pol-icy and said it was unclear how the fund sharing would take place. “There is no clarity on the issue of fund sharing,” Chatterjee said. A state government official said: “Until we manage to overcome the onslaught of Covid, we will not be left with enough resources to spend on this project. The Union government should be realistic.” Chatterjee said the Bengal government had “strong” reservations about the common test concept at the national level for admission to undergraduate courses, multi-layered undergraduate courses, and discontinuation of MPhil courses — some of the changes that have been enumerated under the policy. “We, therefore, request the Centre to provide us with appropriate time to present our complete views,” he said. Sugata Bose, the Gardiner professor of Oceanic History and Affairs at Harvard University, had written in The Telegraph on August 17, describing the policy as a recipe for unenlightened over-centralisation. He wrote: “The announcement of the policy bypassing Parliament and any real consultation with the states is one more brazen and cynical attempt to advance the ruling configuration’s ideological agenda under the cover of Covid-19. It is a recipe for unenlightened over-centralisation.” An official of the higher education department said: “No one knows when the academic session will start. At a time like this, Covid-19 should be the first and only priority for any such interaction at a forum like this.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-315
08-09-2020||Calcutta||Work paucity pushes woman to death by suicide||A 24-year-old woman was found hanging in her rented accommodation in Jadavpur on Sunday. Police identified her as Bithi Mondal. Preliminary investigation suggested she had committed suicide, the police said. Mondal, who hailed from Joynagar in South 24-Parganas, did some modelling jobs and had enrolled in an air-hostess training course at a private academy, the police said. “She worked with a couple of event management companies. She was depressed as her work was not going well because of the pandemic,” an officer of Jadavpur police station quoted Mondal’s sister as saying. No suicide note has been found, the officer said. Mondal used to stay in a rented flat in Samajhgarh Park. “She was found hanging from the ceiling fan with a dupatta around 4pm on Sunday. The door was bolted from inside. She was declared dead at Baghajatin State General Hospital,” the officer said. An officer said investigations did not reveal any foul play. “No complaint has been received from anyone so far. A post-mortem will be conducted to ascertain the actual cause of her death.” The police have started a case of unnatural death. The pandemic has crippled livelihoods. Several companies have stopped spending on publicity. As a result, event management companies are hardly getting contracts. “Many struggling models and actors from districts share rented apartments in Calcutta. For starters, modelling is a low-paying job. The pandemic has only made things worse,” the owner of a Calcutta-based event management firm said. “Television shooting remained suspended for a long time. Many struggling models have returned home because they are unable to pay rents. Many have returned to Calcutta from other cities.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-315
08-09-2020||Calcutta||St Xavier’s College sets rules for exams||St Xavier’s College will conduct the final semester undergraduate and postgraduate exams. Students will have to write and upload answers within six hours of the start of the exam. Questions will be “analytical” that require original thinking of the students as they will not take the test sitting on the campus, Father Dominic Savio, the principal of St Xavier’s College, said. Question papers will be mailed to students half an hour before the start of the exam. The question papers will have an email address to which students will have to mail back the answers. The email addresses will vary from department to department to avoid disruption when too many students upload answers at the same time, a college official said. Students can key in answers or write them in A4 sheets. In case any student is unable to upload the answers because of Net connectivity problems, they can courier it to the college. The college had conducted a survey to find out how many students could find it difficult to take the exams for want of a smart device or because of poor Net connectivity. No student had complained of such problems, the official said. “The exams are for three hours; students will get another three hours to upload the answers in case they face connectivity problems on the day of examination,” the principal said. If students type in their answers on a word document, they will have to create a PDF, name it, attach it as a document, and mail it to the address provided in the question paper. If they use pen and paper, they will have to scan the pages “chronologically and sequentially” and convert the pages into a single PDF document and mail it, the principal said. The exams will carry 80 per cent as is the rule. The remaining 20 per cent is on internal assessments. The question pattern, though, will be different from the usual tests. Multiple-choice questions have been included in all subjects, along with short and long-answer questions. “Students will not write the exam on the campus. So, we have decided to bring in some changes in the question pattern. Questions will be set in such a way that they will demand original thinking and analytical ability of students,” Father Savio said. But the number of alternative questions will be much more this time. The alternative questions have been substantially increased, considering the stressful situation students are going through at present, the principal said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-315
08-09-2020||Calcutta||Facebook alerts cops; dad averts son’s suicide ||A man who was unaware of his son trying to commit suicide in the next room foiled the suicide bid after police alerted him early on Monday. The youth had posted his video on his Facebook timeline saying he was going to kill himself with a sharp weapon, prompting the Facebook authorities to report it to the city police’s cyber cell. The police received a mail from Facebook around 1.36am on Monday, giving details of the person and the contact numbers attached with the profile. Cops scanned the numbers and found one of the SIM cards was registered in the youth’s name. They zeroed in on the phone’s location — a place in Nadia district. “We managed to get hold of the phone number of the youth’s father and contacted him in less than half an hour after receiving the mail from Facebook. His father was clueless and he immediately rushed to his son’s rescue,” a detective department officer said. After speaking to the youth’s father, the city police alerted Bhimpur police station in Nadia and sought their help in the rescue. The youth’s father, along with cops, broke open the door to his son’s room and found him unconscious. He was taken to a government hospital in Nadia where he was treated for “superficial” wounds. The youth’s family has apparently told cops he has been depressed for the past few years and that he had tried to kill himself in the past as well.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-315
08-09-2020||Calcutta||Filmmakers pay tribute to Father Gaston Roberge||Father Gaston Roberge: father of film studies, great lover of Calcutta, the founder of a first-of-its-kind film centre and the proponent of seeing Indian cinema in an Indian context. The many facets of Father Roberge were relived on Sunday evening as a group of filmmakers paid their tributes to the Jesuit priest-turned-film academic who died on August 26. He was 85. Filmmakers Adoor Gopalakrishnan, Buddhadeb Dasgupta and Goutam Ghose were among the participants in the virtual session, moderated by film critic and journalist Saibal Chatterjee. Gopalakrishnan described Father Roberge as the pioneer of film studies in eastern India before listing his “very very important” contribution. “I had very few opportunities of meeting him…. But I knew about him because he is the one who started film appreciation as a subject of study in the eastern part of India, particularly in Bengal,” Gopalakrishnan said. “Original Indian work is not very accustomed to the West. This I have understood from the experience of my life.... Father Gaston Roberge has really contributed a great deal to the fact that Indian cinema has to be understood against the perspective of our culture. That’s very very important. “When you see a small thatched house, you don’t see facilities attached to modern life; you seem to consider them poor. As long as the person gets what he needs, he is not poor…. Despite not having all the facilities of modern life, people are not unhappy. They are happy with what they have. Our greatest contribution… renounce, and be happy. This has to be understood.” The webinar on the life, works and legacy of Father Roberge was organised by the St Xavier’s College (Calcutta) Alumni Association in association with The Telegraph. The event was supported by the Film Federation of India. Father Roberge founded Chitrabani, a centre for film studies, with the help of Satyajit Ray, in 1970 and remained its director till 1996. He taught in the film studies department of St Xavier’s College, Calcutta. He was the founder-director of the UGC’s Audio Visual Research Centre, which later became Electronic Multi Media Research Centre under St Xavier’s College, Calcutta. Father Roberge lived on the college campus and for the past few years had been in the infirmary for priests. “Father Roberge was a French-speaking Canadian from Montreal. He developed love, attraction and respect for India and its people since his formative years. He was highly impressed by Tagore’s Gitanjali and that might have been the reason for him to volunteer for India in general and Calcutta in particular as a young priest,” Father Dominic Savio, the principal of St Xavier’s College, said in his introductory address. He spoke of Father Roberge’s association with Satyajit Ray. “He watched Apu’s Trilogy on the eve of his maiden journey to Calcutta 60 years back and that had made an indelible impact on his mind… he had deep respect for Satyajit Ray…. He waited for many years to learn the Bengali language and get acquainted with the Bengali culture to have a meaningful discourse with Ray on hisfilms. He met Ray and became friends and author of books on the legendary filmmaker,” Father Savio said. Ghosh said Father Roberge was an “inspiring figure for filmmakers like us”. “He believed that you have to study cinema, learn cinema just like you learn a language and grammar. You have to know about great filmmakers and what they did.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-315
08-09-2020||Calcutta||Coast guard chases and nabs boat with smuggled clothes||A couple of Indian Coast Guard hovercraft and a fast interceptor boat chased down a fishing boat that was smuggling into the city a garments consignment, a coast guard officer said on Monday. The coast guard had received information from the customs department that a fishing boat would be used to smuggle into the city a large consignment of clothes from Bangladesh, the officer said. Coast guard officers started monitoring the movement of all vessels along the coast near Calcutta and in the Hooghly channel. On Monday, they spotted a fishing boat moving suspiciously along the Hooghly channel off Geonkhali near Haldia. Two hovercraft and a fast interceptor boat were pressed into service. The crew of the fishing boat beached the boat near Diamond Harbour and fled, the officer said. The clothes have tags similar to well-known brands, a customs official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-315
08-09-2020||Calcutta||Car falls into VIP Road canal, 1 dead||A 32-year-old Dum Dum resident was killed after the cab he was travelling in rammed into the culvert of the Kestopur canal on the airport-bound flank of VIP Road and plunged into water around 2am on Monday, police said. Ratan Das, an ambulance driver, was headed home to Dum Dum’s Rabindranagar and was on the rear seat, an officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said. He got trapped inside the vehicle when it submerged in the water. The driver managed to get out of the vehicle and fled on foot, the officer said. “The car was speeding and the driver lost control. There are no signs on the road such as tyre marks to indicate that the driver had braked to avoid ramming into the culvert,” the officer said. “A probe has been started to track down the driver. We have got in touch with the owner of the vehicle to find out how long the driver was at the wheel at a stretch.” Metro visited the accident spot on Monday morning and found that the culvert on VIP Road appears suddenly after a smooth wide stretch. The road forks into a Y and can take those who are not used to driving down the stretch by surprise. There are no signs on VIP Road warning motorists about the culvert. There are no reflectors or reflective paint on the wall of the culvert. Guardrails fitted with reflective tapes were erected only on Monday afternoon. A couple of vegetable sellers who were on their way to a wholesale market in Rajarhat rushed to the Baguiati traffic guard nearby and alerted the cops about the accident. A crane was deployed and it took more than 30 minutes to take the vehicle out of the water.Das was lying slumped on the back seat. He was taken to a nearby nursing home, where he was declared dead. Shimul Mondal, one of the vegetable sellers who alerted the cops, told this newspaper that he saw the car hit a concrete slab of the culvert before falling into the water. “I rushed there but realised that I will not be able to do anything as the car was at least five feet below the road’s level and was sinking. I alerted the cops,” said Mondal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-315
08-09-2020||Calcutta||Fish fingerlings to save Sunderbans from net effect||Around 20 families in a Sunderbans village will get fish fingerlings to be reared in five ponds. The conservationists and foresters behind the project are hoping that the scope of an alternative livelihood will prevent the families from carrying on an old fishing practice that makes the riverbeds more prone to erosion and also increases the risk of man-wild conflict. During low tide, large fishing nets are cast along exposed or shallow river bed (chor) and across creeks (khal) inside forests. The water incursion during high tide leads to a haul of fish — big and small — trapped in the nets. When the water recedes, the nets are taken away by fishermen. When dragged manually, these nets — many of them spanning over a kilometre — destroy numerous mangrove saplings swept onto the river bed by tidal waters. Mangroves are known for viviparous germination where seeds germinate and develop into saplings while still attached to the parent tree. Sapling-bearing fruits shed by mangroves are washed away during low tide and brought to the land during high tide. Back on land, they form mangrove colonies over a period of time. “People are dependent on these practises to earn livelihood. But in the process, they are damaging the delicate ecosystem of the Sunderbans. Storms have depleted a sizable chunk of the mangroves. The destruction of saplings is making river beds more barren and prone to erosion. The nets across the creeks inside the forest make people more vulnerable to tiger attacks,” said Suvrajyoti Chatterjee of Human and Environment Alliance League (HEAL), the NGO that is providing the alternate livelihood to the families. At least 17 fishermen have been killed by tigers in the Sunderbans this year. The pandemic has robbed people of livelihoods and more people are turning to fishing, said foresters and activists. The families getting the fingerlings are from Purba Gurguria village in Kultali block of South 24-Parganas. Indigenous catfish fingerlings will be released into five ponds in the village, each to be looked after by four families. “We are releasing 60,000 fingerlings, 12,000 for each pond,” said a HEAL volunteer. A forest official who had helped in the project said the project could be implemented on a larger scale across the mangrove delta. “This should have been done much before. But the challenge is to keep the fishermen away from river beds and creeks for the next six months — the time taken for the fish to grow in the ponds,” said the official. “We go fishing, risking our lives, to run our families, not because we love going there. If there is another way of earning, I will not go fishing,” said Amalesh Bhunia, a beneficiary of the project.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-315
08-09-2020||Calcutta||Leave ‘highly risky’ campus: IIT to students||IIT Kharagpur has requested the 60-odd students still on the campus to leave at the earliest as it is “highly risky” to stay in hostels amid the Covid-19 pandemic considering the “stressed and insufficient medical facilities” in the town. The dean of students’ affairs at the institute, Somesh Kumar, has written to the students saying: “Due to stressed and insufficient medical facilities in Kharagpur, it is highly risky to stay put in hostels. I again request all of you to please make arrangements to reach your home and stay with your family members as early as possible.” A spike in the number of Covid cases on the campus has prompted the IIT authorities to shut down the campus at least for a week till September 13. The dean’s letter follows a joint appeal from research scholars to director V.K. Tewari on Sunday that the students who had gone home be called back and research activities resumed as soon as possible. An official said the dean in his mail had drawn attention to the rising case count on the campus as well as immediate surroundings. Besides, the outpatient department of BC Roy Technology Hospital on the campus has been closed till further orders. “The dean is justified in saying that the medical facilities in Kharagpur are insufficient,” the official said. South Eastern Railway Main Hospital, about a kilometre from the IIT campus, is operational but had to be closed for a few days earlier after several doctors and nurses tested positive. “There are hardly any beds in the state hospital outside,” the dean has written, referring to Kharagpur Subdivisional Hospital near the campus. Midnapore Medical College and Hospital is about 17km away. A West Midnapore district official denied any paucity of Covid beds. But many on the campus said they were still reliant on hospitals in Calcutta for critical treatment. A scholar said their appeal to the director to let research resume followed an order from the ministry of home affairs on August 29 that said higher educational institutions would be permitted to function only for research scholars and postgraduate students of technical and professional programmes requiring laboratory/experimental work. A professor said the order was not applicable to the IIT because of a steady rise in the number of Covid cases on the campus and outside. Close to 3,500 students were on the campus till June 20, the day the first order on vacating the campus was issued.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-315
08-09-2020||Calcutta||CMDA seeks nod for Chhath at Rabindra Sarobar||The Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA), the custodian of Rabindra Sarobar, has filed a review petition at the National Green Tribunal seeking a “special permission” to allow Chhath Puja at the Sarobar. The tribunal has banned any kind of puja celebrations on the 192-acre Sarobar campus.The authorities had locked the gates of the Sarobar on the day of Chhath Puja last year but thousands of devotees broke open the locks and entered the premises. A CMDA official said their petition before the NGT was a “suo motu” action. The official was asked why the CMDA, whose duty as custodian is to protect the sprawling water body and the surrounding greens, was seeking a relaxation of the ban. He said the agency was doing so because the matter involved “the emotion of lakhs of people and the CMDA was not in a position to stop a mob” from entering the premises. “We are not a law enforcement agency. From our experience last year, only a lathicharge or use of force could have stopped the people from entering the campus and we did not want that to happen,” a CMDA official said. State urban development and municipal affairs minister Firhad Hakim told Metro: “Yes, we have filed a review petition for allowing Chhath Puja at Rabindra Sarobar. We do not want police to use force on people coming to participate in a religious programme.” There are many who have been performing Chhath Puja rituals at the Sarobar for decades and the authorities did not want to hurt their sentiments, Hakim said. In its petition, the CMDA says it took all possible steps to improve the condition of the Sarobar and reduce pollution. The review petition, filed early last month, is likely to be heard towards the middle of this month, a source said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-316
08-09-2020||Calcutta||Four-hour surgery to fix saviour’s leg||The 48-year-old woman who showed exemplary courage and saved a younger woman who was allegedly attacked and thrown off a speeding Honda City on Saturday night underwent a four-hour surgery on Monday. Nilanjana Chatterjee will have to spend a few more days in complete rest at the hospital before doctors make her walk again with support. She can only be discharged after at least a week, doctors have told the family. Returning back to normal life will take a few more months. An official of Ruby General Hospital, where Chatterjee is admitted, said the surgery was done to fix the tibia and fibula bones of her left leg, both of which broke after the Honda City ran over her leg. “The doctors inserted titanium rods, plates and screws in her leg to fix the bones. She is doing better and has been taken out of the intensive care unit. She also underwent a plastic surgery as a portion of the skin tore open and the interior of the leg got exposed when the car ran over her leg,” said the official. Nilanjana’s husband Deep Satpati, who was at the hospital, said that a longer battle for recuperation would now begin. “It was a long surgery. Surgeons told me they had to carry out grafting of several injuries of the bone. She needs to be in the hospital for at least a week,” Deep said. He was speaking around 4.30pm, shortly after Nilanjana was wheeled out of the operating theatre. The couple’s daughter, who works for an e-learning platform, was present at the hospital. “It will be another battle now till Nilanjana can stand on her legs and walk. Doctors have warned that there should not be any infection,” Deep said. “There are a few spots which have been left open. Doctors said if they had closed them, the skin below would have started to rot.” The family decided that after discharge, Nilanjana would be taken to her parent's apartment at Abhyudoy Housing Complex, which is close to the hospital. A nurse who takes care of her ailing father will look after her as well. The couple and their daughter live at a housing complex near the intersection of EM Bypass and Prince Anwar Shah Road. Late in the evening, Deep visited Anandapur police station and submitted a complaint alleging that the man who was driving the Honda City had tried to kill his wife through rash driving while taking a U-turn. The complaint has been tagged to the main case of alleged molestation. “Officers have said we might have to testify as witnesses in court after the accused is arrested. We will do it,” Deep said. A Ruby official said usually patients were discharged from hospital after tibia/fibula surgery when they were in a position to walk with help of a walker. “It takes about 5 to 7 days for a person to be able to walk with a walker. They are discharged when they can go to the washroom or perform other basic functions without any help from others,” said the official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-316
08-09-2020||Calcutta||21 trafficked children from Bihar rescued near Maidan||A group of 21 minors from Bihar’s Samastipur, all alleged victims of trafficking, was rescued from a bus in the Maidan area early on Monday. Police said the children, aged between 12 and 14, were being taken to Howrah to work in bangle factories. Most of the children told the police that they were under the impression that they had been brought to Calcutta for a picnic, but some apparently knew that they would be made to work. Three men in their 20s who were accompanying the children have been arrested on charges of human trafficking and criminal conspiracy. The children have been handed over to the Child Welfare Committee (CWC). According to the official procedure, family members of each of the 21 children will be contacted and asked to appear before the committee. “The children will be allowed to go home only if the CWC is satisfied with the family members’ explanation on why they were allowed to leave home. Else, the kids will stay back in government homes,” an officer said. The Child Labour Amendment (Prohibition and Regulation) Act, 2016, does not allow children below the age of 14 to work except as a child artiste or in a family business not deemed hazardous. Parents are liable to be punished if they are found to have engaged their children below 14 in work in violation of the act. Several police officers Metro spoke to said the rescue of so many victims of human trafficking at one go in the city was rare. “These things happen in suburbs. We rarely get any human trafficking cases in proper Calcutta except while conducting raids at brothels or parlours. But so many children being trafficked together in a bus is unusual,” said a senior officer of Calcutta police. The bus was intercepted near Babughat around 5.30am. Calcutta and Howrah police had set up night pickets to intercept the bus following a tip-off from Bachpan Bachao Andolan, an NGO, which gave specific information about the vehicle and the 21 children who were being allegedly trafficked. “The children underwent an overnight journey from Samastipur, around 550km from Calcutta. The plan was that the bus would stop for a while near Babughat, from where the children were to be sent to Howrah in smaller groups in various vehicles to avert police glare,” an officer said. Bengal is among the states that account for maximum trafficking cases in the country. Hundreds of children and women are smuggled out of the state — at times with false hopes of livelihood and at other times with false promises of marriage. “It is easy to lure poor people with money and pretension of love. Many girls in villages in South 24-Parganas go missing after falling in love with strangers, whose real identity and intention are hidden from them till it is too late. By the time they realise, the girls have been sold,” said Bappaditya Mukherjee of Prantakatha, an NGO that deals with trafficking survivors. Mukherjee said widespread joblessness during the Covid pandemic had left children and their parents more vulnerable to migration and trafficking. In a large number of cases, it is found that children have been forced to leave home by their poor parents who are in desperate need of cash to run their families.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-316
08-09-2020||Calcutta||Airport clocks first 100 domestic flights, post-lockdown||The city airport clocked 100 flights on Sunday, a record since services resumed after the Covid-induced closure in March. “One hundred domestic flights took off from the city and an equal number landed on Sunday. In all, around 28,000 passengers travelled,” an official at the airport said. On May 28, the day services resumed after the lockdown, 11 flights had taken off and a similar number arrived. About 3,000 passengers had travelled through the airport that day. On Sunday, 16,350 passengers took flights out of Calcutta and 11,727 passengers arrived. As the number of passengers has started increasing, lounges, bars, food courts and retail stores at the terminal are opening up and their business has started picking up, officials said. Several airlines said many flights for Delhi, Chennai, Mumbai and Bangalore were overbooked and some were full. Officials of several airlines said about 85 passengers on Sunday were first-time fliers, many of whom were returning to the cities where they were working. There were businessmen, too, among the fliers. Many patients who were waiting to get treated at hospitals in Chennai, Hyderabad and Mumbai have started travelling following the Centre’s announcement of Unlock 4 and the Bengal government’s decision to allow resumption flights to Calcutta from Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Ahmedabad, Pune and Nagpur three days a week. Flights from the six cities to Calcutta were suspended on July 6, following a request from the state government, because of high Covid prevalence there. Even in August, the number of passengers taking flights out of Calcutta daily was below 10,000. Airport officials said that on Sunday, Vistara operated a Boeing B787 Dreamliner aircraft on the Calcutta-Delhi-Calcutta route. In all, 293 passengers flew out of the city and 272 flew in on the aircraft, which can seat around 300 passengers. AirAsia sources said the airline had been operating three flights every day since operations resumed. On Sunday, the airline operated six. IndiGo officials said the airline was operating around 35 flights daily last month. The number went up to 52 on Sunday and most had cent percent occupancy. The increase in the number of flights and passengers is helping food and beverage, and retail stores to come back to business. “Most retail and F&B stores have opened and they are having a decent number of passengers,” airport director Kaushik Bhattacharya said. After the state government gave permission, bars at the airport have started opening up, too. Ultra Bar, operated by Travel and Food Services, opened last week. TFS, which operates the lounges at the airport, said it's domestic section lounge has started serving passengers again and the number is picking up. “Over 130 days post-lockdown and airports reopening, we have seen a very positive growth in passenger traffic and spending sentiment. Transaction Averages are back to pre-Covid levels and I am confident as new flights get added, we will improve the penetration further and get back sales. From less than 30 passengers a day to 180 passengers, we have seen the lounge penetration grow over the last few weeks, thereby indicating the growing passenger confidence,” said Gaurav Dewan, COO & Business Head, TFS. Metro reported on Sunday that the state government was allowing air transport bubble flights from international destinations to Calcutta provided only those who test negative for Covid-19 within 96 hours before departure are allowed to board the aircraft.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-316
08-09-2020||Calcutta||Car of man who assaulted a woman, and ran over another traced||Police are still looking for the man accused of attacking and pushing a woman out of his Honda City and running over the leg of another woman who had rushed to help her at Anandapur on Saturday night. On Monday, the police said the suspect’s name was Abhishek Kumar Pandey, and not Amitabha Bose as the 31-year-old assault complainant had initially mentioned. Nilanjana Chatterjee, who had got off her car to help the victim and suffered fractures in her left tibia and fibula when the Honda City ran her over, underwent four hours of surgery on Monday to have rods and plates fixed in her leg. Pandey was not home when the police visited his east Jadavpur flat on Sunday night. Officers said his cellphone was switched off. The investigators met Pandey’s mother and sought details about her son and the keys to his Honda City, found parked in the garage. According to sources, Pandey’s mother said she did not have the car keys, nor did she know where he was. This newspaper could not contact the family for their version. Officers said the police had seized the Honda City on Monday, towing it away from the garage. The police have registered a case invoking the charges of attempt at culpable homicide not amounting to murder, outraging a woman’s modesty, rash and negligent driving, and causing grievous hurt by an act that endangers lives. Conviction can lead to a maximum of three years in jail. A man whom the police had detained on Sunday night for questioning has been released. Police sources said he was attached to the showroom from where the Honda City had been bought, and had been summoned to the police station to provide details about the vehicle’s owner. Pandey, who the police said works with a private insurance firm, had allegedly assaulted the woman in the car when she insisted on being dropped at her home as it was past midnight. She was allegedly pushed out of the car when Nilanjana’s husband, hearing the woman’s screams, pulled his car over in front of the Honda City, blocking its way. As Nilanjana got off the Maruti Alto to help the woman, the Honda City turned round and sped away, crushing her left leg. Asked why the police had failed to arrest Pandey till late Monday night despite securing his phone number and address on Saturday night, officers at Anandapur police station blamed the initial confusion over the suspect’s name.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-316
08-09-2020||Calcutta||Work-from-home has been a boon for pet lovers||If you have been working from home from the beginning of the pandemic and have pets at home, chances are you have been having mixed feelings about having them around. While it is surely a joy to have them for company, it can also be a hindrance sometimes if they get in the way of your work. But when t2 spoke to a few pet owners from cities, most of them felt that the plusses outweigh the minuses. They recount their funny and unique experience of being 24x7 with their dear ones and enjoying their work more now thanks to them… Milk and Cookie are now super excited as their guardian is with them 24x7 and they are going out to walk twice a day instead of twice a week for the first time in three years of their existence. For the twin Pomeranians, it’s like a weekend that’s never ending. “I have always been in advertising agencies and I have to work under immense pressure. So I always felt guilty because I couldn’t give much time to them. I used to spend hardly three hours with them. But now I’m with them always and can take them out anytime. So the pandemic becomes a blessing in disguise for us,” said Kobita Banerjee, a 32-year-old who works with an ad agency in Bangalore. Pikachu and Dobby are so happy nowadays that they are eating more than what they usually do. Pikachu is a three-year-old cat while his sister Dobby is one year old. “When my cats used to be alone, they would often fall asleep and skip their meals. But now since I’m with them all the time, they are always awake and having lots of food. They have gained weight in the last few months,” said Anna Sakhi John, a content writer based in Chennai. Pocket, Golla and Lakkhi have at last found freedom to play whenever and wherever they want. “My cats have a problem with vision. So when I’m not at home, they are not allowed to go out of their room and play. But now things have changed. I’m always with them and they can go out and play whenever they want,” said Chaitali Chakraborty, a 26-year-old IT professional from Calcutta. Suvarghya Dutta has turned his study into a mini office and he has found two new ‘colleagues’ — his pets Portia and Martini. Both are seven-year-old Indian dogs. Suvarghya has to keep the door of his study open and the two enter and leave the room whenever they want as they like to stay with him all the time! “Unless there is a very important meeting when I need a calm and quiet environment, Portia and Martini are always with me,” said the 47-year-old who works in an IT firm and is based out of Calcutta. Kobita has also set up her workspace in her living room and Milk and Cookie sit under Kobita’s desk as long as she works. The two now spend more time watching Kobita work than barking at people from the balcony. “My colleagues say jokingly that my dogs must have thought I have been fired,” said Kobita. Chaitali’s office colleagues are now used to seeing Golla running over her laptop and Pocket screaming “meow meow” in front of the laptop when a meeting is in progress. “It’s a welcome change for them as well,” said Chaitali. Golla is seven years old and his two sisters, Pocket and Lakkhi, are one-and-half years and one year old respectively. Pikachu and Dobby always walk around Anna when she works. “It gets difficult during meetings as they often come and jump on my laptop. However, my colleagues take it sportingly,” said the 29-year-old. Whatever Chaitali does throughout the day, be it having breakfast, watering the plants or taking a stroll on the terrace, Golla and gang are always there with her. Portia and Martini even sleep in Suvarghya’s study only to be with him always. Anna said: “When I’m at home, my cats don’t like to be in any other room even for a few minutes. It keeps bothering them if I don’t allow them in my room. They follow me wherever I go.” Milk and Cookie often take a ball and put it on Kobita’s lap when she works. Sometimes they put their heads on her lap. “It’s like ‘please play with us’. They are like children. So they seek attention and want to get pampered. I also love to spend time with them. These little breaks are very much necessary for me. Moreover, when I feel sad or I’m not in a great mood, they can easily sense it and they immediately come to me and try to lift my mood,” said Kobita. Suvarghya feels the presence of Portia and Martini is a huge stress buster for him. “I love to play with them. It helps me rejuvenate myself and concentrate on my work better. It’s actually reducing the stress of work.” For Chaitali, having her cats always by her side gives her immense energy. “Before lockdown, it was like a 10am-7pm job for me. But now since I’m at home, I have to work almost 10 hours a day. So seeing them and playing with them in between work gives me a lot of positive energy,” Chaitali quipped.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-316
08-09-2020||Business||SBI to retire 30,000, not a cost-cutting measure says lender||The State Bank of India (SBI) on Monday said it proposes to recruit 14,000 employees during the current year and its “on tap VRS” is not a cost-cutting exercise. The country’s largest lender has planned a voluntary retirement scheme (VRS) under which about 30,190 employees are eligible. The proposed VRS is not a cost-cutting exercise, an SBI spokesperson said in a statement. The bank “has been employee friendly and is expanding its operations and requires people, which is evidenced by the fact that bank has plans of recruiting more than 14,000 employees this year”, the statement added. State Bank has an existing workforce of around 2.50 lakh and it has been at the forefront of serving employee needs, it said. “In this backdrop, it was thought to provide a congenial solution to employees who expressed desire to make a strategic shift in their vocations, either due to professional growth limitations, mobility issues, physical health conditions or family situations,” the statement said. According to the draft scheme, “Second Innings Tap VRS-2020” will be opened to all permanent officers and staff who have put in 25 years of service or completed 55 years of age on the cut-off date. In 2001, too, SBI had offered VRS to its employees. Ahead of amalgamation of SBI’s five associates with it in 2017, the merging subsidiaries had announced VRS for their employees. Earlier on Monday, Congress leader P Chidambaram slammed the proposed VRS. “News reports say that SBI plans to implement a VRS scheme as an ‘economic measure’. In normal times the plan would be debatable. In these abnormal times, when the economy has collapsed and jobs are scarce, it is cruel,” Chidambaram tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-295
08-09-2020||Business||Damodar Valley Corporation snaps Tata Power ties as it becomes self reliant||State-owned Damodar Valley Corporation has opted out of a power purchase agreement with its joint venture firm that has Tata Power as its partner. The move is aimed at streamlining the operations of the power major as its own generation improves. DVC officials said on Monday that a notice has been served to Maithon Power Limited (MPL), a 74:26 joint venture between Tata Power and DVC. The notice says DVC will no longer take the 150 MW of power that it sources from MPL from September 2021 onwards. MPL, a public private partnership in the power generation sector, has an installed capacity of 1050 MW comprising two units of 525 MW each located at Maithon in Jharkhand and commissioned between 2011 and 2012. The partnership involves DVC offering water from Maithon reservoir for thermal power generation. The project supplies power to the states of Jharkhand, Bihar, Bengal, Delhi and Punjab. According to DVC officials, the joint venture agreement signed 10 years back has a clause to review the power purchase agreement every five years. In the first five years, DVC has surrendered 150 MW and now has communicated its intention to surrender the remaining 150 MW. “DVC has many high tension consumers in Jharkhand and Bengal and earlier, many of our units were not stable suppliers because of their age. As a result, we needed these power purchase agreements. Over the last two years DVC has retired around 800 MW generation capacity and has improved its PLF (plant load factor) . We are now becoming self sufficient and can generate power ourselves at lower rates,” a DVC official said. With a thermal power generation capacity of 6960 MW and hydel capacity of 147.2 MW, DVC had achieved a PLF of 60.52 per cent in 2019-20 against a national PLF of 55.99 per cent. In August this year, the PLF has improved to 62.17 per cent. DVC officials also said that there is no near-term solution to clear the pending dues from the Jharkhand discom that has accrued to Rs 5,500 crore over the last five years despite the Centre urging all states, including Jharkhand, to take credit from PFC and REC at lower rates and clear the dues of their discoms.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-295
08-09-2020||Business||RVNL selloff planned in third quarter||The government plans to divest a part of its stake in Rail Vikas Nigam Ltd through an offer for sale (OFS) by the end of October-December quarter as part of its plan to kick-start the stake sale process, which has been impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic. Officials said an inter-ministerial group will meet soon to finalise the OFS and the quantum of stake to be sold in the next quarter. They said the government plans to bring down its stake in the firm below 75 per cent over a two-year period to comply with Sebi norms. At present, the government holds 87.84 per cent. In April last year, the government raised Rs 476 crore by selling its 12.12 per cent stake through an initial public offering of RVNL. The members of the group include officials from the Railway Board, Dipam, legal and finance ministry officials. Last week, the government invited bids to appoint merchant bankers and brokers to sell its stake in Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corp Ltd (IRCTC) through an offer for sale. The government at present  holds a 87.40 per cent stake in IRCTC. To meet Sebi’s public holding norm, the government has to lower its stake in the company to 75  per cent. The government intends to select and appoint up to four merchant bankers with requisite experience in public offerings, who together will form a team. The number of merchant bankers shall be decided at the time of appointment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-295
08-09-2020||Business||Delhi High Court directs SpiceJet to pay Marans||The Delhi High Court has directed SpiceJet to cough up Rs 243 crore to the Marans in six weeks. If it doesn’t, the court says the Marans will be allowed to press their claims for status quo on the shareholding of the budget airline. The ruling could jeopardise the plan to spin off the cargo business of the airline into a separate entity if promoter Ajay Singh refuses to comply. The Marans had signed a share purchase agreement with Ajay Singh on January 29, 2015 and transferred their entire 58.46 per cent shareholding to the businessman who has since run the budget airline. Under the 2015 agreement, KAL Airways Pvt Ltd and Kalanithi Maran were to be issued certain warrants and non-convertible redeemable cumulative preference shares (CRPS) in two tranches. Since these warrants were never given, the Marans have been pursuing a lawsuit and then an arbitration case against SpiceJet. The arbitration tribunal in July 2018 ordered a refund of Rs 579 crore — comprising Rs 308 crore received from the Marans as advance towards the subscription of warrants along with a 12 per cent interest for a period of 30 months. The case went on to the Supreme Court and the Delhi High court had ruled the Marans were due Rs 308 crore from SpiceJet plus interest payment. Though the Marans had received the sum in two tranches, first Rs 250 crore on April 30, 2019 and another Rs 58 crore on October 4, 2019, the interest was  not forthcoming. A large number of calculations were done to fix the final interest liability: the rates were calculated at 12 per cent and 18 per cent corresponding to various dates — leading to the final sum “Judgement Debtor (in this case SpiceJet and promoter Ajay Singh) is hereby directed to deposit a sum of Rs 242.93 crore as post-award interest sum within a period of six weeks. In the event the amount is not deposited, the Decree Holder(in this case Kalanithi Maran and his firm KAL Airways) shall be at liberty to seek directions to maintain status quo with respect to shareholding of SpiceJet Limited and Ajay Singh,” said the court. “We are reviewing the court order,” said a SpiceJet spokesman.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-295
08-09-2020||Business||Bengal FM Amit Mitra finds Centre stimulus inadequate||The Narendra Modi- government spent just Rs 1 lakh crore more in the first four months of this fiscal to pump prime the economy ravaged by a once-in-a-century catastrophe, leading to an unprecedented 24 per cent contraction in GDP. “The Centre failed to create a demand pull in the system during this crucial period because it did not spend enough. Even though the headline screamed Rs 20 lakh crore of fiscal stimulus, the Centre just spent Rs 1.07 lakh crore more than the same period last year,” Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra said on Monday. According to data offered by Mitra, who was trained as an economist, central expenditure between April and July  2020-21 was Rs 10.54 lakh crore compared with Rs 9.47 lakh crore in the same period of 2019-20. India’s GDP contracted by 23.9 per cent in the April-June period against 12.4 cent of Italy and 9.5 per cent of the United States, the two countries most affected by Covid-19 pandemic, other than India. By numbers, Rs 11 lakh crore of GDP was wiped away in the first quarter this year. “While there has been focus on the supply side, little attention was given to the demand side. I wonder if there are enough people in the Centre who understand macroeconomics. The United States came out of the Great Depression by boosting demand. We had to do the same,” Mitra said. According to the Bengal finance minister, 60 per cent of India’s GDP comes from consumption. This meant that if the Centre had put money in the hands of people, much of the Rs 11 lakh crore loss could be recouped as it would have come back to the system, Mitra argued.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-295
08-09-2020||Business||Reliance Industries unveils spinoff plan for O2C business||Reliance Industries Ltd (RIL) has formally set in motion the process of spinning off its oil-to-chemical (O2C) business into a separate subsidiary and induct partners into the entity. It has come up with a detailed scheme of arrangement to transfer the undertaking to the O2C subsidiary through a slump sale, which is likely to be presented to the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) for approval. At its annual general meeting in July, RIL chairman Mukesh Ambani had disclosed that they expect to complete this process of spinning off into a separate subsidiary by early 2021. Though a proposed deal with Saudi Aramco in the 02C business did not make much progress since its announcement last year, there has been some ray of hope recently with Aramco indicating that it is doing a due diligence on picking up a stake. According to the scheme of arrangement, the transferee company, or the O2C subsidiary, will be Reliance O2C Ltd. Slump sale is the sale of an undertaking on a going concern basis for a lump sum consideration without values being assigned to the individual assets and liabilities. Explaining the rationale for the divestment, RIL said that the nature of risk and returns involved in the O2C business are distinct from those of its other businesses and the O2C business attracts a distinct set of investors and strategic partners. RIL added that it has been exploring various opportunities to bring in strategic and other investors in the O2C business and that investors have expressed interest to make an investment. “RIL cannot issue shares with differential rights (equity shares with interest linked only to O2C Business) to the investor(s). Therefore, the O2C undertaking has to be transferred into a wholly owned subsidiary of RIL, in which the investor(s) will invest,” it added. The businesses which will go to the subsidiary include refining, petrochemicals, fuel retail (the majority interest of RIL), aviation fuel and bulk wholesale marketing businesses. Some of the assets that will go to the O2C undertaking are the refining and petrochemicals plants and manufacturing assets at RIL’s Jamnagar, Dahej, Hazira, Nagothane, Vadodara, Patalganga, Silvassa, Barabanki and Hoshiarpur units. Also to be included in the subsidiary are a 51 per cent equity interest in the petroleum retail joint venture with BP; a 100 per cent equity interest of RIL in each of Reliance Global Energy Services (Singapore) Pte Ltd and Reliance Global Energy Services Ltd (UK) (trading subsidiaries), Reliance Industries Uruguay Petroquimica S.A, Reliance Ethane Pipeline Ltd; and a 74.9 per cent equity interest of RIL in Reliance Sibur Elastomers Pvt Ltd (a subsidiary of RIL and joint venture between RIL and Sibur Investments AG).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-295
08-09-2020||Business||New liquor levy not till November||The new excise duty structure on liquor involving taxes based on the declared price of foreign liquor is likely to be notified from November while that of country spirit will be notified next month. The state excise department has prepared the necessary directive for the final consent of the state government. The directive also sets a minimum sales target for retailers failing which they could lose their licence. In a meeting with the state officials on August 24, foreign liquor manufacturers had expressed their difficulties in formulating the ex-distillery price (EDP) in Bengal in a short notice with the state initially planning to implement the new structure from September. The state excise department is also in favour of implementing an annual minimum guaranteed quantity of sale from retail vends of foreign liquor and country spirit. A concept under discussion, this will offer retailers incentives if they can cross the target. If they miss the target, action can be taken including the non-grant of license. “This will be a double blow if implemented. Sales are not encouraging right now and the prices have been jacked up by additional duty. The new duty structure could push up the prices of some popular brands. In this situation if we fail to achieve the target, the licence could be lost,”said a city-based retailer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-295
08-09-2020||Business||Vodafone Idea displays new brand identity||Vodafone Idea on Monday unveiled a new brand identity — VI (pronounced as We) — which is a fusion of the brand identities of Vodafone India and Idea. Launching the brand, Ravinder Takkar, MD & CEO, Vodafone Idea said, “Vodafone Idea came together as a merged entity two years ago. We have, since then focussed on integrating two large networks, our people and processes. And today I am delighted to present Vi, a brand that will bring important meaning to lives of our customers. “Indians are optimistic and want to get ahead in life. They would love a credible partner to help them on this journey. Vi’s positioning is built around this promise and will focus on meeting the customer’s needs to help them thrive.” “Starting today, Vi ads will be on TV and digital platforms, followed by a high decibel intensive multi-media campaign. The brand buzz will then continue in the market over the coming weeks,” a statement said. The company claimed that it had “readied a robust, future-fit network built on many principles of 5G architecture”. There was no word on the fund-raising plan of Rs 25,000 crore unveiled last week or on the speculation surrounding Amazon and Verizon’s interest in picking up equity in the company which has an AGR burden of Rs 50,000 crore to pay over the next 10 years. Takkar, however, said the Supreme Court’s decision to extend the payment timeline for AGR dues by 10 years was a “good outcome” but stressed that mobile tariffs would need to be raised to give sustainability and returns to companies. The Voda Idea CEO said that in the past, the company had not shied away from raising tariffs — which are under forbearance — but insisted that the regulator and the government should take a call on fixing a minimum floor price. The Vodafone Idea stock witnessed volatility on Monday as investors were expecting an announcement with regard to the induction of new strategic investors. After opening higher at Rs 13.21 — a gain of 10 per cent, it gave up all these gains to hit an intra-day low of Rs 11.95. The share ended at Rs 12.30 — a rise of 2.41 per cent over the previous close.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-295
08-09-2020||Business||Debt recast eligibility rules set||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Monday notified the new debt recast plan for businesses as it accepted the recommendations submitted by the KV Kamath committee. Banks will have to consider five key ratios while finalising the resolution plans of the borrowers hit by Covid-19-related stress. The committee — which submitted its recommendations to the RBI last Friday — has fixed the financial parameters for 26 sectors and lenders can make their assessment of the other sectors. The new resolution framework will replace the moratorium which ended on August 31. Under the new mechanism, only those accounts which have defaulted for not more than 30 days as on March 1 will be eligible for resolution. Banks have time till December 31 to invoke the resolution framework. The resolution plan must be implemented for corporate borrowers in 180 days from the date of invocation. In the case of personal loans, it must be implemented in 90 days. In a resolution plan, the lenders can extend the residual tenor of the loan by a maximum of two years and they can also give a loan moratorium. The resolution process will be treated as invoked once lenders representing 75 per cent by value and 60 per cent by number agree to invoke it. The five key ratios that have been recommended by the Kamath committee will have to be considered during the resolution process of a corporate account. The five ratios that should be considered by lending institutions are: total outstanding liability divided by adjusted tangible net worth; total debt divided by earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation & amortisation; current ratio (current assets divided by current liabilities); debt service coverage ratio (DSCR) and average debt service coverage ratio (ADSCR). DSCR is a metric which measures a firm’s ability to repay its current debt given its cash flows. The parameters may be considered as a guide to prepare a resolution plan. The plan may be prepared based on the pre-Covid operating and financial performance of the borrower and the impact of the pandemic on its operating and financial performance in the first and the second quarters to assess the cash flows for this year, the next and subsequent year. Some of the 26 most-affected sectors identified by the committee are automobile manufacturers, auto component makers, aviation, power, cement, chemicals, hotels, restaurants and tourism, iron and steel manufacturing, logistics, mining, textiles, consumer durables and FMCG, plastic product manufacturing, pharmaceutical manufacturing and construction. The RBI added that given the differential impact of the pandemic on various sectors or companies, the lending institutions may, at their discretion, adopt a ‘graded approach’ depending on the severity of the impact on the borrowers while preparing or implementing the resolution plan. Such a graded approach may also entail the classification of the impact on the borrowers into mild, moderate and severe. The signing of ICA is a mandatory requirement in all cases involving multiple lending institutions, where the resolution process is invoked. Additional provisions need to be made if the agreement is not signed within a month of invoking the resolution process.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-296
08-09-2020||India||Kangana to face 'drug link' probe; Mumbai home under BMC lens||Already under fire over her remarks on Mumbai, trouble mounted for actress Kangana Ranaut as the Maharashtra government on Tuesday said the police will probe allegations that she took drugs, while alterations made at her bungalow here came under the civic scanner. Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said the Mumbai police will probe allegations by actor Adhyayan Suman that Ranaut took drugs. Talking to reporters here, Deshmukh said Adhyayan, the son of veteran actor Shekhar Suman, was once in a relationship with Ranaut and he had alleged that she used to take drugs. "The Mumbai police will investigate this matter," the home minister added. Deshmukh said Shiv Sena MLAs Pratap Sarnaik and Sunil Prabhu raised the issue in the Assembly on Tuesday. "I replied that she had relations with Adhyayan Suman who has said in an interview that she took drugs and also forced him to take drugs. The Mumbai police will look into all this in detail," he said. Speaking to reporters, Sarnaik denied that this was a political vendetta. Ranaut had crossed swords with Sena MP Sanjay Raut last week when he said that she should not return to Mumbai if she felt unsafe in the city. The 33-year-old, Himachal Pradesh born Queen star came under all-round fire after she likened Mumbai to Pakistan-occupied Kashmir and made critical remarks against the city police. "The law is same for everyone. There is no political vendetta. Security is given to people who are looked upon as idols. If there are allegations of drug consumption against her and if they are false, the people leveling them should be thrown into jail," Sarnaik said. The development comes in the backdrop of actress Rhea Chakraborty's arrest by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) for alleged drug use. The NCB is probing the alleged drugs angle in the death of filmstar Sushant Singh Rajput. Meanwhile, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) officials on Tuesday posted a notice at Ranaut's bungalow here, pointing out many alterations undertaken in the building without the civic body's approval, a claim rejected by her. A BMC team went to the bungalow of the actor in the Pali Hill area of suburban Bandra and posted the notice there as nobody was present to receive it, a civic official told PTI. The notice pointed out over a dozen alterations in the bungalow, like a "toilet being converted into office cabin" and "new toilets being constructed along side the staircase", the official said. The BMC has asked Ranaut, who has been provided round-the-clock security by the Centre, to tell it within 24 hours if she had taken approvals for changes in her residence, he said. Ranaut had on Monday taken to Twitter to share videos of her office premises here and expressed apprehension that the BMC may demolish the property. The BMC Tuesday filed a `caveat' in a local court, saying it should be heard first if Ranaut challenges a stop- work notice issued to her. A caveat is a request to a court that no order should be passed without hearing the person/party which files it. Ranaut, through her lawyer Rizwan Siddiqui, responded to the BMC's notice, accusing its officials of trespassing on her property and making false claims. Meanwhile, the actress continued to face criticism for her remarks on Mumbai and its police. Senior BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis condemned the remarks made by Ranaut and said they amounted to "insult" of the police force. Ranaut had recently said that she feared Mumbai Police more than the "movie mafia", and would prefer security either from Himachal Pradesh or the Centre. The Leader of the Opposition said he knew the capacity of the Mumbai police since had had served as chief minister of the state for five years. "But, the police can come under political pressure," Fadnavis said. Union minister Ramdas Athawale, an ally of the BJP, said workers of his party RPI (A) will provide protection to Ranaut when she comes back to Mumbai. "RPI (A) workers have geared up to protect Ranaut who is scheduled to reach Mumbai on Wednesday. Our party workers will offer protection to her at the airport as well as at her residence," Athawale said in a statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-682
08-09-2020||India||Missing Arunachal youths found in China, confirms PLA||China's People's Liberation Army has confirmed that five youths missing from Arunachal Pradesh have been found by them and their handing over process to Indian authorities is being worked out, Union minister Kiren Rijiju said on Tuesday. The five youths had gone missing on Friday from the Sino-Indian border in the Upper Subansiri district of Arunachal Pradesh. "China's PLA has responded to the hotline message sent by Indian Army. They have confirmed that the missing youths from Arunachal Pradesh have been found by their side. Further modalities to handover the persons to our authority is being worked out," Rijiju tweeted. Rijiju, the Minister of State for Youth Affairs & Sports, hails from Arunachal Pradesh and is an MP from the state. The incident of five missing youths came to light when two members from their group, who had gone for hunting in the jungle together, returned home and informed the families of the five that they had been whisked away by the Chinese troops from Sera-7, an Army patrol zone located about 12 km further north of Nacho. Nacho is the last administrative circle along the McMahon Line and is around 120 km from the district headquarters Daporijo. Those who were allegedly kidnapped by the Chinese army have been identified as Toch Singkam, Prasat Ringling, Dongtu Ebiya, Tanu Baker and Ngaru Diri. On Monday, China brushed off questions over the whereabouts of the five youths and needled India, saying it has never recognised Arunachal Pradesh which it claims is part of south Tibet. "China's position on the east sector of the China-India boundary, or Zangnan (the southern part of China's Xizang (Tibet) ), is consistent and clear," Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian told a media briefing in Beijing, adding the Chinese government has never recognized the so-called Arunachal Pradesh". "I'm not aware of the situation you mentioned," the spokesperson said when asked about any updates about the missing Indian nationals. The development comes at a time when the Indian army has enhanced its deployment along the 3,400 km-long Line of Actual Control (LAC) in view of the tense border situation with China in eastern Ladakh. In March, a 21-year-old man was abducted by the PLA from Asapila sector near the McMahon Line. While his two friends managed to escape, Togley Sinkam was taken away at gunpoint, his family had said. He was released by the Chinese army after 19 days in captivity. The Indian Army had on September 2 provided food, warm clothes and medical assistance to three Chinese citizens who had lost their way in sub-zero temperatures at an altitude of 17,500 feet in a border area in North Sikkim. The Indian Army personnel deployed in the area also guided the Chinese citizens, including a woman, to return to the Chinese side and reach their destination.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-682
08-09-2020||India||Rhea Chakraborty arrested by narcotics bureau||Rhea Chakraborty has been arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) after three days of questioning in connection with drugs-related allegations in the Sushant Singh Rajput case, newsagencies and television channels have reported. Sources say she admitted to organizing drugs for Sushant Singh Rajput and also consuming them at times, during her questioning, reported NDTV.com on Tuesday. The 28-year-old actor, named as an accused in the CBI investigation into Sushant Singh Rajput's death on June 14, had denied consuming drugs. Her brother Showik was arrested last week. NCB's inquiries were based on WhatsApp chats retrieved from Rhea Chakraborty's phone, which revealed conversations around procuring drugs, allegedly for Sushant Singh Rajput. Rhea Chakraborty was questioned along with her brother on Monday. The questioning started around 9.30 AM and lasted for several hours. NCB sources said the actor had denied consuming drugs but had been evasive on certain questions. Earlier onTuesday, Mumbai police announced they had registered an FIR against actor Sushant Singh Rajput's sisters and others for abetment to suicide and criminal conspiracy by prescribing him medicines banned under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. The case was registered after the actor's girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty claimed they prescribed drugs to him without consultation, the official said. An offence has been registered against Sushant's sisters Priyanka Singh and Meetu Singh, Delhi-based doctor Tarun Kumar and others, the official said. Unhappy with Mumbai police probe in the actor's death, his father K K Singh had registered a case with the Bihar police against Rhea Chakraborty, her family members and others for abetment to suicide and criminal conspiracy. The case was transferred to the CBI by the Supreme Court. Rhea was interrogated by the CBI probe team, camping at the DRDO guest house in Mumbai's western suburb Santacruz. She was also questioned by the Enforcement Directorate in connection with a money laundering case and by Narcotics Control Bureau in a drug supply case in which her brother Showik Chakraborty and Sushant's manager Samuel Miranda have been arrested.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-682
08-09-2020||India||Main accused of Kerala gold smuggling case admitted to hospital||The prime accused in the Kerala gold smuggling case, Swapna Suresh has been admitted to a medical college hospital in Thrissur after she complained of uneasiness and chest pain. Suresh, who is currently lodged at the Viyur jail near here was shifted to the Thrissur Medical College hospital on Monday evening, prison authorities said. "She complained of uneasiness.. after consulting with the prison doctors, we shifted her to the medical college hospital here. Adequate police protection has been provided to her," a senior prison official said on Tuesday. Swapna, who is a former employee of the UAE consulate in the state capital, is among the four accused booked by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in the smuggling of 30 kg of gold through diplomatic baggage which arrived at the Thiruvanathapuram International airport on July 5. The gold valued at around Rs 15 crore was seized by the Customs (Preventive) Commissionerate, Kochi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-682
08-09-2020||India||Indian Army rejects PLA claim of military provocation in Ladakh||The Army on Tuesday said Chinese troops fired shots in the air and attempted to close in on an Indian position in eastern Ladakh a day earlier as it rejected charges by China's People's Liberation Army(PLA) that it transgressed across the Line of Actual Control (LAC). The remarks by the Army came after the PLA late on Monday night alleged that the Indian troops crossed the LAC and "outrageously fired" warning shots near the Pangong lake in eastern Ladakh. The use of firearms along the LAC marks a serious escalation in border tensions as the previous instance of shots being fired at the de-facto border was in 1975. India and China exchanged accusations just four days after Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and his Chinese counterpart Gen. Wei Fenghe held talks in Moscow on ways to ease tensions at the border. They met last Friday on the sidelines of a Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) meet. In a statement, the Indian Army said that at no stage the Indian troops crossed the LAC or resorted to use of any "aggressive means", including firing, as alleged by the Chinese PLA. "At no stage has the Indian Army transgressed across the LAC or resorted to use of any aggressive means, including firing. It is the PLA that has been blatantly violating agreements and carrying out aggressive manuveres, while engagement at military, diplomatic and political level is in progress," the Army said. "In the instant case on September 7, it was the PLA troops who were attempting to close-in with one of our forward positions along the LAC and when dissuaded by own (Indian) troops, PLA troops fired a few rounds in the air in an attempt to intimidate own troops," the statement added. It further said that despite the "grave provocation", Indian troops exercised "great restraint" and behaved in a mature and responsible manner. The Army termed the statement issued by the Western Theater Command of the PLA as an attempt to mislead their domestic and international audience. "The Indian Army is committed to maintaining peace and tranquility, however is also determined to protect national integrity and sovereignty at all costs," the Army said. "India, while is committed to disengagement and de-escalating the situation on the LAC, China continues to undertake provocative activities to escalate." Senior Colonel Zhang Shuili, a spokesperson of PLA's Western Theater Command, in a statement on Monday night alleged that Indian troops again illegally crossed the LAC and "outrageously fired" warning shots on Chinese border patrol soldiers who were about to negotiate. Chinese troops were forced to take countermeasures to stabilize the situation, he said without elaborating. The Indian troops crossed the LAC at the west section of the China-India border into the Shenpao mountain region near the south bank of Pangong lake, he alleged. Separately, the Ministry of External Affairs termed as false reports in Chinese media attributing some comments to National Security Advisor Ajit Doval. "We have seen reports in Chinese state media, including in China Daily and Huanqiu Shibao (Global Times), which had attributed some comments to NSA Shri Ajit Doval. These reports are completely false and are not based in facts. We urge the media to refrain from such speculative reporting," it said in a release. Tensions escalated manifold along the LAC in eastern Ladakh after the Galwan Valley clashes on June 15 in which 20 Indian Army personnel were killed. The Chinese side also suffered casualties but it is yet to give out the details. According to an American intelligence report, the number of casualties on the Chinese side was 35. The border situation deteriorated again after China unsuccessfully attempted to occupy Indian territory in the southern bank of Pangong lake on the intervening night of August 29 and 30. India occupied a number of strategic heights on the southern bank of Pangong lake and strengthened its presence in Finger 2 and Finger 3 areas in the region to thwart any Chinese actions. China has strongly objected to India's move. However, India has maintained that the heights are on its side of the LAC. India has also rushed in additional troops and weapons to the sensitive region following China's transgression attempts. Following China's fresh attempts to change the status quo in the southern bank of Pangong lake, India has further bolstered its military presence in the region.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-682
08-09-2020||India||FIR against Sushant's sisters for 'abetment of suicide'||Mumbai police have registered an FIR against actor Sushant Singh Rajput's sisters and others for abetment to suicide and criminal conspiracy by prescribing him medicines banned under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, an official said on Tuesday. The case was registered after the actor's girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty claimed they prescribed drugs to him without consultation, the official said. An offence has been registered against Sushant's sisters Priyanka Singh and Meetu Singh, Delhi-based doctor Tarun Kumar and others, the official said. Rhea in her complaint claimed these persons hatched a conspiracy and obtained false prescription on the letterhead of a government hospital for banned medicines and administered the same to the actor without supervising doses and quantity. The case has been registered at Bandra police station under sections 420, 464, 465, 466, 468, 474, 306, 120(B) and 34 of IPC and sections 8(c), 21, 22(A) and 29 of NDPS Act, a Mumbai police spokesperson said. In her police complaint, Rhea had sought that an FIR be registered under IPC, NDPS Act and Telemedicine Practice Guidelines. She had also accused Priyanka of molesting her. Rhea had accused Priyanka Singh, Dr Tarun Kumar of Delhi's Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital and others of forgery and preparing a "fake" prescription of medicines for anxiety for the 34-year-old actor, who was found hanging in his apartment in suburban Bandra on June 14. In accordance with orders of the Supreme Court, this case has been transferred to CBI for further investigation, the spokesperson said. Unhappy with Mumbai police probe in the actor's death, his father K K Singh had registered a case with the Bihar police against Rhea Chakraborty, her family members and others for abetment to suicide and criminal conspiracy. The case was transferred to the CBI by the Supreme Court. Rhea was interrogated by the CBI probe team, camping at the DRDO guest house in Mumbai's western suburb Santacruz. She was also questioned by the Enforcement Directorate in connection with a money laundering case and by Narcotics Control Bureau in a drug supply case in which her brother Showik Chakraborty and Sushant's manager Samuel Miranda have been arrested.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-682
08-09-2020||India||Covid: Karnataka minister asks officials to conduct clinical study on reinfection||Karnataka medical education minister K. Sudhakar on Monday instructed officials to conduct a clinical study after a 27-year-old woman from the city probably became the “first” victim of Covid-19 reinfection nearly a month after recovering. The minister expressed concern over the reinfection of the patient who was discharged from a hospital in July after recovery. He said the issue should be dealt with carefully and efforts taken to dispel fears among the people. “Minister Dr K. Sudhakar has instructed the officials to conduct a clinical study about the coronavirus reinfection cases,” his office said in a statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-682
08-09-2020||India||Ram Madhav attends SFF soldier's funeral, tweets, later deletes||Nyima Tenzin, a Tibetan soldier from a secretive force raised by India, was on Monday given a funeral with full military honours, wrapped in the Tibetan flag and the Tricolour, in Ladakh. In attendance was BJP national general secretary Ram Madhav, who tweeted a message with four pictures before deleting it within hours and without explanation. Company Leader Tenzin, 51, was part of the Special Frontier Force (SFF). He was killed on the night of August 29-30 in eastern Ladakh when he stepped on a 1962-vintage landmine near the southern bank of the Pangong Tso. The public nature of the event and the presence of Madhav, not to mention the tweet and its deletion, suggested that the Narendra Modi government was trying to play the Tibet card to create some leverage in talks with China at a time tensions had escalated on the frontier. The government has virtually “outed” the SFF, hitherto kept under wraps, by allowing a lot of visibility to the funeral without taking ownership of what is being seen as “deliberate stagecraft”. The SFF was raised in 1962 with Tibetan refugees for covert operations behind Chinese lines. This was the first time a soldier of the special force was given such a public funeral although there was no official word. Earlier, SFF men killed in operations were given a quiet funeral away from the public eye. On Monday, as soldiers in SFF uniform gave the last salute, chants of “Bharat Mata ki jai” and “Tibet Desh ki jai” rent the air along with slogans of the Vikas Regiment, as the six battalions of the 5,000-strong force is known. Video clips of the funeral — including the movement of the cortege through Leh — were widely circulated, revealing the official sanction. Madhav’s tweet included four photographs of the crowds that had gathered for the funeral. It said: “Attended d (the) funeral of SFF Coy Ldr Nyima Tenzin, a Tibetan who laid down his life protecting our borders in Ladakh, and laid a wreath as a tribute. Let d sacrifices of such valiant soldiers bring peace along d Indo-Tibetan border. That will be d real tribute to all martyrs.” No explanation for the tweet’s deletion had been offered till Monday night. Madhav was in Ladakh on a two-day visit ahead of elections to the Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Council. Residents saw in his presence at the funeral a gesture aimed at pleasing the 20,000-strong Tibetan population in Leh district. Neither was there any response from the external affairs ministry on whether the publicity for the funeral was a signal to the Chinese. The defence ministry and the army, too, remained silent. The SFF is part of the RAW (the external intelligence agency) set-up but when it is deployed with the army, it is under the military’s operational control. However, the army prefers to keep the relationship under wraps. Swaran Singh, a professor with JNU’s Centre for International Politics, Organisation and Disarmament, said: “Our increasing willingness to advertise their (SFF) contributions seems part of giving greater visibility to Tibetans in India, (it) being our leverage vis-a-vis the Chinese.” Singh said neither side could afford a military solution and that the diplomatic channels would have to painstakingly find a new equilibrium. “The limited focus on maintaining peace and tranquillity in the border regions that began in 1988 evolved methods and mannerisms that have lost their efficacy and new ones need to be evolved,” he said. Christopher Clary, non-resident fellow at the Washington-based Stimson Centre’s South Asia programme, posted a tweet in reaction to some of the visuals of the funeral: “There is an element of deliberate stagecraft when you produce a very elaborate production for a soldier that reportedly died in a landmine accident. This is not to minimise the risks Indian soldiers face, but such risks are everyday occurrences. This is not.” In Beijing, asked for an update on five missing Indian youths from Arunachal Pradesh, Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian reiterated Beijing’s position. “China’s position on the east sector of the China-India boundary, or Zangnan (the southern part of China’s Xizang), is consistent and clear. The Chinese government has never recognised the so-called ‘Arunachal Pradesh’. I am not aware of the situation you mentioned.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-682
08-09-2020||India||Deepak Kochhar arrested on money laundering charges||The Enforcement Directorate has arrested Deepak Kochhar, husband of former ICICI Bank CEO Chanda Kochhar, in a money laundering case. The arrest was executed under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). The case traces its roots to loans of Rs 1,875 crore the bank had sanctioned to the Videocon group between June 2009 and October 2011 in alleged violation of laid-down policies. The allegation was that Venugopal Dhoot, MD of the Videocon group, had invested in Deepak’s company Nupower through the firm Supreme Energy as a quid pro quo for the loans cleared by ICICI Bank after Chanda took over as the CEO of the bank on May 1, 2009. The couple had previously denied any wrongdoing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-683
08-09-2020||India||Indira Gandhi Prize for 2019 conferred on Sir David Attenborough||The Indira Gandhi Prize for Peace, Disarmament and Development for 2019 was on Monday conferred on Sir David Attenborough, British broadcaster and author whom former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh described as “human voice of nature”. Speaking at the award ceremony held through videoconference, Congress president Sonia Gandhi said, “Sir David has been the most sensible voice warning us that we, more than anything else, are responsible for the accelerating threat to the environment on our planet. In essence, for well over half a century, Sir David has been one of Nature’s most staunch conscience keepers. Indira Gandhi too was one throughout her life. As Prime Minister, she became an unwavering champion of environmental protection long before that cause had become popular both in India and abroad.” Manmohan Singh, who presented the award, said, “There can be no more deserving recipient of the award at this time when the world is gripped by growing anxiety over the state of our environment and our planet. If anyone who can be described as a living legend in the context of the natural world, it is Sir David. He has delighted us, entertained us, informed us and united us with nature in all its glories.” In his acceptance speech, Attenborough, warning against reckless exploitation of nature, said that the world was heading towards a major crisis and all the nations will have to come together to save whatever was left of nature. Lamenting that humanity had overrun nature, felling half of the tropical forests in the world, he advised the countries to evolve a common currency to pay back the ecological debt and dedicate to the maintenance of remaining biodiversity and biological health of the world.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-683
08-09-2020||India||NIA summons Varavara’s sons-in-law to Mumbai||The National Investigation Agency has summoned both sons-in-law of jailed Telugu poet Varavara Rao from Hyderabad to Mumbai on Wednesday for questioning in the Elgaar Parishad case. English and Foreign Languages University professor K. Satyanarayana, husband of Rao’s daughter Pavana, said that during a search of his campus flat two years ago, Pune police had asked humiliating questions such as why he possessed Dalit literature and why his students wore skimpy clothes and smoked. K.V. Kurmanath, senior journalist with The Hindu Business Line, is the husband of Rao’s daughter Anala. In an email to several academics, Satyanarayana said: “As you know, my flat was raided by Pune police in August 2018 under the pretext of collecting evidence against my father-in-law and revolutionary poet Varavara Rao. I stated then that I was in no way connected to the Bhima Koregaon case. The fact of Varavara Rao being my father-in-law was used to raid my house and cause mental agony.” The teacher of cultural studies added: “I remember how all of you had strongly condemned the raid on my flat and extended support. I thought it was all over…. NIA notice adds to our family distress at a time when Varavara Rao’s health condition is not very good and the pandemic is fast spreading in Mumbai. I am travelling to Mumbai in these terrible times. I need your support and best wishes.” The NIA has summoned Partho Sarothi Ray, who teaches molecular biology at Calcutta’s Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, on Thursday. Ray is also convener of the Bengal unit of the Persecuted Prisoners Solidarity Committee. The World Health Organisation has been consulting him over its Covid-19 studies. Rao, 79, tested Covid-positive in Mumbai’s Taloja prison in July and was sent to several hospitals for treatment. He returned to jail last week, and family members say he seems to be losing his memory. Lawyer Sudha Bharadwaj, another accused in the case, has developed ischaemic heart disease in jail, where she has spent almost two years now, her daughter Mayshaa has said. Several other academics, including Nagpur University’s Shoma Sen, former Mumbai University lecturer Vernon Gonsalves, Goa Institute of Management’s Anand Teltumbde and Delhi University’s Hany Babu M.T. are in jail in connection with the case. Altogether, 12 activists are in jail custody for alleged links with the banned CPI Maoist and their purported role in the Elgaar Parishad meeting held by Ambedkarites in Pune on December 31, 2017. The event was meant to commemorate the second centenary of the victory of the predominantly Mahar Dalit troops of the East Indian Company against the Peshwa’s army in the Battle of Koregaon. Hindutva mobs attacked a largely Dalit pilgrimage to the Bhima Koregaon victory pillar the next day, the clash claiming the life of a Maratha youth.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-683
08-09-2020||India||Modi to blame for ‘corona capital’, says Congress ||The Congress on Monday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s handling of the coronavirus crisis is the biggest example of “leadership failure” in India’s history as it not only destroyed the economy but also subjected the people to unprecedented hardships. Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala said: “In times of crisis, the nation looks up to the Prime Minister for guidance. But the Prime Minister initially delayed India’s preparations for the struggle against the pandemic for political reasons and then took a series of wrong decisions. Now the battle against corona rages on, but the general is missing in action. India has become the corona capital of the world. This is indeed the biggest example of leadership failure in India’s history.” The Congress listed the government’s failure to anticipate the gravity of the crisis initially despite repeated warnings, its hosting the Namaste Trump event in February and keeping Parliament open till March 23 to ensure the government in Madhya Pradesh was pulled down. On March 24, the government declared a nationwide lockdown on a four-hour notice. The Congress accused the Prime Minister of acting on his whims, rather than taking collective decisions or paying heed to constructive suggestions, and using the lockdown to attack constitutional rights and the federal structure. “While the economy was destroyed, leading to millions of job losses, states were pushed into deep financial stress as the Centre refused to pay GST compensation,” Surjewala alleged. On Monday morning, Rahul Gandhi tweeted: “Modi Government drags the country into crisis and starts acting like Ostrich instead of finding solutions to the problems. The country is leading every wrong race — be it Coronavirus infection or fall in GDP growth rate.” Former Union minister Jairam Ramesh tweeted: “So now it is official. India has crossed Brazil and is the second worst Covid-19 infected country next to the US. This is the price nations pay for having divisive, self-obsessed leaders who think they are Sarvagyaani (omniscient).” While the Congress, which has the experience of governance for decades, submitted proposals and complete action plan on every aspect of the challenges posed by the pandemic — from healthcare and economy to humanitarian crisis — several economists and domain experts of international repute offered suggestions to the government. However, the government chose to ignore them. The first major crisis of Modi’s tenure as Prime Minister was demonetisation in 2016. While the lack of preparations created huge problems for people, including over 150 deaths, the impact on economy is now clearly visible. Modi stoutly refuted the assessments by economists and seasoned administrators such as Manmohan Singh, sarcastically declaring that “hard work” was better than “Harvard.” The goods and services tax (GST), which was launched with great fanfare at a midnight function in Parliament, almost equating it with India’s Independence, again created chaos in the business community, forcing the government to change rules and procedures multiple times. Surjewala said: “Modi’s behaviour hasn’t been prime ministerial; he is playing with peacocks and changing clothes for photoshoot when the country is in deep crisis. He has abdicated his responsibility. There are no answers from him on all the vital questions about the plight of the nation.” Modi is the only head of the state in the world who hasn’t addressed any press conference during this global pandemic. A Prime Minister who publicly announced that the battle against corona would be won in 21 days is silent when the rampaging virus has taken India to the second spot in the world after 165 days. Surjewala said: “India is number one in the world in terms of daily rise in cases (over 90,000), in terms of deaths (1,016 deaths daily). While we reached 0 to 1 lakh case in 110 days and the next one lakh in 59 days, we jumped from 30 lakh to 40 lakh in 13 days. Experts believe we will reach 1 crore by November 30. It has now spread in rural areas where the healthcare infrastructure is very poor.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-683
08-09-2020||India||Oxford Covid vaccine to roll out next year||The Oxford University vaccine for Covid-19 is “likely” to be ready early next year and in the best-case scenario later this year, UK health secretary Matt Hancock told the London radio station LBC on Monday. In an interview with The Telegraph, Cipla head Yusuf Hamied confirmed this is the same vaccine that the Serum Institute of India is making under an agreement with AstraZeneca, the British-Swedish multinational pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical company. Serum Institute has already put aside several million doses. If this vaccine — codename ChAdOx1 nCoV-19 — is approved by the UK authorities, it is “99 per cent” certain that it will also apply to India without further testing, Hamied said. “But tests are already being done in India,” he added. He said Cipla was doing clinical tests on behalf of the Russian vaccine. Nowhere was a vaccine more needed than in India: “India is in bad shape.” The Mail highlighted an unenviable statistic on Monday: “India now has the second highest number of Covid-19 cases behind the US as number of infections surges.” Hancock was interviewed by presenter Nick Ferrari on LBC’s “Call the Cabinet”, a programme on which ordinary listeners can question senior members of the government. It was Ferrari who asked Matt whether the UK was behind Australia: “Maybe where Australia expects to receive AstraZeneca vaccine within months, possibly January, February next year — around 3.3-4 million doses — are we in line behind them?” A spirited Hancock cut in: “No, no. We’re ahead of them — we’ve got 30 million doses already contracted for with AstraZeneca. In fact, they are starting to manufacture those doses already ahead of approval.” He went on: “So should that approval come through — and it’s still not certain, but it is looking up — should that approval come through them, we’re ready to roll out and in fact this year. “Well, the best-case scenario is if that happens this year (but) I think more likely is the early, earliest part of next year — in the first few months of next year is the most likely, but we’ve also bought a vaccine ahead of it getting approved from a whole different series of international vaccines as well.” There is real concern about a surge in the pandemic over winter. Government data last week showed a surge in 2,988 cases in a single day, the highest since May 22. According to BBC health editor Hugh Pym, “The more you test the more new cases you will find. But the jump of more than one thousand in a day is a significant new spike.” The Guardian reported: “More than 100 NHS trusts in England could be at or above full capacity this winter if they faced a second wave of coronavirus admissions on top of the usual seasonal workload, with figures suggesting that dozens would have 10 per cent fewer beds than needed.” The government is currently urging people to return to their offices having advised them for months to stay away. Schools have reopened. Hancock said younger people could still have serious illness and pass on the disease to more vulnerable people, including their grandparents. The death toll among Asians in the UK, where people tend to live in inter-generational families and attend temples, mosques and gurdwaras in large numbers, has been disproportionately high. Hancock said: “The rise in the number of cases we have seen over the last few days is largely among younger people — under 25s, especially between 17 and 21 — and the message to all your younger listeners is that even though you are at lower risk of dying from Covid if you’re under 25, you can still have really serious symptoms and consequences. “Long Covid — where people six months on are still ill — is prevalent among younger people. Also, that you can infect other people — this argument that we have seen that some people come out with saying, ‘You don’t need to worry about a rise in cases because it is younger people and they don’t die’ — firstly, they can get very, very ill. And secondly, it inevitably leads to older people catching it from them — don’t infect your grandparents.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-683
08-09-2020||India||DRDO successfully tests hypersonic cruise vehicle ||India’s defence research agency on Monday tested a flying vehicle that zipped at 2km per second, or six times the speed of sound, demonstrating an air-breathing engine envisioned for future civilian and military applications. The hypersonic cruise vehicle launched on a proven rocket at 11.03am from Wheeler Island off the Odisha coast flew along an intended flight path over the Bay of Bengal at 2km per second for 20 seconds, the Defence Research and Development Organisation said. “The engine performed in a textbook manner,” the DRDO said in a media release. The successful flight of the Hypersonic Technology Demonstrator Vehicle involved multiple critical technologies such as hypersonic manoeuvers, air-breathing propulsion and high temperature materials, among others. Scientists not involved in the DRDO project but familiar with the technologies said hypersonic flying vehicles have potential applications in weapons-delivery systems such as missiles with extended range and in futuristic spaceplanes for low-cost satellite launches. “With this success, all critical technologies are now established to progress to the next phase,” Union defence minister Rajnath Singh posted on Twitter after the test flight. The DRDO had attempted a technology demonstrator flight in June last year but the test had failed as the launch rocket itself did not reach the desired altitude. Scientists and engineers at the DRDO’s APJ Abdul Kalam launch complex on Wheeler Island launched the hypersonic cruise vehicle on a proven solid-fuelled rocket which ferried it to an altitude of 30km. There, the cruise vehicle separated from the rocket, began to “breathe” air, activated onboard ignition and achieved sustained combustion — driven by oxygen from air and a reservoir of hydrocarbon fuel — to fly at six times the speed of sound for 20 seconds. Hypersonic flying vehicles are delivery platforms capable of both manoeuvering and flying faster than five times the speed of sound, V. Siddhartha, a senior strategic technology analyst and former DRDO official had pointed out in a review of hypersonic platforms. These two features — manoeuverability and speed — enable hypersonic missiles to penetrate most missile defences, compressing the timelines for a response by a nation under attack, Siddhartha had said in the review presented at the National Institute of Advanced Studies, Bangalore. A key advantage of air-breathing engines is that they do not need to carry fuel and an oxidiser as do all conventional rockets. “The engine uses oxygen from the air inflight,” said Thangadurai Murugan, an aerospace engineer at the Central Mechanical Engineering Research Institute, Durgapur. “This means a lower launch weight — a feature that can also be used to extend the range of missiles,” said Murugan, who is familiar with technologies required for hypersonic vehicles but is not involved in the DRDO project. Scientists believe hypersonic vehicles could also find use in spaceplanes for which, Siddhartha said, conceptual studies have been under way in India for more than two decades. In 2005, the DRDO had requested a senior engineer Raghavan Gopalaswami to explore designs for a spaceplane. The long-term goal would be a reusable spaceplane — a vehicle that can return for repeated launches — that would help lower the cost of launching satellites. Those efforts had led to a proposal for the so-called “Avatar flight technology demonstrator”. In the review paper, Siddhartha points out: “The Russians improved on the concept and made it relevant for their hypersonic anti-shipping missile Zircon.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-683
08-09-2020||India||Kangana Ranaut to be given Y-plus security  ||Actress Kangana Ranaut, who said Mumbai feels like “Pakistan-occupied Kashmir” and compared the Shiv Sena-led coalition government in Maharashtra to Taliban, has been granted Y-plus security by the Union home ministry. “I am grateful to Amit Shahji. Had he wanted, he could have advised me to go to Mumbai after a few days,” Kangana tweeted in Hindi. The actress has been a vocal supporter of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and had on Twitter described the Hindi film industry as “Islam-dominated”. After actor Sushant Singh Rajput was found dead at his Mumbai apartment in June, Kangana accused the film fraternity of nepotism and bullying. As a face of the “Justice for Sushant Singh Rajput” campaign, she has been relentless in her attacks on Mumbai police, who she has said she fears, and the state government. Former diplomat K.C. Singh said in a tweet: “Heard of Y/Z Security being given when non-state actors/terrorists threaten lives of public figures. It seems now it would be given even to BJP-friendly film personalities who fear duly elected Govs running an Indian state. What does BJP want, civil war?” The decision of the Centre to grant her Y-plus security — 10-12 armed CRPF men personnel will guard her round-the-clock — is being seen as an attempt by the BJP, in power at the Centre, to settle scores with former ally Shiv Sena which had handed the party its rudest shock yet when it formed the government in Maharashtra with the NCP and the Congress. The home ministry has refused to divulge when the security assessment for the actor was conducted before granting her the cover. Nor has it specified the threat perception to Kangana, whose security bill will be picked up by the taxpayer. A war of words had erupted between Kangana and Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut, with the actress likening Mumbai to PoK and Raut invoking Maharashtra’s pride and telling her she need not return if that is how she feels. Kangana, who is now in Manali, has said she will return to Mumbai on September 9. A retired IPS officer said on Monday: “It is very clear now that BJP wants to teach Shiv Sena a lesson for not forming government with BJP and now it has become a direct clash between the central government and Maharashtra…. Why has central security cover been given to a rich actor at the cost of exchequer? If she wants security, she should pay for it.” The CBI, the Enforcement Directorate and the Narcotics Control Bureau are all investigating Sushant’s death, in evidence of the Centre’s keen interest in the probe. Opposition parties have alleged that the BJP is trying to use Sushant’s death as an election issue in Bihar, the state he came from.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-683
08-09-2020||India||Narendra Modi's ‘flexibility’ sermon to NEP critics||Faced with objections that the National Education Policy is too restrictive of the states’ autonomy, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday sought “maximum flexibility” — from the critics. Modi said the NEP gives students “flexibility” in choosing subjects and therefore all stakeholders should show the “maximum flexibility” in implementing it. He seemed to be suggesting that state governments critical of the policy should drop their objections and implement the policy in toto. Modi termed the NEP a policy of the country and not of “those in power” as he addressed a conference of governors — the chancellors of state universities — on the policy’s implementation. “We have to together solve all concerns and apprehensions. We will have to show maximum flexibility in implementing the policy,” Modi said. “This education policy is not the government’s education policy; this is the country’s education policy. Just as foreign policy does not belong to any government but to the country, defence policy does not belong to any government but to the country, this education policy has no connection with those in power.” As examples of the “flexibility” accorded to students, Modi referred to the options for vocational education from Class VI and for cross-stream selection of subjects in the upper classes and in higher education. Further, undergraduates can exit their four-year research degree courses after the first year (with a certificate), second year (diploma) or third year (ordinary bachelor’s degree). Among the policy’s other highlights are the integration of pre-school with formal schooling at government schools (it’s already there in many private schools), syllabus reduction for schoolchildren, a single regulator for higher education, and funding for private institutions. Many states — among them Tamil Nadu, ruled by BJP ally AIADMK — and NGOs have expressed fear that the NEP would curb the states’ and institutions’ autonomy, promote privatisation, reduce education to skills training and hit the state governments’ pockets. At the conference, President Ram Nath Kovind too appealed for cooperation between the states and the Centre on the implementation of the NEP, which the government says has become effective. “Education is on the concurrent list. The NEP’s success will depend on effective coordination between the states and the Centre,” he said. Kovind advised the governors to have virtual conferences on NEP implementation with universities in their states. Delhi education minister Manish Sisodia had last week expressed funding worries over the proposed integration of pre-school with formal schooling. Congress-ruled Chhattisgarh and Rajasthan have highlighted the same issue. Currently, government-run pre-schooling is done at the anganwadi centres, which is cheaper because their employees are paid far less than schoolteachers. Besides, these centres will continue functioning even after pre-school moves to the schools because they have a role in the nutrition of newborns and their mothers. Tamil Nadu chief minister K. Palaniswamy last month declared his government would not follow the NEP-prescribed three-language formula: English, mother tongue and another Indian language. Tamil Nadu’s government schools now teach only two languages, Tamil and English. Bengal education minister Partha Chatterjee complained last month that neither the states nor Parliament had been consulted before the policy was approved on July 29. Some two dozen civil society organisations too have underlined the lack of discussions with stakeholders. The All India Forum for Right to Education (AIFRTE), Andhra Pradesh teachers’ federation, the Joint Forum for Movement on Education and others have issued a joint statement saying the NEP would reduce learning to skill training in the name of vocational education. “It’s wrong to introduce skill training (as early as) Class VI. This is a violation of the child labour law, which prohibits the employment of children below 14 in any profession,” said Madhu Prasad, a professor and member of the AIFRTE. She feared the provision of funding for private institutions was intended at promoting privatisation of education. Prasad also had apprehensions about the proposal for an overarching Higher Education Commission of India, whose various arms will include a single higher education regulator (the National Higher Education Regulatory Council), an accrediting body and a funding body. She said this would pave the way for the centralisation of higher education, allowing the Union government to curb the academic autonomy of universities and the states and push the ruling party’s political agendas through the education apparatus. Current general-stream regulator University Grants Council is largely an advisory body whose recommendations are not binding on the institutions and the states, but the proposed HECI’s powers remain opaque.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-683
08-09-2020||India||Delhi Metro resumes operations||Commuters travel in a Metro train as Delhi Metro resumed operations in a graded manner on Monday. The largest Metro rail system in the country reopened more than five months after it shut its doors to commuters because of the Covid-19 lockdown. A little over 15,550 people used the Metro service on Monday. Those who returned to the lifeline had their temperature checked and bags sprinkled with disinfectant as they entered stations, and guards scanned them with metal detectors attached to poles. The cold blast from the air conditioning vents has given way to a warmer flow of air, a little colder than the atmospheric temperature. The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation has lost more than Rs 1,500 crore in revenue because of the lockdown and has cut perks of employees by half since last month.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-683
08-09-2020||India||Crushed  to death under elevator ||A 46-year-old director of a retail chain was crushed to death under an elevator after he stepped into its shaft in Worli here, police said on Monday. Vishal Mewani, who was the director of Kohinoor Electronics, went to meet his friend in the two-storey Buena Vista building in Worli on Sunday evening, an officer said. Mewani called for the lift, but stepped into its shaft after opening the lift channel. On realising that he was in the shaft, Mewani tried to move out but failed and got crushed under the lift that was coming down, the officer said. Fire brigade officials rushed to the spot and Mewani was pulled out. He was taken to Breach Candy Hospital where he was declared brought dead. “He spoke to his wife 30 minutes before the incident and told her that he was going to meet his friend...,” Worli police station’s senior inspector Sukhlal Varpe said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-683
08-09-2020||India||Kerala protest plan on book pullout||Kerala’s MPs have joined hands across parties and decided to oppose in Parliament a purported move to withdraw a government book on martyrs of the freedom struggle that mentions two personalities whom the Right wing considers “anti-Hindu”. The decision came at a routine meeting on Monday of members of both Houses of Parliament from Kerala on the subjects to be taken up during the monsoon session, scheduled from September 14 to October 2. At the heart of the controversy lie Variyamkunnath Haji and Ali Musaliar, heroes of the 1921 Mappila Rebellion or Malabar Rebellion against the British in Kerala. Both were executed by the British and are featured in the Dictionary of Martyrs of India’s Freedom Struggle, jointly published by the Union ministry of culture and the Indian Council of Historical Research and released by Prime Minister Narendra Modi last year. Sangh parivar members have written to the central government seeking withdrawal of the book since they view Haji and Musaliar, whose supporters killed tyrannical Hindu landlords during the rebellion, as “anti-Hindu”. CPI Rajya Sabha member Binoy Viswam had broached the subject at Monday’s meeting of Kerala’s 28 MPs, held through videoconferencing and chaired by chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan. All the state’s MPs are from the CPM-led and Congress-led fronts, with none from the BJP. “I said we need an official stand on this matter as it’s not a good precedent to withdraw books of such historical importance,” Viswam told The Telegraph. “So I moved an oral resolution to stand up for our freedom fighters. Our chief minister immediately extended support and said it was an important issue that must be taken up in Parliament,” Viswam said. All the MPs supported the oral resolution. Among them were Lok Sabha members Benny Behanan — convener of the Congress-led United Democratic Front — and his colleague from the Indian Union Muslim League, E.T. Mohammed Basheer. “I’m glad that Kerala’s MPs took a united stand on this, since the BJP is out to destroy everything that is against their communal and divisive agenda,” Viswam said. Basheer told this newspaper: “Usually there would be a lot of differences of opinion at such meetings. But everyone agreed with Viswam on this point. This has to be read with the BJP’s larger agenda of saffronising history books.” He claimed he had information that the BJP had “bulldozed” the ICHR into agreeing to reprint the book after omitting the references to Haji and Musaliar. “The BJP is not going to change its stand just because we are going to raise this issue. But at least we can put our objections on record in both Houses,” Basheer said. CPM Rajya Sabha member Elamaram Kareem said: “It’s heartening that the parliamentarians from Kerala transcended political barriers to stand up for our freedom fighters and against the BJP’s agenda.” A controversy had broken out in June when noted filmmaker Ashiq Abu announced a film on Haji. While the BJP and its allies objected to Haji’s “glorification”, a pro-Sangh filmmaker, Ali Akbar, announced a rival film to project a different side of Haji and his men. Both films are expected to release next year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-684
08-09-2020||India||Many school textbooks in Andhra being printed with first page on left side||Many school textbooks in Andhra Pradesh are now being printed with their first page on the left side, breaking with publishing tradition. These books will have one page in Telugu and the facing page in English with the same content. The idea behind these “mirror image” bilingual textbooks is to help pupils at the state’s government schools transition smoothly to English-medium schooling. Andhra Pradesh has become the first state in the country to offer the option of English-medium education to all its children from Class I. For starters, the option will be available from Class I to Class VI at government schools from the current academic session, originally scheduled from July but delayed by the pandemic. The state school education department is now printing bilingual textbooks for mathematics, social studies and the sciences. Each of these books will be split into two volumes to reduce weight. All the students will also compulsorily study a Telugu language paper and an English language paper in each class. Yagnamurthy Sreekanth, principal of the Regional Institute of Education in Mysore — an NCERT teacher training institute — said the bilingual books would bring advantages as well as challenges. “The books will help the students and the teachers carry out effective academic transaction by referring to the Telugu text. Splitting the books into two volumes each will reduce the weight, which is good,” he said. “But the main challenge is to equip the teachers to teach in English. All these schoolteachers are used to teaching in Telugu. Since there will be no monitoring, it’s possible they may continue to teach in the language they are comfortable in.” Two senior state government officials said the bilingual textbooks would be offered as part of a free kit to every child when the schools reopen. The kit will include a schoolbag, textbooks, work books, a belt, shoes, socks and three pairs of cut pieces of cloth towards uniforms. The government will provide the stitching charges too. Currently, government schools in Andhra Pradesh offer the English-medium option only from Class XI. The state government had last year decided to make English-medium schooling compulsory in all classes, prompting several people to challenge the decision in Andhra Pradesh High Court. The high court declared the move illegal on the ground that it violated the National Education Policy (NEP) — which suggested schooling in the mother tongue or the regional language till Class V — and imposed a foreign language on children without their parents’ permission. Following this, the state appealed in the Supreme Court, where the case is pending. But it also dropped the idea of making English-medium education compulsory and offered it as an option, and began collecting parental consent. Officials said nearly 96 per cent of the parents had chosen English-medium education for their children. Kancha Ilaiah, author and researcher on issues of social justice, said the bilingual books had removed any grounds for anyone arguing that the English-medium option violated the NEP. “The NEP suggests that early education should be imparted preferably in the mother tongue. This is addressed by the bilingual textbooks,” he said. A state government official said the teachers had been trained to teach in English. The official said several research studies had found that young children have a greater capability than their older peers to learn multiple languages. This is why the state had decided to introduce English medium from the lower grades.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-684
08-09-2020||India||Spraying, fumigation at public places harmful: Government||The Centre on Monday told the Supreme Court that fumigating or spraying disinfectants at public places is harmful to human health and that streets and pavements need not be disinfected since they are not reservoirs of the coronavirus. It added that it had never issued any advisory, guidelines or standard operating procedures for people being sprayed with disinfectants — something media reports have said was perpetrated on returning migrants at some places in the early days of the lockdown. The Union health and family welfare ministry, however, argued in its affidavit that since health is a state subject, it’s for the states and Union Territories to enforce a ban on public spraying or fumigation. It was not discussed whether spraying or fogging for mosquito control is harmful too and should come under the ban. The bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R. Subhash Reddy and M.R. Shah had asked the government why it had not issued a notification cautioning people about the harmful effects of fumigation. Solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, appearing for the ministry, said the notification would be issued in a day or two but the responsibility to enforce it should lie with the states and Union Territories. The court was dealing with a public interest plea moved by a law student, Gursimran Singh Narula, seeking a directive to the Centre to ban the “usage, installation, production, advertisement of disinfection tunnels involving spraying or fumigation of chemical disinfectants for the purpose of disinfecting human beings”. Narula had argued that such disinfection measures exposed people to severe health hazards including skin diseases, gastrointestinal ailments and even the loss of sight. Agreeing with the petitioner, the Centre said: “Spraying or fumigation on outdoor spaces such as streets or marketplaces is also not recommended to kill the Covid-19 virus or other pathogens because disinfectants (are) inactivated by dirt and debris and it is not feasible to manually clean and remove all organic matter from such spaces.” It added: “Moreover, spraying porous surfaces such as sidewalks and unpaved walkways would be even less effective. Furthermore, streets and sidewalks are not considered to be reservoirs of infection for Covid-19.... In addition, spraying disinfectants even outdoors can be harmful for human health.” The ministry said that following media reports about the widespread use of spraying and fumigation across the country, it had held meetings with experts on April 8 and June 9. The meetings had resolved that: “It was also observed that in indoor spaces routine application of disinfectants to environmental surfaces by spraying or fogging is not recommended for Covid-19 as the disinfectants may not be effective in removing organic material and may miss surfaces shielded by object, folded fabrics or surfaces with intricate designs,” the ministry said. “If disinfectants are to be applied this should be done with a cloth or wipe that has been soaked in disinfectants.” The ministry added that it had not issued any letter or advisory on the use of ultraviolet rays to disinfect people as part of Covid-19 management.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-684
08-09-2020||India||Nitish takes on Lalu and family at virtual rally||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Monday launched his campaign for the Assembly election with a personal attack on rival Lalu Prasad, bringing up on a public stage an ugly dispute within the Rashtriya Janata Dal leader’s family. Addressing a virtual rally, Nishchay Samvad, at which he spoke for three hours non-stop, Nitish also invoked dead actor Sushant Singh Rajput besides speaking of the work done by his government in the past 15 years. The chief minister referred to Lalu’s daughter-in-law Aishwarya Rai and said: “What behaviour was meted out to her? She is so educated, but this was done to her. I don’t want to say anything because it is a family matter, but it is such a sad thing. Imagine what has been done to the granddaughter of late Daroga Prasad Rai.” Nitish further alleged that the RJD chief had mistreated family members of all those who had helped him in politics. “You indulge in nepotism. Family is everything for you. But what about the families of those people who helped you? Their families do not matter anything for you,” the Janata Dal United leader said. Daroga Prasad Rai was a chief minister of undivided Bihar, a stalwart who was considered the undisputed leader of Yadavs during his time. His son and Aishwarya’s father Chandrika Rai, an MLA, joined the JDU last month after quitting the RJD. Aishwarya got married to Lalu’s eldest son Tej Pratap Yadav, a legislator from Mahua, in May 2018. The match was seen as the coming together of the two best-known Yadav families in the state. However, just five months into the marriage, Tej Pratap filed a divorce petition in the Patna civil court. The case is pending and the couple are living separately. Aishwarya has alleged that she was tortured, assaulted and thrown out of her in-laws’ house by former chief minister and Tej Pratap’s mother Rabri Devi. She registered an FIR against Rabri Devi, Tej Pratap and his sister Misa Bharti in December 2019, accusing them of physical assault, mental torture, domestic violence and demanding dowry. Nitish also lambasted Lalu, now serving time in Ranchi after being convicted in fodder scam cases, for tweeting that he (Nitish) was a burden on Bihar. “I work so I am a burden on the state, but you are in jail so people are free from you. When people gave you an opportunity to work you didn’t. I got an opportunity and I worked. I will work till people give me a chance to work. Service is my religion,” the chief minister said. In a bitter attack on the RJD, Nitish termed the 15-year rule of Lalu and his wife Rabri Devi as “pati-patni raj (husband-wife rule)” and compared the condition of roads, crime, electricity, disaster relief, corruption and communalism during their time with his own tenure. “That was a time when it was difficult to understand whether the road had potholes and ditches or vice-versa. Massacres would happen and the condition of law and order is not hidden from the public. People used to roam freely with firearms jutting out of their vehicles,” Nitish said. The chief minister joined ally BJP in invoking Patna-born actor Sushant, who was found dead in his apartment in Mumbai on June 14. Paying tribute to the deceased actor, Nitish said the incident had not only affected his family and Bihar, but also crores of people across the country while “the probe that should have happened there (in Mumbai) was not happening”. “Investigations were started immediately after Sushant’s father lodged a case here (Patna). We referred it to the CBI with his consent on August 4, which is now probing it. We have faith that the truth related to his death will come out and justice will be delivered,” Nitish said. Nitish also detailed the steps taken to fight the coronavirus pandemic and floods. He said that 15 lakh workers who arrived from other states were quarantined for 14 days and Rs 1,640 crore was spent on them. He also said 16.62 lakh flood affected families in the state have been given gratuitous relief of Rs 6,000 each and a total of Rs 998 crore sent to their bank accounts. He also contested the claims of deteriorating law and order in the state and said that Bihar ranked 23rd among all the states in crime. JDU officials said that Nitish’s virtual rally attracted 16.8k visitors in the digital realm.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-684
08-09-2020||India|| Domestic violence case against BJD MP deferred||A local court in Cuttack on Monday deferred to October 12 the hearing on the domestic violence case filed by leading Odia actress Varsha Priyadarshini against her actor-turned-politician husband Anubhav Mohanty, the sitting BJD MP from Kendrapara. Varsha’s case was filed under Section 12 of the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act, accusing the MP of assaulting and harassing her. Varsha has asked for a compensation of Rs 13 crore besides Rs 2 crore towards medical expenses and a monthly maintenance of Rs 50,000. Varsha’s lawyer Rama Krushna Rath told reporters: “The case will be taken up by the court after the district protection officer (DPO) submits the domestic incident report to the court. After receiving the report, the court will serve a notice to MP Anubhav Mohanty. Once all the legal procedures are completed, the hearing will commence. As per the schedule, the court will take up the case on October 12.” Earlier, Mohanty had told the media he was yet to get a legal notice in the matter. The DPO has contacted Mohanty, but is yet to record his statement on the allegations made by Varsha. However, the DPO has recorded Varsha’s statement. Varsha has decided to approach the Supreme Court, seeking transfer of the divorce case filed by Mohanty in the Patiala House court to Odisha to make it easier for her to appear before the court. “She cannot afford to travel to Delhi to attend the case regularly. It would be easier for her if the case is taken up at the family court in Cuttack,” Rath said. Anubhav had filed a case at the family court in Patiala, Delhi, seeking divorce and alleging that Varsha had failed both as a wife and daughter-in-law. Anubhav’s case is scheduled to be taken up on October 7. As Anubhav has been a star campaigner for the BJD, the issue has given Opposition an opportunity to train its guns on the ruling party and its president, chief minister Naveen Patnaik. While the Congress targeted Naveen on the issue, the BJP Mahila Morcha burnt Mohanty’s effigy and demanded his resignation. “We want to know why the chief minister is maintaining a stoic silence on the issue? The BJD talks of respect for women but the party’s MP has been torturing a woman. BJD should sack Anubhav from the party,” BJP women wing president Smruti Patnaik said. Speaking to the media for the first time on the issue, Anubhav said, “Varsha still lives in our house and at this point if someone speaks of domestic violence, I have nothing to say. I will leave it to the court. I respect her as a woman. It’s a personal matter. Since the matter could not be resolved, we moved the court. I have full faith in the court and will respect the decision of the judiciary.” On her part, Varsha spoke about truth prevailing finally in a post on her social media account. “Truth can never remain hidden. One should fear God before blaming someone with fake and false allegations. I have complete faith in my almighty. Nothing above law. I need blessing of each and everyone in this toughest time which I am going through. Trying to break the silence.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-684
08-09-2020||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly monsoon session curtailed to a day||The monsoon session of Bengal assembly will be held for only a day on September 9 due to the ongoing pandemic, Speaker Biman Banerjee said on Tuesday. It had been earlier decided that the House will meet for a two-day session from Septembaer 9. But the decision was changed during the all-party meeting on Tuesday and the house will now have a single day session, TMC sources said. "We don't want people to stay in the assembly for a long time. So it has been decided that the house will be adjourned after obituary reference and placing of few reports," Banerjee said. Leader of the Opposition, Abdul Mannan criticised the TMC government for not accepting proposals for bringing in resolution against the "anti-people" policies of the Centre. "We wanted to bring in a resolution against the National Education Policy and rise in the prices of essentials. But our proposal was turned down by the TMC. This only proves that TMC and BJP have a tacit understanding," he alleged. There has been instances when resolutions have been passed without any discussions. But the state government was adamant on not bringing any resolution, Mannan said. TMC denied the charge and said the resolution was not allowed as the session will be held for just a day. Several MLAs, house staff and media personnel Tuesday underwent Covid-19 test in the assembly premises as part of safety norms ahead of the monsoon session, officials said. The state government had sent a proposal to the speaker in August for convening a session either from the first or the second week of September, according to sources. "As per the norms there cannot be a gap of more than six months between two sessions of the assembly. The last session was adjourned in March this year. So by September you have to hold the next session," a senior leader of the Trinamool Congress said. The 294-member state assembly was adjourned sine die on March 17 as the state budget session was curtailed due to the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-382
08-09-2020||West Bengal||BJP stand on Raiganj ‘custody death’ echoes Daribhit||Family members of Anup Roy, the 23-year-old BJP supporter in North Dinajpur district who allegedly died in police custody on September 2, have buried and not cremated his mortal remains while demanding a CBI probe into his death that has acquired a political colour. Arrested on September 2 in connection with an earlier crime, Anup apparently fell ill and died within hours, the police calling it a death from cerebral haemorrhage and the family and the BJP accusing the police of torturing him. For many in North Dinajpur district, the Anup case in Nandangram village of Itahar block is a rerun of the 2018 Daribhit case of Islampur subdivision that helped the BJP yield rich electoral dividends in the Lok Sabha polls. In 2018, Rajesh Sarkar and Tapash Burman of Daribhit village died of gunshots during a protest over recruitment of teachers. Their families buried the bodies and demanded a CBI probe, alleging that the police had killed them, which the cops denied. The BJP backed the families and raised the issue often ahead of Lok Sabha polls. A CBI probe is awaited. A political observer drew the parallels between the cases. “BJP leaders like Amit Shah had referred to the (Daribhit) deaths. It left Trinamul in an awkward spot as the BJP alleged that the police killed the youths. It was one of the main issues that helped the BJP win the Raiganj Lok Sabha seat. It seems the party has taken the same strategy again (with the Anup case), keeping in mind the Assembly polls.” Anup had been accused of orchestrating a cash loot with the help of some others. Arrested, he died within a few hours at Raiganj Government Medical College and Hospital, and his post-mortem was held the same night. When the police said Anup died of cerebral haemorrhage, his family members and BJP leaders alleged police torture, and demanded a second post-mortem. On a local court’s instruction, the second autopsy was done on September 5. The family received his body and buried it in Nandangram village. On the burial, Anup’s mother Gita said: “We suspect he died of police torture. We feel the state police are trying to hush up their crime, and we want the CBI to investigate. If needed, the body can be exhumed. Family members and villagers are keeping round-the-clock watch over his grave.” In Nandangram, it seems the BJP’s strategy to mount pressure on Trinamul and state police is working, as villagers seem disgruntled with the police. “It is hard to believe a youth died of cerebral attack. There must be something wrong otherwise why would the police arrange post-mortem on September 2 night immediately after death and not wait for the morning? We want the truth. For that, investigation should be done by a central agency,” said Swapan Kumar Sarkar of Nandangram. Biswajit Lahiri, the district BJP chief in North Dinajpur, said: “We had earlier seen how the state police shot dead two youths in Daribhit and now they killed another only because he is our supporter. We will continue our protests till the probe is assigned to CBI.” Trinamul leaders rubbished the charges. “BJP is simply doing politics over the unfortunate death of a youth. Earlier, they had resorted to similar tactics over the death of an MLA (Debendra Nath Ray) and after two youths died in Daribhit. The police have already said why he (Anup) died. Probe is on based on the family’s complaint. We have full faith in the state police,” said Kanaialal Agarwala, district Trinamul president.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-383
08-09-2020||West Bengal||Cop action ends doctors’ strike in Alipurduar||Doctors and paramedics at the state general hospital in Birpara of Alipurduar district resumed their duties at outpatient departments (OPDs) on Monday after three days during which they protested the assault on a colleague. The decision of doctors to resume work, sources said, came after the police arrested the principal accused of the attack, and decided to depute a team of four policemen on hospital campus round the clock. Last Thursday, a group of people who claimed to be friends and relatives of a patient — injured in a mishap — attacked Amalesh Panda, the doctor on emergency duty, alleging he had delayed examining the patient. On Friday, doctors and others posted at the hospital held a silent march in Birpara town and met police officers, asking for security at the hospital premises. They also submitted CCTV footage of the emergency ward to the police. In Alipurduar, members of the Doctors’ Forum gave a memo to the district magistrate, requesting him to look into the issue. “A case was filed and the prime accused of the attack has been arrested. We have posted a four-member police team on hospital campus, and soon the number of policemen will increased,” said SP Amitabha Maity. A doctor posted at the hospital said: “All we want is adequate security in our place of work, especially now (amid the pandemic) when all those associated with healthcare are putting in their best efforts.” In Jalpaiguri, a nurse at the super-specialty hospital was attacked on Sunday by two youths for her alleged delay in administering an injection to one of them. Kotwali police arrested the two youths, Pralay Das and Biswajit Das, from Mohitnagar on the town’s outskirts. On Monday, both were produced at a local court and sent them to judicial custody for three days. Additional reporting by our Jalpaiguri correspondent||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-383
08-09-2020||West Bengal||NBU to hold final-year exams in October||The North Bengal University (NBU) will conduct the final examinations of undergraduate and postgraduate courses in October this year. According to varsity officials, they will publish the elaborate exam schedule on September 10. The undergraduate exams will be held from October 1 to 6, while the PG exams will be conducted from October 1 to 8. “On the basis of the circular issued by the UGC and the verdict of the Supreme Court, it has been decided to conduct exams both online and offline and in an open-book system in October this year. The university will upload the question paper a day before the examination, according to the schedule. Students will have to submit the paper in the following 24 hours either online or offline,” said Debashish Dutta, the controller of examination at the NBU. He said PG students would have to send their papers to the departmental email while the UG examinees would have to mail the papers to their respective colleges. UG students, who want to appear the exams offline, will have to collect the question paper and the first page of the answer sheet from their own colleges. The PG students, who will appear offline, will have to collect the question paper from their nearest college and can submit the paper to the same place. An acknowledgement receipt will be issued after submission of the papers. As students cannot enter the colleges because of the Covid-19 pandemic, those appearing offline will have to send their guardians or any other authorised person to the colleges to collect the question papers along with a photocopy of the admit card. Also, the answer scripts have to be submitted in the same manner. “The results of the exams will be published on October 31. On the same day, we will also publish the results of the part 2 exam on the basis of internal assessment,” the controller of examinations said. Sources said students could write the papers on their own sheets but they had to stitch the first sheet with the answer scripts which they would get on the university website. “Students will download and print the first sheet of the answer paper where they will have to write their roll number, date of examination, registration number and other details,” the source said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-383
08-09-2020||West Bengal||Cultural hubs for hill people, Rajbanshis ||The state government has decided to develop several rural craft and cultural hubs for the hill communities and for the Rajbanshi community of north Bengal for which the state had earlier constituted development boards. The decision is being seen as a new move by chief minister Mamata Banerjee to woo these communities ahead of the Assembly polls. After Mamata came to power, she made development boards for 15 different hill communities. Similar boards have been formed for minorities in the hills, for Rajbanshis in the plains and for tribals and Gorkhas living in the foothills. Also, two language academies have been formed for the Rajbanshi community. “All those communities for which development boards were formed will get the benefit of the proposed rural craft and cultural hubs. For each hub, a sum of Rs 1 crore to Rs 1.5 crore will be spent. In these hubs, cultural heritage, garments, musical instruments, art and craft items would be displayed. Members of the community can also use these hubs to sell handicraft and ethnic cuisine. The hubs will also serve as centres for cultural practices and research of these communities,” said Satyakam Gurung, the district officer of West Bengal Khadi & Village Industries Board in Jalpaiguri. According to him, the state has assigned the board to develop the hubs to come up in various areas of Darjeeling, Kalimpong, Jalpaiguri, Alipurduar and Cooch Behar districts. Parthasarathi Bhattacharya, officer of West Bengal Khadi & Village Industries Board for Darjeeling and Kalimpong districts, said they were facing problems over land. “In the hills, whatever land the boards has with them is tribal land. That is why we are facing some problem in identifying land for the hubs. We have referred the issue to the state government and hope it will be resolved soon,” he said. According to political observers, the decision indicates that Mamata wants to reach out to these communities for support, particularly as other political forces are also trying to woo the hill population by raising demands before central and state governments. Recently, Morcha leaders Binay Tamang and Anit Thapa sent letters to the Prime Minister and chief minister, seeking Scheduled Tribe status for 11 hill communities and permanent jobs of contract workers in the GTA, respectively. The BJP-run Assam state government has also approved formation of Kamtapur Autonomous Council for the Rajbanshis. Raju Bista, the BJP MP of Darjeeling, is also consistently trying to get the ST status for the hill communities from the Centre. “Some kind of a competition has ensued among the political parties in the hills and plains of north Bengal and Trinamul too, has become a part of it,” said an observer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-383
08-09-2020||West Bengal||Reopen hope for Bengal's national parks ||Nature and wildlife enthusiasts who want to visit the forests of north Bengal may get some good news amid the pandemic. Bengal forest department is likely to allow visitors to the national parks of the region soon. “Recently, state forest minister (Rajib Banerjee) instructed some senior officers in north Bengal to submit to him a report on the present state of affairs of national parks. A detailed report with a plan on the health and safety of visitors, forest employees, guides and cab drivers, has been prepared and sent to him for a final approval. We expect some positive decision on the reopening of national parks in another couple of days,” said a source. Every year from June 15 to September 15, forests remain closed for visitors. However this year the pandemic has created an entirely new set of challenges. Initially, the department would only allow car safaris for tourists, an official said. “As a preventive measure, we will allow only four persons in a vehicle on a car safari. Also, visitors will have to follow strict health protocols such as physical distancing, wearing masks and carrying hand sanitisers. At entry and exit, each visitor and his vehicle will be sanitised and he will be screened with a thermal gun,” said the official. The department will take some more time to resume the elephant safari — the most attractive option. In north Bengal, car safari is available in Gorumara National Park, Chapramari Wildlife Sanctuary, Jaldapara National Park and Buxa Tiger Reserve. The elephant safari is available in Gorumara and Jaldapara. No immediate decision will be made to reopen zoos, including the Padmaja Naidu Himalayan Zoological Park in Darjeeling and Bengal Safari Park near Siliguri, the official added. Such moves by the forest department come at a time when the tourism stakeholders have sent a letter to minister Banerjee, urging him to see that facilities are opened by his department to draw tourists especially during Durga Puja and Diwali holidays. “North Bengal, particularly the Dooars, is getting tourist queries. Tourists are also asking if they can enter the forests. If the department opens up its services for visitors, it will give tourism a big boost. We hope the minister understands the situation and makes an appropriate decision,” said Samrat Sanyal, general secretary, Himalayan Hospitality & Tourism Development Network.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-383
08-09-2020||West Bengal||Panel for Darjeeling municipal corporation||Binay Tamang, the president of a faction of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha, has flagged yet another long-standing demand of Darjeeling residents — upgrade of the 170-year-old Darjeeling municipality to a municipal corporation. However, unlike some other demands which the party has taken up with state and central governments over the years, Tamang brought in people from different walks of life and constituted a committee that was assigned with the task of spearheading the movement on the issue. On Sunday, Tamang held a meeting in Darjeeling where hundreds were invited from different sections of the society and all 32 wards of the hill town. At the meeting, the Darjeeling Municipality Corporation Demand Committee, which Tamang claimed is an apolitical body, was formed. “One of the issues on my agenda in the 2019 election manifesto was to work towards the upgrade of the Darjeeling municipality to a municipal corporation. Since 2000, the demand for a corporation has been raised. We had a meeting for the formation of a non-political Darjeeling Municipality Corporation Demand Committee that has had representatives from various sections. We want the state to look into the issue and if required, make necessary amendments in Acts so that Darjeeling can get a municipal corporation,” said Tamang. According to the West Bengal Municipal Corporation Act 2006, a civic area can be accorded the status of a municipal corporation if it has a population of five lakh, around 3,000 people live in a sqkm area and three-fourth of the population is into activities other than agriculture. According to the website of the Darjeeling municipality, the civic area is spread over an area of 10.6sqkm and according to the 2011 census, the population was around 1.2 lakh. In total, the demand committee would comprise over 100 members. “They will work on drafting the process and details. We will help them in liasing with the state government. I would like to request all residents of the hills to come together and support the demand,” Tamang said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-383
08-09-2020||West Bengal||Seven cops suspended over ATM loot recovery||Birbhum police on Sunday night suspended a constable, five civic volunteers and a village police personnel for alleged delay in informing their seniors about recovery of Rs 60 lakh from a van during routine checking in Rampurhat on August 28. Though the Rampurhat police had recovered the money from the van, the driver and his aide left the vehicle and fled. The cops had informed their superiors about the seizure of the vehicle but did not tell them about the huge amount of cash recovered. Without informing their superiors about the recovery, the cops had kept the money with them. The recovery of the money by Rampurhat cops on August 28 came to light following interrogation of driver Raj Haldar and his aide Tanmoy Dey, who were arrested by Barrackpore police on September 1. The arrest also revealed that the money recovered from the van was part of the Rs 86 lakh that ATM cash van driver Raj Haldar had fled with from Jagaddal in North 24-Parganas on August 26. During their interrogation on September 1, the duo told the Barrackpore police that they had left the cash in the van in Rampurhat and fled. This was immediately communicated to Birbhum police by their counterparts in Barrackpore. On September 2, the Birbhum police informed the cops in Barrackpore about the recovery of the cash in Rampurhat on August 28. “Seven persons, including a constable and five civic volunteers, have been suspended for their delay in informing the police station about recovery of money. A team is probing to find out why they kept the recovery of cash secret,” said Shyam Singh, the Birbhum police chief. Police sources said the cops, who were on patrolling duty in Rampurhat, had intercepted the van carrying cash early on August 28. The cops had informed the inspector-in-charge of Rampurhat police that the van had been seized but the driver and his aide managed to flee. “Accordingly we had informed Barrackpore police about recovery of the van as police stations across Bengal had been informed about the vehicle after the driver had fled with it from Jagaddal on August 26. However, we had no idea that cash had also been recovered,” said a police officer in Rampurhat. Senior police officers in Birbhum are clueless about what led the seven cops to hide information regarding recovery of such a huge amount of cash. While the seven persons have been suspended, additional superintendent of police (headquarters), Birbhum, Subimal Paul, has been asked to probe into the intention of the cops to keep the money with them and not inform their superiors about the recovery.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-383
08-09-2020||West Bengal||HC order on Centre’s job scheme for migrants ||Calcutta High Court on Monday held that if any migrant labourer wanted to avail himself/herself of the Centre’s scheme to provide jobs to workers who had returned home from other states during the lockdown, he/she would have to apply for it with the district magistrate. A division bench of Chief Justice T.B.N Radhakrishnan and Justice Subhasish Dasgupta said the district magistrate would then forward the application to the Union ministry concerned and a decision had to be taken three weeks thereafter. Bengal had been excluded from the Centre’s Rs 50,000 crore Garib Kalyan Rojgar Abhiyaan scheme. The court issued the order on a petition filed by Nepal Mahato and others, all migrant labourers who had returned home in Purulia. The bench asked the petitioners to apply before the Purulia DM for their inclusion in the scheme in one week. “If the petitioners make such applications, the DM Purulia will send the matter to the appropriate ministry of the Union government and the ministry would have to take its decision three weeks thereafter,” the bench ruled.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-383
08-09-2020||West Bengal||Bengal has spent Rs 2,700cr on Covid so far; and received just Rs 200cr||The Mamata Banerjee government has spent nearly Rs 2,700 crore to battle the spread of Covid-19 in the state so far while it received only about Rs 200 crore from the Centre to combat the pandemic, sources at Nabanna said. The lack of support from the Centre has left the top brass of the government in a spot considering the battle might be a prolonged one and arranging funds from the state’s own coffers is going to be easier said than done. “Initially, we had to spend heavily to develop infrastructure to fight against the spread of Covid-19. Now, we are spending something between Rs 125 crore and Rs 130 crore every month on Covid-related activities. The problem is that we are not getting enough support from the Centre,”a senior Nabanna official told The Telegraph. According to sources, the state government is spending heavily these days on conducting tests for suspected Covid patients as the state needs to pay about Rs 300 to buy each testing kit. Moreover, the state needs to spend handsomely for carrying out the tests that includes hiring of more technicians, data entry operators, mobilisation of manpower and transportation. “The kits are being supplied by the ICMR but the state needs to pay for this. As we need to arrange several facilities for conducting tests across the state, each test costs around Rs 800 to 900... We are conducting close to 50,000 tests per day and the outgo under this head is huge,” said another official. This apart, the state government is spending heavily for requisitioning private hospitals to treat Covid patients. According to a rough estimate by the health department, the state is spending about Rs 7 crore every month for this purpose. “Besides, there are huge expenditures, about Rs 50 crore, to provide free treatment to the Covid patients, running safe homes, providing free ambulance service across the state, procurement of equipment and developing Covid facilities in new hospitals. The state needs support from the Centre as its own revenue generation has shrunk since the nationwide lockdown imposed in March this year,” said an official. Sources also said that initially the state had to incur huge expenditure as it developed Covid treatment facilities at major government hospitals. Besides, the state had to deal with a huge influx of migrant labourers. “The state made all arrangements for safe return of migrants from other states at free of cost. It had also provided financial support to the migrant labourers at the initial stage. Initially, the state spent nearly Rs 2,000 crore in the first two months,” said a source. The sources said the state government was worried because it did not get enough central support to fight against the pandemic. “Under the national health mission, the state received only about Rs 200 crore whereas some states like Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu have received more funds, something about Rs 400 crore each,” said a Nabanna official. The problem for the state has doubled, sources said, after the Centre failed to clear dues of nearly Rs 4,100 crore under the GST compensation head.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-383
08-09-2020||West Bengal||Class X student turns hawker||A Class X student of Chachand High School in Murshidabad’s Samserganj has been forced to turn into a hawker to keep his family running as illness and lockdown have robbed his parents of their jobs. Unlike others of his age, a normal day for 15-year-old Jittu Saha doesn’t begin with picking up books to sit down for studies. Instead of books, the boy picks up several packets of biscuits, snacks, puffed rice and bottles of pickles to lay them out on a rickshaw van. Jittu then sets out from Joykrishnapur to hawk his wares from one village to another. Lockdown has changed the lives of the three-member family. Jittu’s father Phulchand Saha used to work as a mason in Kerala, while his mother Puspa Saha worked for a local bidi factory. A few days before the lockdown was imposed, Phulchand, who used to earn enough to keep the family going, had to return home from Kerala. “My father was a labourer in Kerala. He was earning enough and I could keep myself busy with school, private tuitions and friends. Though we are a poor family, my mother’s earning gave us a sense of comfort,” Jittu said as he took a short break from hawking at the nearby Chachand village. “My father developed respiratory disease and had to return home. If this wasn’t enough, the lockdown took away my mother’s job at a bidi factory near our village. All of a sudden, we were left with no livelihood.” “At the end of the month, I can give my mother around Rs 7,000 and that is helping us stay afloat,” he said. Jittu, the youngest of six brothers, stays with his parents as his siblings are married and live separately. Five months into the hawking, the boy said the lockdown had helped him as he didn’t have to attend school. “How else could I have managed both? As the school is shut, I can sell my wares during the day,” says Jittu. The teenager is helping the family keep it going as Jittu doesn’t want his father to spend the little that he has been able to save by working away from home. Before returning home after the sunset after making tours of his own village, Chachand, and Dhulauri, Jittu’s last stop is always Basudevpur. This helps him as the local wholesale market is at Basudevpur, where he replenishes his stocks every evening and loads them onto the van. “To survive, the family needed to earn and as my father fell ill, the onus was on me. I decided to ferry wares that would not require much investment. So, we decided to sell biscuits, snacks and pickles. To move from one village to another, I need a cycle van. My mother bought me a second-hand van for Rs 2,000,” Jittu said. Puspa, however, regrets that his son has to skip tuition classes and studies because he has been compelled to adopt the life of a hawker. “I used to earn Rs 150-200 every day from the bidi factory I worked till the lockdown took away my job. I hardly get orders from the factory. The little that I still earn is not enough to make ends meet as my husband is seriously ill and cannot work anymore,” Puspa said. Jittu is not the only student in the area who has taken up odd jobs to run the family, said Nejaur Rahaman, headmaster of Chachand High School. “The pressure to run the family has led to several students at our school to drop out. Most of these students are from classes VIII-X. They have taken up odd jobs to support the family who are facing the adversities that lockdown has thrust on their lives,” said Rahaman. Jittu, however, is determined not to be counted among the drop-outs in his school. Once school reopens, Jittu hopes to attend school and also find time for vending. “For me, both are equally important. I want to clear Madhyamik and also ensure that my family is able to survive the adversities. I am confident of joining school once the lockdown ends,” says Jittu as he gets busy attending to customers at the corner of a village road that leads to the highway. Even as he serves pickles to a customer, Jittu eyes are set on the highway that like his hope has an endless run.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-383
08-09-2020||West Bengal||Bhutan entry with Covid negative certificate||Bhutan’s health ministry has notified that a visitor to the country needs to carry a Covid-19 negative certificate, spelling relief for migrant workers and traders of India near the border. The move is a part of the country’s unlocking in phases. In March, when the first Covid case was reported there, Bhutan barred the entry of foreigners. On Saturday, the Bhutan health ministry notified that a visitor, besides carrying the certificate, must obey quarantine and test protocols. A person who wants to enter Bhutan should get his RT-PCR Covid-19 test done and get a negative result. The test has to be done not earlier than 72 hours from the day he starts his trip to Bhutan. Migrant workers can carry the rapid antigen test report that confirms their Covid negative status. Safety protocols of the Bhutan government are a must for visitors and migrant workers, alike. A nationwide lockdown was announced in Bhutan from August 11 that continued till August 31. From September 1, the Bhutan government started unlocking in phases. The decision spells good news for several migrant workers who had returned to India and were living amid uncertainty, said Soumen Nag, a social researcher in Siliguri. “It seems that they can gradually get back to their jobs. It is a positive development as unemployment is a major issue during the pandemic and consequent lockdown,” Nag said. Traders in the bordering town of Bengal’s Jaigaon, on the other side of Bhutan’s Phuentsholing, hailed the news. “Hundreds of us visit Bhutan regularly for trade and for banking purposes. It is good that the country is finally opening up to visitors,” said R.S. Gupta, a trader in Jaigaon. Those in the tourism sector, however, said they need to wait for some more time. “We have seen the notification but it seems it is for people who need to visit Bhutan for professional and commercial purposes, and for migrant workers of India. There is no specific notification for tourists so far. We believe we have to wait for some more days before tourists are allowed in Bhutan,” said a tour operator in Alipurduar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-384
08-09-2020||West Bengal||Minister Jyotipriya Mullick tests Covid-19 positive||Bengal food and supplies minister Jyotipriya Mullick was hospitalised on Monday after testing positive for Covid-19, sources in his party said on a day the state logged 3,021 new infections. Mullick’s infection was reported late on Sunday night. From Wednesday, Speaker Biman Banerjee has convened a two-day session of the Bengal Assembly to fulfil the constitutional requirement of meeting at least once in six months. So far, over 20 MLAs, including at least 10 from Trinamul, have been infected. Trinamul’s Egra MLA Samaresh Das and Falta MLA Tamonash Ghosh died from the disease. The pandemic has also claimed the life of CPM veteran and former transport minister Shyamal Chakraborty. The state reported 3,077 recoveries and 58 deaths from the novel coronavirus in the 24-hour window ending at 9am on Monday. Of the deaths, 16 were from Calcutta and 13 in North 24-Parganas, of which Mullick is the district chief of the Trinamul Congress. Bengal’s total infections went past 1.83 lakh. Of them, over 1.57 lakh are recoveries and 3,620 are deaths. Mullick, 62, a senior leader in the ruling party, is the fourth member of Mamata Banerjee’s cabinet to test positive. Fire and emergency services minister Sujit Bose, minister of state for micro, small and medium enterprises Swapan Debnath, and public health engineering minister Soumen Mahapatra had contracted the disease and then recovered. “Balu (Mullick) tested positive. He has been a little ill for a few days. Because he has some comorbidities, it was decided to get him hospitalised,” said a cabinet colleague. In Covid-19, comorbidities are underlying health disorders, such as high blood pressure, diabetes, cardiovascular disease or kidney ailments. As of Monday, the state government reported 3,125 or 86.3 per cent as deaths with comorbidity “present”. Bengal’s overall mortality rate is now 1.96, still behind the national rate of 1.7 per cent. Calcutta’s mortality rate is 3.19 and it has contributed over 38 per cent of the total death toll. For 15 consecutive days, Bengal reported a fall in the total number of active cases, with more recoveries than new cases being found in 24 hours. The total active cases on August 23 were 28,069, and on Monday, the count was 23,216. The state’s recovery rate has climbed by over 15 per cent in a month, reaching 85.4 on Monday, substantially ahead of the national rate of 77.54 per cent. Bengal logged 42,216 tests on Monday, which took the total past 22 lakh, at 24,455 tests per million people. From early February, Bengal took over three-and-a-half months to complete 1 lakh tests on May 19. Its recent total testing milestones of 17, 18, 20, 21 lakh and now 22 lakh were achieved in two days each. Steady rise in the tests, coupled with relatively lower cases being found, has improved the positive confirmation rate in 15 days from 8.9 to 8.35 per cent. A decreasing positive confirmation rate is indicative of reducing levels of Covid-19 spread.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-384
08-09-2020||West Bengal||Buy-sari drive to help marginal weavers||The Bengal government, in a rare move, is going out of its way to buy handloom saris from around 10,000 small and marginal weavers to try and buffer  the financial blow of the pandemic-induced lockdown. The state government has tasked the West Bengal State Handloom Weavers’ Co-operative Society Limited, which runs Tantuja, to hold camps and directly buy saris from marginal weavers in East Burdwan and Nadia districts. Tantuja has 82 selling points across the country of which 70 are in Bengal, said an official. Handloom saris sourced directly from weavers — their money is being transferred to their bank accounts — will be sold at these outlets. The model is similar to the one that the government employs to buy produce directly from farmers against a minimum support price. Till last week, Tantuja held at least half a dozen such camps in the two districts. At a camp held in Nadia’s Phulia last week, Tantuja bought 3,108 handloom saris directly from weavers for Rs 25.67 lakh. Bengal’s handloom weavers have been hard hit as markets remained closed and sales plummeted since the Covid lockdown. Sources in the textiles department said that around 6 lakh weavers and craftspersons associated with the handloom sari industry across Bengal were reeling under the crisis amid the pandemic, but of them, some 10,000 small and marginal weavers are the worst hit. Tantuja’s officer on special duty (marketing) Subhabrata Bandopadhyay said: “Handloom weavers are in deep trouble. So our aim is to procure the maximum number of saris from them. We will sell their products through our stores.” Asked about the price offered to weavers, a Tantuja official said: “Prices vary depending on the product, but we are offering standard wholesale market price. The base material that we procure starts at Rs 250. A jamdani can fetch a weaver at least Rs 5,000.” State micro and small scale enterprise and textiles minister Swapan Debnath said: “Many weavers across the state could not sell their products because of the lockdown restrictions. It is our small effort to help weavers and recognise their craftsmanship since they have been suffering financially because of the pandemic.” Though he did not specify how many camps would be held before Durga Puja, the minister added that the effort would go on and the aim was to cover every weaver in distress. He did not specify if the department had fixed a budget for the procurement drive. Tantuja usually buys handloom saris through Primary Weavers’ Cooperative. The ongoing procurement is in addition to the regular procurement. “This is only because we want to help the small and marginal weavers in their times of financial crisis,” Debnath added. Weavers are happy as the camps are being held before Durga Puja. Ananda Basak, a weaver in Phulia, said: “A huge number of saris remains stockpiled at home. The retailers are showing no interest to buy our products ahead of the festive season due to lack of cash flow in the market. They want saris on credit, but we are facing a cash crunch. This is the time when we rake in funds and use the money to purchase raw materials. Moreover, traders from other states buy saris. But Covid has robbed us of that opportunity. In such a difficult situation, the procurement initiative by the government has come as a ray of hope.” Debnath’s deputy Ratna Ghosh, who was present at the Phulia sari procurement camp last week, said: “Our aim is to procure saris in maximum numbers and not leave any small weaver unhappy. However, there will be no compromise on quality.” Debnath added he had submitted a similar proposal to the state government to procure powerloom-made saris. “That would require an amendment to clauses that govern Tantuja because it allows procurement of handloom saris and nothing else.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-384
08-09-2020||North East||‘Abduction’ spotlight on poor border roads in Arunachal||The alleged abduction of five youths by Chinese troops on Friday from Arunachal Pradesh’s Upper Subansiri district, one of the affected districts in the 1962 Indo-China war, has also turned the spotlight firmly on the “underdeveloped” infrastructure in the border area. Leading state organisations, while asking the Centre and the state government to secure the safe and early release of the youths who might have wandered into Chinese territory on a hunting trip on “their ancestral land”, drew attention to the “step-motherly treatment” being meted out to the strategic border district. The whereabouts of the youths are not yet known. Tagin Cultural Society secretary general Lardik Kare told The Telegraph that the district is so underdeveloped that people are leaving the border areas and shifting to the district headquarters Daporijo or other urban areas. Drawing attention to the difficult and dangerous condition of the roads, he said it takes about 13 hours to reach Daporijo from state capital Itanagar, a distance of around 350km, and another six hours from Daporijo to reach Nacho circle, around 120km away, from where the suspected kidnapping took place. Apart from the Daporijo road, he also spoke about the road from Limeking to Taksing, a distance of around 75km, bordering China. “Work on the road started about 20 years ago but it is yet to be completed. It takes 10-12 hours to reach Taksing. The road is a central government project. The Daporijo and Taksing roads are strategic from the security point of view. But I am sorry to say that the government has continuously neglected road development in Upper Subansiri district,” Kare said. During the 1962 aggression, the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) reached Limeking but withdrew after a truce was declared, Kare said. “Roads and infrastructure development are not only important for socio-economic development of people living along the border but also for the movement of our troops during exigencies. “What we are witnessing now is that people are moving to urban areas leaving the border areas empty. If there are no people in the border, how can we assert our claim over our own land. The Chinese will exploit these infrastructure gaps. The Centre needs to look into our plight,” Kare, who is from Nacho, said. All Tagin Students’ Union general secretary Vijay Dobin, also from the district, echoed Kare. “We are facing a lot of problems. Besides roads, telecommunication is also a huge issue. We have service providers but no service. Health, power and education sectors are also not up to the mark. We live in a difficult mountainous terrain covered with thick forest,” he told this newspaper. Road is a recurrent theme in the conversations. It takes 10-12 days to reach the Line of Actual Control, porous and disputed by China, which claims Arunachal Pradesh to be a part of South Tibet. The youths were allegedly captured from Sera 7 border point. A tweet on Monday from Global Times newspaper, published by the People’s Daily, the official newspaper of China’s ruling Communist Party, quoting a Chinese official Zhao Lijian, said: “China has never recognised so-called ‘Arunachal Pradesh’, which is China’s south Tibet region, and we have no details to release yet about question on Indian Army sending message to PLA about five missing Indian in the region.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-46
08-09-2020||Opinion||Shameful: Dr Maroona Murmu's casteist trolling||Sir — We, the undersigned teachers of the Department of History, Jadavpur University, strongly and unambiguously condemn the vilification and the rancorous trolling on social media platforms of our colleague, Dr Maroona Murmu. We believe that every individual citizen of the country has the right to articulate her opinion. However, such articulations cannot entail malicious responses, especially ones that hurt a person on the basis of her religion, caste, gender, linguistic affiliation and ethnicity. As her colleagues we feel humiliated that Dr Murmu has been attacked in such disparagingly casteist terms. It is high time that we redefined the idea of ‘merit’ as something that is painstakingly and honestly acquired by an individual through passion and hard work. Any casteist vilification of an individual or community is disgraceful and needs to be condemned in strong and outright terms. We stand by Dr Murmu for her uprightness, integrity and her outspoken demeanour. We reiterate the stand resolved by the Jadavpur University Teachers’ Association to support Dr Murmu in this time of crisis.Mahua Sarkar, Anuradha Roy, Nupur Dasgupta, Rupkumar Barman, Sudeshna Banerjee, Suchetana Chattopadhyay, Tilottama Mukherjee, Chandrani Banerjee Mukherjee, Samarpita Mitra, Debajit Dutta, Utsa RayOut of control Sir — It was disheartening to hear that nearly 300 pro-democracy activists have been arrested in Hong Kong  for protesting against the postponing of the legislative council elections (“HK erupts against deferred elections”, Sept 7). Hong Kong was originally scheduled to go to the polls last Sunday, but the elections were ultimately pushed back citing public health concerns. Hong Kongers thus assembled in hundreds — it was one of the largest gatherings since China’s implementation of the anti-sedition laws in the region — to fight for their democratic rights. The protesters also called for the release of the 12 people who were arrested by Chinese coastguards while attempting to flee to Taiwan by sea. This decision by the government comes amid a continuing crackdown on pro-democracy figures and raids on newsrooms, including the arrest of media tycoon, Jimmy Lai — he is a vocal critic of the pro-Beijing establishment — in August under the new national security law. The situation in Hong Kong is deteriorating by the day with a near absolute disintegration of its democratic ethos. The international community must do all it can to come to the aid of Hong Kongers in this hour of need.Rohan Mishra,Delhi Sir — As the Hong Kong police clashed with the pro-democracy activists on Sunday, a horrifying video began circulating on social media showing several officers brutally tackling a 12-year-old girl to the ground. This conduct, no matter the justification of the police — they argued that she “ran away in a suspicious manner” — is unacceptable. The administration must be held accountable for its actions. Ananya Chakraborty,Calcutta Be vigilant Sir — The level of air pollution in Delhi saw a marked improvement during the Covid-19 induced lockdown, recording five “good” air quality days since March. But will it be possible to maintain this for long? As traffic increases and industrial sectors open up, emission levels are already on the rise with Mumbai witnessing a substantial drop in the air quality index. Unless people make an effort to curb toxic emissions, air quality will soon go back to pre-Covid conditions. Anamika Saha,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-152
08-09-2020||Opinion||Tragic end: Suicides on the rise||A total of 1,39,123 suicides were reported in India in 2019 — an increase of 3.4 per cent from 2018 — according to latest data released by the National Crime Records Bureau. Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal topped the charts, accounting for 45,074 of all suicide deaths in India. It is possible that the actual figures are higher in reality because suicide, much like mental illness and rape, is something that families try to cover up. What is telling, though, is that 10.1 per cent of those who ended their lives were unemployed. This is not surprising given that joblessness touched a 45-year high last year. Farmers, daily wage earners and housewives also make up a large share of those who killed themselves. The prime minister’s shrill pledge to double farm incomes and other measures to protect farmers from fatal debts now has a hollow ring to them. For women, gender-based discrimination, intimate partner violence, the shame attached to mental illness and the inability to ask for help have converged and led to grievous consequences. Much has been said about suicide after a young actor took his life recently. What this discourse revealed is the enormity of public ignorance about the causal factors. A majority of the external triggers — debt, unemployment and so on — that lead to suicide are also linked inextricably to a tormented inner life. Yet, the burgeoning mental health crisis remains widely stigmatized in India. Suicide is the ultimate sign of distress; the lack of social and institutional recognition of depression as a serious illness and the paucity of counsellors to combat it play a big part in this problem. There are just three psychiatrists and even fewer psychologists for every one million people in India. It is also clear that pandemic-induced anxieties and social isolation have pushed many more people to the brink. A study by the International Labour Organization found that one out of two young people around the world is now subject to anxiety and depression. Suicides can be prevented with timely interventions, but the fallout of sidelining mental health for decades has been immense. There is a pressing need for a concerted campaign to dispel societal prejudices, including the breaking of the silence encouraged by the families of the afflicted. More important, mental health must be linked with the public health discourse. According to some estimates, the nationwide implementation of the Mental Healthcare Act will cost Rs 94,000 crore a year. Till adequate budget allocations are made for this purpose and funds and infrastructure are complemented by an empathetic approach to mental health, suicide prevention may remain elusive for Indians.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-152
08-09-2020||Opinion||Overlooked: India's migrant workers||It was when thousands of migrant labourers started their walk back to their villages miles away from their workplace after the lockdown in March that respectable India seemed to get some impression of their numbers. India’s indifference to the men and women whose underpaid labour creates the comforts of everyday life is indicated by the fact that there is no firm count of migrant labourers. The figure in the census is 51 million, although the number has unofficially been put at anything between 120 to 140 million. Seasonal migrant workers, who go for agricultural or construction work for some months each year are often left out of the count. The focus is on workers who move for longer periods from rural areas to growth centres. Whether seasonal or long-term, or caste-based workers traditionally engaged in the leather industry, say, or sanitation, internal migrants work mostly with low pay in hazardous environments, often trapped in debt to their contractors. Short on educational and social security, they need the government’s attention. Yet a recent study based on experiments in the field shows that local politicians are far less inclined to help migrant workers than residents of their constituencies. Researchers from Columbia University and the University of California, San Diego have found that in 28 large cities, municipal councillors favour long-term residents in their wards when they need help over migrant labourers come recently to the area. Among the reasons for this that could be inferred from the results of the field experiments the chief one was political. Internal migrants are not registered voters in the places they go to work in; they return to their own localities at election time. Since the electoral fate of local politicians does not depend on their goodwill, they figure low on the politicians’ list of people to be helped. Other factors are at work too, bias being one of them. Secondary results of the researchers’ experiment indicate that councillors are more responsive to residents with Hindu names than others, and to professional and skilled people, such as doctors and engineers, than those in low skilled work, such as cleaners. But overall, migrant workers suffer most from politicians’ neglect. Will heightened public awareness about their suffering help ameliorate this “systemic political neglect” after the pandemic passes?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-152
08-09-2020||Opinion||Rethinking democracy||Paul Cartledge, the renowned Cambridge historian, brought out a biography of democracy in 2016 with the nuanced title, Democracy: A Life. The book is a tour de force, lucidly covering a stretch of two-and-half millennia, from pre-Periclean Athens right up to Brexit. Classical Athens gets the major share of the cake since Cartledge identifies it as the unambiguous birthplace of modern Western democracy. This is not surprising. In many discussions since the 19th century, the citizenship tradition of Athenian democracy has been upheld as the revolutionary beginning of modern democracy. It needs to be made clear at the outset that modern multi-party democracy has two inescapable differences with the ancient system. First, ancient Athenian democracy through its different phases was a direct democracy while across the democratic world today what prevails is the representational system. Second, ancient democracy was based on the concept of individualistic, voluntaristic conception of democratic entitlement through persuasion and deliberation. This flies in the face of modern, political-party-based democracy, as Cartledge himself points out. Amartya Sen is one of those who challenged such myth-making, arguing that classical Athenian democracy is not unique among ancient civilizations to give importance to in public discussions and reasoning. The intellectual developments of ancient Greece, he points out, cannot be dissociated from ancient Egypt, Iran and India. In the same vein but on a more ambitious scale, the contemporary Greek historian, Kostas Vlassopoulos, argues for an interlinked history of the wider Mediterranean and Near Eastern world. The whole idea of an autonomous polis, he argues, is the product of nation-bound, imperialist thinking in the 19th century as is the dichotomy between oriental despotism and Western freedom. To continue with Sen, the Indian Constitution, although framed on Western liberal notions, borrowed a great deal from the ancient Buddhist traditions of the country, especially from the teachings of Emperor Ashoka, and the idea of religious tolerance and heterodoxy of the great Mughal emperors, particularly Akbar, with Aurangzeb being an exception. Cartledge discusses Sen’s positions in considerable detail. However, he prefers to use Sen contra Sen, highlighting the latter’s admission that democratic India has neither adequately addressed ‘conspicuous deprivations’, nor has it succeeded in guaranteeing the rights of minorities. With this move, Cartledge possibly wished to legitimize the near-total absence of India from his long history of democracy. Yet in one of the essays of Sen Cartledge refers to, the economist clearly points out that the oft-repeated argument of the poor being more interested in bread rather than democracy is fallacious on two different counts. First, the protective role of democracy is particularly important for the poor. People in economic need also need a political voice. Second, there is very little evidence that poor people prefer to reject democracy. On the contrary, in the election following the Emergency, the Indian electorate, poor even though they were, overwhelmingly reaffirmed democracy over the call to eradicate poverty. There is no denying that those looking for institutional purity of democracy as practised in India have reasons to be disappointed. Yet it is precisely universal franchise and the adoption of a thoroughly democratic Constitution that have opened up the space for the mobilization and the contestation of the underprivileged which the regime(s) in power willy-nilly have had to address. Here lies the source of dynamism of contemporary Indian polity. It would be obdurate not to acknowledge the global significance of the moot question the debate throws up: does the understanding of democracy as presented in Western scholarship and projected as modular across the world — irrespective of the specific historical experiences of nation-states — need a change in focus? Should democracy be defined and judged in terms of its formal purity or should we be attending more to the scope democracy has provided for voicing grievances and demands of the oppressed who do not enjoy the protection citizenship formally professes but have a vote each? Democracy in India is the primary weapon in the struggle for literacy, healthcare, gender equality and right to employment. The restlessness of the post-Independence Indian polity, especially since the 1970s, is a combination of two simultaneous and related processes. First, thanks to universal franchise, the historically wronged and oppressed are fighting for their right to dignity and basic livelihood. Second, those who have witnessed a degree of upward mobility are engaged in a process of embodiment of capital, translating economic gains into cultural and symbolic capital. Admittedly, the question of the proper functioning of institutions is no less important. But institutions cannot have a life of their own outside the everyday struggle of the majority of the populace. It is only in the course of struggle that people realize a fundamental truth of political life: for their basic demands to be taken care of, what is needed is the efficacy of institutions. In the past few years, India has been witnessing a serious undermining of the country’s basic democratic institutions. If Indians stand united against this corrosion, it would prove the strength of India’s democracy. Here, the role of leadership is crucial. Democracy entails ceaseless contestations and any yardstick to measure the efficacy of democracy cannot escape taking those into account.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-152
08-09-2020||Opinion||The alchemist||In January 1977 I was just out of school, the last batch of the ISC Class XI graduates, which meant I had a good seven months before I joined any college. At that time I came across a flyer for a course that had just started in ‘media communication’ somewhere on Wellesley Street. When I first made my way to this strange place called Chitrabani I didn’t quite know what to expect. I went into an old, slightly dilapidated colonial building in the compound of Lord Jesus Church, and I found my way to the office of the man directing the course, a certain Mr Deepak Majumdar. Deepakda was one of Calcutta’s true intellectual mavericks; he had been in America during the 60s and then in Greece and was now back in the city, launching this unusual course which would explore media communication in India while keeping in mind all the different theories and ideas about mass media that were coming into discussion around the world. As I got to know the institution better, I discovered that the media course was only one activity among many. There was an amazing library with books on different media, there was a black and white photo laboratory and a recently begun contemporary photo archive. There was a small but well-equipped sound studio, there was the Catholic radio station, there was a small screening room attached to the library and then there was the inner sanctum, referred to in hushed tones as ‘Father’s Office’, which was the seat of the man who had conceived and launched this whole project. If Deepak was unkempt, bohemian, chain-smoking, often in western clothes especially in winter, then Father Roberge was the opposite, always in a crisply starched kurta and wide pyjamas, black hair on head, pens in kurta pocket, sparkling clean specs, everything neatly squared away and battened down to help him weather the constant turbulent storm that was this city of his chosen domicile. If Deepak (and many others of us) could be excitable or loud, Father R never raised his voice. Across the years of our association I did see him occasionally displeased or upset, but never once did I hear him snap loudly or shout at anyone. At the beginning of the course us younger students used to refer to him as Father, or among ourselves just as Roberge. Later I heard various people my age call him by his first name, Gaston, but I never attempted such familiarity; by the 1980s, though, when I was working in Chitrabani on a project, he had picked up the affectionate (strictly third person nickname) of Papa Roberge between some of us. The first thing you noticed about the man was that he always seemed to be either amused by something or searching for something by which to be amused. The smile and the warm laugh or mischievous chuckle were his first choices, though these were never an excuse for flippancy. Soon, however, in any interaction, his seriousness came to the fore, the quick getting down to business, the simmering impatience with any shuffling or dissimulation that could waste his time, but also, usually, the quick appreciation of any genuinely expressed position, even if it ran counter to his own views. The second thing — which came as a real surprise when I first encountered it as a teenager — was this French Canadian’s formidable command of Bangla. Like his English, his spoken Bangla too was redolent with Gallic gutturalities, liberally garnished with the French ‘r’, and that particular sing-song lilt that a lot of Gallic speakers develop once they spend time in India. In time, I developed a side-line in replicating Father’s accent, in both English and Bangla, sometimes even fooling other students on the phone. It’s a truism that you don’t realize the value of something if it’s too close at hand, too familiar or too easily available. While doing the media course at Chitrabani and later, after college, working there on occasional projects, many of us treated the place like a second home, or a club where you also produced work. Travelling in India in the late 70s and 80s, if you mentioned Roberge or Chitrabani in serious cinema or media study circles, there was an immediate recognition and respect that we registered only later. We read the books Father wrote, we attended the lectures, we absorbed the direct and angular lessons Deepakda and others imparted to us, we relished the freedom given to us to explore photography, cinema, theatre, music, radio and television, and the mess of theory surrounding these; often, without any baggage of apprehension, we went out and did things that were weird, out of line, that hadn’t been done before in our milieu; and we took all of this for granted. It’s only later, when the camera of memory cranes back from time to time for the long, all-encompassing shot, that one realizes other things. Here is a young man who comes from Canada to Calcutta at the beginning of the 1960s, he has found his calling as a Jesuit but also a parallel calling as an explorer of images, still and moving, and of the audio-visual, and of the particular, multi-layered context the subcontinent provides for the consumption of these images. Roberge develops a warm connection with Satyajit Ray, a man generating some of the most sophisticated audio-visual material in the world, but Roberge also initiates the study of how Sholay is viewed across India, of how a very different hit like Bede’r Meye Jyotsna is consumed across Bengal. He studies contemporary popular urban material but also supports the documentation of rural performative traditions that are disappearing or radically mutating. At the same time, he creates a space for a theory and praxis of a different kind of photography and of a photo-archiving practice hitherto unknown in these parts. It was only much later that you appreciated the environment that Gaston Roberge had created, the openness of it, the generosity of spirit that powered it, the radical daring that streaked through the channels of the institution. All this despite and through the compulsions and constraints simultaneously laid on it by a deeply conservative local Catholic hierarchy and an inimical Leftist state government. It was only after Father Roberge relinquished the directorship and Chitrabani became yet another grim, bureaucratic, mediocrity-run institution that you looked back and realized what a fragile, flawed, Calcutta-contraption of a miracle the man from Québec had managed to cobble together for all too brief a period. It’s only later you realize all the different precious alchemies of process that were let loose from that pocket of time and you feel no small gratitude.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-152
08-09-2020||Jharkhand||Bokaro shop owner foils dacoity attempt||A 37-year-old man foiled an attempted dacoity at his home at Barkama in the Chandankyari police station area early on Tuesday. Armed dacoits had entered Manohar Mahatha’s home by breaking the lock of the main entrance and removing window panes. He showed exemplary bravery and attacked one of the five dacoits who had put a pistol to his chest. The other dacoits tried to overpower him, but Mahatha kept shouting, kicking and hitting them till they realised the situation had gone out of their control and escaped. Mahatha owns an electric shop at Chandankyari main market. At the time of the incident, there were five members of the family in the house, including Mahatha’s two children aged 9 and 12 years. On the incident, Mahatha said: “I was woken up by a dacoit who was asking me about cash and jewellery. He had put a pistol to my chest. There were five persons there. “I replied that there were no valuables in the house. The dacoit slapped and threatened me. “I was initially scared, but I resisted and punched him, unsettling him. His pistol fell to the floor.” He fought with the other dacoits and kept shouting. This woke up a neighbour who shone a torch at the house. The dacoits ran out of the house. Mahatha suspects that the dacoits had sprayed a chemical in the house due to which his wife, children and nephew did not wake up during the entire incident. The dacoits had searched the house before waking him up. This was the second such incident in the area in the past seven days. On September 2, some men had looted the home of Chandrika Prasad and escaped with cash and valuables worth Rs 3 lakh. Prasad’s home is about 1km from Mahatha’s. More than half a dozen cases of murder, dacoity and loot were registered in various police stations in the district over the past week. Chas subdivisional police officer Bhagwan Das said: “The police will solve the crime cases soon and arrest the criminals. Investigations are on.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-307
08-09-2020||Jharkhand||Cases rising rapidly in Ranchi, doctors ask residents to stay home||Those living in Ranchi may have reason to worry as the Covid-19 trajectory here has seen an unprecedented upward trend since July, with total cases witnessing a five-fold increase and the toll tripling, government data reveals. As per data compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM), there were 2,039 cases of coronavirus infection in Ranchi on July 31. Cut to September 8, the tally in Ranchi is 11,138 – the highest among all the 24 districts in Jharkhand. The numbers, as per data with the health department, witnessed such a drastic increase in barely 40 days. While cases are rising, health experts fear that reopening of malls and hotels may trigger a further spike. Being the largest urban area in Jharkhand, Ranchi has the highest number of malls in Jharkhand that are now open to the public. “Residents of Ranchi need to be cautious and take all possible precautionary measures. Even though malls have opened, it is advisable to stay at home and maintain social distancing. The number of Covid cases is increasing by the day, and the urban population in Ranchi is at high risk because they are used to socialising in public places,” said Dr Ajay Kumar Singh, the state coordinator of Indian Medical Association (IMA). As per latest data with the health department, there were 3,693 active cases of infection in Ranchi, which is more than 25 per cent of the total 14,588 active cases across Jharkhand. Health officials have blamed the lack of adherence to social distancing norms for the spike in cases here. “Following social distancing norms is the only way to check the spread of the virus,” said state health secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni. Jharkhand’s first case of Covid-19 infection was reported from Ranchi’s Hindpiri on March 31. The locality became the state's largest containment zone after over 100 cases were reported from the locality alone in April. Stretching adjacent to Mahatma Gandhi Road and touching Upper Bazar from one end and Pe Pee Compound from the other, Hindpiri is one of the most densely populated areas in the city. And controlling the spread of Covid-19 virus in the locality was the toughest challenge for the local district administration. While the count of Covid cases has reduced in Hindpiri, the virus has now spread in different clusters of the city, infecting residents of apartments as well as slums. Cases of infection have surfaced in posh localities like Kanke Road, Pe Pee Compound, Ashok Nagar and even Burdwan Compound. Ranchi civil surgeon Dr V.B. Prasad, one of the officials leading the district’s fight against Covid-19, tested Covid positive on Tuesday. The development triggered panic among staff at the civil surgeon’s office at Sadar Hospital, and the district administration was quick to initiate sanitization of the office. Several health workers have also been infected by the virus so far in the capital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-307
08-09-2020||Jharkhand||Hemant is anti-poor, says BJP about his criticism of NEP||The Opposition BJP upped its ante against the Hemant Soren government on Tuesday, dubbing its stand on the National Educational Policy (NEP) as anti-tribal and anti-poor. Rebutting Hemant’s criticism at Monday’s Governors’ conclave, the state BJP alleged that he was playing dirty politics over the future of poor and tribals in Jharkhand. “By opposing and criticising NEP, Hemant Soren has exhibited that he is anti-tribal and anti-poor. The points that he raised during the meeting before the President of India is proof enough that the incumbent state government wants to oppose everything that the Union government is doing. By doing so, he (Hemant) is only putting the future of scores of tribals, poor at stake,” said state BJP spokesperson Pratul Shahdeo. At the online conclave held under the aegis of President Ramnath Kovind and also attended by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Hemant described NEP as pro-privatisation and raised several apprehensions regarding its implementation in its current form. One of his concerns was that NEP did not give proper weightage to tribal languages as a medium of teaching. Shahdeo said, “NEP allows teaching in local and regional languages which are in the Eighth Schedule of the Constitution. Santhali language, one of the prominent ones spoken here, is in the Eighth Schedule. As far as other tribal languages are concerned, the state government must pursue with the Centre for its inclusion.” On the chief minister’s accusation that NEP was pro-privatisation, Shahdeo said a higher education commission was to be set up under NEP which would act as a watchdog. “Every year, lakhs of students including those from Jharkhand go to pursue higher studies in foreign countries. But NEP will allow foreign varsities to set up shop here which will help Indians save on expenses. NEP also mandates 20 per cent admission for under-privileged and 30 per cent scholarships to the  deserving. Most importantly, it also allows those who have dropped out to restart studies,” he said. Shahdeo said Hemant’s view that NEP did not take in account a students’ employability was laughable. “For the first time, NEP prescribes vocation studies from class 6, which will in the long-run make students job-ready,” he said, adding that around 17,000 graduates of tribal and regional languages in Jharkhand are without jobs. These people could be easily inducted into teaching students in local languages once NEP was implemented, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-307
08-09-2020||Jharkhand||IMD issues lightning and thunder alert across state||India Meteorological Department has issued an alert of thunder and lightning which will impact several districts of Jharkhand during the next 72 hours. The vulnerable districts include Deoghar, Dhanbad, Giridih, East Singhbhum, Simdega, Khunti and Ramgarh. "The lightning and thunder activity would be due to the local weather condition as the monsoon has become weak over Jharkhand. It is expected to revive after the next 72 hours or so, " said S.D. Kotal, director of Ranchi Meteorological Centre. The Met centre director went on to say that the weather condition would be primarily dry over Jharkhand till the revival of monsoon. He, however, did not rule out the possibility of rainfall in traces 9that which cannot be measured). Several places, including Jamshedpur, Simdega, Ramgarh and Ranchi, witnessed lightning and thunder on Tuesday afternoon. But there was no rain. Lightning strikes were reported from Silli in Ranchi district and Khunti. At Silli three women, who were working in an agricultural field, were injured. An elderly person returning home from a local haat was injured in neighbouring Khunti. The IMD warning stated: "People should be careful in those districts for which lightning and thunder alerts have been issued for the next 72 hours. They should avoid venturing out into the fields and taking shelter under trees." The monsoon activity has been weak over Jharkhand during the last 48 hours. Weatherman at IMD's Regional Meteorological Centre at Alipore in Calcutta said Tuesday’s satellite picture suggested formation of a cyclonic circulation over sub-Himalayan West Bengal and Sikkim. But it was too weak. In the absence of showers during the last couple of days, the state’s rain deficit witnessed a gradual rise. Against a normal of 892.7 mm, Jharkhand has so far received 793.1 mm rain, a deficit of 11 per cent. Two days ago, the deficit had stood at eight per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-307
08-09-2020||Jharkhand||Green tribunal raps state, Centre for not protecting Saranda forests||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed the Union ministry of environment and forests and Jharkhand’s forest department to submit a report explaining why the Sasangada/Saranda sanctuary in West Singhbhum district has not been declared an eco-sensitive zone, something that would help protect the region’s rich bio-diversity. The directive was issued by the NGT eastern zonal bench comprising Justice S.P. Wangdi and expert member Nagin Nanda while hearing a petition filed by Delhi based conservationist R. K. Singh. “Considering the facts and circumstances set out in the application we are satisfied that a substantial question relating to the environment arises in the case,” the bench said and asked the respondents – Union ministry of environment and forests and the Jharkhand forest department _ to file a report at least one week before the next date. The case is slated for hearing again on October 19. “My fight is to give status of eco-sensitive zone to the Sansangad/Saranda sanctuary  (Asia’s largest sal reserves) which consists of 126 compartments of reserve forest blocks and two protected forest blocks in an area of 31,468.25 hectares which have been included in the working plan for management of Saranda division prepared in 1976-77 to 1995-1995 (forest plans are made for 20 years),” Singh told The Telegraph Online. The wildlife expert, who holds a PhD on the impact of mining on the elephant habitat of Saranda forest from the Wildlife Institute of India (Dehradun), has told NGT that successive state governments in Jharkhand and the ministry of environment, forest and climate change have failed to declare Sasangada/ Saranda sanctuary an eco-sensitive zone. Hence this area was excluded from the exercise conducted across the country. “The Jharkhand government is not even recognising Saranda as a sanctuary and have excluded it from the exercises conducted in pursuant to the Supreme Court judgement in the case of Goa Foundation versus Union of India (2011). The Supreme Court had categorically asked the government to declare eco-sensitive zones around all notified sanctuaries and national parks and if the government fails to declare eco-sensitive zones then 10 km from the boundary of the sanctuaries and national park would be deemed as eco-sensitive zone,” said Singh. Singh further said that the Saranda sanctuary finds mention in a report prepared by the new defunct Indian Board for Wildlife (IBWL) on November 24, 1965 for a delegation of the International Union for Conservation of Nature.  The sanctuary also features in the Indian Forest Records: Glossary of terms used in nature conservation and wildlife management, published by the Forest Research Institute (FRI) in 1970. “It was last mentioned in the working plan for the Saranda forest division for 1976-77 to 1995-96 wherein it is said the sanctuary was notified in February 1968 and covers forest areas of Thalkobad, Karampada, Kodalibad, Tagooda,  Karujagdaburu , Samta and Tirilposi,” informed Singh. A 2016 study by the Wildlife Institute of India found that plant species in the Saranda forest had come down to a mere 87, from over 300 species earlier. They also could not spot a single elephant, even though the 2010 census recorded 253 elephants. “If it is notified as an eco-sensitive zone then the sanctuary’s diversity would be protected and all activities detrimental for sanctuary would not be undertaken,” said Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-308
08-09-2020||Jharkhand||Preacher gang raped by four men in Godda ashram||A 30-year-old woman preacher was allegedly gang raped by four armed men after they broke into the ashram where she was living in Godda, some 300km from capital Ranchi, in the wee hours of Tuesday. According to a communique issued by the chief minister’s office on Tuesday evening, an FIR had been lodged at the Mufassil police station in Godda against four persons, two of whom have been named. Godda SP Y.S. Ramesh told the media that one Dipak Rana had been detained from Pasra village. “We have lodged a case of gang rape based on the statement of the victim. We have formed a three-member special investigation team. All culprits will be nabbed soon,” he said. A police officer said the victim’s statement had been recorded at Mahila police station after which she was taken for a medical examination. “According to the victim, the incident occurred between 2.30am and 3am on Tuesday,” he said. According to local sources, the preacher was staying at Maharshi Mehi Ashram at Ranidih in the Pathwara-Kathon area of Godda. PTI reported that at the time of the incident there were four women preachers and a sadhu at the ashram. Although a native of Bokaro, the preacher had been staying at an ashram in Varanasi before coming to Godda a few months back. The local electronic media in Godda reported that the preacher called upon both the Centre and state to work towards safeguarding women and demanded no less than the capital punishment for her tormenters. “They (her attackers) were four in number. They violated my body. It is very difficult for a sadhvi to tolerate this pain, which will be with me for the rest of my life. I demand the death sentence for all four culprits through a speedy trial,” she told a local television channel. “How can a country be safe if such instances occur with children and women time and again. It’s time that governments work seriously towards saving the dignity of women rather than offering piecemeal solutions,” she added. Chief minister Hemant Soren took cognisance of the crime and directed the Godda police to ensure the case was cracked soon. The communique issued by his office confirmed that the two accused were Deepak Rana and Ashish Rana. “The siblings are residents of Pathwara in Godda. Rana is a history sheeter and has served prison time,” the communique said. Earlier, after news of the crime broke, local BJP MP Nishikant Dubey took to twitter to criticise the Hemant Soren government. His party criticised the JMM-led coalition government for the deteriorating law and order situation. "It seems that criminals and Naxalites now have a free run in Jharkhand. During our rule, Naxalism was on the verge of collapse. But over the last seven months, they are rearing their head again. Instances of rape and murder are rising but the government seems least concerned,” said BJP spokesperson Pratul Shahdeo.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-308
08-09-2020||Jharkhand||Jamshedpur FC sign experienced goalie TP Rehenesh||Jamshedpur FC on Tuesday moved further towards building a strong side for the Indian Super League (ISL) 2020-21 with the addition of TP Rehenesh to bolster its goalkeeping ranks. With Pawan Kumar already signed, the experienced Rehenesh will add another option for the first-choice keeper along with the young and promising Niraj Kumar. The 27-year-old Rehenesh has over eight years of combined experience, having kept 35 clean sheets in 128 matches in the Indian Super League so far. On signing for Jamshedpur, Rehenesh said: “ I have heard and myself seen a lot of wonderful things about Jamshedpur. The club’s vision, it’s facilities, the amazing  treatment of players, youths and grassroot football are  known and appreciated in the football circles. The Jharkhand football fans are extremely vociferous, passionate and supportive and I am excited and proud to represent them in the club colours. I always like to push myself to improve and compete whether in training or games. The ultimate aim is to win.” The Kerala goalkeeper was all praise for gaffer Owen Coyle. “ In my conversation with Owen Coyle, he was very clear to me about his objectives and expectations from me. I have a huge respect for him and I’m eager to make the most of this opportunity to work with and gain from such an experienced personality.” He said. Rehenesh began his career with ONGC in the I-League and went on to represent Rangdajied, Shillong Lajong, East Bengal, North East United and Kerala Blasters. The able shot-stopper is good with the feet, athletic and has a smart positioning sense. Head coach Owen Coyle expressed his delight on getting the goalkeeper on board. He said: “ With Rehenesh in the squad we are in a strong position in the goalkeeping department and that gives us healthy competition for the first-choice keeper, which I was looking for. His former coaches have always praised him and his performance over the years have been top-notch. Rehenesh comes with high quality, is a top competitor and highly motivated to earn the top spot and perform.” Rehenesh will be wearing the number 32 jersey for Jamshedpur FC.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-308
08-09-2020||Jharkhand||Jharia rehab: 79 families to shift to new quarters at Belgarhia  ||As many as 79 families from Kujama Colliery, one of the most dangerous underground fire affected sites in the Lodna area of BCCL, are to be rehabilitated in new quarters built for them at Belgarhia, officials said on Tuesday. The list of 79 probable beneficiaries of the Jharia rehabilitation scheme was stuck at Kujama Colliery office as per the June 19 directives of the Dhanbad district administration. Bharat Coking Coal (BCCL) administration and Jharia Rehabilitation Authority were asked to prioritise rehabilitation of  2007 families from six underground fire affected areas including, 703 families of Bastacola area, 636 of Lodna,  441 of Putki Balihari, 199 of East Jharia, 25 of Barora and four of Block II area. Kumar Badhu Kachhap, executive magistrate who is in charge of Jharia Rehabilitation Authority (JRDA) that is implementing the Jharia master plan, said, “Phase-wise rehabilitation is being carried out as per the list from six different areas of BCCL after getting final clearance from respective general managers of different areas of BCCL”. Only such families, who have been living in the underground fire affected areas before the cut-off date of 2004 have been included in the list, he explained. Rajendra Paswan, area secretary of Central Industrial Trade Union, said, “Rehabilitation will be a cumbersome affair as some of those, whose names have been included in list, are ready to shift while others are not willing to shift.” “Still others are demanding the allotment of quarters in groups as neighbours at Kujama have been allotted quarters away from each other at Belgarhia,” said Paswan, who is also a resident of Kujama. Also, many of those allotted quarters wanted to get subsistence allowance as one-time payment, instead of the usual instalments. “We, as trade union representatives, demand a comprehensive approach for rehabilitation as the present practice of providing houses at safer places to only those who can produce documents certifying their settlement in fire-affected  areas before 2004 will deprive many,” said Paswan. Only around 4,000 families, out of a total of 1.04 lakh families living in 595 underground fire affected areas, have been rehabilitated at Belgarhia since March 25 when the first batch of 1,100 families were shifted there.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-308
08-09-2020||Jharkhand||Over 1500 Covid positive cases and 12 deaths in a day||Over 1500 people, including 337 from Ranchi alone, tested positive for Covid-19 in Jharkhand on Monday, taking the Covid tally in the state to 52,620, figures with the health department stated. As per a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) on Monday late night, at least 12 people died of the disease in Jharkhand in 24 hours, taking the Covid toll in the state to 482. Ranchi reported three Covid casualties on Monday, while six patients died during treatment in East Singhbhum, the district that has reported highest Covid fatalities in Jharkhand so far. Despite 1553 fresh cases of infection surfacing in 24 hours, the number of active cases in the state did not cross the 15,000 mark. As per government data, as many as 1366 Covid patients recovered from the infection on Monday, restricting the number of active cases at 14,588. As per the NHM bulletin, as many as 11,138 people have been infected by Covid in Ranchi so far, and nearly 4000 of them were still battling the infection. Monday’s developments took the Covid toll in Ranchi to 74, the second highest among all districts in the state. East Singhbhum has reported 221 Covid deaths so far, which is the highest among all districts. With nearly 9000 Covid cases, East Singhbhum was not only battling a high fatality rate but also a spike in the cases of infection by the day. Dhanbad reported around 3500 cases by the time this report was filed, while the tally in Giridih was close to 2500. At least 100 fresh cases of infection on Monday took the tally in Hazaribag to 2254, the NHM bulletin highlighted. On Monday, the government tested swab samples of 25,645 people and 24,092 of them came negative. As per government data, health workers in Jharkhand have collected swab samples of 11.41 lakh people so far and tested 11.33 lakh of them. At least 37,550 of the 52,000-odd people who tested positive for the virus have recovered, taking the Covid recovery rate in Jharkhand to 71.36 per cent. Despite a dozen deaths reported on Monday, the Covid mortality rate in Jharkhand was below 1 per cent. As per government data, Jharkhand’s Covid mortality rate on Monday was 0.91 per cent, which is lower than the national average of 1.72 per cent. West Singhbhum, Sahebganj and Deoghar reported one death each on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-308
08-09-2020||Jharkhand||Central team arrives at Jamshedpur to assess Covid-19 situation||A three-member team of the central health department reached the steel city on Monday afternoon amid rising Covid-19 cases in East Singhbhum. The team is set to inspect various health hubs to ascertain what kind of treatments are being offered to patients. During their two-day visit, the team will also inspect the integrated disease surveillance programme (IDSP) office on Dhalbhum Road at Sakchi, and a few containment zones to assess Covid control measures adopted by the district administration. ‘Post assessment, the team will hold a meeting with district administrative and health officials on Tuesday to issue directives on how to curb infections and deaths. Led by Dr Amarendra Mohapatra, head of the department, Preventive & Social Medicines,  SCB Medical College, Cuttack, the team will also hold separate meetings with various health, and the IDSP, East Singhbhum to fix guidelines on how to treat serious Covid patients and check spread of the virus. Apart from the doctors engaged under IDSP and health hubs, the central team will also interact with the nurses as well as the paramedics, along with frontline health workers. East Singhbhum district civil surgeon, Rajendra Nath Jha told The Telegraph Online, "The team will be accompanied by district nodal officer, Dr Sahir Paul  and district surveillance officer, Dr AK Lal and me during their inspection." Jha said health hubs that the team is scheduled to visit are Tata Main Hospital at Bistupur, Tata Motors Hospital at Telco, MGM Medical College Hospital at Sakchi, Uma Superspeciality Hospital and Sent John's Hospital, both located on the NH-33 in Mango. 102 more people tested positive during the past 24 hours in the district, taking the Covid-19 tally to 8,140. Four more Covid deaths took place on Sunday, taking the death toll to 233 during the past 24 hours in the district. "A large number of people are shying away from taking Covid tests in fear of getting admitted at a hospital.  Such people are preferring to get treatment at home privately," said district surveillance officer AK Lal.  He said this was the reason why the district health department has decided to carry out 40,000 random tests in Covid hotspots in the district from Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-308
08-09-2020||Jharkhand||Lockdown economic crisis claims 2 lives in Dhanbad||Reena Devi, 32, a resident of Chandmari locality committed suicide after quarelling with her husband Amarjit Soni, who suffered a heart attack on seeing his wife hanging from the ceiling fan of a room. The couple have a a seven-year-old daughter and five-year-old son. Reena used to sell cosmetic items. Her husband used to work as a jewellery artist. Amarjit Soni was unemployed for the last couple of months and the family used to survive on Reena's income. Shakuntala Devi a neighbour of the deceased couple, said, “both the husband and wife were soft spoken and had good relation with us and other people in the community but what propelled Reena Devi to take the extreme step is beyond any comprehension”. Jairam Prasad, officer in charge of Dhansar Police station said,“the post mortem report revealed that the women died due to hanging while her hushand died due to heart attack as he suffered shock due to the death of his wife”. Thirty four Covid patients were discharged from Holy family hospital in Koderma on Monday. A team of doctors, nurses and other medical staff led by subdivisional officer Manish Kumar gave a farewell to these patients. Kumar asked all 34 to remain in home quarantine for the next 14 days, use mask and follow social distancing norms once quarantine was over. Dhanbad district administration will organise a special Rapid Antigen Test drive on Tuesday at 20 places across the district. Tests will be conducted on 11,600 people. Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner, Uma Shankar Singh said that in view of the increasing number of Covid cases, it is imperative to carry out more and more tests and isolate the ones infected. Shankar said that regular tests at Chirkunda  Check post on the Jharkhand-Bengal border will be conducted on everyone entering the state from Bengal Tuesday onwards. On September 5, rapid antigen test of 3708 people were conducted in different residential and commercial centres of Dhanbad. 107 persons tested Covid positive. Members of social organisation Friends of Santosh on Monday staged a demonstration at the Directorate General of Mines Safety in Dhanbad to protest its inaction against private contractor Dhansar Engineering Corporation violating mining and environmental norms. The organisation is led by All India Congress Committee Member, Santosh  Singh. The private contractor is working on behalf of BCCL in Jharia. Local villagers of Kalubathan area in Nirsa on Monday protested the construction work of an electric substation being laid by Ahuja construction work and forced the company to stop work. A meeting between the villagers and construction company was held during which the protesters demanded priority to the local people in employment for the construction work being carried out by the company. The agitators also demanded PF and gratuity for the local workers engaged by the company. Bhuli residents including shopkeepers on Monday staged a demonstration at the BCCL office to protest the September 4 evacuation notice given to unauthorised shops. A meeting was held between BCCL officials and the agitators during which BCCL agreed to keep the old shops functioning but cautioned against opening new ones on their land. Bhuli is one of the largest labourer colony of the country. However, a large number of BCCL quarters are in illegal possession. The villagers of Barkagaon entered their seventh day of fasting against NTPC and its outsourcing company Thriveni Sainik Private Limited demanding jobs in its coal mining project. Villagers said they will not end their fast till jobs are given to them. One of the agitators,Ganesh Ram said they have given their lands and despite this, the company is not ready to fulfill their demands.He said the state government has formed a high level committee under the divisional commissioner but failed to find any amicable solution. Ram said they will not leave the place till the company assures them of fulfilling their demands.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-308
