09-09-2020||Calcutta||Metro issues directives for passengers once it resumes service||The Metro Railway on Wednesday issued a set of do's and don'ts for passengers when they travel by its trains after the services are resumed, for maintaining Covid-19 safety norms. The passengers will have to wear masks covering face and nose and will have to sanitise their hands from sanitiser dispensers placed at each platform before boarding a train, a Metro Railway official said here. Metro Railway general manager Manoj Joshi, who inspected several stations of the city's rapid transit system on Tuesday, had earlier said that the final date for resumption of the services will be fixed shortly. The Metro Railway asked the passengers to use their smart cards only for using the services and they will have to download the Arogya Setu App on their smartphones. It said that tokens would not be used. Passengers will have to get their body temperature checked through thermal screening at the time of entry to a Metro station and will have to use specified gates for entry and exit, the official said. The Metro authorities said that passengers having symptoms of fever, cough or cold should not undertake a journey in its trains. It said that "elders and children should not undertake a Metro journey." The official said that spitting at station premises is strictly prohibited and is a punishable offence. In a bid to ease travel woes of several thousand National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) aspirants, the Metro will operate special trains on September 13, an official said on Wednesday. This service will be exclusively for medical entrance examinees and their guardians, Metro Railway spokesperson Indrani Banerjee said. Examinees will have to show NEET admit cards at the gates of Metro stations, she said. "No token will be issued to commuters and only printed card tickets will be issued to the bonafide students and their guardians," Banerjee said. A total of 66 trains - 33 each in up and down directions - will be run on September 13 from 11 am to 7 pm from the two terminal stations, Noapara and Kavi Subhash. These services will be available in every 15 minutes, she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-313
09-09-2020||Calcutta||‘Assault’ car suspect arrested in Dum Dum||Abhishek Kumar Pandey, accused of assaulting and throwing out a woman from his Honda City and running over another woman while trying to flee on Saturday night, has been arrested in Dum Dum, police said on Tuesday night. Investigators said his mobile phone was switched off but the GPRS on his phone was working. His movement was tracked first to a guest house in the Anandapur area and then in the Sealdah home of a lawyer, after which he had switched off the GPRS. On Tuesday night, cops could again track him to a place near Dum Dum from where he was arrested. Pandey will be produced in court on Wednesday, the police said. He was apparently in a guest house in Mukundapur, around 4km from Anandapur police station, on Sunday night when the crime he has been accused of was being telecast on TV. The only difference: the suspect in the TV news was named as Amitabha Bose. The Telegraph on Tuesday spoke to the owner of the guest house where Pandey had apparently holed up for almost nine hours. The owner, Soumik Pandey, said he never suspected him as he was a regular at the guest house and that news on TV had said cops were looking for Amitabha Bose. “He checked in around 8pm on Sunday and went to a room upstairs. Around 5am, he checked out. My manager told me that one of his little fingers had a cut mark. I don’t remember which hand,” Soumik Pandey said. “His Honda City was parked outside. I recognised it was his car; but had no clue that cops were looking for him. I always thought it was some Amitabha Bose.” Close to midnight on Saturday, Abhishek Pandey had thrown a woman out of his Honda City near Abhyudoy Housing Society and left another woman with a fractured leg and gash in the head when he tried to flee, police said. “The car is registered in the name of Dewendra Kumar Pandey. It was registered in January 2017,” an officer of Anandapur police station said. “The car’s insurance is valid till December 2020.” On Saturday night, the two had driven around parts of the Bypass after having dinner at a restaurant in Patuli. From the Bypass, the two went to Ajoynagar, Garia, Kalikapur, and then to Anandapur, the police said. “Abhishek Pandey has been to my guest house in the past. I know him for more than a year. He would at times come and stay alone, too,” Soumik Pandey said. “If only I knew it was him the cops were looking for that night I would have immediately alerted them. Amitabha Bose naam tai confuse korey dilo (The name Amitabha Bose caused confusion).” He didn’t order for dinner that night. “Khub honto-donto hoye eshechhilo (He had reached in a huff). He just asked one of the service boys to switch on the TV in his room. He said he wanted news channels,” the owner of the guest house said. The police have collected details of Pandey’s address and identity proof from the guest house register. Officers have scanned CCTV footage to see him enter and leave the guest house. So why didn’t they get to know of his whereabouts earlier? “The name the victim had initially said in her complaint had left us bewildered,” an officer said. “We kept groping in the dark for some time till the real identity emerged.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-314
09-09-2020||Calcutta||Rations for parents, tutorial videos for kids||Anushree Sardar, 3, has been living in a makeshift room with her parents as their house in Gabberia village, South 24-Parganas, was demolished by Cyclone Amphan. Sree Chakraborty, 5, of Singheshwar village, Lovely Gayen of Ramlochanpur village and Priti Halder of Siddhiberia village share a similar story. Their parents, mostly daily labourers, are in search of work to make ends meet amidst the pandemic. But Anushree, Sree, Lovely or Priti did not have to stop their studies, which they loved most. Their school extended a helping hand to keep their dreams alive. Khelaghar, a community school run by an NGO, Young Men’s Welfare Society, has taken the initiative to help more than 1,700 families, including those of their students and others associated with the school, to survive during the pandemic and in the aftermath of Amphan. “We work in 46 villages of South 24-Parganas where thousands of families lost their homes and crops to Amphan and the flood caused by the breach of embankments. Most don’t have any work because of the pandemic,” Shazia Begum, the NGO’s rural secretary, said. “We reach out to around 7,000 individuals every day as part of the relief and rehabilitation project.” Khelaghar has branches in Raghunathpur, Joynagar and Bhagabatipur in South 24-Parganas. The three branches combined have 1,700 students. The school has organised relief camps in these areas and distributed basic food items such as rice, pulses, wholemeal flour, potatoes and oil, and non-food essentials such as masks and sanitisers. The school has supplied people with asbestos among others that is needed to rebuild their homes. “We have been getting dry rations regularly from the school. It’s crucial for our survival,” Sraboni Chakraborty, Sree’s mother, said. Sree is a KG II student of Khelaghar, Bhagabatipur. Khelaghar has cared for everyone associated with the school, be it cooks, gardeners or van-pullers. “I couldn’t earn anything because of the lockdown; my house, too, was damaged by Amphan. Khelaghar helped me with dry rations and gave me five asbestos sheets to rebuild my home,” Gopal Halder, a van-puller who used to ferry children from villages to Khelaghar before the pandemic, said. The NGO provides pre-primary and primary education to underprivileged children aged between three and nine. “Our aim is to make the learning experience more enjoyable and relevant. A clean and bright ambience, innovative teaching-learning methods and a caring team of teachers are the most important elements of our school,” Sangeeta Mukerji, trustee of Young Men’s Welfare Society, said. The NGO turns 50 this year. Khelaghar has ensured that the kids continue with their studies. Teachers have been sending tutorial videos to parents or those with smartphones so that the kids can go through the videos. If students do not have access to smartphones, teachers assign them homework in exercise books through their parents. “My daughter is getting restless as she is unable to go to Khelaghar. Thanks to the tutorial videos sent by the school, she can at least continue with her studies,” Mallika Gayen, Lovely’s mother, said. Lovely is a Class III student of the school. Anushree, Sree, Lovely, and Priti — all are desperate to return to Khelaghar, the place they love to be at. “I want to go to school. I like the ambience, the teachers and everything about our school,” Priti, a Class III student, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-314
09-09-2020||Calcutta||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee, police chief support Nilanjana Chatterjee||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday said the government would support Nilanjana Chatterjee, who suffered a fracture after being hit by a car while helping a woman who screamed from inside the vehicle on Saturday night. “The woman who tried to save the other woman, got injured and has been admitted to Ruby (General Hospital) would get the support of the state government for all the medical expenses,” the chief minister announced at Nabanna. “We are there to help her. In such cases, police will take immediate action,” she added. Late on Tuesday night, police said prime suspect Abhishek Kumar Pandey had been arrested from Dum Dum. Officials said Calcutta police commissioner Anuj Sharma called up Nilanjana to congratulate her and pass on the chief minister’s decision. Nilanjana, who underwent surgery on Monday, was on her hospital bed when a police officer switched on the speaker of his phone and connected her to the commissioner. Sharma said Calcutta police were proud of her, expressing the hope that others too would stand up like her if and when the need arose. The commissioner also expressed his wish to meet the family. “Please join for a cup of tea once you are fit,” Sharma added. Sharma spoke to Nilanjana’s husband Deep Satpati who thanked the commissioner for the police’s prompt action in getting them an ambulance. On Tuesday, the team that handles calls to Dial 100 was rewarded for its prompt response.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-314
09-09-2020||Calcutta||Jamtara phone cheats arrested||Seven people were arrested in Jamtara, Jharkhand, in the past two days in connection with bank frauds on the phone. The arrests were made based on the complaints of two Calcuttans who had lost close to Rs10 lakh during the lockdown. They had shared their bank details with callers on the phone who posed as bank officials, police said. These men usually call up people in Calcutta posing as bank or income tax department officials and persuade such people into sharing their bank details with them, the police said. Once they get hold of the bank details, they transfer money from a victim’s account to multiple e-wallets. In June, Pratyusha Sinha Basu Mullick, who lives in the Sanjeeva Town Bungalow Complex in the Calcutta Leather Complex area, had reported how she had lost Rs 6 lakh to a caller who had fraudulently obtained her banking details and the one-time-password generated on her phone. The next month, Ruma Majumdar, a resident of East Bishnupur in North 24-Parganas had reported that Rs 4.63lakh had been withdrawn from her account in the Shyambazar branch of a nationalised bank. “Both complainants had reported the matter to us as soon as the crime had been committed. So, we were able to block and retain a part of the transferred money,” an officer of the detective department’s anti-bank fraud section said. As part of the modus operandi, the gang members used to call up people; at times posing as bank officials and telling them that their debit cards were about to be blocked or their e-commerce accounts were about to be invalidated for want of KYC. Some even told people that they had won prizes in reality shows and their bank details were needed to get them the prize money. The money was transferred from the victim’s bank account to multiple e-wallets to minimise the chance of the money trail getting identified, the police said. The Telegraph had on August 9 reported how Lalbazar had been flooded with more than 1,700 complaints of bank fraud, amounting to more than Rs3 crore. Of that at least 1,600 were connected to Jamtara. In several cases, cops found that the phone numbers that had been used to contact the complainants had SIM cards bought from Bengal. “That was the first time we found a direct link between the Jamtara gang and Bengal. SIM cards had been bought from Malda, Nadia and pockets of South 24-Parganas close to Calcutta,” an officer said. The number of complaints in June and July had shot up as a several people, especially the elderly, who were otherwise uncomfortable with online transactions had to go online to clear various dues during the lockdown, the police said. The city police have been running a helpline (8585063104) for people to report bank frauds on the phone.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-314
09-09-2020||Calcutta||Woman trafficked with job offer rescued||A 20-year-old woman from North 24-Parganas who was struggling to make ends meet because of the Covid-19 crisis was allegedly trafficked to Bihar in June. The woman left home after being allegedly abused by her husband, a daily wage-earner put out of work by the pandemic. A family member said she was allegedly trafficked by another woman who lured her with the offer of a job. She was taken to Bihar’s Siwan where she was allegedly forced to join a dance troupe before being rescued on July 15. The incident is a pointer to how the Covid-19 pandemic has landed many families in abject poverty, making women and minor girls more vulnerable to trafficking, said rights activists. The penury caused by the pandemic has made the lure of a job almost irresistible. Traffickers are on the prowl, looking for such vulnerable girls to force them into prostitution. “She was lured by a racket that used to hire women for the troupe. The victim said she was asked to perform dance and have sex with clients. On refusal, she would be physically tortured by the owner of the troupe,” said an official of International Justice Mission, which facilitated an operation that led to her rescue. “The survivor recorded her statement under Section 164 of the CrPC in front of a magistrate at a court in Bongaon, in North 24-Parganas, on August 28,” said an officer of Bongaon police station. Metro has reported how the pandemic has led to a spurt in child marriages and increased the trafficking threat. Many parents who have lost their livelihoods are ready to marry off their daughters to any groom who does not demand a dowry. The grooms are often linked to trafficking rackets. A group of 21 minors from Bihar’s Samastipur, all alleged victims of trafficking, was rescued from a bus in Calcutta early on Monday. Police said the children were being taken to Howrah to work in bangle factories. The Bongaon woman was not a minor but was in deep poverty. “She found it difficult to make ends meet after her husband lost his job. He used to drink every day and beat her,” the survivor’s elder sister told this newspaper over the phone. “A woman my sister knew offered her a job. On the day of the journey, she was accompanied by that woman and two men. They gave my sister a spiked drink and took her to Bihar in a car as trains were not running,” the survivor’s sister said. She said she could not remember which day her sister went missing but it “was early in June”. The survivor could call her family from Siwan from the phone of another member of the troupe. Her father lodged a missing complaint on July 4. “The number that the survivor called from helped us trace the location of the group,” said an official of Mission Mukti Foundation. Volunteers of the organisation had accompanied Bihar police during the rescue. “The challenge will be to curb traffickers when train services resume,” said an activist of Partners in Anti-Trafficking, an alliance of organisations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-314
09-09-2020||Calcutta||Rush & potholes trigger snarls||Vehicles crawled on Belghoria Expressway, Jessore Road and the airport’s slip road on Tuesday, a day after the total lockdown, because of a heavy rush and innumerable potholes on the roads. Vehicles, including two-wheelers, headed to the city from Barasat, Dakshineswar, and Madhyamgram via Jessore Road or going to these places were caught in the jam that added at least 90 minutes to their travel time. Near the airport, a combination of craters, construction materials lying by the roadside and crash barriers triggered traffic snarls during the morning and evening rush hour. Motorists and two-wheeler riders headed towards Belghoria Expressway as well as to the city from the expressway face snarls almost every day because of potholes on Jessore Road. Trucks and other heavy vehicles add to the problem. Sandipan Chakraborty, a resident of Barasat who was headed to the city, said it took him more than an hour from the airport’s Gate No. 2.5 to reach the flyover that connects Ultadanga to the Bypass. The distance from the airport to the flyover is around 9.7km and it takes around 25 minutes on other days to cover the stretch, he said. Cops had requested the agencies maintaining VIP Road and Jessore Road to repair them, anofficer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate’s airport traffic guard said. “We requested them to do patchwork repairs… they have done that on some stretches. There was a huge rush of vehicles today (Tuesday) and coupled with the potholes there were snarls despite our best efforts,” the officer said. Jessore Road is in bad shape though it has been widened. The police deployment at the airport’s Gate No. 2.5 and No. 1 is sufficient but there is little effort to regulate traffic, according to regular commuters. “They just stand there and wave at vehicles. Is that traffic management?” Triparna Sinha, who lives in a complex along Jessore Road, asked. The T-junction at Gate No. 2.5 chokes as soon as there is a heavy rush of vehicles, Sinha said. Many people now enter the airport complex through the flyover instead of going through the chaos on the slip road. They take the road in front of Airport police station to reach Gate No. 2.5 from the opposite end and add to the congestion there. The police and civic volunteers, at least six on each shift, stand and watch, another regular commuter said. The lack of police intervention at the junction where traffic lands on Jessore Road from Belghoria Expressway via the flyover is another reason behind the snarls. The public works department maintains VIP Road and Jessore Road near the airport. A PWD engineer said the agency had done patchwork repairs multiple times on these roads. “We even did patchwork repairs on Jessore Road on Monday as there were no vehicles because of the total lockdown. But a combination of rain and heavy vehicles on these roads damage the repairs. We will again repair the stretches where potholes have reappeared,” the engineer said. Both roads need to be resurfaced and patchwork repairs are a temporary fix that will not last long, the engineer said. “We are planning thorough repairs on VIP Road and Jessore Road before the puja.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-314
09-09-2020||Calcutta||Form fill-in starts for JU final exams||The graduating students of arts and science at Jadavpur University have started filling in forms online to write their end-semester exams, which are likely to be held from October 1 to 10. The university on Tuesday issued a notification announcing the start of the form fill-in exercise and said the results published in July, following the state higher education department’s June 27 directive, “stand cancelled” in accordance with a Supreme Court order. The July results were prepared based on internal assessment and performance in previous semesters. The Supreme Court had on August 28 upheld the UGC’s July 6 directive that said graduating students would have to write their exams and could not be assessed on the basis of their performance in previous semesters. “Fresh examinations for the said semesters will be held as per university examination rules and resolutions adopted in the matter by the examination committee,” the JU notice reads. The graduating students at both undergraduate and postgraduate levels have till Friday to fill-in and submit examination forms. “The exams are likely to be held from October 1 to 10. We will announce the dates after the state government gets the UGC’s approval for conducting the tests after September 30,” said a JU official. The UGC had in its July 6 order set September 30 as the deadline for completing the final year/terminal exams. The Supreme Court says that if any state or Union Territory, in exercise of the jurisdiction of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, decides that it is not possible to conduct the exams by September 30, it can apply to the UGC for an extension of the deadline. “Let the Bengal government, which has announced that exams in state-aided universities would be held from October 1 to 18, first get the approval. After that we will announce the dates,” the JU official said. Questions papers will be sent to students through digital mode such as group email or WhatsApp half an hour before each day’s test starts. Scanned copies of the answer scripts have to be sent through email or WhatsApp. How will students without smartphones or data packs or those with poor Net connections at home will write the exams? “The university will deliver question papers to and collect answer scripts from the homes of the students who lack a smart device or Internet connectivity. No one will be left out for want of a device or connectivity,’’ said vice-chancellor Suranjan Das.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-314
09-09-2020||Calcutta||HC urges parents to stop fee protest||The high court on Tuesday expressed hope that parents would “desist” from agitations in front of school gates while it hears their plea for a fee waiver during the Covid pandemic and said the institutions could seek police action if such demonstrations broke out. “It is hoped that the parents desist from carrying out any agitation at the school gates, particularly since the matter is being considered by the court. Any report of further agitation at the school gates may be reported by the relevant schools for appropriate police action,” the bench of Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Mousumi Bhattacharya said. The bench, while hearing a PIL, proposed that the 145 schools involved in the case set up committees comprising teacher and guardian representatives to identify the parents who were genuinely unable to pay the fees because of financial trouble during the pandemic. “It will be open to all schools to consider such instances on a case-to-case basis without there being any generic direction in such regard. However, as far as the extent of (fee) reduction allowable, there have to be voluntary suggestions made by the individual committees of each school which are proposed to be set up by the order that may be passed when the matter is taken up next,” the order said. “It is heartening to note that almost without exception schools which have participated in today’s hearing have said that they have entertained, on a case-to-case basis, appeals by the parents of the students who have been financially hit.” The bench said the six CNI schools which had moved the Supreme Court against the high court order seeking income and expenditure details of the schools would have to apply to the high court by September 14 for recall/modification of its order. The apex court had asked the schools to move the high court for the recall/modification of the order. The six schools are seeking recall/modification because minority schools enjoy financial autonomy. Article 30 of the Constitution guarantees the freedom to minority schools, a CNI official said. Social activist Vineet Ruia had moved a PIL in the high court alleging that many private schools were not allowing students to attend online classes or take online exams for failing to pay fees. The petition had also alleged that the school authorities had been demanding charges on various heads though they had not provided those services during the pandemic. Agitations by parents have been common during the pandemic. They have been demanding reduction of tuition fees and waiver of fees under heads like sports, computer and library — the facilities students had not been availing of as the schools are shut. The schools, which take no aid from the government, have said they would find it difficult to pay wages and maintain infrastructure if parents do not pay. The high court on Tuesday said the two-member committee it had constituted to go into the schools’ income and expenditure “indicates several fallacies in the accounts submitted by the schools”. In a preliminary report, the panel has said collecting fees on 30 heads such as “art and craft expenses”, “textbook charges”, “band charges” and “entertainment expenses” during this period was “unjustified”. The court said the heads referred to in the report should be addressed and individual schools should justify the amount they have claimed to have spent under various heads.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-314
09-09-2020||Calcutta||Rain respite from heat and humidity||A spell of heavy rain on Tuesday afternoon brought temporary relief from the heat and humidity that Calcuttans had been subjected to for the past few days. A shell of thunderclouds that descended from the western districts of Bengal led to the rain that started around 4pm. The Met office recorded around 60mm of rain in Alipore. Patuli was the wettest area in the city, recording more than 70mm of rain, according to data collected from the water pumping stations of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation. Places in south Calcutta got more rain than the north. Joka received around 50mm and New Market 35mm. Traffic crawled on several roads because of the rain. Diamond Harbour Road and Rashbehari Avenue had heavy traffic around 8pm, much after the rain had stopped. The mercury hovered around 34 degrees Celsius for several days at a stretch. The minimum relative humidity, a measure of the moisture content in the air during the driest part of the day, was consistently on the higher side for the past few days. The rain was accompanied by a series of lightning on Tuesday. “The pent-up heat and humidity led to the formation of the thunderclouds,” a Met official said. The Met office has forecast thunderstorms in the coming days as well.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-314
09-09-2020||Calcutta||UK board to conduct exams in November||Cambridge Assessment International Education (CAIE), a UK-based school board, has decided to go ahead with its pen-and paper November 2020 exams but given the schools the option to withdraw candidates as close as a day before the exams start, unlike other years. The exams of the November 2020 series will be held in October and November. The schools can withdraw candidates depending on the Covid-19 situation and if they do not have the necessary permission from the government authorities to let their students take the test. The board conducts the exams thrice a year — in June, October-November and March. Some international schools in the city allow their students to write the exams in any of the three series. This year the exams could not be held in June because of the pandemic. Some international schools in the city are proceeding with the arrangements to conduct the exams but said the final call would be taken on the basis of what the government would say. “We are running exams for the November 2020 series where schools believe it is safe and where they have the necessary permissions from the government authorities. We believe exams remain the fairest and most reliable way to assess student achievement and our schools are telling us they want to hold exams if they can,” the CAIE has said. The schools have been allowed to withdraw their students by September 30. In some schools, the exams begin on October 1. “What is unique about this session is that the board is allowing withdrawal of candidates so close to the exam. In our institution it is as close as four days. The special provision will  address the concerns of students and guardians in this difficult time,” said Sarojesh Mukerjee, the director of The Cambridge School in south Calcutta. “We are proceeding towards the board exams in October-November... but nothing will come above the safety of our students,” said Anuradha Das, the director of Garden High International School. “The number of students for the exam in October-November is limited and not all of them appear now. In fact all the students do not have papers on the same day so it will be easy for us to maintain social distancing if the government gives us the go ahead to conduct exams,” said Saswati Datta, the principal of Vidyanjali International School. Calcutta International School, The Heritage School, Bridge International School and Vidyanjali International School are some of the other schools that offer the curriculum.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-314
09-09-2020||Calcutta||IIM to bring batch back post Net glitch||IIM Calcutta will call students of the executive MBA course to the campus so they can use the Internet network there and take part in online classes without disruption, said an official of the institute. The residential programme was launched in an online mode in April amid the pandemic, but many of the students, who paid Rs 27 lakh for the one-year course, often found it difficult to connect from home because of poor connectivity and were dissatisfied with what the institute had to offer, said sources. The 62 students of the class will be brought to the Joka B-school in batches so they can attend the classes taking advantage of the seamless network on the campus, the official told The Telegraph. “IIM Calcutta’s one-year full-time MBAEx students are all set for the maiden on-campus experience starting September…. The students will arrive on the campus in small batches to undertake quarantine in the campus hostel, while still attending classes online,” a statement issued by the institute said. Six working professionals who had enrolled for the programme and paid Rs 2 lakh each as commitment fee took a refund in late July saying they did not wish to continue in the current atmosphere of “financial uncertainty”. They also alleged that the programme had been converted into the online mode without consulting the students. Director Seth said in a statement mailed to The Telegraph: “What makes such programmes unique is the experiential learning, networking and bond built amongst batchmates. It’s so unfortunate that this year’s batch of 62 students has already been deprived of this opportunity for the first four months of their programme due to the Covid pandemic that required them to take online classes from home, many under very difficult circumstances, including serious connectivity issues. We are now at least able to offer them an option to be at campus to attend classes online as a respite.” A teacher of the institute said students of the two year-MBA programme might renew their demand to be brought back to the campus so they could use the institute’s network facility and attend classes without any glitch. “If that happens it could mean an assembly on the campus, which would not be advisable amid the pandemic,’’ he added. The statement issued by the IIM says the students were “facing serious difficulties with extension of rent leases and other constraints” while attending online classes over the past four months. When asked what they meant by difficulties in rent leases, an official said: “Many students were forced to take rooms on rent in locations that ensured better connectivity following poor network in home. This was posing serious difficulty as the course is already steeply charged.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-315
09-09-2020||Business||Covid: Travel & tourism industry likely to lose around Rs 5 lakh cr, says study||The coronavirus pandemic has dealt a crippling blow to the Indian travel and tourism industry. The entire value chain linked to the sector is likely to lose around Rs 5 lakh crore or USD 65.57 billion, according to a study by industry chamber CII and hospitality consulting firm Hotelivate. The organised sector alone is likely to lose USD 25 billion. The figures are quite alarming and the industry needs immediate measures for survival, according to the report from CII-Hotelivate. "This is the one of the worst crises to ever hit the Indian tourism industry impacting all its geographical segments - inbound, outbound and domestic, almost all tourism verticals - leisure , adventure, heritage, MICE, cruise, corporate and niche segments," it said. The shut down and slowdown, initially expected to affect revenue streams till October, have now indicated otherwise. Trends are currently indicating that only 30 per cent of occupancy in hotels till the start of next year, with hotels seeing an 80 to 85 per cent erosion in revenue streams, it said. According to the study, occupancy was at its peak in January this year at 80 per cent followed by February at 70 per cent, dipping to 45 per cent in March and then to the lowest at 7 per cent in April. In May, June, July and August occupancies were at 10 per cent, 12 per cent, 15 per cent and 22 per cent, respectively, it added. The CII-Hotelivate study has projected that the occupancy in September will be 25 per cent, 28 per cent in October, 30 per cent in November and 35 per cent in December. In a worst case scenario, the estimated loss in hotel for both branded and unbranded segments in 2020 is USD 19.31 billion (around Rs 1.42 lakh crore), it added. On the other hand, the report said the estimated revenue loss of travel agents and tour operators in a worst case scenario is USD 4.77 billion (about Rs 35,070 crore). However, in the best-case scenario, industry revenue will improve by 10-15 per cent, said the report, to which online travel services MakeMyTrip also contributed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-294
09-09-2020||Business||R.J. Shahaney no more||R.J. Shahaney, chairman Emeritus of Hinduja Group flagship company Ashok Leyland, died here on Tuesday following a brief illness, the heavy commercial maker said. Shahaney was the city-based company’s first managing director who served in that capacity between 1978 and 1998 and later as chairman till 2010. The company in a statement described him as a visionary architect who laid a strong foundation in manufacturing, engineering and technology. Ashok Leyland’s Hosur, Alwar and the Bhandara plants were the creations of Shahaney, the company said. Shahaney had also served the Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers (SIAM) as its president. Ashok Leyland chairman Dheeraj Hinduja said: “We mourn the loss of a great leader, ally and friend.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-294
09-09-2020||Business||No salary for Vodafone Idea CEO||Vodafone Idea managing director and chief executive officer Ravinder Takkar will not be given any remuneration during his current tenure of three years, according to a proposal by the company. Vodafone Idea may bear expenses incurred by Takkar for the business of the company, the notice for the 25th annual general meeting  stated. The AGM is scheduled to be held on September 30. VIL appointed Takkar as its MD and CEO following the resignation of Balesh Sharma from the post. According to the notice, Takkar has been appointed as MD and CEO for a period of three years with effect from August 19, 2019. He will be given “nil remuneration”. His predecessor Sharma was paid Rs 8.59 crore in remuneration during his tenure and he was not entitled to any increase in the remuneration during 2019-20. Other terms of Takkar’s appointment provide that “the company may bear all the expenses relating to travelling, lodging, entertainment and all other incidental expenses for the business of the company as per policy of the company. Takkar will not be “paid any sitting fees for attending the meetings of the board of directors or any committee(s) thereof”, the notice said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-294
09-09-2020||Business||GST voting ignores majority||The number of states opposed to the Centre’s GST compensation policy far outnumber those in favour, but a tilted voting rule may see the Centre carry the day at the GST council meeting on Thursday, if a ballot is held on the contentious issue. The seven-day window for states to give their opinion on the Centre’s proposal to borrow from the market and recover their compensation cess dues is now over. Ten states including Punjab and Bengal are opposed to the idea of state borrowing and would prefer the Centre to do so and pass on the proceeds to the states. The GST Council will meet on Thursday to take a call on borrowing, The Centre can swing the decision in its favour with a one-third vote share in case of division. The states have been given two options: borrow Rs 97,000 crore to meet the shortfall arising because of GST implementation; or borrow Rs 2.35 lakh crore which includes the Rs 1.38 lakh crore that the Centre has refused to pay as this is attributed to Covid-related factors. The ten states opposing the two options are Delhi, Punjab, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh, Tamil Nadu, Jharkhand, Telangana, Pondicherry, Kerala and Bengal. Of the 31 states, 17 states have spelt out their stand. Four  states are in favour of borrowing Rs 97,000 crore — Bihar, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Tripura, while Manipur and Sikkim are in favour of the second option.  Karnataka has stated that it is ready to borrow but has not so far disclosed which option it would opt for. Given the growing opposition to the borrowing plans, it is likely the issue could be settled through voting at the council meeting. However, the Centre can bulldoze its way. Not just because most of the states are ruled by the BJP, but, the way the voting itself is structured. The rules specify that the weight of the Centre shall be 1/3rd of the total weight of the votes cast. So, among the members who cast their votes, the Centre’s vote is assigned a weight of 1/3 while the rest 2/3 is distributed to the states’ voting. The Centre has justified the borrowing by states in view the prevailing economic situation where its revenues were under greater strain than state GST revenues.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-294
09-09-2020||Business||Indian economy: Forecasts indicate pandemic will wreak greater havoc than feared initially||A bunch of forecasts released on Tuesday indicate the pandemic will create a greater havoc on the Indian economy than feared initially. All the three numbers from Fitch Ratings, India Ratings and Research and American brokerage Goldman Sachs forecast contraction much deeper than their earlier projections for this financial year. Fitch Ratings has forecast a 10.5 per cent contraction. Goldman Sachs has sharply cut its 2020-21 GDP (gross domestic forecast) forecast to a contraction of 14.8 per cent. India Ratings revised its forecast to 11.8 per cent contraction from 5.3 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-294
09-09-2020||Business||Two men snap up top brands||It has been a prolonged period of retail carnage: storied names declaring bankruptcy, mass market brands closing thousands of stores, tens of thousands of shop employees furloughed or laid off, garment workers in dire straits. More ominous still are the predictions that we will never shop the same way again. For Jamie Salter and David Simon, however, it has been a time of great opportunity. Salter is the founder and chief executive of the Authentic Brands Group, a company known for buying the intellectual property of famous brands at discount prices and then striking licensing deals with other companies that want to stick those well-known names on their products. Simon is the chief executive of Simon Property Group, the largest mall operator in the United States with more than 100 properties. Together, they are reshaping the American retail landscape. Last week, they closed a deal to buy the bankrupt Brooks Brothers, the 202-year-old American fashion brand and retailer, for $325 million. Last month, they acquired Lucky Brand denim, and in February, they bought Forever 21. Together, the acquisitions will bring the global revenue generated by the company’s brands — a sprawling mix that includes Sports Illustrated and rights tied to Marilyn Monroe’s likeness — to $15 billion annually. And Salter is hunting for more. New York Times News Service||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-294
09-09-2020||Business||Byju’s raises $500m||Ed-tech major Byju’s has raised fresh funding from Silver Lake and existing investors, Tiger Global, General Atlantic and Owl Ventures. While the company did not disclose financial details, sources said Byju’s has raised $500 million (about Rs 3,672 crore) in the new round that valued it at $10.8 billion. “We are fortunate to be in a sector of positive relevance during this crisis. This has brought online learning to the forefront and is helping parents, teachers and students experience and understand its value,” Byju’s founder and CEO Byju Raveendran said. In a statement on Tuesday, Byju’s said the fresh funding round saw participation from Silver Lake, and existing investors Tiger Global, General Atlantic and Owl Ventures. “We are delighted to lead this investment and partner with Byju and his impressive team of education technology pioneers in their mission to help children in India and around the world achieve their true potential,” Greg Mondre, co-CEO of Silver Lake, said. Following the closure of schools because of  the ongoing pandemic, the company had made content on its learning app free for all students. Over the last few months, Byju’s has entered the after-school learning space with the launch of Byju’s classes, a comprehensive online tutoring program. Last month, Byju’s acquired WhiteHat Jr, a Mumbai-based coding platform.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-294
09-09-2020||Business||PUBG severs Tencent link, may return||Days after the Indian government placed a ban on the popular gaming app, PUBG Corporation has barred Chinese firm Tencent Games from owning the game’s franchise in the country in an attempt to work around the ban. “PUBG Corporation has made the decision to no longer authorise the PUBG MOBILE franchise to Tencent Games in India. Moving forward, PUBG Corporation will take on all publishing responsibilities within the country,” the company said in a statement. PlayerUnknown’s BattleGrounds (PUBG) is an online multiplayer gaming application (app) developed and published by PUBG Corporation, a subsidiary of South Korean video game company Bluehole. The company, in its official statement, has said that it will work with the Indian government to find a solution that will allow gamers to continue playing the battle royale mobile game. “PUBG Corporation fully understands and respects the measures taken by the government as the privacy and security of player data is a top priority for the company. It hopes to work hand-in-hand with the Indian government to find a solution that will allow gamers to once again drop into the battlegrounds while being fully compliant with Indian laws and regulations,” the company said in its statement. Among the apps banned, PUBG is the most popular one. According to the Intelligence Firm Sensor Tower, India is a vast market for PUBG, clocking 175 million downloads of the game till date. It is 24 per cent of the total download in the world. India had banned 118 more Chinese apps on September 2. The list included apps such as Baidu and WeChat but the biggest name on it was PUBG Mobile. The Lite version of PUBG Mobile, designed specifically for markets such as India to work on slower internet, was also part of the list. Officials of the ministry of information and technology declined to comment on the South Korean firm distancing itself from Tencent. However, it would be interesting to see if the government reconsiders the ban on PUBG Mobile now that technically the game has no “links” with China.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-294
09-09-2020||Business||Tata arm stalls base shift||Tata Steel Long Products Ltd, formerly Tata Sponge, has put its plans to shift the company’s registered address from Odisha to Bengal on ice after receiving some feedback from “key stakeholders”. The company had proposed to shift the office, which is important for regulatory and tax purposes, to Calcutta from Joda, where its sponge iron plant is located, and passed a resolution to this effect during the annual general meeting on July 15, 2019. TSLPL, formerly Tata Sponge, has now disclosed that it has decided not to pursue the proposal. “Basis the feedback received from the key stakeholders, the board at its meeting held on June 09, 2020, decided not to pursue the said proposal of shifting the registered office of the company, for the time being. Hence, the registered office of the company will continue to be at Joda, Odisha,” the company informed shareholders in the annual report. Shifting of headquarters or a registered office are often fraught with resistance, both political and local. For instance, any move to relocate public sector undertakings such as Coal India or Damodar Valley Corporation and regulator Tea Board of India from Calcutta has always drawn strong protest from all quarters in Bengal. Likewise, a plan to move the registered office of TSLPL would be challenging given the large and expanding presence of Tata Group in Odisha. The need to keep the Naveen Patnaik government in good humour is paramount given that Tata Steel Group, the parent of TSLPL, operates iron ore, chrome ore mines and two large integrated steel plants at Kalinganagar and Angul. Apart from expanding the two plants, it is contemplating construction of a new port in Odisha — tasks that would require administrative support. In comparison, Tata Group’s presence in Bengal has grown modestly in the last 10 years. Sources said TSLPL realised it was not worth the effort to shift the registered office given the sentiments attached to it. However, the corporate office of the company is now formally located at Tata Centre in Calcutta, the address of various Tata Steel Group companies. A synergy with the rest of the group firms was one of the drivers for the proposed shift. Explaining the rationale, it had informed the shareholders in 2019. It had cited “operational efficiency and convenience of the board of directors” as some of the reasons for the shift. “Tata Steel is the parent company of Tata Sponge and all major Tata Steel Group companies have their registered offices in Calcutta. For the ease of liaising with common regulatory authorities and to meet other compliance requirements smoothly, the company proposes to shift its registered office within the same jurisdiction i.e. to the state of Bengal and within the jurisdiction of the registrar of companies at Calcutta. “To improve operational efficiency and convenience of the board of directors and to streamline the management of affairs, the board of directors at its meeting held on April 18, 2019, accorded their recommendation to shift the registered office of the company from Odisha to Bengal.” It had noted that such a move was “in the best interest of the company, shareholders and all parties concerned and shall not be detrimental to the interest of members of the public, shareholders, creditors or employees”. It appears now that local interest has trumped for now and Bengal would be a loser, again.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-294
09-09-2020||Business||Recast load more on smaller banks||More debt recast cases may arise in small and mid-sized banks than the bigger ones with the RBI accepting the recommendations of the KV Kamath panel and setting into motion the recast mechanism to help borrowers affected by the pandemic. The Kamath panel recommended five ratios that lending institutions have to consider while finalising their resolution plans . It also identified 26 most affected sectors where various thresholds have been prescribed. The panel said that Rs 38 lakh crore of bank debt exists  in the key sectors affected by Covid-19, forming 37 per cent of total credit. Moreover, the top 10 affected sectors account for close to 29 per cent of the credit. Analysts, however, remain divided over the impact of the proposals. They fear banks may only postpone the stress in a restructured account, which may turn into non-performing assets, if the conditions do not improve. Some of the larger lenders are taking comfort from the relatively lower number of accounts opting for the loan moratorium, which ended on August 31 in the second round. In SBI, around 9 per cent of its borrowers opted for the repayment relief in the second round (June-August) against 23 per cent earlier. Some of the other lenders where the loan moratorium ratio was in single digits included HDFC Bank, Axis and Kotak Bank. Arijit Basu, managing director, SBI, told a television channel on Tuesday the lender does not expect too many applications for the one-time restructuring while hinting the low loan moratorium ratio signals improved conditions at the level of the borrowers. According to analysts at Motilal Oswal Institutional Equities, 20-25 per cent of the moratorium book will be restructured in mid-sized banks, while large banks expect restructuring in low single digits.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-294
09-09-2020||Business||Virus rot deeper than feared ||Three forecasts of the gross domestic product (GDP) for the current fiscal show contraction to be much deeper than their initial assessments — because of the untramelled spread of the virus and intermittent lockdowns which have devastated all sectors barring agriculture. The projections of Fitch Ratings, India Ratings and Research and American brokerage Goldman Sachs estimated deeper contractions even as the economy took a despairing 23.9 per cent plunge in the first quarter. Fitch Ratings has forecast 10.5 per cent contraction against its earlier forecast of 5 per cent contraction made in June. Fitch has projected global GDP  to contract 4.4 per cent in the current year but revised upwards China’s growth estimate to 2.7 per cent for 2020. Goldman Sachs has sharply cut its 2020-21 GDP forecast to a contraction of 14.8 per cent, saying the Indian economy is the worst-hit among the major ones. It had earlier estimated an 11.8 per cent contraction. Domestic rating agency India Ratings revised its forecast to 11.8 per cent contraction from 5.3 per cent contraction made earlier. The agency, however, expects GDP to rebound and grow at 9.9 per cent year-on-year in 2021-22 mainly due to the weak base of 2020-21.  According to the agency, the retail and wholesale inflation in the country is expected to come in at 5.1 per cent and negative 1.7 per cent, respectively, in 2020-21. Fitch said multiple challenges are holding back growth recovery, both in the short and medium term. “New cases of the coronavirus continue to increase, forcing some states and Union territories to re-tighten restrictions... The continued spread of the virus and the imposition of sporadic shutdowns across the country depress sentiment and disrupt economic activity,” Fitch said. It further noted that the severe fall in activity has also damaged household and corporate incomes and balance sheets, amid limited fiscal support. According to Goldman Sachs, activity across all sectors barring agriculture contracted because of the lockdowns. The nearly two-month-long lockdowns chilled economy activity but was unable to contain the number of infections, which stands at 40 lakh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-295
09-09-2020||Business||Japan GDP drop worst since War||Japan’s economy sank deeper into its worst postwar contraction in the second quarter as the coronavirus jolted businesses more than initially thought, underscoring the daunting task the new Prime Minister faces in averting a steeper recession. Other data put that challenge in perspective, with household spending and wages falling in July as the impact of the pandemic kept consumption frail even after lockdown measures were lifted by the government in May. The world’s third-largest economy shrank an annualised 28.1 per cent rate in April-June, more than a preliminary reading of a 27.8 per cent contraction, revised gross domestic product (GDP) data showed on Tuesday, suffering its worst postwar contraction. The data will put the new prime minister, to be elected in a ruling party leadership race on September 14, under pressure to take bolder economic support measures. Chief cabinet secretary Yoshihide Suga, the frontrunner to become next premier, has signalled his readiness to boost spending if he were to lead the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-295
09-09-2020||India||Rhea Chakraborty claims she was forced to confess by NCB||Actress Rhea Chakraborty, arrested by the NCB in a drugs case linked to her boyfriend and actor Sushant Singh Rajput's death, on Wednesday moved a bail plea before a sessions court in Mumbai. This is her second attempt to seek release after a magistrate court on Tuesday refused to grant her bail. In the fresh plea, filed by her lawyer Satish Maneshinde, the 28-year-old actress claimed to be "innocent". "She has not committed any crime whatsoever and has been falsely implicated in the case," said the plea. Further, it is claimed that Rhea “was coerced into making self-incriminatory confessions and by her application on September 8 the applicant has formally retracted all such incriminatory confessions”. “There was not a single lady officer who interrogated the present applicant as mandated by law. The Hon’ble Supreme Court in the case of Sheela Barse VS State Maharashtra, has held that the interrogation of females should be carried out only in the presence of a female police officer/constable,” reads the bail application, highlighting that the agency failed to comply with the guidelines of the apex court. The court will hear the bail application on Thursday. Chakraborty was arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Tuesday after three days of questioning by the agency. Shortly after her arrest, she was sent in judicial custody till September 22 by a local court. On Wednesday, she was shifted from the anti-drug agency's office in south Mumbai to the Byculla jail here. Meanwhile the other accused arrested by the NCB, including the actress's brother Showik Chakraborty, Rajput's house manager Samuel Miranda, his personal staff member Dipesh Sawant, and suspected drug peddlers Zaid Vilatra and Abdel Basit Parihar, were sent in 14-day judicial custody by the sessions court, special public prosecutor Atul Sarpande said. Showik Chakraborty and Sawant have applied for bail and their pleas will also be heard on Thursday, he said. The NCB on Tuesday said it did not want Rhea Chakraborty's custody as it had already questioned her for three days. After producing her before the additional chief judicial magistrate through video link on Tuesday, the NCB told the court that she was confronted with all other accused, including Showik Chakraborty, during her interrogation and facts in their statements were verified. The agency claimed that the actress disclosed her involvement in procurement of drugs for Rajput and related financial transactions and also her instructions to co-accused Miranda, Sawant and Showik Chakraborty. "Therefore, it is clear from her statement that Rhea is an active member of the drug syndicate connected with drug supplies," the agency said. The sections of the NDPS (Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances) Act invoked against her include 8(c) (sale, possession or manufacture of banned drugs) and 20 (b)(ii) (possession or use of small quantity of banned drugs), as per her lawyers. Rajput (34) was found hanging in his flat in suburban Bandra on June 14. Various angles surrounding his death are being probed by the NCB, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). The NCB is probing the drug angle in the case under criminal sections of the NDPS Act, after the ED shared with it a report following the cloning of two mobile phones of Rhea Chakraborty. The actress was recently interrogated by a CBI probe team her as she is the main accused in the abetment of suicide case filed by Rajput's father, and also questioned by the ED in a money laundering case. She has denied all the allegations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-679
09-09-2020||India||6 members of a vulnerable Andaman tribal group recover from Covid||Tribal Affairs Minister Arjun Munda on Wednesday expressed happiness after six members of the dwindling Great Andamanese tribe, who tested positive for coronavirus, recovered and returned to their island in the Andaman and Nicobar archipelago. "It is indeed my pleasure to inform you that six members of a vulnerable tribal group from Andaman and Nicobar Islands who tested positive and were undergoing treatment, have recovered and returned to their Island. God bless them with many more years of healthy life," he posted on Twitter. There are only 59 surviving members of the Great Andamanese tribe, all of them on Strait Island in the archipelago. After six members of the tribe, who had travelled to Port Blair, the regions' capital, for work, tested positive for the virus, a health team travelled to Strait Island last month to carry out tests of the remaining members. Out of 37 samples tested, four more from the tribe were found to be positive, Health Department Deputy Director and Nodal Officer Avijit Roy had said. Three Covid-19 positive members of the tribe had recovered earlier. There are six notified Scheduled Tribes in the archipelago -- Nicobarese, Great Andamanese, Jarawa, Sentinelese, Onge and Shompen. Barring Nicobarese, all are recognised as particularly vulnerable tribal groups, characterised by declining or stagnant population, low level of literacy, pre-agricultural level of technology and economic backwardness.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-679
09-09-2020||India||Delhi government says no to any further lockdowns ||The Delhi government has ruled out the possibility of another lockdown even though the national capital has seen a sharp surge in Covid-19 cases over the last fortnight with health minister Satyendar Jain asserting that the economy "cannot be kept shut for eternity as livelihoods of millions depend on it”. The minister also asserted that "extreme caution and not panic" should be the response of the city, and people should exhibit greater alertness and responsibility in public places to deal with the health crisis.  In the first eight days of the month, Delhi registered 22,378 fresh coronavirus cases, including 3,609 fresh cases on Tuesday, the highest single-day spike in 76 days, as the city moved towards the two lakh-mark with over 4,618 deaths due to Covid-19 so far.  Amidst an atmosphere of anxiety due to the massive surge in Delhi, especially after coronavirus cases were steadily declining in August, Jain said, "This is a once in a century pandemic after the Spanish Flu of 1918. And people will have to learn to live with Covid-19 as it is not going away so soon".  "Also, one can't keep everything (economy) shut for eternity, as livelihoods of millions depend on it," the Delhi health minister told PTI in an interview when asked if there could be another phase of lockdown in the city.  His remarks came a day after Delhi Metro resumed services in a calibrated manner on Monday. Many feel that resumption of metro services may lead to a further spike in coronavirus infections. Asked if it was a right decision to open the metro amid spurt in cases, he said, "People will have to be more alert and exhibit greater responsibility in public. If you don't wear a mask, not just metro, you can contract the infection anywhere". Asserting that "there is no need to panic", Jain said, "like I have said, we have to learn to live with Covid. Earlier, it was believed that the virus will die out in summer or it will taper off in the monsoon. It is still there. It seems it will continue for a fairly long time." While the Delhi Metro was closed since March 22, a nationwide lockdown was imposed by the Centre from March 25, pushing people to stay indoors and halting commercial activities. The unlocking of economic activities in a phased manner has begun from June onwards. "If lockdown was the solution, then no new cases would have emerged. New cases in the country have touched the 90,000-mark in a day, and the unlock process is still on. The lockdown has not ended yet," Jain said. Many states have extended or reinforced lockdowns after cases increased drastically. The Punjab government recently said that all existing restrictions imposed to combat Covid-19, including weekend lockdown, will be in place in most of the municipal towns of the state till the end of September. Bengal has enforced a three days of strict lockdown this month. Medical experts have already flagged multiple reasons that could have contributed to increasing caseload in the national capital in the past one week or so, including, reopening of economic activities and complacency among people in adhering to norms such as wearing masks and practicing social distancing. Jain agreed with the experts. “However, authorities have penalised such violators and a good quantum of fine has been imposed on them in the last several days, which should serve as a deterrence to others, who are displaying a laidback attitude towards the pandemic situation," he said. "I want to repeat again. The number of new cases has been rising, also because we have increased the testing exponentially. People should not panic but be cautious," he asserted. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had recently announced to double the scale of testing to 40,000 per day. Over 11.54 lakh Covid-19 tests were conducted in a span of 24 hours taking India's cumulative tests to over 5.18 crore so far, while during the same period nearly 75,000 people have recuperated from the disease taking the total number of recoveries to 33,98,844 in the country, the Centre said on Wednesday, reported NDTV.com. Timely diagnosis through higher levels of countrywide testing has furnished valuable opportunities to isolate or hospitalize the positive cases adequately in advance for appropriate treatment. This in turn has facilitated lower mortality rates (1.69 per cent as on date) and speedy recovery, the Union Health Ministry underlined. "India is one of the few countries that have reported very high numbers of daily testing. The daily testing capacity has already crossed 11 lakh," it highlighted. With 11,54,549 tests conducted for detection of Covid-19 in a span of 24 hours on Tuesday, India's cumulative tests have reached 5,18,04,677.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-680
09-09-2020||India||Professor in Bhima Koregaon case asks NIA to hold virtual meet||IISER- Calcutta professor Partho Sarathi Ray, who had been summoned by the NIA for interrogating in connection with the Bhima Koregaon violence in 2018, said on Wednesday that he has requested the agency to arrange a video conference for the questioning session in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has issued a notice to Ray, who is also the convenor of Persecuted Prisoners Solidarity Committee's (PPSC) West Bengal unit, asking him to appear for questioning in its Mumbai office on September 10 in connection with the incident. "I have written to the NIA requesting it if I can attend the questioning session by videoconferencing. My duties in this pandemic situation are preventing me from travelling. Waiting for the response," the young scientist, involved in Covid-19 research activities, said. The professor of Indian Institutes of Science Education and Research's (IISER) Kolkata unit said he had nothing to do with the incident and the probe agency was trying to "harass" him. The scientist and social activist also said that there was no charge against him, and he had never visited the Bhima Koregaon memorial in Pune. "The agency (NIA) has summoned me as a witness in the case, under section 160 CrPC. Therefore, there are no charges against me. I have no connection with this case as I have never been to Bhima Koregaon. I wasn't even aware of the incident till I read about it in the newspapers," he had said on Sunday. The case pertains to an incident of caste violence that took place near the Bhima Koregaon war memorial on January 1, 2018, following alleged provocative speeches at Elgar Parishad conclave a day earlier. Several vehicles were torched and one person was killed in the incident, triggering large scale Dalit agitation in Maharashtra.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-680
09-09-2020||India||Sena-ruled BMC demolishes alterations at Kangana's bungalow||The Shiv Sena-controlled Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Wednesday demolished "illegal alterations" at the Bandra bungalow of Bollywood actress Kangana Ranaut, a civic official said. The 33-year-old actor, who is scheduled to reach here later in the day, has alleged that the Maharashtra government is targeting her because of her fight with the Shiv Sena. The demolition work began shortly after 11 am, the official said. Earlier in the day, the BMC posted a second notice outside her bungalow, informing her of the action being taken by the civic body, he said. A BMC team reached the bungalow at Pali Hill in Bandra with bulldozer and excavators and demolished alterations made sans the civic body's approval. "I am never wrong and my enemies prove again and again this is why my Mumbai is POK now," Kangana tweeted, soon after the demolition work began. She also posted photos of BMC staff engaged in the demolition work. Trouble has mounted for Kangana as the Maharashtra government on Tuesday said the police will probe allegations that she took drugs, while alterations made at her bungalow came under the civic body's scanner. Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said the Mumbai police will probe allegations by actor Adhyayan Suman that Ranaut took drugs. The BMC Tuesday filed a `caveat' in a local court, saying it should be heard first if Ranaut challenges a stop- work notice issued to her. Ranaut had recently said that she feared Mumbai Police more than the "movie mafia", and would prefer security either from Himachal Pradesh or the Centre. Union minister Ramdas Athawale, an ally of the BJP, said workers of his party RPI (A) will provide protection to Ranaut when she returns to Mumbai. "RPI (A) workers have geared up to protect Ranaut who is scheduled to reach Mumbai on Wednesday. Our party workers will offer protection to her at the airport as well as at her residence," Athawale said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-680
09-09-2020||India||Rhea Chakraborty shifted to Byculla jail||A day after the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) arrested her, Rhea Chakraborty was on Wednesday shifted from the anti-drug agency's office in south Mumbai to the Byculla jail. Shortly after her arrest on Tuesday in a drugs case linked to her boyfriend and actor Sushant Singh Rajput's death, she was sent in judicial custody till September 22 by a local court. On Wednesday, she stepped out of the NCB office at 10.15 am after spending the night there and was taken to the Byculla jail by the agency officials. The court had rejected her bail application. The NCB had told the court that she was an "active member" of a drugs syndicate and procured drugs for Rajput, her boyfriend. The NCB, however, said it did not want her custody as it had already questioned her for three days. Immediately after her arrest, the 28-year-old Rhea was taken for medical tests including Covid-19 test to the civic-run Sion hospital in Central Mumbai. At the hospital, her antigen test for Covid-19 came out negative, officials said. She was then taken to the NCB office in south Mumbai around 7.15 pm, and produced before the court through video-conference.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-680
09-09-2020||India||National Investigation Agency arrests three folk artistes in Elgaar Parishad case||The National Investigation Agency has arrested three folk artistes from an organisation officially listed as a front of the banned CPI Maoist, raising the number of prisoners in the Elgaar Parishad case to 15. Sagar Gorkhe and Ramesh Gaichor were arrested after the NIA questioned them in Mumbai on Monday. Jyoti Jagtap, a Marathi folk singer of national repute, was arrested in Pune on Tuesday. All three are Pune residents and stage performers for the Kabir Kala Manch, a cultural group that the Union home ministry labelled a Maoist front in 2011. The trio are also members of the Bhima Koregaon Shaurya Din Prerna Abhiyaan, which organised the Elgaar Parishad meeting held by Ambedkarites in Pune on December 31, 2017, which was followed by caste violence. The NIA is probing several people including authors, academics, lawyers and rights activists for alleged Maoist links and their purported role in the Elgaar Parishad meeting. In a video shared on the Abhiyaan’s Facebook page on Monday, Gorkhe said he and Gaichor were heading to the NIA office, expecting to be arrested. “Yes, we sang on the Elgaar stage.… We were called last month, and yesterday (Sunday) we were called again and they told us, ‘Accept you are connected to Maoists and we will let you go. Write a maafinama (clemency petition), we will leave you’,” Gorkhe said. “But we are not the children of Savarkar who will apologise. We are the children of Ambedkar. We have done nothing but work according to the Constitution. That’s why we are not apologising.” Hindutva ideologue Vinayak Damodar Savarkar had written several clemency pleas to the colonial British government after he was imprisoned in 1911 for revolutionary activity. Gorkhe added: “They are saying that we went to Gadchiroli, and they want to call the Elgaar Parishad a Maoist programme. We won’t allow this. It was a programme of human rights activists.” An NIA statement said a Mumbai court had granted the agency the custody of all the three till Friday. “During further investigation, it was revealed that accused Sagar Tatyaram Gorkhe, Ramesh Murlidhar Gaichor and Jyoti Raghoba Jagtap were propagating Naxal activities and Maoist ideology and were co-conspirators with other arrested accused,” the agency said. “It has also come on record that the arrested accused persons were in contact with absconding accused Milind Teltumbde about urban network of CPI (Maoist). Also it is established that during their visits (of Kabir Kala Munch members) in jungle, they underwent weapon & explosive training and awareness programme on various topics related to Maoist movement. “It is also established that as per the evidence on record that in June 2018 absconding accused Milind Teltumbde discussed about the Elgar Parishad programme which was organised at Pune and the subsequent inroads made by the CPI (Maoist) in the organisation and execution through the members of Kabir Kala Munch and other frontal organisations.” Teltumbde is suspected to be the leader of a Maoist zone covering the tri-junction of Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh. His brother Anand Teltumbde is a management professor and Dalit intellectual who has been arrested in the case. The Elgaar Parishad meeting was meant to commemorate the second centenary of the victory of the predominantly Mahar Dalit troops of the East Indian Company against the Peshwa’s army in the Battle of Koregaon. Hindutva mobs attacked a largely Dalit pilgrimage to the Bhima Koregaon victory pillar the next day, the clash claiming the life of a Maratha youth.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-680
09-09-2020||India||Call to resume Shramik train from Odisha ||Union minister Dharmendra  Pradhan has written to railway minister Piyush Goyal, seeking his intervention to relaunch the now-suspended services of Shramik Special trains from Odisha to other states to facilitate return of migrant workers to their places of work. In a letter to Goyal, the petroleum and steel minister said he has received many representations from migrant labourers in the state, seeking resumption of such special train services to Gujarat, Maharashtra and other states. “As you would be aware, there was a mass exodus of migrant workers from states like Gujarat, Karnataka and Maharashtra to Odisha in the wake of nationwide lockdown. With the efforts of the railway ministry, thousands of workers across the country could reach their home towns by Shramik Special trains and the same was appreciated widely,” Pradhan said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-680
09-09-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput case: The saddest show on Earth||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Tuesday arrested actress Rhea Chakraborty after questioning her for three days in connection with drugs-related allegations in her boyfriend and actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death case, PTI reported. She has been sent to judicial custody till September 22. Chakraborty, 28, was arrested under multiple sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act that deal with sale, possession or manufacture of banned drugs and possession or use of small quantities of banned drugs. In recent TV interviews, Chakraborty had denied that she consumed drugs. ⦿ So far used to target mostly groups and political or ideological dissidents, central agencies are now being deployed to hound individual citizens. ⦿ The transformation of the so-called television “news” media industry into an instrument of oppression of the State is complete. Rarely have private enterprises  become such an indistinguishable organ of the government. ⦿ What the television lynch mob is doing is not journalism. Director Anubhav Sinha told employees of such TV networks in a tweet: “If you still feel like a journalist, RESIGN. You won’t die of hunger. You will discover new friends, opportunities and avenues.” ⦿ The audience must share the blame, too. The most sordid chapter in Indian opinion-tampering history has brought out the worst of the medieval bloodlust that lurks in our modern drawing rooms. ⦿ No one has any doubt that the charade is being staged to distract them from crises the country has rarely seen before. No one has any doubt that the immediate trigger is the election in Bihar, the home state of Sushant. Yet, many have volunteered to be part of the largest collection of suckers on the planet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-680
09-09-2020||India||The levels to which the fake news factory is stooping||Even a well-meaning law aimed at protecting children is being used in attempts to silence voices that expose falsehoods, but this time a pushback has taken place. At least one FIR, if not more, for alleged child abuse has been filed against Mohammed Zubair, co-founder of the fact-checking website AltNews, for taking on a Twitter troll. Zubair had asked a Twitter user, Jagdish Singh, in reply to an offensive comment whether his granddaughter — a reference to a young girl seen in Singh’s profile picture — knew he abused people. The FIR against Zubair has triggered outrage on social media and an #IStandWithZubair hashtag has come up. Journalists and other social media users have accused the authorities of harassing Zubair because his fact-checking website has consistently busted fake news. Although Alt-News does not confine itself to scrutinising news disseminated by any particular section, many of the falsehoods it has exposed happened to have been spread by Right-wing sympathisers. Zubair had responded to the video of a potholed road tweeted on August 6 by an inspector-general of police from Congress-ruled Chhattisgarh, Dipanshu Kabra, who asked people to guess the city. Zubair had tweeted an AltNews report that said the video was from China in 2017. To this, Singh, who appears to be a Raipur resident, replied with an abusive comment. Singh, whose profile picture showed an adult man and a young girl, had earlier too repeatedly used communal and abusive slurs against Zubair on Twitter. Zubair replied with an image of Singh’s profile picture but with the girl’s photo blurred. “Hello Jagdish Singh, does your cute granddaughter know about your part-time job of abusing people on social media? I suggest you to change your profile pic,” he wrote. The National Commission for the Protection of Child Rights sent complaints to Delhi and Raipur police and both filed FIRs, The Indian Express newspaper has reported. Scroll, a digital news publication, reported that the commission had taken cognisance of an August 8 complaint from an NGO, the Forum for Indigenous Rights — North-East India. Two Twitter accounts from where Zubair received supportive replies have also been named in the complaint. Zubair has been booked under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act and the Information Technology Act. He could not be contacted for comment. Alt-News editor Pratik Sinha told The Telegraph: “We have only received a copy of the Raipur FIR so far. Under the criminal procedure code, a person can be booked for a single offence in only one FIR. We don’t know what jurisdiction Delhi police have as neither the complainant nor the defendant stays there, nor has the alleged offence been committed there.” Sinha added: “We will challenge the validity of the FIR as the charges are absolutely trumped-up. The child’s image was blurred. The remarks were directed towards the guardian and not the child.... No private information of anyone was revealed by Zubair.” Sinha has shared several past tweets by Singh that shared images and morphed images of women Opposition leaders and activists and carried sexually coloured remarks. Many journalists and others have tweeted in support of Zubair over the past three days. Some of them have also tweeted receipts of their financial contributions to AltNews. Senior journalist Seema Chishti tweeted: “As headlines over the last few weeks have made clear, the authorities in India are simply unwilling to take on abusive users on social media if they favour the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party. Instead, the lens is turned on those who highlight these abuses.” Faye D’ Souza, former executive editor of Mirror Now, tweeted: “#IStandWithZubair and @AltNews The harassment will only stop when we speak up for each other.” Actor Swara Bhaskar tweeted: “Stand with @zoo_bear (Zubair’s handle)! Stay strong buddy.” Ashok Swain, a professor at Sweden’s Uppsala University, wrote: “Hindutva Gang doing what they do always! Harass the people who expose their lies.” Another tweeter, M. Asif Khan, said: “Few weeks ago, a RW (Right Wing) guy abused @zoo_bear’s mother on TL (timeline), no action was taken against that abuser. But now Md Zubair is facing legal case, why?? Just because he busted RW Fake News Factory and he is a vocal Muslim? Unapologetically standing with him! #IStandWithZubair.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-680
09-09-2020||India||No benefit from plasma: ICMR study||Convalescent plasma was unable to reduce mortality or severe illness among coronavirus disease patients, India’s health research agency said on Tuesday, reporting the outcome of a nationwide clinical trial of the experimental therapy prescribed for Covid-19. The Indian Council of Medical Research said the trial did not find any difference in the mortality or severe disease between Covid-19 patients who had received the best standard care and those who had received convalescent plasma along with best standard care. The use of convalescent plasma did not translate into any meaningful clinical benefits, Aparna Mukherjee, a senior ICMR researcher, and her collaborators from across the country said in a paper posted on medRXiv, an archive for research papers, but not peer-reviewed yet. The trial involved 464 Covid-19 patients in 39 public and private hospitals across India. Convalescent plasma is a substance that is extracted from the blood of people who have recovered from the infection and that contains antibodies against SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19. The clinical trial found that 34 (13.6 per cent) of 235 patients who received convalescent plasma along with best standard care died while 31 (14.6 per cent) of 229 patients who received only the best standard care died. The difference is not statistically significant. In both groups, 17 patients had severe illness. Researchers say India’s no-benefit findings mirror the results from other countries, particularly a clinical trial in the Netherlands that was prematurely terminated after enrolling 86 patients and not finding any effect on mortality or disease severity. An independent review of 20 studies worldwide had found no clear benefit of plasma therapy on Covid-19 mortality. Doctors say the ICMR findings are important and have direct implications for clinical practice in India. Although the Union health ministry had asserted that convalescent plasma is experimental and needs to be used with caution, many doctors have been concerned about unwarranted enthusiasm and sale of plasma in the black market at exorbitant prices across India. “Plasma therapy consumes a lot of time, effort, money and resources — the collection and storage of plasma and the process of measuring antibodies are all resource-intensive,” said Shri Prakash Kalantri, professor of medicine at the Mahatma Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences, Wardha. “This trial shows the intervention is not worth the resources it consumes,” said Kalantri who was not associated with the clinical trial but which he has described as a “well-designed trial” that enrolled a representative sample of patients from across the country. Kalantri, who has earlier questioned the ICMR’s decision to prescribe hydroxychloroquine as a medication to prevent Covid-19, said the ICMR and its researchers deserved “unfettered praise” for designing and executing a clinical trial that addressed an experimental therapy for Covid-19. “Negative results are as important in medicine as positive results,” he said. “The results are discouraging,” said Dipyaman Ganguly, a clinician-researcher at the Indian Institute of Chemical Biology, Calcutta, who is involved in an independent smaller plasma trial in Calcutta. Doctors say the findings also point to the need for caution before rushing into a therapy even during a pandemic. “Plasma banks have come up across the country, but we now know plasma is not a magic bullet the way some had tried to portray it,” said Oommen John, a public health specialist at The George Institute for Global Health.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-680
09-09-2020||India||Shots fired on India-China border shatter 45-year silence||Shots were fired for the first time in 45 years on the India-China border on Monday evening, escalating tensions in a Ladakh sector where 10,000 troops from either side are face to face amid arrays of tanks, artillery guns and missile systems. The tit-for-tat disclosures — both sides accused the other of opening fire — came on the eve of a meeting in Moscow where the foreign ministers of India and China are scheduled to be present. Although the Indian Army officially denied that its soldiers used firearms, sources in the security establishment said shots were fired from both sides. “Our soldiers fired as a counter-measure to defend our territory as the Chinese troops attempted grab land. The firing took place near the Mukhpari peak near Rezang La,” a security official said. Rezang La is the place where a company of 13 Kumaon Regiment, led by Major Shaitan Singh, had held back the Chinese PLA during the 1962 war. On Tuesday afternoon, unnamed “Indian government sources” circulated photographs showing Chinese soldiers carrying guandaos (a blade-tipped pole weapon used in some forms of Chinese martial arts) near the Mukhpari peak in Chushul, eastern Ladakh, on Monday evening. The Indian sources said that besides the guandaos, the around 50-60 Chinese soldiers carried rods, spears and clubs and tried to close in on an Indian position on Mukhpari. The Chinese troops approached the Indian post around 6pm but the Indian Army confronted them and forced their retreat, the sources said. Forced to return, the Chinese troops fired 10-15 rounds in the air to intimidate the Indian soldiers, the sources added. The Indian Army had issued an official statement earlier on Tuesday denying its troops had used firearms and alleging the Chinese had tried to “close in” on a forward position and “fired a few rounds in the air in an attempt to intimidate” Indian troops. Late on Monday night, the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) of China had accused Indian troops of crossing the LAC near the Pangong Lake’s south bank and firing warning shots when Chinese troops arrived to negotiate with them. On the 3,488km Line of Actual Control, neither side had fired shots since 1975. No firearms had been used by either side during the violent clash in the Galwan Valley on June 15 that killed 20 Indian soldiers and an unspecified number of Chinese troops. “Monday’s firing violates protocols observed for more than 40 years by either side. It suggests the situation is extremely fragile and dangerous,” an Intelligence Bureau official said. A longstanding protocol forbids the use of firearms on the un-demarcated LAC, which witnesses several face-offs and skirmishes every year, and advocates dialogue to resolve issues. Military veteran Pravin Sawhney tweeted: “Absurd to state that shots were fired in air for warning in war zone as if the task was law & order to disperse civilian crowd. Something else is going on?” Indian army sources said the standoff was continuing on Tuesday at Rezang La near the Mukhpari peak. “The distance between the Indian and Chinese troops is approximately 150 to 200 metres. Local commanders are holding talks to defuse the tension,” an official said. Harsh winter: China For the first time since the standoff began, China on Tuesday referred to the approaching winter and expressed hope that disengagement can be achieved as soon as possible through mutual consultations. Asked about the restoration of the status quo by disengaging the troops, Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian told a media briefing in Beijing: “You have a good wish. We all hope our troops get back to their camping area and there won’t be any more confrontation in the border areas.” He added: “You know that place has a very bad natural condition and it is above a height of 4,000 metres. In winter this is not good for humans to live. So we hope, through diplomatic and military channels and through consultations on the ground, we can achieve disengagement as soon as possible and reach consensus.” In mountainous Ladakh, temperatures can plummet to minus 30 degrees Celsius in winter. Zhao’s reference to the harsh winter came amid suggestions that both sides were making arrangements for a long-drawn face-off, especially in the Pangong Lake area. On Monday’s firing, the Indian Army said: “In the instant case on September 7, it was the PLA troops who were attempting to close in with one of our forward positions along the LAC and when dissuaded by own (Indian) troops, PLA troops fired a few rounds in the air in an attempt to intimidate own troops. However, despite the grave provocation, own troops exercised great restraint and behaved in a mature and responsible manner.” The statement accused China of committing grave provocations on the ground while talking of peace at bilateral meetings. “(While) India is committed to disengagement and de-escalating the situation on the LAC, China continues to undertake provocative activities to escalate. At no stage has the Indian Army transgressed across the LAC or resorted to use of any aggressive means, including firing,” the statement said. “It is the PLA that has been blatantly violating agreements and carrying out aggressive manoeuvres, while engagement at military, diplomatic and political level is in progress.” The Chinese army statement referred to the area of confrontation as “Shenpao mountain” near the lake’s south bank. India’s army termed the Chinese statement misleading but did not specify the site of the incident except for saying it was on the Indian side of the LAC. “The Indian Army is committed to maintaining peace and tranquillity; however, (it) is also determined to protect national integrity and sovereignty at all costs. The statement by the (Chinese) Western Theatre Command is an attempt to mislead their domestic and international audience,” the army said. Defence minister Rajnath Singh met the three service chiefs and reviewed security at the LAC, a ministry official said. The two armies have been locked in a standoff since early May at multiple friction points --- the north bank of the Pangong Lake, Hot Springs and Depsang Plains – where the Chinese have ensconced themselves well inside India-claimed lines and altered the status quo. A degree of disengagement has happened in the Galwan Valley, but the Chinese are understood to be still inside India-claimed territory there.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-680
09-09-2020||India||Cabbie killed, family levels  ‘Jai Shri Ram’ chant charge||A cab driver from Delhi was murdered in his taxi on a Greater Noida highway on Sunday night, his family alleging his passengers had asked him to chant “Jai Shri Ram” but the police had kept this out of the FIR. Mohammed Shabir, son of victim Aftab Alam, 42, said he had recorded the conversation between his father and the passengers when Aftab called him briefly but did not disconnect the phone. “We didn’t mention this (the religious angle) in the FIR because the (Greater Noida) police said we could add this during further investigations,” Shabir told reporters. “We wrote only what the police asked us to — that some people had killed him and taken his money and mobile.” Harish Chandra, deputy commissioner of police, central Noida zone, said the police had heard the audio recording. He claimed the passengers had quarrelled with Aftab over the taxi fare and asked a roadside vendor, not the cabbie, to chant “Jai Shri Ram”. Aftab was thrashed and stabbed with a sharp object, the police said, but the exact time of the attack is unclear. His body was found in the stationary cab near Badalpur village in Greater Noida around midnight, while the 41-minute audio was recorded sometime between 8pm and 9pm till Aftab’s mobile battery ran out. Deepak Kumar, a sub-inspector with Badalpur police station, said the police had recovered images of Aftab’s three passengers from CCTV footage from the nearby Luharli toll booth. Deepak said the footage showed the three male passengers refusing to pay the toll and shouting they were residents of the locality. Shabir said: “Father had called me to recharge his FASTag account (from which toll can be paid electronically) and then put the phone in his pocket without disconnecting the call. I recorded the conversation, which shows the killers asking him to chant ‘Jai Sri Ram’.” He added: “They had initiated a discussion on religion with him and offered him liquor.” Mohammad Tabrez, a relative of Aftab, said: “Aftab would never stop the cab on the highway at night for strangers. This means these people had forced him to stop. He must have sensed trouble and that’s why didn’t disconnect the phone — he wanted us to hear the conversation.” A woman had rented Aftab’s cab from Gurgaon in Haryana at 3pm on Sunday. He dropped her at Bulandshahr, 125km away, around 7pm and was returning to Delhi, where he lived in the Trilokpuri area, when the three suspects boarded his cab. The cab reached the Luharli toll booth at 7.57pm, just about 5km from Badalpur, implying it was mostly stationary while the recorded conversation between the passengers and Aftab was taking place. The cab was found about 150 metres from a Badalpur hospital, where Aftab was declared dead on arrival. “Aftab’s body was on the front passenger’s seat, suggesting he was beaten up elsewhere and placed there while one of the passengers drove the cab. Aftab had injury marks on his head, mouth and neck,” sub-inspector Kumar said. The police have registered a case of robbery and murder. Ankur Agrawal, additional deputy commissioner of police, said: “Aftab’s mobile is missing but we have some leads and hope to arrest the killers soon.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-681
09-09-2020||India||Appeal: Do not let Covid guard down||The head of India’s coronavirus task force on Tuesday asserted the need for people with symptoms to seek tests without fear and for everybody to wear masks in public spaces, adopt physical distancing and avoid crowds. The need for early diagnosis and such precautions are even more relevant now amid the daily increase in cases than earlier, said Vinod Paul, a member of the Niti Aayog, the government’s apex think tank, and chair of the national coronavirus task force. “We have to create an environment where people do not fear tests,” Paul said, citing concerns about anecdotal accounts of people with symptoms such as cough or fever avoiding the diagnostic tests. The tests are now available “on demand” without the need for a doctor’s prescription, Paul said. The Indian Council of Medical Research had last week tweaked the testing strategy to allow any person to seek tests on demand. Paul also expressed concern that some people have become “lax” under relaxations from the lockdown, cautioning that there is no space for negligence and underlining the need for precautions such as masks in public spaces, physical distancing and avoiding crowds. While health authorities would respond through containment efforts, surveillance and contact tracing, Paul said, personal precautionary measures expected to be adopted by the members of the public would remain “the key to slowing down the pandemic”. Under the relaxations from the lockdown and opening up of the economy, he said, there are now more opportunities for the virus to continue to spread among even more people. “We want to repeat this plea over and over again — use masks 100 per cent in public spaces, maintain physical distancing, avoid crowds, do not spit, and adopt hand hygiene,” Paul said. The appeal for public discipline comes amid an average daily increase of over 84,000 new coronavirus disease cases over the past week. India on Tuesday recorded 75,809 new Covid-19 cases, raising the total number to over 4.28 million, of whom 3.32 million have recovered, more than 880,000 patients are under medical supervision and 72,775 have died. Five states — Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh — account for 62 per cent of the active patients and 70 per cent of the deaths. However, amid the rising infection and death counts, the case fatality rate — the mortality among all lab-confirmed Covid-19 cases — has fallen from 2.15 per cent in early August to 1.70 per cent on Tuesday. Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said the fall in the case fatality rate could be attributed to efforts by doctors, nurses and paramedical staff as well as the dissemination of the standard treatment protocols to Covid-19 hospitals across India. Bhushan said 28 states had case fatality rates lower than the national average of 1.7 per cent. The case fatality rates in Assam, Kerala, Odisha, Bihar, Manipur, Meghalaya, Telangana, Himachal Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Andhra Pradesh, Jharkhand and Tripura are below 1 per cent, a target the health ministry had set last month.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-681
09-09-2020||India||Relapse fears over halt in adult literacy drive||India’s literacy-cum-continuous-learning programme has been put on pause for over two years, raising fears that a sizable segment of the neo-literates might relapse into illiteracy in addition to the country’s over 16 crore illiterate people. On Tuesday, International Literacy Day, the Centre promised a new literacy scheme, Padhna Likhna Abhiyan (PLA), sometime soon but did not reveal the size of the target population. The government had in 2009 launched the Saakshar Bharat Mission (SBM) literacy programme. It engaged nearly 1.65 lakh preraks or village-level workers to encourage illiterate people from their neighbourhoods to visit informal centres to be taught basic reading, writing and arithmetic skills by volunteer teachers. Each participant was to undergo 300 days of training and take a test. If they passed, the scheme enabled them to continue their education up to Class XII under an open schooling system. Resource centres were established in every state to prepare textbooks for the participants. The scheme, whose tenure was to end in March 2017, was extended by one year after which the cabinet proposed that it be recast. Since then, the education ministry has been working on designing and launching the PLA. The 2011 census counted 24 crore illiterate people over the age of 15. By March 2018, some 7.6 crore people had received literacy training under the SBM. With the SBM in limbo and no new scheme in place, researchers said India now faced a tougher challenge to achieve 100 per cent literacy by 2030, a commitment under the Sustainable Development Goals. “After gaining basic literacy, the new literates need to be engaged in further reading and writing under a continuous learning programme,” said Rajesh Kumar, professor at the department of adult and continuing education in Delhi University. “The SBM had a basic literacy and continuous learning programme. With the scheme discontinued, a sizable segment of the neo-literates would have relapsed into illiteracy. All of them will have to be identified now in addition to those not covered by the previous scheme.” Kumar said the adult learners needed to be trained in digital literacy too. Education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal on Tuesday spoke about building a volunteer-based mass movement around literacy. He said the country’s 33 crore students and over 1 crore teachers could involve themselves in the movement. ‘“Each one, teach one and reach one’ should be the motto. We should do it on a mission mode. If we involve teachers and students, the programme will go a long way,” he said. An education ministry official said the National Council for Educational Research and Training would prepare the curriculum and textbooks for the PLA and that there would be a survey to identify illiterate people in every block. Kumar, however, said that any programme based entirely on volunteers was unlikely to yield significant results. “When there is no incentive, motivation will be low. If not monetary incentive, the government and the education regulators can award academic credits to students who volunteer for literacy programmes,” Kumar, a member of the community development cell of DU, said. A former government official who was involved in the SBM said the Centre had in 1977 begun an adult education programme by involving college students, paying them Rs 100 a month. But the scheme produced little benefit. “Illiterate people come largely from socially disadvantaged families. The children in these families need support for their own studies; they are unlikely to invest time in the literacy mission,” the former official said. An email sent to the education ministry seeking the reasons for the SBM’s discontinuation without an alternative programme has remained unanswered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-681
09-09-2020||India||Congress lines up House questions for PM ||The Congress leadership believes Prime Minister Narendra Modi has pushed India into a deep crisis with Rahul Gandhi likening him to the captain of the Titanic, the ship that broke into pieces after hitting an iceberg. At a meeting called by Sonia Gandhi on Tuesday to discuss parliamentary strategy for the session beginning on September 14, there was a consensus among senior leaders that the government’s mismanagement and the constant denial of the gravity of the situation on multiple fronts — from the economy to Chinese intrusions — had created a frightening scenario at a time when people were grappling with the pandemic. It was decided that the Congress would forcefully raise these issues in both Houses of Parliament. Although the government hasn’t yet engaged with the Opposition on the question of the Chinese incursions, and most parties have avoided confronting the Prime Minister on the issue, the Congress has placed it on top priority, deciding to seek answers on every aspect of the disturbing development. The Congress does not intend to settle for anything less than a full-fledged discussion on the Chinese incursions where the Prime Minister himself must reply to questions. The other issues identified by the Opposition party are the economy, unemployment, Covid-19 and the lockdown. Rahul, like most other leaders present at the meeting, feels these have together created a frightening scenario, and drew a parallel with the Titanic. He is believed to have said that these issues will explode suddenly one day, no matter how forcefully the government and the media tries to divert the nation’s attention, just like the Titanic had crumbled after hitting the iceberg. Rahul, who has been attacking the government relentlessly over the past few months, again tweeted on Tuesday on the planned “sale” of public sector units and the mishandling of the Covid-19 pandemic. “Due to Modi government’s gross mismanagement of Covid: 1. India’s total cases world’s 2nd highest. 2. India’s weekend tally higher than US & Brazil put together. 3. On Sunday, India’s share was 40% of total cases worldwide. 4. No flattening of curve. Stay safe everyone,” the Congress MP tweeted. In another tweet, Rahul said: “Modi is running a campaign to sell government companies. The country’s assets are being sold bit by bit to make up for the economic crisis manufactured by his wrong policies. By ignoring the people’s trust and future, the plan to sell Life Insurance Corporation (LIC) is yet another shameful attempt.” Rahul argued at Tuesday’s meeting that Modi can’t only be told what he wants to hear and that it is the duty of the Congress to force the government to address the real concerns hurting the people. The senior leaders concurred with him on the seriousness of the crisis and resolved to raise every issue with vigour. Apart from the members of the parliamentary strategy committee, Mallikarjun Kharge, A.K. Antony and Manish Tewari also participated. The so-called dissenters who had written to Sonia on the drift in the party — Ghulam Nabi Azad and Anand Sharma, apart from Tewari — also spoke at the meeting. Sources said the atmosphere was normal. The Congress also decided to field a joint Opposition candidate for the post of deputy chairman in the Rajya Sabha and oppose four ordinances on farm produce and banking regulations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-681
09-09-2020||India||Missing Arunachal youths found in China||The five youths missing since Friday from Upper Subansiri district in Arunachal Pradesh have been found on the Chinese side of the Line of Actual Control, China’s army has informed its Indian counterpart. Union minister of state Kiren Rijiju revealed the development through a tweet on Tuesday evening. Tezpur-based defence PRO Harsh Wardhan Pande said the youths had inadvertently crossed over to the other side on September 2, and confirmed that the process for their release had begun. Arunachal Pradesh shares a porous and disputed 1,080km border with China. Media reports had claimed the Chinese army had kidnapped the five villagers who may have got close to a disputed border point, Sera 7, on a hunting expedition. Since the incident came amid tensions on the India-China border in Ladakh, there was widespread concern over the fate of the youths. Local organisations had demanded the state and central governments take immediate steps to ensure their safety and release. On Monday, the Chinese foreign ministry had said it had no details to share on the missing youths. It had also reaffirmed the Chinese stand that Arunachal was part of South Tibet, adding to the tensions. “China’s PLA (People’s Liberation Army) has responded to the hotline message sent by Indian Army. They have confirmed that the missing youths from Arunachal Pradesh have been found by their side,” Rijiju tweeted. “Further modalities to hand over the persons to our authority (are) being worked out.” Rijiju, MP from Arunachal West which includes Upper Subansiri district, had on Sunday tweeted that India’s army had contacted the Chinese army through a “hotline message” to seek the youths’ whereabouts. Pande tweeted: “Chinese Army on 08 Sept responded on hotline and confirmed that the missing Indians have been found on their side. Formalities for their early transfer (are) being coordinated with the Chinese Army.” Sources said the Chinese had earlier captured a young man from the Nacho circle in March and released him after nearly a month’s negotiations. The five missing youths are also from a village in the Nacho circle. Tagin Cultural Society secretary-general Lardik Kare said the missing youths being located was a welcome development. “Now all efforts should be made to secure their early and safe release. Our team will go to Nacho tomorrow to get ground-level reports,” Kare said. Till Tuesday, the missing youths’ families and the organisations demanding their release had not lodged a formal missing persons complaint with the police or the civil administration. But the local police had confirmed that the five were missing. The village where the five youths live is about 3km from the Nacho township and 120km from district headquarters Daporijo. From Nacho township, it takes two to three days to reach some of the 20-25 villages in the Nacho circle, which has a population of around 5,000. The Sera 7 border point is a 10-to-12-day walk from Nacho township. The local people earn a living through hunting, fishing, medicinal plants and jhum cultivation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-681
09-09-2020||India||China cries ‘provocation’ on border, India silent ||External affairs minister S. Jaishankar is set to meet his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi in Moscow on Wednesday in a multilateral setting during a conference of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation foreign ministers in the thick of another escalation of tensions along the border that China has called a “serious military provocation”. A separate bilateral meeting was being talked about in diplomatic circles even prior to Monday’s developments along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) when Chinese troops fired a few rounds in the air during an attempt to close in on one of India’s forward positions but there has been no official announcement on this yet. This will be the first time the two foreign ministers will come face-to-face after the Chinese incursions began early this summer. They engaged virtually once during the ongoing face-off in June at the Russia-India-China trilateral meeting hosted by Moscow, and spoke to each other after the Galwan clash in which 20 Indian soldiers and an unspecified number of Chinese personnel died. If the meeting between Jaishankar and Wang materialises, it will be the second such engagement between the political leaderships of the two countries in less than a week. Earlier on Friday, defence minister Rajnath Singh and his counterpart Gen. Wei Fenghe had met on the sidelines of a Shanghai Cooperation Organisation meeting in Moscow. Nothing much came out of that session, as is evident from Monday’s developments. India and China have accused each other of once again disrupting the fragile peace that has held along the LAC since the June 15 Galwan clash. While India on record said “it is the PLA (People’s Liberation Army) that has been blatantly violating agreements and carrying out aggressive manoeuvres while engagement at military, diplomatic and political level is in progress”, China accused Indian troops of crossing the LAC and firing warning shots. “Indian troops illegally trespassed via the southern bank of Pangong Tso on the western section of the China-India border on September 7,” said Senior Colonel Zhang Shuili, spokesperson for the Western Theater Command of the Chinese PLA. “The Indian troops brazenly made gunshot threat to the patrolling Chinese border guards who came forward for negotiations, and the Chinese border guards were forced to take countermeasures to stabilise the situation on the ground,” a translation of Zhang’s statement issued by the Chinese embassy in New Delhi said. The embassy further quoted Zhang as saying India’s move was a grave military provocation. “The flagrant act grossly violated the agreements previously reached between the two sides, and further escalated regional tensions, which can easily lead to misunderstandings and misjudgments,” it said. “We demand the Indian side to immediately stop dangerous actions, withdraw cross-line troops right away, strictly restrain its frontline troops, earnestly investigate and punish the personnel who fired shots, and guarantee against the occurrence of similar incidents,” Zhang said. Later, Chinese foreign ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian said the Indian troops had “illegally crossed the line into the Shenpao Mountain region on the southern bank of the Pangong Lake in the western sector of the China-India border”, adding that their behaviour had heightened tensions and made the situation highly susceptible to misunderstanding and miscalculation. “This is a serious military provocation of an egregious nature.” The Indian external affairs ministry did not comment on the latest developments and only shared a statement issued earlier by the army on the situation in eastern Ladakh. Even at the meeting of the parliamentary standing committee on external affairs, foreign secretary Harsh V. Shringla is understood to have not said much on the China situation although members, including from the BJP, had several questions. He reiterated India’s resolve to protect its territorial sovereignty but did not go into the specifics as China was in any case not on the agenda of Tuesday’s meeting. Also, given the sensitive nature of the situation along the LAC, officials cannot be compelled to reveal details, Shringla is believed to have said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-681
09-09-2020||India||SOPs for schools offering guidance||The Union health ministry has issued standard operating procedures (SOPs) for “partial reopening” of schools outside Covid containment zones to offer guidance to students of Classes XI to XII who voluntarily turn up with the written consent of parents/guardians from September 21. The SOPs said seating arrangement should ensure a gap of six feet between chairs and desks on the school premises. It also prescribed staggered guidance activities with separate time slots. Students, teachers and staff should use face covers and alcohol-based hand sanitisers (for at least 20 seconds), frequently wash hands with soap (at least 40 to 60 seconds) and desist from spitting in public places. Schools should sanitise the common utility areas. If weather permits, the interaction between students and teachers should be held outdoor. The guidelines prohibit assemblies, sports and events that can lead to overcrowding. Sanitiser dispensers and thermal screening provisions should be made available in the schools. The schools should use multiple separate gates, if feasible, for entry and exit, the SOPs said. Cafeteria and swimming pool shall remain closed. If anyone develops symptoms, the person should be placed in a room in isolation  and the family should be informed. Teaching and non-teaching staff up to 50 per cent of their total strength may be called to schools. Instead of biometric attendance, alternative arrangements for contactless attendance should be made by the school administration, the SOPs said. The Unlock 4 guidelines issued earlier by the Union home ministry had already said regular classes would be closed till September 30.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-681
09-09-2020||India||Congress leader in Kerala rape comment soup||Veteran Kerala Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala has courted controversy by making an insensitive comment when asked about a rape case involving a health official. Queried on claims that the official owned allegiance to an employees’ union of the Congress, Chennithala, the leader of the Opposition in the Assembly, replied with a smirk during a media conference in Thiruvananthapuram on Tuesday: “Is it written anywhere that only DYFI people can sexually abuse?” An ambulance driver supposedly belonging to the DYFI, the youth wing of the CPM, has been accused of raping a Covid patient. Junior health inspector Pradeep Kumar has been arrested on the charge of raping a 44-year-old home nurse who had approached him for a coronavirus negative certificate. Kumar had allegedly asked her to come to his house at Pangode in Thiruvananthapuram to collect the certificate but tied her to a bed and raped her there. The nurse had been in quarantine after returning from duty at Malappuram in north Kerala, and needed a negative certificate to resume work. At the news conference, Chennithala accused the Left government of failing to protect the nurse and the Covid-19 patient who was allegedly raped by the ambulance driver at Pandalam in Pathanamthitta district. The driver, V. Naufal, has been arrested. Health minister K.K. Shailaja slammed Chennithala for his remarks and demanded an apology. “The leader of the Opposition who insulted women should apologise,” she wrote on Facebook. “Criminals who insult women won’t have a place in the health department,” she added, referring to Kumar and Naufal, also a government employee. Chennithala claimed he had been quoted out of context. “It has come to my attention that some sections have been mocking me by taking just one word. It is being circulated as if I told reporters that if it was written anywhere that only DYFI people can sexually abuse,” the Congress leader said in a statement. “What I said was that not only DYFI, but even NGO union (government employees’ union) are sexually abusing,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-681
09-09-2020||India||‘BJP bribe’ scribe held for another’s post||A Leh journalist who had last year alleged a BJP attempt to bribe reporters was briefly arrested on Saturday over another person’s abusive remarks against Ladakh MP Jamyang Tsering Namgyal. Tsewang Rigzin, a journalist with the Jammu-based State Times who also runs a prominent Facebook page, Ladakh in the Media, was arrested following a complaint from Namgyal. The abusive comment against the MP had appeared on Rigzin’s Facebook page. Rigzin, who was granted bail on Saturday evening, has received widespread support. The journalist released a video and a statement on Monday night detailing the “real” reasons for his arrest. He told The Telegraph he had been arrested because of his role in “exposing” how BJP politicians allegedly tried to bribe journalists in Leh for favourable coverage ahead of last year’s parliamentary polls. He said he had been targeted also for taking a stand against last week’s resolution by the BJP-led Leh autonomous council seeking constitutional safeguards for Ladakh. “My Facebook page has 34,000 members, which is quite a big number in a place like Ladakh (with a population of 2.5 lakh). I was summoned twice by the police, first on September 1 and then on September 5, in relation to a comment made by somebody,” he said. “I told them it’s not possible to monitor all the comments and offered to delete it but they told me not to, saying it would destroy evidence. On September 5, they told me they could not trace the person who had made the remarks. I don’t know whether he is a real person or a fake. But they told me they have to arrest me. I fully cooperated.… It was all planned.” Rigzin said he was not detained in the lockup and had called an acquaintance to deposit bail for his release. He said the arrest was made under IPC Section 188 (disobeying a public servant). He also faces charges under Sections 294 (public obscenity) and 500 (defamation). Namgyal did not respond to calls from this newspaper. The MP, however, defended his decision to lodge a complaint in a Facebook post on Tuesday, asking how he could be expected to “tolerate such unacceptable acts towards my family”. He did not mention Rigzin by name but named the person who had abused him. The comment, he wrote, was related neither “to my political profession, nor to my party affiliation (or) to my stand on current issues”. “It was (a) purely personal attack on my family members which is (a) very emotional issue for me. So I request all to please let police work independently rather (than) standing (with) anyone without knowing facts and supporting one who is trying to gain public sympathy by mixing the matter with other issues.” Namgyal said he had lodged the FIR as a “husband of my beloved wife and as a father (of) our son”. Rigzin said that had the MP called him, he would have clarified the matter. The arrest came two days after the BJP-run Leh council sought job and land safeguards for Ladakhis under Article 371, the Sixth Schedule or a domicile law. Rigzin said nobody supported a domicile law in Ladakh as it would encroach on the rights of Ladakhis. The Centre’s new domicile law for Jammu and Kashmir has partially thrown open jobs for “outsiders”. “I feel that the action against me was just an excuse to harass me, and to silence the voices of thousands of people who are coming out so strongly in support of Sixth Schedule. For several months LiTM (Rigzin’s Facebook page) has been a platform where thousands can listen and express their views,” he said in a statement. “Secondly, the BJP has been somehow trying to intimidate me for more than a year now, ever since we exposed the bribery case during (the) Lok Sabha election. I was one of the journalists instrumental in making the case public. Whenever I felt I should speak up on an issue as an activist or as a citizen, I never hesitated.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-681
09-09-2020||India||Don’t rewrite history: CPI Rajya Sabha MP's plea to PM on book||CPI Rajya Sabha MP Binoy Viswam has urged the Prime Minister to scrap a committee set up by the Indian Council of Historical Research (ICHR) to review the entries in a book on freedom fighters that some Sangh outfits have sought a ban on. The five-volume Dictionary of Martyrs: India’s Freedom Struggle 1857-1947 has references to Variyamkunnath Kunjahamed Haji and Ali Musaliar, heroes of the 1921 Mapilla Rebellion or the Malabar Rebellion whom the Sangh parivar considers as anti-Hindu. Many fear that the decision to form the committee to review the contents of the book, whose soft copy Prime Minister Narendra Modi released last year, is aimed at banning the compilation. In a letter to Modi, CPI MP Viswam has described the formation of the committee as “another brazen attempt to rewrite the history of the Indian freedom struggle and discredit the contributions of freedom fighters who did not subscribe to the ideologies of the current ruling party”. According to Viswam, the review committee has been set up on the basis of a report submitted to the ICHR, which has commissioned the book along with the Union culture ministry, in 2016 by politically motivated individuals calling for the exclusion of communist and Muslim martyrs from it. “The 2016 report incorrectly argues for the exclusion of Communist martyrs of the Punnapra-Vayalar-Karivelloor and Kavumbayi agitations as well as of Muslim freedom fighters who lost their lives in the Wagon Tragedy and the Malabar Rebellion,” the MP from Kerala has pointed out. Viswam said the contributions of these martyrs were widely recognised by the people of Kerala and were a source of inspiration for youths, adding that their death anniversaries were passionately commemorated across the state every year. “These young men and women who laid down their lives to resist colonial rule were integral to India’s struggle for Independence, and attempts to rewrite the history of India for petty political gains are condemned and will be resisted. “I urge you to immediately intervene in this matter and suspend the review committee established by the ICHR. As the Prime Minister of India and a constitutional representative it is incumbent on you to prevent any attempts that seek to communalise our history and disturb the social fabric of the nation,” Viswam wrote. Viswam and the other Kerala MPs across party lines, barring the BJP, have decided to oppose the purported move to withdraw the book. The Malabar Rebellion essentially began as an uprising against the British and the feudal system, but the history of this important event in India’s freedom struggle is complex as many oppressive Hindu landlords, who had been aided by the colonial forces, were killed by the peasantry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-681
09-09-2020||India||Supreme Court rejects petition against oil price hike||The Supreme Court on Tuesday dismissed a PIL seeking a direction to the Centre to immediately withdraw the steep increase in the prices of petrol and diesel at a time when international crude prices were at their lowest. A bench of Justices R.F. Nariman, Navin Sinha and Indira Banerjee warned the petitioner of a “heavy cost” if the counsel choose to argue the matter on merit. “Do you want to argue this case? Because if you do, we might impose heavy costs,” Justice Nariman, heading the bench, told advocate Gaurav Agarwal, appearing for petitioner Shaji Kodankandath, a Kerala-based lawyer. Agarwal replied: “If Your Lordship puts it that way I will withdraw the plea.” The diesel price in Delhi had at one point reached an all-time high of over Rs 80 a litre, costlier than petrol, after 19 hikes imposed by oil companies since June jacked up the rate by a cumulative Rs 10.63 a litre, the petition pointed out. The petrol price in the national capital had also shot up to over Rs 79.9 a litre, the petition said. According to the petitioner, petrol and diesel are being sold by the government companies at more than 150 per cent of the actual manufacturing costs as international crude prices have come down drastically since April in the aftermath of the pandemic and the economic slowdown it has caused. Opposition parties had earlier flayed the government for saddling the common man with frequent crude price hikes at a time when massive unemployment, retrenchments and salary cuts were taking place.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-682
09-09-2020||India||Second Kannada actress in drugs net ||A second Kannada actress was arrested on Tuesday in connection with a drugs scandal that has straddled the worlds of showbiz and politics. Sanjjanaa Galrani, who has acted across the southern film industry, was arrested after Karnataka police’s central crime branch searched her house in Bangalore early in the morning. Last Friday, leading Kannada actress Ragini Dwivedi had been arrested in the same drugs case. Police sources said an arrested drug peddler had named both Ragini and Sanjjanaa during interrogation as regular customers of party drugs. Sanjjanaa — who debuted in 2006 and landed in a controversy the same year by starring in Ganda Hendathi, the Kannada remake of the Hindi film Murder, for excessive erotic content — was a regular at Bangalore’s high-profile party circuits where drugs were allegedly consumed. While the central crime branch was searching Sanjjanaa’s house, another team conducted a simultaneous raid at the Bangalore home of Delhi-based party organiser Viren Khanna, who was arrested along with Ragini on Friday. Joint commissioner of police Sandeep Patil, who heads the central crime branch, told reporters after recording the arrest of Sanjjanaa that it was part of the drugs case in which five others have already been arrested. Apart from Ragini, the other four are her alleged contact for drugs Ravishankar, Khanna, and suspected drug peddlers Niyaz and Nigerian Loum Pepper Samba. “We have seized some items from the two premises that were searched today. We also found a uniform of Karnataka police at Viren Khanna’s house. We are investigating how he got that,” Patil said. The officer made it clear there was “a lot to be done” in the case although the central crime branch was making good progress. “There is a lot to be done and many more people need to be questioned,” Patil said. “The investigation is proceeding in the right direction and we will complete this as soon as possible.” While the use of drugs in the Kannada film industry was being debated for a long time, this is the first time in recent memory that a drug bust has led to actors. The Narcotics Control Bureau had on August 21 raided two premises of well-known drug peddlers and arrested three persons, including a woman. The NCB had seized large quantities of party drugs from Anikha D, Anoop Mohammed and Rijesh Ravindran. Among the names of customers purportedly revealed by Anikha were Aditya Alva, son of late politician Jeevaraj Alva, and realtor Prashant Ranka. The two are yet to be arrested. Veteran actress and BJP-backed Independent Lok Sabha member Sumalatha Ambareesh told reporters that it was not proper to target only the film industry since the use of drugs was rampant “in all areas”. “It is a bitter truth that drug abuse is there in all areas. We cannot deny that. But please don’t target the cinema industry alone,” she said. The six arrested before Sanjjanaa have been booked under IPC Section 120B for criminal conspiracy and relevant sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985. If convicted, they faced 10 years’ rigorous imprisonment. The arrest of Ragini had triggered a war of words between political parties since she had campaigned for the BJP in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. The leader of the Opposition, P.C. Siddaramaiah of the Congress, and JDS leader H.D. Kumaraswamy have accused the BJP government of laxity in handling the case of Ragini since she had campaigned for the ruling party. Kumaraswamy had also accused the BJP of using drug money to topple the Congress-JDS government. The BJP has said Ragini is not a member of the party. “There is video evidence (of Ragini campaigning for the BJP). So BJP leaders cannot wash their hands of this,” Siddaramaiah said. Denying the allegations, chief minister and BJP veteran B.S. Yediyurappa had on Monday clarified that the government was not protecting anyone. “This kind of a crackdown is unprecedented and the government is taking all steps against the drug menace,” the chief minister had said. Municipal administration minister K.C. Narayana Gowda, with whom Ragini had campaigned in the Lok Sabha polls last year, pleaded ignorance about the actress’s alleged links with the drugs mafia. “I had not invited her as our star campaigner. But I didn’t object when she decided to campaign,” Gowda said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-682
09-09-2020||West Bengal||TMC rally passes BJP event, clash erupts||Violence erupted in Tufanganj of Cooch Behar district on Tuesday when supporters of BJP and Trinamul clashed with each other, prompting the police to rush to the spot and bring the situation under control. Political workers attacked each other with bamboo sticks, rods and bricks, said sources. It took time for the police to disperse the crowd. Later, Trinamul and BJP blamed each other and demanded legal steps against the other. Sources said Alipurduar’s BJP MP John Barla had convened a meeting of BJP workers at a community hall. When the meeting was in progress, a Trinamul rally to protest the Centre’s policies moved through the area. As the rally crossed the meeting venue, an altercation among supporters of rival parties snowballed into a clash. “We had a political event in Tufanjganj on Monday. Persons backed by the BJP attacked our people in a planned manner to foil it. We suspect the attack was orchestrated by John Barla. BJP supporters vandalised a party office and seven motorcycles of our supporters parked in front of the office. We want strict steps against the MP,” said Partha Pratim Roy, Cooch Behar district Trinamul chief. BJP leaders said there had been a heated verbal exchange near the community hall but denied the involvement of their party members in vandalism. “Our meeting was on when some Trinamul supporters came and started uttering abuses. This made some of our supporters walk out of the hall and articulate their protests. Seeing them, Trinamul supporters fled,” said Sanjoy Chakraborty, district general secretary of BJP in Cooch Behar. He blamed a rival Trinamul faction for the vandalism. “These people took the chance,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-381
09-09-2020||West Bengal||MP Mahua unmasks ‘carelessness’ amid Covid ||People argued with parliamentarian Mahua Moitra when she advised them to wear masks in Tehatta subdivision on Tuesday, prompting Nadia police to take note of the growing reluctance among many to obey the basic Covid safety protocol. From Wednesday, Nadia police will launch a fresh crackdown against those found moving in public places without masks. The desperation to flout safety protocols in the district became evident on Tuesday when some people in Tehatta argued with Moitra after she got out of her car and advised them to wear masks. Later in the day, the MP posted a video statement on her Facebook page urging strict police action against those violating safety norms. The incident eventually led Tehatta police to book people moving around without masks. Till late in the evening on Tuesday, 42 persons were booked for not wearing masks. The number of arrests in the Krishnagar police district was 125. The police have charged the violators under 51 (b) of the Disaster Management Act as well as under section 188 of the Indian Penal Code. Across Nadia, people found moving around without masks in large numbers is a common sight, even as the number of new Covid infections has increased alarmingly since the past one week. Since September 1, Nadia has recorded 875 new Covid positive cases. Speaking to The Telegraph, Moitra said: “I am shocked to see the sheer carelessness among a section of people. In rural areas, many people are not using face masks and not following the safety norms whereas the numbers of positive cases are increasing alarmingly in the district. While in other countries the numbers of positive cases are decreasing, we are having an opposite picture only because of such carelessness.” “If this goes on we will close the shops and markets and take action against the violators. The police will take to the streets from Wednesday to book such people,” she added. Sources said that senior officials also felt that the ongoing Unlocking phase had somehow encouraged people, particularly in rural areas of the district, to become careless about safety basics such as masks. Sources in the district administration said after the video statement of the MP came on social media, the district administration conveyed instructions to the administrative officials in the four subdivisions to increase vigilance and crack down on violators. A senior official of Nadia administration said: “It is primarily the duty of the police to enforce such protocols. We have sought their help.” Tehatta subdivisional officer Aneesh Dasgupta said: “The police have begun their work. There will be a fresh drive (against people not wearing masks) in several areas from Wednesday and this will continue.”Additional superintendent of police in Tehatta, Krishanu Roy, said they had started the crackdown in several areas under Tehatta subdivision on Tuesday itself.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-381
09-09-2020||West Bengal||Boost for NJP and Malda's railway infrastructure||The railways have taken up a slew of projects to improve infrastructure in New Jalpaiguri and Malda, the two most prominent stations of north Bengal, and to boost train connectivity in the region. The focus has come as a shot in the arm of the Bengal BJP which began taking credit for the projects. The most visible of the projects are improvement of facilities at New Jalpaiguri and Malda stations by the Katihar division of the Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR) and the Malda division of Eastern Railway (ER), respectively. According to sources in the NFR, the NJP station is getting four escalators, two lifts, an air-conditioned dormitory and a new foot over bridge, and a 30 KW solar plant to meet the station’s power requirements. Added to it, the NFR has developed infrastructure at some other stations, which include a foot over-bridge at Raiganj station and elevated platforms at stations like Gangarampur, Malda Court, Radhikapur and Naxalbari. The railways have also finished the task of rebuilding the Tindharia and Gayabari stations of the Darjeeling Himalayan Railway (DHR), which had been damaged during the 2017 statehood agitation in the hills. “Also, the Malda-NJP stretch and the Katihar-NJP stretch of the tracks have been completely electrified. From Calcutta, any train moving towards NJP will run with electric traction. Once normal services resume, people will surely be benefited by these facilities,” said a senior official of the NFR. The railways are also in the process of giving a thorough makeover to the Malda Town station and plan to finish installation of newer facilities in three months. Two escalators have already been installed and soon, two elevators will be set up to connect two platforms with foot over bridges. “The lifts would be installed in the next three months. Also, we are opening a ten-bed Intensive Care Unit at the railway hospital in Malda with all facilities and manpower. It would help the railway employees and people in general,” said Jatendra Kumar, the divisional railway manager of Malda division. In Malda district, it is a common practice among a section of residents to avail themselves of healthcare facilities at the railway hospital that is near the Malda Town station. These projects at NJP and Malda have given the BJP a chance to play the development card and highlight the achievements of the Narendra Modi government. “These are major developments in the railway sector. Earlier, the focus was more on southern parts of the state. But our government’s focus is to improve connectivity in north Bengal and Northeast. We are apprising people of the improvements and the new facilities,” said Pravin Agarwal, president of Siliguri (organisational) district of BJP. Khagen Murmu, the BJP MP of Malda North, said the projects reflected the Modi government’s commitment to the region, which supported the BJP in the last parliament polls. “These changes in railway services are for the people as our government believes in ensuring development,” he said. Trinamul leaders said such strategies of the BJP would not work. “No new train has been launched from Malda and from north Bengal as a whole in the past few years. Instead, the Centre is offering some of the popular routes to private players. The basic services on board are in a shambles. Some minor works can never be exaggerated as major developments,” said Mausam Benazir Noor, a Rajya Sabha member and the district Trinamul chief of Malda.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-381
09-09-2020||West Bengal||Family with two Covid patients thrashed||An elderly man and his family, including two Covid patients, were beaten up for allegedly refusing to pay goons at Panihati in North 24-Parganas on Monday night. The elderly man’s wife and younger daughter, both Covid-19 patients in home isolation, who had tried to protect the man, were thrashed. Sources said Biswanath De, 68, of Raja Ramchandghat Road, had sold off a part of his ancestral property at Deshbandhu Nagar last year, prompting local goon Raju Pal a.k.a. Tutul to demand a share. De sought the intervention of a councillor, which resolved the issue for a while, but Raju started demanding money again recently, De’s elder daughter Sharmishtha, who is married and lives nearby, said. Around 11pm on Monday night, Raju, his wife and some goons, landed up at De’s home and asked him to pay up Rs 1 lakh. When De refused, the goons led by Raju ransacked the house and thrashed him, his wife and younger daughter. “My father called me up. My husband and I rushed to save my parents and sister, but Raju started beating us too,” Sharmishtha said. Sharmistha and husband Hemanta alleged Khardah police did not cooperate with them initially, and arrested Raju only after she posted about the harassment on Facebook. DC (central) of Barrackpore Commissionerate Amandeep said the matter was being looked into.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-382
09-09-2020||West Bengal||Gang-raped girl drinks pesticide in Raiganj||A 16-year-old tribal girl, who along with her 14-year-old sister had been gang-raped at a village in Rajganj block of Jalpaiguri four days back, died at North Bengal Medical College and Hospital (NBMCH) on Monday night. After the rape, both the sisters had swallowed pesticide. Her 14-year-old sister is batting for her life in the hospital. The incident sparked tension in the village and adjoining areas, prompting senior police officers to visit the spot for investigation. Of the five accused of rape, three have been arrested so far. Sources said that on September 4, the youths of a neighbouring village had called the sisters on some pretext and given them sedatives. The sedated girls were then raped. Their family members unsuccessfully searched for them on September 4 and 5. On September 6, Sunday, the girls returned home and narrated their ordeal, their brother said, and added that in the evening, both consumed pesticide. The girls “took the drastic step as they had been mentally shattered”, the brother said. “We took them to a local hospital from where they were shifted to NBMCH. On Monday night, we lost one of them,” said their brother. Jalpaiguri SP Pradeep Kumar Yadav said charges under POCSO (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences) Act had been brought against those arrested and hunt for the remaining two accused was on. The trio have been sent to seven days’ police custody. The body of the 16-year-old girl reached home on Tuesday. Trinamul leaders, including Rajganj MLA Khageswar Roy, met the bereaved family. “All involved in this heinous act have to be arrested. We want stringent punishment for them,” said Roy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-382
09-09-2020||West Bengal||Covid active cases rise in Bengal after a gap||Bengal on Tuesday reported 3,091 new Covid-19 cases, 57 deaths and 2,996 recoveries. With more cases than recoveries, Bengal ended its 15-day streak of a dip in total active cases. For the first time since August 23, active cases rose by 38 to touch 23,254 in all. With this, the total number of infections in Bengal is nearly 1.87 lakh, of which over 1.6 lakh are recoveries. Of the 57 deaths, 19 were from Calcutta and 12 from North 24-Parganas, raising the toll to 3,677 in all. Sixty-one per cent of Bengal’s Covid toll came from these two districts. Of the total deaths, 3,165 (86.1 per cent) were reported comorbid by the state government. Bengal’s overall mortality rate improved to 1.96, but the national rate is still lower at 1.69 per cent. Bengal is sixth among states with the highest Covid mortality rates, and seventh among states with the most deaths. The state’s recovery rate, however, continued to climb, reaching 85.6 per cent on Tuesday. The national rate is 77.78 per cent now. “On August 23, we had 28,069 active cases. Yesterday (Monday), it was 23,216. Sure, we saw a bit of a rise after 15 days today (Tuesday), but we will get back on track. Our recoveries will keep rising. We need to find ways to lower the surge in new cases and steady the toll of deaths,” said a minister. In a trend that began about a month ago, the five most high-incidence districts of Bengal — Calcutta, North and South 24-Parganas, Howrah and Hooghly — collectively recorded a fall, by 158 on Tuesday, in their total active cases. For instance, from the 7,041 active cases of August 9, Calcutta improved to 4,067 on Tuesday. Bengal logged over 42,000 tests on Tuesday, taking the total past 22.43 lakh. It now has 24,925 tests per million people. Steady rise in testing, coupled with relatively lower cases dragged down the positive confirmation rate from 8.9 on August 23 to 8.33 per cent. A declining positive confirmation rate indicates reducing levels of Covid-19 spread. The state reported 33.67 per cent occupancy of 12,385 Covid-19 beds in 92 hospitals, besides 15.34 in 11,507 beds of the 200 safe homes. Telemedicine services have been provided to over 1.83 lakh, 4,212 of them in the past 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-382
09-09-2020||West Bengal||Covid patients block highway||A group of Covid-19 patients blocked a national highway connecting Digha to Nandakumar in East Midnapore on Tuesday to protest lack of proper infrastructure and poor quality of food at a private hospital in Contai, where the district authorities had got them admitted. NH116B, a road frequented by tourists from Calcutta to Digha, remained blocked for around 12 hours before police could convince the agitators to return to the hospital. “We have been forced to take this drastic step. We have requested the hospital authorities to improve their standards time and again, but in vain,” one of the agitators said. This 32-year-old youth has been admitted to this hospital along with his mother, who had also tested positive for coronavirus, for the past five days. “My father is in home isolation. My mother and I have to depend on the food the hospital provides. But the food here is inedible and insufficient,” he added. Another agitator, around 45, said most patients were finding it difficult to survive on the little quantity of food. “We get puffed rice and grams for breakfast. In case we are given an egg toast, there is no egg in it. In lunch there is half a piece of fish and a small portion of rice. There is no provision of any food in the evening. For dinner, there is only rice and egg curry. The quality of rice is unthinkably bad,” this person said. A medical officer from one of the health centres in Midnapore was also admitted to this hospital. This person also complained of unhygienic toilets and poor quality of food. “They are not even providing warm water that Covid patients need to gurgle,” the person said. Samudra Sengupta, the deputy chief medical officer of health in Nandigram, accepted that living conditions were poor in this facility. “Though the doctors and other medical staff are being provided by the government, food and patient care is the hospital’s responsibility. We have handed show-cause notices to the authorities,” Sengupta said. Three Covid-19 hospitals have been set up in the East Midnapore district — at Panshkura, Chandipur and Contai. Though all of these facilities are private, maximum allegations and complaints have come against the hospital in Contai. At least half of the 43 patients admitted to this 100 bedded hospital participated in the road blockade. Diamond Harbour subdivisional officer Debamoy Chatterjee flagged off the service at Diamond Harbour on Tuesday. The launch service between the two destination had been stopped in March after the jetty at Diamond Harbour had been damaged. Although the jetty was repaired later, the service couldn’t resume because the lockdown had been imposed by then. The jetty at Kukrahati was damaged when Cyclone Amphan had hit the state in May. The jetty was repaired and after the introduction of Unlock, the service was ready for resumption. On Tuesday, the state government allotted three vessels that would ply between the two destinations. When the service was stopped, people were being forced to take a detour of 160km by road whereas hardly 40 minutes are needed to reach either side by river. The distance between the two places is only 20km across the Hooghly. Officials said the new ferry service was faster and would take only 30 minutes to cover 20km.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-382
09-09-2020||West Bengal||TMC revokes suspension of 15 accused of misappropriating Amphan dole||Trinamul Congress in Nandigram on Monday revoked the suspension of 15 of 25 party members accused of misappropriating Amphan relief funds in East Midnapore. The party justified its decision, saying the members had returned the funds, the decision raising an outcry from the BJP and CPM. Around 200 party members in Nandigram had been handed showcause notices by Trinamul after the party received multiple allegations against them of siphoning relief funds in the wake of the May 20 Amphan cyclone. Of the 200, 25 Trinamul leaders were suspended on July 7. These included members of panchayat samitis, panchayat chiefs and booth presidents. Justifying the withdrawal of suspension, Meghnad Pal, Trinamul president of Nandigram block said: “These 15 members have returned the misappropriated funds issued in the names of their family members to the government and given a written undertaking pledging not to repeat such mistakes in the future. So, a core committee meeting of the party’s Nandigram block unit on Monday decided to revoke their suspension.” Mansura Begum, former chief of Kendamari-Jaalpai panchayat, is one of them. Many sources in the party confirmed the decision to bring Begum back was driven by political compulsions. Among 15 panchayat members — all from Trinamul — 13 are close associates of Begum. Both the CPM and the BJP have been vocal in their indignation. “This proves that the corrupt are the assets of the Trinamul. First, the police didn’t act against them, now we hear their suspension has been revoked,” said Pralay Pal, vice-president of district BJP. CPM district secretary Niranjan Sihi said: “It is only natural that the Trinamul will rehabilitate the corrupt.” Sihi also alleged that the BDO of Sutahata in Haldia had been transferred to Darjeeling as he had dared to lodge a police complaint against the Trinamul chief of one of the panchayats in his block.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-382
09-09-2020||West Bengal||Tea workers stare at jumbo housing problem||Elephants marauding tea gardens of the Dooars and Terai leave behind a trail of despair for tea workers. Reason: if their quarters at tea gardens are damaged by elephants, they get no compensation from the state forest department or panchayat. In most gardens, the management does not take the onus to repair or rebuild the damaged quarters. Left to their own devices, tea workers have to arrange funds to repair the hutments. In some cases, they even have to approach private moneylenders. The situation is different in villages outside tea gardens. In case a home is damaged by elephants in a village other than tea gardens, the state forest department can pay compensation up to Rs 8,000 for hutments and Rs 30,000 for concrete houses, depending on the extent of damage. This disparity takes a toll on tea workers. In June last year, a wild elephant entered the Kalchini tea estate in Alipurduar and damaged the quarters of Rinku Tanti. More than one year later, Rinku has not managed to arrange money for repairs. “I visited the panchayat office and forest office many times but not got any money for repairs. The management left the tea garden. I am compelled to stay with my family in a rented hutment,” said Rinku. Representatives of tea planters’ associations said that the onus lay with the state government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-382
09-09-2020||West Bengal||Tea Board of India bans extra colour or additives ||The Tea Board of India has directed tea producers and merchandisers to not add extra colour to any form of tea made in India and sold in domestic or international markets. Tea Board secretary Rishikesh Rai said in the September 3 directive that according to the Food Safety & Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) regulations of 2011, tea should be free from any extraneous matter, added colours and harmful substances. The Tea Marketing Control Order (TMCO) of 2003 also states that the tea should conform to FSSAI specifications. “The Tea Board has come across instances in recent past where artificial colours are mixed with tea, instant tea and iced tea. As Indian teas from different places of the country have their own distinct quality and aroma, these have strong demand in international markets. Any addition of colour can affect the brand image of Indian teas and cause health hazards for tea drinkers,” said a source in the Tea Board. That is why tea producers, packers and sellers have been asked to not mix artificial/ synthetic colour in tea, the source added. In the directive, the board has also said any violation of guidelines could lead to suspension or cancellation of licenses issued to those who sell the brew in domestic and international markets. Tea industry stakeholders have welcomed the initiative. “This is necessary to ensure that anyone drinking Indian teas, whether orthodox teas of Darjeeling and Assam or the CTC teas of Terai and the Dooars, enjoys natural flavours. Authentic brews will eventually help the industry to grow and improve its overseas markets,” said Bijoygopal Chakraborty, president, Confederation of Indian Small Tea Growers’ Association (Cista). In recent times, this is the second such missive from the Tea Board aimed to protect the quality and uniqueness of Indian teas. Earlier, the Board had come up with specific announcements to prevent illegal selling of imported teas in the country and stop the re-export of such teas as Indian teas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-382
09-09-2020||West Bengal||Covid-stigma fences banned in Bengal||The Bengal government has asked all district magistrates to stop the practice of putting up barricades in front of houses or buildings that have Covid-19 patients after reports came that bamboo fences were leading to the identification and subsequent ostracism of patients. A source said state health secretary Narayan Swarup Nigam had sent messages to all district magistrates on Monday, asking them to stop the barricading as part of Covid containment measures. “Please ensure that no physical barricade/blockage with rope/bamboo or of any kind of restriction should be done in front of any individual house/flat as part of containment measures,” the message stated. Sources said cordoning off an area or a building was being done as part of Covid containment measures of the state government. “The new order brings an end to the old practice. It’s a welcome change,” said a source. The sources said the issue surfaced after the family of a Covid patient in Birbhum’s Illambazar had protested against the erection of a barricades outside their house. The family members brought the matter to the notice of the local administration and members of Covid Care Network — an NGO working under mentorship of gastroenterologist and convener of the global advisory committee against Covid-19, Abhijit Chowdhury — intervened and the barricade was withdrawn. Chowdhury visited Illambazar on Sunday and held a meeting with several grassroots health workers to create awareness among the people of the need to stop such measures that were leading to stigmatisation of Covid patients and their family members. “While we are trying to prevent the spread of the novel coronavirus, we should take care of social ostracism also. We need to increase awareness among the people instead of putting up barricades,” said Chowdhury. Birbhum district magistrate Moumita Godara Basu, however, said: “According to the directive, there will be no fencing outside houses or flats of Covid patients.” Purulia district magistrate Rahul Majumder said: “We did not erect barricades in the past and the officials have been told about the new order.” A senior official in East Burdwan said: “All block development officers were asked not to erect barricades and ensure that there is no ostracism of Covid patients and their family.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-382
09-09-2020||West Bengal||Bengal to promote Jungle Mahal junior constables||The Bengal government has decided to promote as constables 5,400 junior constables, mainly youths in Jungle Mahal districts who were appointed on a temporary basis to stop their shift to the Maoist ideology. The move has come at a time the Trinamul Congress is trying to claw back in the adivasi-populated Jungle Mahal where the BJP performed well in the last Lok Sabha polls. “All 5,400 junior constables posted in the districts of Jhargram, Bankura, Purulia, West Midnapore and Birbhum would be promoted as full-fledged constables in the police force. They will be eligible for all facilities and benefits that constables get,” said chief minister Mamata Banerjee. She made the announcement while addressing police personnel across the state through video conference during a programme that the state government organised to acknowledge the role of the law enforcers during the Covid-19 pandemic. Most of the junior constables were recruited after Trinamul had come to power in 2011 as the government had tried to wean local youths away from the influence of the ultra Lefts in the area. The move did pay off as Maoist insurgency saw a decline and Trinamul won the confidence of local people. The junior constables had been appointed on a temporary basis and such an arrangement was confined to the Jungle Mahal. The ruling party got the first shock in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls as the BJP did well in the adivasi belt. “The Maoists are trying to regroup now... The ruling party is eager to win back its support base in the areas and the chief minister is apparently depending heavily on these youths,” said a senior government official. Recently, reports had reached Nabanna from various districts that discontent had been brewing among the lower section of the police force. “The grievance was mainly because police personnel were forced to work beyond scheduled hours during the pandemic. The policemen started raising their voices when a number of their colleagues contracted Covid-19 and some of them died,” said another senior official. The chief minister herself said 6,963 police personnel had been infected across the state and 24 of them had lost their lives. “They (police) risked their lives day in and day out to serve the people of the state,” said Mamata. The police also supplied food to the families of Covid patients and those in home isolation or at remote quarantine centres. Moreover, the police have taken steps to take Covid patients to the hospitals. “These were the responsibilities of the civil administration over the years. Since 2011, the role of police has changed and the state government is dependent heavily on the police than the civil administration. The state, which is over-reliant on the police, has been shaken by the grievances in the lower and middle rung of the force,” said a senior bureaucrat. Sources said the chief minister did not want to be at the receiving end of the lower and middle rung of the police ahead of the polls as they played a key role in the entire election process. “The central forces are deployed during the polls and they need to work under the state police. So, the chief minister wants to address their grievances at the earliest,” said an official.Mamata also made a series of other announcements in her address. They are: ⚫Retirement benefit of Rs 3 lakh for civil defence volunteers, civic volunteers, village police volunteers, auxiliary fire workers and ASA workers ⚫Daily wages of home guards and civil defence volunteers increased to Rs 548 from Rs 480 ⚫Bonus of Rs 2,000 for civic volunteers, village police volunteers, auxiliary fore workers, ASA workers, civil defence volunteers and home guards ⚫Three new police stations ⚫Nine new police station buildings ⚫Four new police barracks||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-382
09-09-2020||North East||Akhil Gogoi seeks unity against communal forces||Assam peasant rights group Krishak Mukti Sangram Samiti (KMSS) chief adviser Akhil Gogoi has urged the people to put up a united fight in the next Assembly polls to protect the Assamese community from “communal” politics. Gogoi, who is in jail since December 12 last year after he was arrested during the peak of anti-Citizenship Amendment Act protests, said that only “one united, strong and inclusive regional party” with “one flag and one goal” could save Assam. “I want to tell something to the people of Assam. We need to have only one strong inclusive regional party or else the Assamese community will die. The presence of 10-15 regional parties will not help. Seat sharing will also not help us,” Akhil said while he was being taken for a medical check-up on Monday. “We have to unite to save Assam or else this Hindu-Muslim politics will continue for another 30 to 50 years, by which time the Assamese community will be finished. If we unite, it will trigger a political storm in Assam politics that will sweep away the RSS-BJP and the Congress-AIUDF. I therefore appeal to the AASU, the AJYCP, the KMSS and other regional forces to float one strong and inclusive political party,” said the peasant leader, who is known for speaking his mind. Akhil also urged the people to continue with the anti-CAA movement. The Act is seen as a threat to Assam’s culture and identity. He also took a dig at Dispur’s financial assistance of Rs 830 per month to needy women in each family during the ongoing pandemic as insignificant. “Each family should get at least Rs 10,000,” he said. Akhil’s appeal assumes significance because leading student organisations and citizen groups have announced the formation of a regional party to unseat the ruling BJP in the 2021 Assembly polls. The formation of a new regional alternative, backed by two leading youth organisations of the state — All Assam Students’ Union (AASU) and Asom Jatiyatabadi Yuba Chatra Parishad (AJYCP) — is likely to be announced this week. The KMSS has already announced a political party. Senior advocate Arup Borabora and filmmaker Jahnu Baruah are the leading lights of the recently floated United Regional Party, Assam, while Rajya Sabha MP Ajit Kumar Bhuyan is leading the Anchalik Gana Morcha. The avowed goal of these parties is to strengthen regionalism and oust the ruling BJP from power. But political observers say that unless they unite they will be no match for the well-entrenched BJP or even the Opposition Congress and the AIUDF. According to observers, the RSS and the BJP are trying to polarise the state along religious lines. The BJP accuses the AIUDF of espousing the cause of illegal Bangladeshi Muslims even though it has several Hindu MLAs and leaders. The Congress and the AIUDF have announced their intent of forging a pre-poll alliance. Even the 16-member Assam Paramarshadata Committee (advisory committee) formed by the AASU and the AJYCP to suggest measures and the mechanism for their implementation for “securing” the future of Assam and Assamese people reportedly wants regional forces to unite. KMSS president Bhasco D Saikia said it is in favour of an alliance of regional and anti-BJP forces. According to him, Akhil has mooted the unity of all regional forces to save the state from anti-Assam and communal forces. Reacting to Akhil’s call, AASU president Dipanka Nath told The Telegraph that all such political decisions will be taken by the proposed regional party. “As AASU, we cannot comment on what the proposed party will do. We are also for unity of the regional forces,” Nath said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-46
09-09-2020||Opinion||For freedom: Dr Kafeel Khan released||Sir — The doctor from Uttar Pradesh, Kafeel Khan, a victim of political conspiracy, has now been released from prison on the order of the Allahabad High Court (“Hope again”, Sept 7). He was detained under the National Security Act earlier this year for criticizing the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and its discriminatory nature. The court found that far from being provocative, the speech, read in its entirety, does not even reveal an effort to promote hatred or violence. The only explanation, then, is that the NSA was invoked to avoid his release in keeping with the February court order. The verdict exposes the state government’s vindictive attitude towards a particular community. The use of national security laws against dissenters, arbitrarily and in the absence of evidence, should be condemned. Khan has been hounded and persecuted by the government ever since the 2017 incident at a medical college in Gorakhpur where a number of children lost their lives. He was then arrested on charges of negligence and corruption even though circumstances indicated his strenuous efforts to ensure continuous oxygen supply. He spent months in prison before an inquiry absolved him of the charges but his suspension has not yet been revoked. There is reason to believe that Khan was persecuted because the chief minister of Uttar Pradesh, Yogi Adityanath, had a grudge against him. His trigger-happy police force inflicted insufferable torture on Khan in jail. The court has corrected an act of injustice and put an end to the harassment of a citizen on political grounds, at least for now. There is no guarantee that vindictive political leaders will not implicate him under other trumped-up charges. That would surely be a defeat of India’s democratic values. S.S. Paul,Nadia Sir — Last week, the Allahabad High Court ordered the release of Kafeel Khan, denouncing his illegal arrest under the NSA. In a similar case, the Delhi High Court granted bail to Devangana Kalita, a student of Jawaharlal Nehru University, in one of the cases lodged against her — she remains in prison as charges under the Unlawful Activities (Preventive) Act have not yet been repealed. In both cases, the respective high courts observed that adequate evidence of incitement to violence had not been furnished against the accused. In India, the use of draconian laws such as the NSA and the UAPA to book people under various false charges seems to have become common. While some of the accused are later found to be ‘not guilty’, many continue to languish in jails. Meanwhile, activists across the country have condemned the indiscriminate use of such laws, claiming that these have been misused over the years and that states should thereby refrain from invoking these unless there is substantive evidence against the accused. Indeed, the abuse of such laws is dangerous to democracy. Even though the immediate arrest of a suspect is not mandatory under the law, there are enough cases where arrests are made in order to frame innocent people or to subject them to harassment. In this respect, the cases of Khan and Kalita can serve as eye-openers. All state governments should review their position immediately and release those people who have been unnecessarily detained under these laws. Khokan Das,Calcutta Sir — Kafeel Khan’s account of the torture inflicted upon him in prison is horrifying (“‘Safe’, Kafeel lists torture”, Sept 4). It appears that a false case was lodged against Khan simply because he tried to expose the flaws in the system following the death of a number of children at a Gorakhpur hospital. A benevolent doctor seems to have been treated like a criminal by a vindictive system — Khan alleged that he even used to be hung upside down and beaten while he was in jail. The judgment of the Allahabad High Court exonerating him of the charges signifies the defeat of a vengeful state government and the victory of truth and justice at a very dark time. Only a few people dare to speak up against the prevailing injustices in society; the rest choose to remain silent. The latter seem to be progressively outnumbering the former, possibly owing to the fear of retaliation. But when dissenting voices are gagged, the very foundations of democracy and secularism begin to shake. This is what is plaguing the country at present. Serajuddin-Khurram,Calcutta Step up Sir — Last week, the name of the cartoon character, Shinchan, appeared at the top of a merit list put up by a college in West Bengal. This was shortly after the names of an actress and a singer were posted in the admission lists of some other colleges. While this may seem funny at first, it reveals the fragile condition of online infrastructure in the state. This is especially worrying at a time when online education seems to be the only way forward, as schools and colleges remain closed owing to the pandemic. The education ministry must step up its game and address the gaps in the system at once. Arghya Roy,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-151
09-09-2020||Opinion||Divine excuse: Covid-19 as 'act of god'||The Centre has declared the Covid-19 pandemic as an “act of god”. Does this imply that the force majeure clause can be invoked to cover contractual obligations? The term, force majeure, refers to an event or impact that can neither be anticipated nor controlled by the parties involved in a contract. It is a contractual provision for allocating the loss arising from unanticipated risks if fulfilling the contract becomes impossible or impracticable. Indian law does not fully deal with all the implications of force majeure; some reference is found in Section 32 of the Indian Contract Act of 1872. There is mention that if a contract is contingent on the happening of an event that becomes impossible to control, then the contract becomes void. If a contract does not include a force majeure clause and some unforeseen or uncontrollable event occurs that can be potentially treated as a force majeure, then the two parties need to agree upon the terms of their contractual obligations and take guidance from Section 56 of the Indian Contract Act, which pertains to a contract to do impossible acts. The parties can mutually settle or get a judicial decision as to whether they can be free from their contractual obligations. In the light of Covid-19 and the prolonged period of lockdown, many contracts have become impossible to fulfil. This implies that a lot of litigations will ensue between contracting parties where the clause was not explicitly written down. Even government contracts with a private party could come under the scanner of this clause. For the government, an added issue will be whether Covid-19 was controllable or not. Did the government take the correct decision to impose a tight lockdown? One major issue indirectly connected to the pandemic is the low collection of the goods and services tax revenues. The Union government is committed to pay a share of the revenue to the states guaranteed for five years and growing annually at the rate of 14 per cent. The Centre is now claiming that revenue collection was unexpectedly low on account of Covid-19 and, hence, the Union government is unable to pay the states their due shares. This could become a messy legal tangle, with a Union government official claiming that it is permissible to revisit the constitutional guarantee to pay the states at the rates agreed upon without discussing the issue with the GST Council. The states are raising a number of objections to this stance. A constitutional guarantee, however, cannot invoke a force majeure clause.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-151
09-09-2020||Opinion||Hollow words: Modi's Chinese incursion denial||Words can be turned into weapons. India’s prime minister, who prides himself on his formidable oratorical skills, seems to have ignored this possibility. In June, a few days after the clash with China at the border in Ladakh that cost the lives of 20 Indian soldiers, Narendra Modi had informed an all-party meeting that India’s territory remained free from intrusion. Since then, there is mounting evidence to suggest that Mr Modi had been economical with the truth. Both the foreign ministry and, equally suggestively, the army have expressed grave concern about the situation on the ground. Several assessments have suggested that China has gobbled up Indian land near Pangong Lake, Hot Springs and the Depsang Plains. But the most damaging consequence of Mr Modi’s distorted account of events unfolded at the Union defence minister’s recent meeting with his Chinese counterpart in Moscow. Beijing, without naming the Indian prime minister, continued to stonewall New Delhi’s rightful insistence on restoring the status quo by weaponizing Mr Modi’s words, suggesting that the allegations of incursion by Chinese soldiers into Indian territory are unsubstantiated. The prime minister’s public utterance has handed Beijing a potential weapon to neuter India’s diplomatic thrusts, putting New Delhi on the defensive. The hopes of a resolution during the talks between India’s foreign minister and a Chinese diplomat are dim. Mr Modi can certainly take credit for the impasse. This, however, is not only a diplomatic or military crisis. There is an additional dimension that must not escape public attention. Mr Modi and the Bharatiya Janata Party never stop displaying their ‘patriotic’ hearts on their sleeves. One of the hallmarks of patriotism is a government’s commitment to truth and transparency. Mr Modi, as an elected prime minister, is mandated to let the people know the truth about Galwan and the simmering border situation. But transparency, be it on issues like the floundering economy or a heated border, is not the prime minister’s forte. With generous help from a supine media, the government, characteristically, is busy demonizing those raising searching questions about the serious lapses committed by Mr Modi on China. Ironically, the motto of the nation that Mr Modi has been given the responsibility of serving claims the triumph of truth. Perhaps this bit of Upanishadic wisdom does justice to the spirit of Old — not New — India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-151
09-09-2020||Opinion||MGNREGA : A case for rural regeneration||Narendra Modi’s cocky statement in Parliament in 2015 about the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act being a monumental failure of the Congress regime may have been a political jibe, but it showed that the government had no intention of boosting a programme which, since its inception, has suffered from the lack of political intent, leakages and bureaucratic negligence. Over-the-top technological interventions have pushed the MGNREGA towards centralization, with transparency and local accountabilities being compromised. However, the economic distress caused by unilaterally imposed lockdowns has brought the focus back on the rural job programme. The MGNREGA has become a lifeline for millions of rural workers in their struggle for survival. The Periodic Labour Force Survey had shown in 2017-18 that the unemployment rate stood at 6.1 per cent, the highest in the last 45 years. Independent research suggests that 6 out of 10 workers in rural areas and 8 out of 10 employees in urban areas in the informal sector have lost employment during the lockdown. A large number of people remain excluded from the public distribution system. These figures call for reformatory action. The measures announced by the Centre are inadequate to address the issues of food and nutrition insecurity, unemployment and livelihoods. Moreover, a major share of the first economic relief package worth Rs 1.7 lakh crore had already been accounted for in the budget. The second package of Rs 20 lakh crore, too, had little by way of fresh allocations. The Centre did make a supplementary budget allocation of Rs 40,000 crore to the MGNREGA. This is heartening. But the allocation of Rs 1,01,500 crore for 2020-21 is inadequate to meet the current demand. Significantly, more than Rs 10,000 crore out of the current allocation had to be spent to clear past liabilities. The People’s Action for Employment Guarantee, a group of individuals working on the MGNREGA, recently released an MGNREGA tracker, which cites data from the government’s website. Some of the figures are as follows: 48 per cent of the total allocation has been spent till August 3, 2020, with about 7.5 months left in the financial year; till August 3, 43 per cent of payments for July had not been released by the Centre; less than 12 per cent of the funds released are left with state governments; 38 lakh new job cards were made since April, 2020; 11 per cent more persondays of employment was generated in the first quarter of this financial year compared to the projected labour budget in this period; about 17 per cent of work demands remained unmet. The website further shows that more than 4.5 lakh households have already exhausted 100 days of employment and more than 38 lakh households have worked between 71-99 days and are on the verge of exhausting their entitlements. A closer look at the work demand pattern during the financial year reveals that on an average the work demand was about 60 per cent higher than that of last year during the months of May, June and July. Persondays generation till July is 49 per cent higher than that of last year. Even in ordinary times, the bureaucracy finds it difficult to manage execution. Consequently, large-scale work demands do not even get registered on the Management Information System, neither do workers get receipts against their demands. All this implies that the actual demand for MGNREGA work is much higher than what the figures show on the official database. Even if a sizeable number of migrants who have returned to their villages decide, once again, to go back to the cities in search of ‘skilled’ work, the reliance on the MGNREGA for rural employment generation would remain considerable. The Centre needs to allocate one lakh crore more to provide at least 60 days of employment to 14 crore job-card-holding households at the current per person per day average cost of Rs 240. The MGNREGA has three immediate needs — declaring the pandemic to be a national disaster, the Centre should increase workdays to 150 in the entire country; another supplementary allocation of at least one lakh crore should be budgeted given the spike in demand; social audits will be necessary in all states to plug leakages. The Centre may consider constituting a Central cell for the monitoring of social audits. The Centre and the states must prioritize the issues of employment and livelihoods of the poorest and allocate more resources to help the vulnerable at this hour of crisis. The ruling party in Delhi may have understood the importance of the MGNREGA. It must now understand that the programme needs additional funds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-151
09-09-2020||Opinion||Against excellence||Since the totality of speech consists of both what is said and what is not said, for understanding the new National Education Policy we have to look both at its words and its silences. Then we cannot escape the conclusion that the NEP involves a paradigm shift in India’s education system that is highly retrograde and deleterious. This shift is from a conception of education as a means of ‘nation-building’ (for want of a better term) to one that prepares students to become mere fodder for neoliberal capitalism, even while giving them a dash of Hindutva chauvinism. The NEP thus visualizes an education that is in perfect sync with the politics of the corporate-Hindutva alliance that currently rules India. The existing education system no doubt is deeply flawed and can scarcely be credited with serving such a lofty goal as ‘nation-building’; nonetheless it has certain markers whose removal, suggested by the NEP, will be severely damaging for the nation. The first removal is of inclusiveness; the NEP, contrary to its claims, will make education confined, more so than before, to a socially and economically privileged elite. This is clear from the fact that nowhere in the document is there any mention of ‘reservations’ for Dalits, other backward classes and other deprived groups, even though the document devotes sizeable space to the need to draw what it calls “socio-economically disadvantaged groups” into the ambit of education. Its total silence on ‘reservations’ suggests its unwillingness to continue with them. A further reason for believing the NEP to be exclusionary is that it envisages significant privatization of education, which will clearly make it more expensive, well beyond the pockets of the socially and economically deprived. The NEP talks of scholarships being given by private higher educational institutions; but such scholarships will raise their fees for non-scholarship-holders even further. This will destroy all collegiality among students, with rich students sneering at the poor ones (‘My father pays for your education’); the tendency among the latter will be to get demoralized and drop out. Education of the poor in private institutions has got to be tax-financed; the NEP does not recognize this. In fact, such dropping out is implicitly acknowledged in the NEP. Its enthusiastic references to Open Distance Learning and to Vocational Education are a cover for such exclusion. With state examinations, now instituted even at Class III, V and VIII levels, it can be claimed that those who get bad grades and have to drop out will be ‘accommodated’ in these alternative streams. These streams, however, cannot substitute academic education. Vocational training should follow only after a certain minimum level of academic education; Open Distance Learning cannot replace formal education, since the latter involves social interaction, which is a crucial aspect of learning. Likewise, a person dropping out of college after one or two years is to be provided under the NEP with a consolation piece of paper called a “certificate” or a “diploma”; notwithstanding this piece of paper, he/she still remains a drop out. Exclusion is thus a central feature of the NEP; those excluded can, at best, be vocationally trained in some ‘skills’ but they would not get an education. The vision is that a few, depending on the needs of neoliberal capitalism, will acquire an education that will enable them to fill executive and official positions; others excluded from such education will be given skills, and will join that vast and growing segment of the workforce among whom limited number of available jobs are rationed out with declining per capita earnings over time. The dualism characterizing the economy will now also characterize the education system, not just de facto but also de jure. Those who receive education and are destined for proper jobs will have a curriculum that imitates those of metropolitan universities. The globalization of capital characteristic of neoliberal capitalism also creates a global labour market that requires, in turn, a homogeneous education across countries. This detaches education, say in India, completely from its Indian setting. A student of economics, for instance, simply cannot understand the Indian economy without reckoning with the legacy of colonialism; but a student in the metropolis, even a student of Development Economics, does not learn a thing about colonialism, has not heard of the ‘drain of surplus’ or ‘deindustrialization’. Having an imitative curriculum, which becomes necessary if foreign universities are invited to set up shop in India, as the NEP visualizes, will, therefore, make Indian students ignorant of their past and incapable of understanding their present. It is a panacea for uncritical, imitative and erroneous thinking that dooms the education system to mediocrity; ironically this imitativeness is introduced in the name of ‘excellence’ and for creating ‘world class’ institutions. To camouflage this imitativeness, the NEP suggests imbuing students with what is essentially a Hindutva-type chauvinism. The curriculum is supposed to harp on the glories of ancient India and instil in students pride in being Indian. Indian society, alas, has also been marked by horrendous practices like untouchability, which nobody can be proud of. To overcome such practices, students must learn to abhor them. Instiling pride in them for being Indian amounts to shutting out this abhorrence, to ignoring or prettifying caste-oppression and other injustices. It is to make them conformists in a world marked by oppression and exploitation. This accent on breeding conformism among students and teachers permeates the NEP. It suggests a “tenure-track” for teachers, which opens up the possibility of victimization through denial of tenure in case a teacher protests against government policies or university decisions. Boards of Governors in colleges are to be all-powerful vis-à-vis teachers and students. Departmental Headships and Deanships are no longer to be rotated among teachers, but to be entrusted to those with “leadership” qualities, which will mean a return to the old days of feudal subservience. Altogether, therefore, the democratization of universities that had occurred over the last several decades by creating an atmosphere of greater equality among faculty members is being rolled back under the NEP. The intellectual passion among teachers and students that this democratization had generated in several institutions, including my own, which, in turn, had produced good quality teaching and research is now being lost. It had also given rise to a range of new subjects, straddling multiple disciplines, such as Dalit Studies, Gender Studies and Labour Studies. Admittedly, these subjects fragmented the study of the oppressed; but they did at least study the oppressed. The NEP, despite stressing multi-disciplinarity, does not mention any of these subjects, which reinforces one’s suspicion that it fosters conformism. Education belongs to the Concurrent List of the Constitution; but the NEP has been formulated without consulting states, which represents a drive towards centralization. The proposed research-supervisory body, the National Research Foundation, is to be headed by the prime minister. The apex decision-making body on higher education, the Higher Education Commission of India, will be headed by the Central education minister. The syllabi will be Centrally prepared, with states adding only local flavour. The state-level secondary boards will be devalued, with undergraduate admission being determined by a Centrally-administered entrance test. This indubitable tendency towards centralization complements the anti-democratic thrust of the NEP. The author is Professor Emeritus, Centre for Economic Studies, Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-151
09-09-2020||Jharkhand||Stricter vigilance at border check post||Subdivisional officer Manish Kumar on Wednesday chaired a meeting in Koderma and asked officials to follow the state government’s guidelines to the letter at the interstate Bagitand check post on the Ranchi-Patna highway. Kumar directed officials to keep a close eye on those entering Jharkhand and hand out pamphlets with the dos and don’ts of home quarantine. He said instructions should be given to those travelling to the state to remain in home quarantine  for 14 days, besides applying a “home quarantine” stamp on their hands. The Society for the Promotion of Indian Classical Music And Culture Amongst Youth (SPIC MACAY) has selected Kavya Jha, a student of Class 11 of Delhi Public School (DPS), Bokaro, to volunteer for the organisation at a national level programme. An online global orientation programme on the theme, “Explore yourself with the core values of Indian traditions and culture’’, involving institutions from Jharkhand, Himachal Pradesh, Delhi, Punjab and Nagaland, was held on September 4. DPS Bokaro was chosen to represent the state at the event, which was streamed live on YouTube. The highlight of the programme was the depiction of Ramayana using the classical dance form, Koodiyattam. Based on the performance in the live session, Kavya was offered an opportunity to volunteer to be a part of the SPIC MACAY team at the national-level programme to be held later. DPS Bokaro principal A.S. Gangwar said the school not only provides its students an opportunity and environment to learn, but also gives them a platform to exhibit their cultural talent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-306
09-09-2020||Jharkhand||95 inmates test Covid positive at Bokaro jail||As many as 95 inmates of the divisional jail at Chas tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. They have been isolated in separate wards inside the jail, following a decision taken by a high-level district monitoring committee headed by deputy commissioner Rajesh Kumar Singh. Chas subdivisional officer (SDO) Shashi Prakash Singh said a separate isolation ward was created immediately. The inspector-general of prisons, Jharkhand, has been intimated. “We are waiting for the instruction from the inspector-general,” SDO Singh said. There were 594 inmates, including prisoners and undertrials, lodged at the jail. Of them, 23 are women. The administration conducted rapid antigen tests of all inmates on Tuesday. “Ninety-five inmates tested positive for the coronavirus. They are mostly middle-aged. All the women inmates tested negative. Almost all the inmates who have tested positive are asymptomatic, but arrangements for doctors and medicines have been made,” said Singh. “The inmates who tested positive have been isolated. Doctors are monitoring their condition. This is for the first time that inmates in the jail tested positive since the start of the pandemic,” said Dr A.K. Pathak, civil surgeon. On August 24, 21 of the 35 inmates of the juvenile observation home in Bokaro had tested positive for Covid-19. The home run by the District Social Welfare Department has inmates from all the eight blocks of the district. Those who tested positive were shifted to an isolation centre at ITI Moad, Chas. Bokaro registered 335 positive cases of the coronavirus on Tuesday in the biggest spike in the number of cases in a day. The figure of active cases in the district reached 1,000. The spike can be mostly attributed to the tests conducted at 12 spots on Tuesday. “There were 9,852 people tested at the camp. Of them, 9,552 persons tested negative,” said Singh. The camp was conducted at the places such as the divisional jail, CRPF camp, police line and BSL.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-306
09-09-2020||Jharkhand||No Jan Shatabdi from Saturday due to lack of passengers ||The steel city will be without a train to Calcutta from Saturday as the railways have decided to suspend operations of the Howrah-Barbil Jan Shatabdi Special Express for the time being because of poor occupancy. "The occupancy in the train is not even 15 per cent. Therefore, the Railway Board was compelled to discontinue the Jan Shatabdi. It will resume operations as and when the situation improves," said Sanjay Ghosh, chief public relations officer of South Eastern Railway. The Janshatabdi was the only train available for people travelling between Jamshedpur and Calcutta as of now. The two other signature trains for a quick trip to Calcutta were the Steel Superfast Express and Ispat Express. Both had been suspended earlier. Two long-distance trains of Calcutta that used to stop briefly at Tatanagar, the Howrah-CSTM Mumbai Mail and Howrah-Ahmedabad Express, have not had a halt at the Jamshedpur station for two months now. "Both the trains used to stop at Tatanagar initially when services resumed after the lockdown on June 1. But the stops were withdrawn following a request of the Jharkhand government owing to rising number of Covid-19 cases, " said H.K. Balmuchu, director of Tatanagar station. These days, both trains run daily from Howrah at night. After Kharagpur, the next stop is Rourkela in Odisha. With the Jan Shatabdi also suspended, residents of Jamshedpur have no train to Calcutta as of now. The Howrah-Barbil Jan Shatabdi Express resumed operations from June 1 when lockdown restrictions were being lifted gradually. As the movement of people were restricted due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the occupancy was less than 15 per cent. This has prompted the railways to temporarily withdraw the train. Ghosh said the train will run for the last time on September 11. Garden Reach, the Calcutta-based headquarters of South Eastern Railway, had earlier announced that the train would remain cancelled on September 12 due to a lockdown in West Bengal. An official at South Eastern Railway's commercial wing at Garden Reach admitted that the decision to cancel the train was taken the railway zone was incurring huge losses. "We are keeping a tab on the situation. The train will resume operation as and when the flow of passenger increases," he said. Chhotanagpur Passenger Association expressed its objections about the decision to discontinue the train. “Now, passengers are feeling handicapped. At least a train was available to go to Calcutta and return. People may need to go there, but now, that option is gone,” pointed out Arun Tiwari, general secretary of the association.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-306
09-09-2020||Jharkhand||FIR against four for violating home quarantine rules||The Ranchi district administration on Wednesday lodged FIRs against four residents of Lalpur for not adhering to home quarantine norms of the state government for those coming to Jharkhand from other states. The Hemant Soren government has made 14-day home quarantine mandatory for people traveling to Jharkhand from other states, officials said, claiming that the four offenders were found outside their respective residences during an inspection by a team of the district administration on Wednesday. “We will take strict action against any person found guilty of violating the home quarantine mandate. They will be booked under relevant sections of the Disaster Management Act,” said Ranchi deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan. The capital residents allegedly found violating quarantine rules on Wednesday have been identified as Chandan Kumar Parija, Avinash Sinha, Pinki Rawat and Sutapa Roy, a communique from the district administration stated. While Chandan was found attending office during the home quarantine period, the remaining three visited hospitals on Wednesday. In the wake of the pandemic, the government had on July 17 made it mandatory for all visitors from other states to stay in home quarantine for at least 14 days. Officials in Jharkhand also put VIPs like BJP MP Sakshi Maharaj on 14-day quarantine when he visited Giridih last month. He was not allowed to leave until he tested negative for Covid-19. Earlier in August, concerned authorities also lodged an FIR against Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tej Prasad for allegedly violating lockdown rules. Ranchi is the worst-affected district in Jharkhand in terms of Covid cases. The district administration here recently started door-to-door screening of residents to identify asymptomatic cases and spread awareness among people. On Wednesday, a team from the district administration visited 1,409 households in Ranchi and screened 5,881 people for Covid-19 symptoms, officials said. The team visited at least 100 houses in Ravidas Colony, 300 houses in Morhabadi and around 315 houses in Namkum. Besides, residents of Hatia and Sadar were also screened for Covid-19 symptoms. As per latest government data, there were at least 3,688 active cases of Covid-19 infection in Ranchi, while the tally in the district was 11,138. The district has reported 76 Covid deaths so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-306
09-09-2020||Jharkhand||Two of four arrested for gang rape of preacher in Godda||Two persons were arrested on Wednesday for the gang rape of a preacher with police saying that a three-member special investigation team (SIT) was trying to trace the two others accused of attacking the woman in an ashram in Godda in the wee hours of Tuesday. Police lodged an FIR against four persons, two of whom were named, at Mufassil police station in Godda on Tuesday on the basis of a complaint by the victim. While Dipak Rana, a history-sheeter, was first detained on Tuesday morning and later formally arrested at night, his brother Ashish was held on Wednesday morning. Godda SP Y.S. Ramesh said, “The two accused Dipak Rana and Ashish Rana have been arrested. We are trying to zero in on two of their accomplices so that we can nab them too.” Maharshi Mehi Ashram, where the assault took place, is located in Pathwara village in Ranidih panchayat in the Pathwara-Kathon area under Mufassil police station of Godda. The accused are from the adjoining hamlet of Pasra. According to Ramesh, rape was committed by only two persons.  “The Rana brothers raped the victim while the two accomplices had accompanied them to the crime scene. All of them barged into the ashram with firearms after scaling the boundary wall,” he said. At the time of the attack, there were four women and a sadhu at the ashram. The culprits held them hostage at gunpoint and dragged the victim to another room to commit the crime. The preacher who was assaulted is a native of Bokaro but had been staying at an ashram in Varanasi before coming to Godda a few months back. In a statement to local television channels, she had demanded the death sentence for all the four accused. “They (her attackers) were four in number. They violated my body. It is very difficult for a sadhvi to tolerate this pain, which will be with me for the rest of my life. I demand the death sentence for all four culprits through a speedy trial,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-306
09-09-2020||Jharkhand||Snake catcher bit by a Russell's viper||A snake catcher of Hazaribagh town was bit by poisonous snake while trying to rescue the reptile from Vinoba Bhave University(VBU) campus. Vinod Miachel, known for rescuing hundreds of poisonous and non poisonous snakes, was rushed to Hazaribagh medical college and hospital(HMCH) where his condition is stated to be out of danger. Miachel works in VBU’s account section. Talking to The Telegraph online at HMCH, Miachel said he recieved an information about a Russell's viper in the varsity campus near the bank area yesterday evening. Being an expert rescuer, Miachel tried to catch the highly poisonous snake with a stick but the reptile bit him on his hand. Despite the setback, Miachel managed to rescue the snake before being admitted to HMCH. He was given 10-vials of anti venom. Miachel also thanked god for his miraculous escape. "The snake got the chance to bite because the stick I was using was little bend", he said from the hospital bed, adding that this was the first time that he was bit by a venomous snake. Independent researcher and wildlife expert Mritunjay Sharma said Miachel is an expert snake catcher and termed the incident as "very shocking". "The bite of this snake is very dangerous. The hand of Miachel became black but he is lucky that he reached the hospital within 20-minutes and was given the required treatment," Sharma added. Sharma said Russell's vipers are found in large numbers in and around the district and its presence here on this plateau is a matter of amaze for researchers. He further informed that this snake does not lay eggs but gives birth to young ones. Miachel said he didn’t have a rescue kit which comprises of a pair of gloves, a stick and a pair of feet cover . The forest department never takes the initiative to provide kits to us rescuers. Even department employees works without this kit," he said. Sources said Hazaribagh wildlife division is funded in crores every year but lacks money to provide kits to rescuers. A senior forest official said they get funds for developmental work but not for kits. One kit costs around Rs.7000 to Rs.16000, .||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-306
09-09-2020||Jharkhand||30-bed ICU at PMCH to be ready for Covid patients by Friday ||A 30-bed ICU is likely to become operational from Friday at the Cath Lab of Patlitputra Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) in Dhanbad that is seeing a rapid rise in the number of Covid-19 cases. Deputy commissioner Uma Shankar Singh said necessary equipment has already been arranged using district mineral foundation trust (DMFT) and CSR funds. Preparations for launching the unit on September 11 are in final stages. “The ICU will operate under the joint supervision of PMCH head of department of medicine Dr U.K. Ojha and head of the department of anaesthesia Dr Kameshwar Biswas, who will ensure Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and Union ministry of health treatment guidelines and protocols are followed,” he said. Dr Biswas said this would be the second ICU for Covid patients in the district after the one that is operational at the dedicated Covid Hospital of Dhanbad at Jagjivan Nagar. “We have procured all necessary equipment, including high-flow ventilators required for patients suffering from acute respiratory problems,” said Dr Biswas, who was PMCH superintendent. He said credit for the establishment for the ICU should go to deputy commissioner Uma Shankar Singh who took personal interest in upgrading Covid treatment facilities in the district. Besides the ICU meant for serious Covid patients, the PMCH Cath Lab also houses a 100-bed Dedicated Covid Health Centre for the treatment of asymptomatic or patients with moderate symptoms. This apart, a 400-bed Dedicated Covid Health Centre is also being established in two blocks at the PG Hospital of PMCH. At the PMCH blood bank work is on to install the recently procured Asphersis machine, which is used to separate blood into various components. Such a machine is needed to start plasma therapy for the treatment Covid patients. Two more gadgets, including a Ph metre refrigerator for maintaining – 40 degree C temperature, will also be required for starting plasma therapy for Covid patients. These are expected in another two weeks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-306
09-09-2020||Jharkhand||New-look Maithon dam and lake by end of 2020  ||The scenic Maithon dam on Barakar river of Dhanbad is all set for a new look as ongoing renovation work, being carried out under a World Bank funded project is likely to be completed by the year end. Chief engineer (civil) of Damodar Valley Corporation Satyabrat Banerjee said work at Maithon was almost complete, and that the remaining work would be completed in the next few months. “Beautification of the pond will also be carried out, besides strengthening pillars, etc,” Banerjee toold The Telegraph Online, adding that renovation work of Panchet and Konar dams of DV, also funded by the World Bank, were nearing completion. The renovation of Maithon Dam, along with 249 other dams, is to be carried out under the supervision Central Dam Safety Organisation of Central Water Commission under DRIP project to ensure their safety, given that all the dams are 25 years old. The Maithon renovation worth Rs 60 crore is being carried out under the aegis of the World Bank’s Dam Rehabilitation and Improvement Project. It was meant to be an 18-month project that began in 2017. However, it has been delayed and is likely to be completed by the end of 2020 as most of the major work, like pillar strengthening and soil protection using the boulders, has already been done. DVC Maithon PRO Apurba Saha said, “The road on dam has been repaired towards the Jharkhand end, while work on some parts of the road towards Bengal is pending. This will be completed soon as work is under progress.” Situated about 48km from Dhanbad district headquarters, the major attractions of Maithon are the 15,712 feet long and 165 feet high dam over Barakar river and the lake spread over 65 sq km. Boating around several islands in the lake, including Sabuj Deep and Chamoch Deep, is a popular draw for tourists. Maa Kalyaneshwari Temple of Maithon, less than 100 metre from the dam, is another centre of attraction. This apart the lake is home to at least 35 species of migratory birds. Shatabdi Park near the dam is opened for visitors every year during January 1. It is also very popular among visitors who come from various parts of Jharkhand and Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-306
09-09-2020||Jharkhand||Covid tally crosses 55,000, 2600 infected in a day||The Covid-19 tally in Jharkhand crossed the 55,000 mark on Tuesday with over 2600 people, including 475 in East Singhbhum alone, found infected by the deadly virus in 24 hours, figures released by the health department stated. As per a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) on Tuesday night, as many as 2652 fresh cases of infection took the tally in Jharkhand to 55,296 on Tuesday, while the toll jumped to 496 as a dozen more Covid patients died during treatment. Besides reporting highest number of Covid cases on Tuesday, East Singhbhum also saw five of the 12 Covid deaths, which took the toll in the district to 226, nearly 50 per cent of the total number of casualties recorded in Jharkhand. Meanwhile, Saraikela reported 248 cases of infection on Tuesday, further increasing the number of patients in Kolhan division of the state. As per the NHM bulletin, Latehar and Hazaribag reported 210 and 294 fresh cases respectively. Despite 210 cases of infection surfacing in Ranchi on Tuesday, the number of active cases dropped with at least 622 Covid patients recovering from the infection in the state capital in 24 hours. As per government data, the Covid tally in Ranchi was 11,138 by the time this report was filed. The count of active cases here reduced to 3,276. The government on Tuesday collected swab samples of 86,937 people and tested 84,398 of them. Health workers in Jharkhand have so far collected swab samples of 12.48 lakh people and tested 12.36 lakh of them. Out of the 55,000-odd Covid cases reported in the state so far, as many as 39,362 patients have recovered, highlights government data. With 1812 recoveries on Tuesday, Jharkhand’s Covid recovery rate reached 71.18 per cent against the national average of 77.32 per cent. The Covid mortality rate in the state also dropped to 0.89 per cent on the day despite a dozen casualties. After Tuesday’s test results, the number of active cases in Jharkhand stood at 15,438. Despite reporting more recoveries than fresh cases on Tuesday, Ranchi continued to have the highest number of active Covid cases in Jharkhand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-307
09-09-2020||Jharkhand||Hurdle for U-17 women soccer team||The proposed training camp in Ranchi for the probables of the Indian team for Fifa U-17 Women’s World Cup that was deferred because of the Covid-19 pandemic faced another hurdle. No bidder showed interest when the online bidding was done on Tuesday for awarding contracts for accommodation of the trainees, catering, grassing of the playground and preparation of dressing rooms. “We have to abide by the SOP (standard operating procedures) issued by the Central government and arrange separate rooms for each player for maintaining social distancing,” said Anil Kumar Singh, state’s sports director. He said there is still time left for organising the arrangements through another round of bidding. The authorities also visited Jamshedpur for exploring possibility of an alternate venue there if the need arises. Earlier, the camp was scheduled to begin at Birsa Munda Football Stadium, Ranchi, in August but was postponed because of the lockdown. The camp is now expected to begin from October 1. The trainees have to arrive in Ranchi latest by September 16 so that they can attend the camp on October 1 after completing the mandatory 14-day-quarantine. Though there is still time for organising the rest of the requirements, plantation of grass should have been completed by now, felt Mohammad Halimuddin, secretary of Ranchi district football association. The football tournament was originally planned to be held this year but was deferred to next year because of the pandemic. Thirty-five footballers were selected from across the country, including eight from Jharkhand, as probables for the Indian squad. The footballers had attended a training camp in Goa. They were given a short break in February and were supposed to return by March-end but that could not happen because of the nationwide lockdown. Hearing the plight of the girls from Jharkhand who were facing difficulties in their villages, chief minister Hemant Soren had arranged to shift them to Ranchi so that they could continue their practice. India will host the seventh edition of the Fifa U-17 Women’s World Cup that was scheduled to be held in November but has been shifted to February-March 2021 due to the pandemic. According to the revised schedule, the tournament will now be held between February 17 and March 7 next year in Ahmedabad, Bhubaneswar, Calcutta, Guwahati and Navi Mumbai. Besides host India, 15 other teams chosen through separate continental tournaments will participate in the World Cup.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-307
09-09-2020||Jharkhand||Covid test mandatory for visitors at Jharkhand border checkpoint||Rapid antigen test for Covid was made mandatory for travellers entering Jharkhand from Bengal at the inter-state check points bordering Paschim Bardhaman and Nirsa block in the Dhanbad district. Following the directive of the Dhanbad deputy commissioner and chairperson district disaster management authority, Uma Shankar Singh, medical booths had been set up at Chirkunda-Panchet (along old GT Road) and at Maithon (along NH-2). “We carried out a special Rapid Antigen Test drive in different parts of the city on Tuesday which also included the two inter-state check points of Chirkunda and NH-2. However from September 9 onward any visitor entering the district from Bengal will have to undergo a rapid antigen test for Covid at the medical booths. We will be monitoring if the testing is done for all visitors or not through the high definition CCTVs installed at the checkpoints. These are steps to curb the spread of Covid infection in the district,” said Uma Shankar Singh. Significantly, the district administration had installed two CCTVs each at both Chirkunda-Panchet and NH-2 near Maithon on July 22 to contain the spread of Covid. The CCTV footage is being monitored at the Covid-19 control room functional in Circuit House building 24x7 to ensure that all those entering from Bengal have their valid e-passes giving strong reasons for coming to Dhanbad checked thoroughly. Incidentally, the first Covid-19 positive case detected in Kumardhubi block in Dhanbad on April 8 was also a migrant worker who had returned from Asansol (headquarter of Paschim Bardhaman). Even the state health secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni had in July blamed people coming from Bengal and Bihar for spurt in Covid-19 cases in Jharkhand. Sources in the Dhanbad district transport office revealed that even during the current phase of lockdown over 50,000 vehicles (including heavy vehicles) cross the NH-2 and Old GT Road along the checkpoints between Dhanbad and Bengal on an average daily. Sources in the district administration informed that a three-member team from Union health ministry who had been to Dhanbad on Saturday and Sunday had also suggested the district health department to undertake rapid antigen test of all visitors coming to Dhanbad from outside as part of measures to check spread of Covid-19. “The special rapid antigen test drive at NH-2 near Maithon and at Chirkunda will be conducted from morning till evening 8pm while from September 9 it will function 24x7. Visitors will be taken for collection of throat and nasal swab at the temporary medical booths. Usually a rapid antigen test report will arrive in less than 15 minutes,” said Dhanbad additional collector Shyam Narayan Ram. As on September 8, Dhanbad had 3,424 Covid positive cases and 36 deaths. While the state figure had 52,644, Covid positive cases and 484 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-307
09-09-2020||Jharkhand||NGO spreads pre-school education in Jharkhand||A global NGO has been active during the pandemic spreading pre-school education in four blocks of Jharkhand at a time when Anganwadi centres meant for this purpose are closed. Its efforts are a testament to this year’s theme of International Literacy Day, “Literacy, teaching and learning in the Covid-19 crisis and beyond”. The day is observed on September 8 every year. The state branch of Save the Children, a global NGO working for children’s rights, is running the programme in two blocks each of Gumla and West Singhbhum districts in association with two partner organisations and other stakeholders. “We were already working on the project for strengthening pre-school education and still continuing during the pandemic with help from others,” said Mahadev Hansda, state leader of Save the Children. He said they were working in Bharno and Sisai blocks of Gumla districts and Tonto and Tantnagar blocks in West Singhbhum. The NGO has partnered with Lohardaga Gram Swaraj Sansthan in Gumla and The Centre for Social Welfare and Rehabilitation in West Singhbhum for conducting the programme in 477 Anganwadi centres, he said. They have also involved Anganwadi workers, teachers and guardians as stakeholders in the programme, he added. “We conduct the programme through a group of academic support fellows (ASFs) who used to visit Anganwadi centres earlier. They are now visiting the children’s homes as the centres are closed during the pandemic,” Hansda said. He said they help children aged between 3 and 6 years to learn alphabets, colours, patterns, shapes and sizes. “We now visit the houses to show mothers how to teach elementary literacy and mathematics, using such aids which are easily available in and around home like vegetables, pebbles and twigs,” said Sunanda Mishra, an academic support fellow working in Bharno. She said they sometimes also use printed materials. Once the mothers learn how we communicate with their children, they continue doing the same themselves, she said. Vegetables like potato, tomato, beans and lady’s finger and pebbles are used to make the children familiar with colours, shapes and sizes and even counting. “Yes, their method is very simple and I can now help my child learn,” said Mamta Barwar of Bharno basti, whose husband is a marginal farmer. “We have plans to continue the programme with primary school children also and have already conducted training programmes with teachers,” Hansda said. He said they expected the teachers to carry on the mission for spreading literacy as their programme will not last forever.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-307
09-09-2020||Jharkhand||Four injured in cylinder blast at Koderma chemical plant||Four persons were grievously hurt in a cylinder blast at a chemical factory in Koderma on Tuesday. They have been referred to the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS). The workers were welding a tanker that had been lying unused outside the factory when the cylinder exploded. A police team reached the spot and arrangements were made for the injured to be sent to the Sadar hospital. Since the burns were serious, they were referred to the Ranchi hospital. The factory authorities feel that a short-circuit is to blame for the explosion. Manager Amrendra Jha said the injured worked for a contractor of the factory. Two groups of transporters on Tuesday clashed with each other at Sindri More on the Nirsa-Jamtara road, about 40km from the Dhanbad district headquarters, after one of the groups called a bandh. Police had to baton-charge the crowd to bring the situation under control. One of the groups was protesting Maithon Power Ltd awarding a contract to the rival group. A Dhanbad court on Tuesday allowed former Jharia legislator Sanjeev Singh, who is incarcerated, to transfer the power of attorney of his property to a relative. The transfer of property had been opposed by his cousin, Abhishek Singh Singh, alias Guddu Singh. The court also instructed the sub-registrar to visit Dhanbad jail to facilitate the transfer of power of attorney. Sanjeev Singh is lodged in Dhanbad divisional jail since his arrest on April 11, 2017, in connection with the murder of his cousin, Niraj Singh. As many as 168 people tested positive for the coronavirus during a special rapid antigen test (RAT) drive conducted by the Dhanbad administration on Tuesday at 20 spot across the district, including at IIT (ISM), BIT Sindri, Central Institute of Mining, various BCCL hospitals and community health centres. A total of 8,177 people were tested. A similar drive was conducted by the district administration on September 5, during which 107 people tested positive. Trade union leaders under the banner of Sanyukt Sangharsh Samiti on Tuesday staged a protest at the Chasnala office of Steel Authority of India Ltd (SAIL) in support of their eight-point charter of demands, including pay revision of regular employees and implementation of equal pay for equal work for contractual workers. A minor boy has been detained after a 14-year-old girl studying at a Palamau residential school for the disabled became pregnant. The boy, who is being held under the Pocso Act, is also an inmate of the school. Police detained the boy after the father of the girl lodged a complaint on Tuesday. A 21-year-old man has been arrested for allegedly raping a minor girl after promising her marriage in the Ranka police station area. The man, identified as Arbind, has been remanded in judicial custody for two weeks. The crime came to light recently when the 17-year-old girl found out that she is pregnant. A case under Section 4 (aggravated sexual assault) of the Pocso Act and Section 376 (rape) of the IPC has been registered by the Ranka police.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-307
09-09-2020||Jharkhand||Central team visits health hubs in steel city amid rising cases in East Singhbhum||There has been a spike in coronavirus cases in East Singhbhum during the past 24 hours as the central health team visited three Covid-designated hospitals on Tuesday. They also  inspected the two Covid testing labs throughout the day. The three-member team first went over to Tata Main Hospital's Covid wards and to the Coronavirus testing lab of the health hub.  At the hospital's Covid ward, the team spoke with patients and inquired about their health condition. The inspecting team subsequently talked to doctors, nurses and other paramedical staff before holding a brief meeting with the Tata Main Hospital's general manager Rajan Chaudhury. District civil surgeon, Dr. Rajendra Jha, who accompanied the team, said members provided guidelines to make the line of treatment for Covid more effective during interaction. "At the Tata Main Hospital, the central team stayed for over half-an-hour after arriving there at about 11 am.  Having completed the inspection, the team headed for Tata Motors Hospital's Covid-designated ward at the Parivar Kalyan Sansthan in Telco. Following that, the team visited the Covid ward at the MGM Medical College Hospital in Sakchi," Jha told The Telegraph Online. He further informed that the team went to Patamda to inspect the standard of medical facilities being provided to villagers infected with Covid, and how containment was working in the rural pocket. Almost all of the 495 cases that have emerged in the last 24 hours have been clocked from rural areas in East Singhbhum. The total number of Covid cases in the district is 8,636.  The 495 new cases came out of 12,810 samples tested on Monday. The average number of Covid tests per day earlier used to be just 3,000. According to Dr. Jha, as the central team is making inspections at Covid-designated hospitals and testing facilities in the steel city, the district health department has kept the exercise of conducting rapid antigen tests confined to rural areas. He further said that despite the spike in cases in East Singhbhum, only six Covid deaths were reported till 11 pm on Monday, adding that the Covid death rate in the district is 2.7 percent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-307
