10-09-2020||Calcutta||Rent relief for Calcutta airport outlets||The city airport has decided to waive the rent on 100-odd outlets on its premises for April and May, when flights were stalled because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Besides, the Airports Authority of India recently sent a communication to Calcutta airport, saying the rent would be reduced for June, July and August proportionate to the reduced passenger footfall compared with the previous year. Airport officials said they had informed the retail, food and beverage and other agencies about the “concessionaire support scheme”. “Rebate in licence fees will be given to the extent of reduction in passenger footfall from the corresponding period of previous year,” said an airport official. He said no bills would be raised for April and May, when there were no commercial flights. The official said the passenger footfall was almost 70 per cent less in August than what it used to be before the Covid pandemic.The situation improved in September, on the days flights are operating between Calcutta and six cities — Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Ahmedabad, Pune and Nagpur. The flights between Calcutta and the six cities had been suspended on July 6 because of a surge in Covid cases there. The services resumed on September 1 and currently flights on the six routes are operating three days a week. There are 54 food and beverage outlets at Calcutta airport’s integrated terminal, of which 33 are operating. Of the 31 retail stores, 21 have reopened after domestic flights resumed in end-May. Airport officials said the retail and F&B stores in the international section were still closed because flights were yet to resume. Metro had in July reported that several agencies, including the stores and the one running parking facilities at the airport, had sought rebates on rents. The city airport used to earn Rs 14 crore a month as licence fee. Some of the agencies are opposed to calculating the rebate as a proportion of the reduction in passenger footfall. “Now there are more passengers who are not coming on private vehicles. They take buses. So even if the passenger count has gone up compared with June, we are not getting enough business,” said said Babulal Yadav, general manager of Mahesh Sunny Enterprises, which runs the parking facility. But airport officials said passenger footfall could be the only basis of calculation. The Oberoi Group’s flight catering unit, although it does not pay a licence fee to the airport, is looking at resuming business. The unit had written to the Centre earlier, requesting the government to allow serving meals on board. Recently, the civil aviation ministry has given the go-ahead. “We are preparing to serve meals on board from September 13. We are expecting a few orders from airlines,” said an official of the unit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-312
10-09-2020||Calcutta||Balcony collapse kills young man in Burrabazar||A balcony attached to the top floor of a four-storey building collapsed on a crowded Burrabazar Road, killing a youth and injuring an elderly man on Tuesday evening. Vishal Mandal, 18, was standing in front of the building at 15 Noor Mahal Lohia Lane when the balcony collapsed around 7.30pm on Tuesday. Police said the balcony was close to 30ft in length. “The young man who was standing right under the balcony got trapped under the debris. He was rescued and taken to SSKM Hospital with head injuries. He died of injuries later at night,” an officer of Burrabazar police station said. Mandal used to live in the same neighbourhood. Mahabir Sharma, 65, who lives in the same locality, was a few feet from the spot where the balcony crashed. A tile ricocheted and hit Sharma in the leg. He had to be admitted to SSKM Hospital. The building comprises offices and commercial establishments. There was no one in the office on the top floor when the balcony collapsed, the police said. “Otherwise more people could have been injured,” an officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-312
10-09-2020||Calcutta||Scores of injured birds at Salt Lake rescue centre||Kite strings are proving to be risky not only for two-wheeler riders but also for birds who are getting injured after getting entangled in them. Once they get entangled, they struggle to free themselves and in the process injure their wings, legs or talons. Some even die. Scores of birds, including black kites, owls, pigeons and kingfishers, were injured by kite strings in the past couple of days. Many Calcuttans as well as forest department officials have rescued innumerable injured birds, an official at the forest department’s Wildlife Rescue Centre in Salt Lake said. Close to 50 birds have been rescued and the rescue centre has released many after they recovered from their injuries, the official said. The centre has been receiving calls from across the city. People call up to say they spotted injured birds entangled in kite strings or struggling on the ground. Many have taken to flying kites in the city during the lockdown. Several two-wheeler riders on flyovers have been critically injured by kite strings. Some have died of injuries. Manja (a mixture of glass and glue) helps kites soar but also adds to the string’s sharpness. Such strings do not snap and leave birds entangled in them severely injured. The nylon ones are known as Chinese manja — they are almost unbreakable and are extremely sharp. “We often hear of such injuries to birds, especially black kites. Birds cannot see the string while flying and they get entangled in them,” Shubhankar Patra, a veteran birdwatcher, said. Black kites, common in the city, are large, slow-flying birds. Being scavengers, they keep hovering in the sky in search of food. Owls, too, cannot spot strings until it is too late. A few days ago, an injured Indian Kite was spotted dangling from the branch of a tree at the Park Street and Camac Street crossing. Passers-by alerted cops. Traffic sergeants Diptimoy Ghosh and Awasim Bari of the South traffic guard climbed on top of a boundary wall adjacent to the tree and rescued the bird. They then alerted the forest department, which sent a rescue team to the area. The bird was taken to the rescue centre in Salt Lake where it was treated. An official at the centre said more than 26 birds with injuries from kite strings had been rescued in the past week. “Most have injuries on their wings or legs… they struggle to free themselves once they get entangled in kite strings. We try our best but many cannot fly after getting slashed or entangled in these strings,” the official said. Forest officials and various NGOs are worried about a spike in the number of injured birds during Vishwakarma Puja, which is round the corner, when sparring with kites is common in the city. Calcutta High Court had in July directed cops to strictly enforce the ban on Chinese manja and nylon and synthetic strings used to fly kites.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-312
10-09-2020||Calcutta||14 Tokay geckos rescued on Bangladesh border||Fourteen Tokay geckos that were being smuggled into India from Bangladesh on Wednesday were rescued near the Parghumti border outpost in North 24-Parganas, a BSF officer said. A BSF team saw a man wading through the Kalindi river from Bangladesh with a polythene bag, the officer said. When the BSF patrol party asked him to stop, he dropped the bag and fled. The team found the 14 geckos in the bag. The geckos have been handed over to the forest department’s Wildlife Rescue Centre. The Tokay gecko is a species of Asian lizard characterised by orange spots on the skin and a shrill croak. The reptile is found in rainforests, particularly in the Northeast, apart from Nepal, Bangladesh, Indonesia, the Philippines and New Guinea. It is protected under Schedule IV of the Wildlife Protection Act (WPA), 1972.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-312
10-09-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta bus, minibus forum to seek PM’s help||A forum of private bus and minibus operators in Calcutta has decided to write to Prime Minister Narendra Modi demanding the Centre ensures diesel price drops and offer them financial relief. The price of diesel was Rs 76.66 a litre in Calcutta on Wednesday. In June it was Rs 65.62 a litre. The impact has been felt across the board with prices of vegetables and other items soaring. Bus and minibus operators said they had been hit the worst. Fuel comprises almost 60 per cent of the expenditure and the escalating diesel price has left them in the lurch, many said. The state government has refused to revise the existing fares and many have defaulted on their vehicle EMI payments. “There has been a drop in ticket sales by almost 60 per cent. So what will a bus owner earn to pay his EMIs? State can run buses on subsidy. But we can’t,” Tapan Bandyopadhayay of the Joint Council of Bus Syndicates said. “The Centre must intervene. We want a waiver on insurance premium and a temporary waiver of EMIs so that those with vehicle loans are not blacklisted.” At a meeting of bus and minibus owners and operators on Wednesday, representatives of various unions decided that apart from writing to Modi, they would make similar appeals to Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman and transport minister Nitin Gadkari. “Why won’t we be considered a part of the small or micro industry? Why can’t the Centre give us some sops?” Swapan Ghosh, the joint secretary of the Minibus Operators Coordination Committee, asked.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-312
10-09-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta HC relief for three NEET candidates||A Covid survivor who has to travel all the way to Kharagpur to write his National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) had moved the high court asking what if the authorities did not allow him to write the paper because of his medical history. The court on Wednesday directed the state to ask the examination-conducting agency to make arrangements so that Saumik Jana could write the test alone in a room. Jana is from a village in Murshidabad district. Moving a petition before Justice Tapabrata Chakraborty, Jana said he was not opposed to going to Kharagpur for the test, but wondered what he would do if the authorities there did not allow him to take the exam because he had recently recovered from Covid-19. All medical colleges in India admit students to their undergraduate courses through NEET. Jana was sent to a quarantine centre for 14 days after he was diagnosed with the disease on August 18. The counsel appearing for him said: “My client was declared Covid-free on September 2. According to health norms, he should be in home quarantine for 14 more days. The NEET authorities at the examination centre could say my client would not be allowed to sit the exam.” The order to the state came following the submission. The high court is swamped with appeals from NEET candidates, especially because the entrance test is preceded by two days of complete lockdown in the state. The court will hear many of the appeals on Thursday. In another case before the same bench on Wednesday, Anindita Jana from East Midnapore said her test centre was in West Midnapore, nearly 150km from her home. Anindita’s counsel wondered how his client would reach the centre as the state would be under lockdown on September 11 and 12 and train services were yet to resume. Justice Chakraborty directed the state government to arrange for a vehicle for Anindita so she could reach the venue. Jayatri Pal, from Raiganj in South Dinajpur, expressed the same worry because her test venue was about 155km from her home. Jayatri had moved the plea before Justice Arindam Sinha. The judge asked the state to provide accommodation for Jayatri in Siliguri from Thursday to Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-312
10-09-2020||Calcutta||Suspect in Sinthi burglaries arrested||A youth arrested in connection with a cellphone theft has been found to have been involved in four burglaries reported from the Sinthi area, in north Calcutta, over the last four months, police said. Each of the houses burgled in Sinthi has CCTV cameras on the road in front but police failed to identify any suspect based on the footage. The police tracked down Tapas Das, 25, while pursuing the trail of a stolen cellphone that was sold to a woman at Shyampur in Howrah. Armed with sketchy details about the man who sold the phone to the woman, the police activated their sources and found that the suspect was a frequent visitor to a red-light zone in the Girish Park area of north Calcutta. Das was arrested from the area on Tuesday night. “We have recovered two laptops, cash and gold ornaments from him,” said an officer of the detective department. Some of the items were stolen from Sinthi. The investigators reached the woman who bought the stolen phone by tracking its IMEI number. She apparently told the cops that she had bought the phone from a man. “We got some clues about the man’s looks from the woman. The descriptions matched that of Tapas Dey, whose name figures in the crime records section at Lalbazar. Based on source information, we learned that Dey was in a habit of going to a red-light area in the city. We launched surveillance but learned that he had started visiting another red-light pocket, in the Girish Park area,” the officer said. “We have come to know that Das was involved in four burglaries in the Sinthi area over the past four months. He has also admitted to having committed burglaries in Chitpore, Tallah, Lake Town and Baguiati,” the officer said. Senior officers at Calcutta police said they would contact Lake Town and Baguiati police stations, which are under the Bidhannagar commissionerate, to gather details about the crimes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-312
10-09-2020||Calcutta||Jadavpur University set to help students with Internet problems||Jadavpur University will give students facing Net connectivity problems smartphones and high-speed data packs ahead of the end-semester exams, scheduled for October, a university official said. The move will ensure no student is left out of the exam process for want of Net connectivity, the official said. In the third of week August, Suranjan Das, the university vice-chancellor, had requested its teachers and other employees to donate a day’s salary to help some students overcome the digital divide and attend online classes. He had requested the alumni, guardians and others to contribute so that funds could be raised to help in the process. The university has received more than Rs 12 lakh till September 8 and the money will be used to buy smartphones and high-speed data packs, a university official said. Arts and science students have started filling online forms from Tuesday for the exams that are likely to be held from October 1 to 10. The exams will be held because the results published in July following the state higher education department’s June 27 directive “stand cancelled” in view of an August 28 Supreme Court order. “We will buy students smartphones and high-speed data packs with the contribution received so far. Students will be able to write the exams and attend classes as well with this support,” Pradip Ghosh, a pro vice-chancellor, said. Ghosh is part of the 10-member committee formed on September 4 to coordinate the utilisation of the corpus “created to help students with digital devices/ connectivity”. Another member of the committee said it was crucial that the support reached students before the start of the exams as this could help them take the tests without any worries of getting question papers and sending answer scripts on time. As these students don’t have the facilities, the university has thought of engaging courier services to deliver question papers to their homes and collect answer scripts as well. “But what if the courier guy fails to deliver the papers on time? If students are provided with phone and high-speed data packs, they can receive the questions and mail back the answer scripts or send them WhatsApp like any other student,” Partha Pratim Roy, the general secretary of Jadavpur University Teachers’ Association, said. Roy is part of the committee. The university’s faculty council had on Sunday decided that those with access to the Net would receive questions by email and WhatsApp and have two hours to write the answers. Answers will have to be sent back the same way. If needed, a student can get the answer script scanned or take photographs of the answer script and mail them or send them on WhatsApp. That’s why students will get an hour to send the answers, an official said. Gour Krishna Pattanayak, the university’s finance official, said the university would meet on Thursday to take stock of the number of students who would need the help. “The departments have submitted lists. We have to go through them once so that genuine people get the help. We will then start talking to companies to get phone and high-speed data packs,”he said. Pattanayak is part of the committee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-313
10-09-2020||Calcutta||Counselling campaign on mental health||Singer Usha Uthup and actress Parno Mittra will be among hundreds who will wear yellow on Thursday. The reason? They don’t want another life lost to suicide. An NGO that provides telephone counselling to mentally distressed individuals has launched a campaign, Go Yellow Kolkata 2020, to spread awareness about mental health issues and to remove the stigma attached to suicide and depression. September 10 is World Suicide Prevention Day.  Lifeline Foundation Kolkata is urging people to wear yellow on Thursday in support of the movement through various online platforms. “Wear yellow and show your support to the cause,” Usha said on Wednesday. Shubhika Singh, a consultant psychologist and one of the trustees of Lifeline Foundation, said: “As a society, we have been conditioned to view emotions and mental health as a weakness. We need to collectively work to change it and sensitise each other towards normalising the conversation around mental well-being. No one should suffer in silence because of the fear of judgements and stigma.” Parno spoke of her own “depression and anxiety for many years”. “I am on medication for it. I want people to know it’s totally normal to have mental health issues. One must be open to treatment and we as a society need to change our attitude,” Mittra said. Mittra and Uthup will join an online session on Thursday in support of the movement. “We are all facing the emotional impact of Covid-19. If we as a society come together and start talking about mental health issues without any stigma, it becomes acceptable to the point of consideration and discussion,” said Suksham Singh of Lifeline Foundation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-313
10-09-2020||Calcutta||Metro on Sunday for NEET candidates||Metro Railway will run a limited number of trains on Sunday for NEET aspirants, the first passenger service in 173 days since the utility had grounded its fleet on March 23 because of the Covid pandemic. “A total of 66 trains will be run (33 each from Noapara and New Garia) from 11am to 7pm at an interval of 15 minutes,” a Metro official said. “Only NEET candidates and their guardians can avail themselves of the service. They will have to show their admit cards at the gates of stations to get printed tickets. No tokens will be issued,” the official added. Over 30,000 candidates are expected to take the test at 66 centres in Calcutta. The test will be conducted from 2pm to 5pm. The state unit of the Indian Medical Association will provide NEET candidates and their family members one or two nights' accommodation at its guest houses in Calcutta. Santanu Sen, the state secretary of the association, tweeted that the accommodation would be provided at a “special discounted rate” on a "first come first served” basis on the “previous night or the day of the examination”. Interested persons should send a message to 8240716350 before 6pm on Friday, the tweet said. The Metro service has remained suspended since March 23. There has been no formal announcement of the date of resumption of commercial service in Calcutta. But crowd control preparations with the help of technology are under way. The railway authorities will keep an eye on how Metro trains run before taking a call on resuming suburban trains, said a senior official. “We will see how Metro trains run by maintaining social distancing and crowd control protocols. They are taking the help of technology. But there are doubts on the efficacy of that technology in the open line. We will examine how the technology progresses on the ground,” Suneet Sharma, the general manager of Eastern Railway, said during a press conference on Wednesday. “Metro Railway carried 6.5 lakh passengers every day. The suburban sections of the Eastern Railway carried 30 lakh passengers every day. Metro stations have access-control facilities. Access control at the porous suburban stations is going to be very difficult. But we are in consultation with the state government. We hope something positive comes out of it,” said Sharma. “We have sent the state government crucial correspondence. Now we have to wait and see what happens once Metro trains resume,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-313
10-09-2020||Calcutta||Hawker count rises in Salt Lake||Pavements and portions of roads in Salt Lake are being fast encroached upon by hawkers selling anything from fruits to poultry. The numbers have gone up in the past couple of months as many who lost their jobs during the Covid pandemic have taken to selling fruits, vegetables and fast food to sustain themselves and their families. Most of these men and women are parking their vans on roads and some are setting up stalls on pavements. Many Salt Lake residents Metro spoke to said there had been a sharp increase in the number of pavement-grabbing stalls in all sectors of the township. Metro went around Salt Lake on Wednesday and the hawkers presiding over pavement-grabbing stalls in Sectors I, II and III are hard to miss. They were everywhere in Karunamoyee, opposite the Geological Survey of India building, in front of the Punjab National Bank rotary, lanes in several blocks such as DL and EE, and the newly renovated stretch of pavement along the Kestopur canal near AL block. Hawkers have also sprung up in front of the CGO Complex. Paritosh Duley, a resident of Kestopur who sells fruits from a pushcart and sets up his stall in AL block, said he earned a living by repairing air-conditioners before Covid struck. “I had to switch professions because there are very little work opportunities now. Most people are scared to let outsiders in. I now sell fruits to support my family,” Duley said. A glance at a 6ft wide pavement within the Karunamoyee bus stand shows the magnitude of fresh encroachments. More than a dozen illegal hawkers have set up shop there. Fruit seller Swapan Pushti, 38, said he and other hawkers had moved inside the bus stand from where the Calcutta-Dhaka service operates because it is “safer” for them to do business there. The Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation had evicted 3,000-odd hawkers and demolished stalls on pavements before the U-17 football World Cup in October 2017. Evictions were also carried out before Calcutta Book Fair in subsequent years. A civic official said no eviction drive had been conducted over the past six months. Mayor Krishna Chakraborty said they were not evicting the hawkers as most of them had lost their jobs because of the pandemic. “We are taking a softer stand because we don’t want to destroy their only means of earning something,” she said. Samaresh Bandyopadhyay, a resident of Salt Lake’s Sector II, however, said that not just pavements, even roads will be taken over if the authorities did not act against encroachments immediately. “The numbers are going up and it can turn into a situation where shops will spring up everywhere. We residents have a right to walk on pavements,” said Bandyopadhyay.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-313
10-09-2020||Calcutta||Surgeries deferred as patients test Covid positive in Calcutta||Planned surgeries are getting cancelled because patients are testing positive for Covid-19 during routine investigations, doctors and officials at a number of hospitals said. Last Saturday at Peerless Hospital, three laparoscopic cholecystectomies (procedures to remove gallbladder and gallstones) were postponed because all three patients tested positive for Covid-19 in routine screening. At the RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences, three out of six scheduled renal transplants last week had to be deferred because the patients had tested positive for Covid-19. None of them had symptoms, said an official of the hospital. Patients in need of surgeries and procedures for a number of ailments, including cancer and renal failure, were staying away from hospitals during the lockdown and immediately after it was lifted for fear of catching the coronavirus. Such people are now slowly going back to hospitals. But many of them are testing positive for Covid-19 in routine screening and are having their procedures deferred. Doctors said that except for emergency cases, they are waiting for patients to test negative for Covid before scheduling their procedures. “This is being done for patients’ safety because the coronavirus damages lungs and surgeries could be life-threatening in such situations,” said a doctor. “In the past week, we had about 10 surgeries deferred, including renal transplant, cancer, knee replacement and coronary bypass. None of the patients who tested positive for Covid had any symptoms. Surgeries can be done after the patients turn negative,” said Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital. A man in his 60s had come to Calcutta in March for renal transplant at Peerless Hospital. The donor, his nephew, had come along with him. “The necessary clearances from the health department could not be processed because of the lockdown. Recently, the clearances came but the donor and the recipient both tested positive for Covid-19. Now, both of them are in a guesthouse, waiting to test negative,” Mitra said. At AMRI Hospitals, an elderly man had undergone neurosurgery in April. Surgeons had kept a piece of the skull bone in the abdomen and planned to replant it in the skull later. “The person had to undergo surgery to get the bone replanted. But he tested positive for Covid-19,” said Prakhar Gyanseh, a consultant in neuroanaesthesia and neurocritical care at AMRI, Dhakuria. The patient underwent the surgery last week after being cured of the coronavirus infection. A woman who had suffered a cerebral haemorrhage a few days back and was admitted to the hospital tested positive for Covid and was treated at the Covid ICU. On Thursday, the procedure to remove the clot will be done, said Gyanesh. “The number of surgeries is going up and so are the cases getting deferred. Ten per cent of my patients are testing positive for Covid before surgery,” said surgical oncologist Gautam Mukhopadhyay.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-313
10-09-2020||Calcutta||Queue ordeal for the aged at banks||A 79-year-old pensioner collapsed on the road while waiting in a snaking queue outside a branch of a nationalised bank in Serampore, in Hooghy district, on Tuesday. He had been standing for over 40 minutes. Another septuagenarian visited a nationalised bank’s Dunlop Bridge branch twice in the past five days to withdraw her pension. She returned empty-handed on both days, the queue reminding her of the “mad rush during demonetisation”. Strict enforcement of social distancing protocols inside branches has made life miserable for customers, many of them senior citizens, who have to wait for hours outside. Serpentine queues are visible mostly outside nationalised banks, where senior citizens usually keep their savings. The rush is felt more in the first and last week of every month, when pension is disbursed. Only a handful of people are being allowed inside at a time — depending on the size of the branch, its staff and the number of counters. The rest are having to brave the sun and occasional showers for a considerable period of time outside. The sweaty conditions typical of the monsoon have made things worse. Around 10.45am on Wednesday, there were around 50 people standing outside a nationalised bank’s branch in Behala’s Sarsuna. Many senior citizens were in the queue. Some of them took refuge inside nearby stalls, their positions held by younger family members. Among them was Angurbala Das, in her eighties. Das was waiting on a rickshaw as a family member stood in the queue for her. “I do not leave home at all, except for bank visits,” said Das. The mercury outside touched 33 degrees but the RealFeel was around 42 degrees. At a branch of another nationalised bank in Bansdroni, some 40-odd people were standing in the queue outside a little after 12.30pm. The Celsius and RealFeel were 34 and 43 degrees, respectively. “I had to wait for 90 minutes before I could enter. All I needed was an interest certificate,” said Uttam Raha, 69. The people in the queue questioned the logic of having to wait for an hour to deposit a cheque or update a passbook. The days of complete lockdown in the state have compounded the problem, said bankers and customers. “The state was under complete lockdown on Monday. When the bank opened after two days on Tuesday, there was a huge rush. Friday and Saturday are again complete lockdowns. I am shuddered to think of the rush when the bank re-opens on Tuesday,” said a manager of a nationalised bank. The social distancing norms are being implemented according to the capacity of each branch. A 4,000sq feet branch with seven counters is allowing around 15 people at once. A 1,000sq ft branch with three counters is only allowing six people at a time. “Broadly, we are trying to ensure that a one-metre distance is maintained between two persons,” said an official of a nationalised bank in New Alipore. A senior banker said the pandemic had posed new challenges. “There is a staff crunch in many banks because a number of employees have tested positive for Covid-19,” he said. Many said the queues reminded them of the days of demonetisation. “I had the same feeling on both days I went to the bank. The very sight of so many people standing outside and no one knowing when their turn would come,” said a septuagenarian woman from Dunlop, who returned empty-handed from her bank on both days. A senior banker and a member of the State Level Bankers Committee in Bengal, which coordinates between the government and the banks, acknowledged the hardships senior citizens were facing. “Senior citizens are not comfortable using ATM cards and Net or mobile banking. They still prefer withdrawing cash from the counter,” he said. His bank has started “exclusive counters” for senior citizens at some branches, he said. “The counters are operational for around 10 days a month, when the rush of pensioners is maximum.” The queues get longer as one moves further away from Calcutta. The nationalised bank in Serampore, outside which the 79-year-old man collapsed on Monday, sees people queue up since 8am on several days. Banks open at 10am. “The customer base in a branch in the suburb is more than an urban branch. The city has more business and the branch penetration is more in urban areas. Because of the reduced penetration in semi-urban and rural areas, the number of customers in each branch is more,” said an official in the regional head office of a nationalised bank.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-313
10-09-2020||Calcutta||Assaulter claims altercation with woman co-rider ‘internal matter’||Abhishek Kumar Pandey, accused of assaulting and throwing a woman out of his Honda City and running over another woman while trying to flee on Saturday night, has told cops it was an “internal matter that went out of hand”. Pandey was arrested in Dum Dum on Tuesday night. He has apparently told cops he and the woman were supposed to get married in December and that they were arguing over when to buy a flat. The argument turned violent and they started hitting each other, he has apparently said. “He has claimed the woman had bitten his hand and that he, too, had slapped her when they were inside the car on Saturday night but they had no intention of going to the police against each other,” an officer in Lalbazar said. The police have sought forensic opinion to verify Pandey’s claim of the woman having bitten him, the officer said. A city court on Wednesday remanded him in police custody till September 16. Pandey’s lawyer told the court he and the woman were in a long-term relationship and that their marriage had to be postponed to December because of the pandemic. “They were having normal issues like any other couple. He wanted her to stay a little more but she wanted to go home. It was nothing serious,” the lawyer said. The police, however, said the fight was not just about going back home but about the plan to buy a flat. “He was engaged with a private insurance company. He lost his job during the lockdown. He recently joined a tea company on Shakespeare Sarani and had sought some time from the woman before he could buy a flat. This had been the bone of contention between the two for the past few weeks,” an officer who is investigating the matter said. The police have learnt during investigation that Pandey had gone to the woman’s home later on Saturday night to return her phone and other belongings. He had left them with the building’s guard. “The woman had initially tried to misguide us with a false name. She later said she wanted to save Pandey and that she had no intention of lodging any police complaint against him. But she had to involve the police because of Nilanjana Chatterjee who got grievously injured while trying to help the woman who was shouting inside the car,” the officer said. On Saturday night, the woman had told cops she had met Pandey five days ago and that his name was Amitabha Bose. Senior officers said the police would seek legal opinion on whether to charge the woman with giving false information initially to misguide cops. During investigation, the police have found that Pandey had taken shelter in a guest house in Mukundapur, around 4km from Anandapur police station, on Sunday night before checking out early in the morning the next day. He later met a lawyer in Sealdah. His mobile phone was switched off but the GPRS on his phone was working. His movement was tracked first to the guest house and then to the Sealdah home of the lawyer, after which he had switched off the GPRS. On Tuesday night, cops could again track him to a place near Dum Dum from where he was arrested.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-313
10-09-2020||Calcutta||Arrests for Durga Puja fake message on curfew||Two men have been arrested in Sodepur and Baranagar on the city’s northern outskirts on charges of circulating a fake message of curfew during Durga Puja on social media, police said. Raju Biswas from Ghola in Sodepur and Prabhujit Acharya from Baranagar have been booked under Section 505 (1) of the IPC and under various sections of the IT act. Section 505 (1) of the IPC deals with making, publishing or circulating any statement, rumour or report that may cause fear or alarm the public. The two arrests came within hours of chief minister Mamata Banerjee directing the police to find out who was responsible for spreading such false messages. “Fake WhatsApp messages are doing the rounds saying visitors to pandals will not be allowed to move around at night. There has been no meeting yet with Puja organisers. How can someone say like this?” Mamata had said on Tuesday. “First, prove that the government has issued such orders. Or they should be made to box their ears and do 100 squats.” The message that made rounds claimed that the Bengal government had decided there will be curfew between 5pm and 4am from Panchami to Ekadashi, a day after the Puja is over. The message went on to specify a long list of dos and don’ts for the puja this year, including that more than five people would not be allowed inside a pandal. The state police promptly identified the message and termed it “fake” on its twitter handle before sharing it with the city police. “A rumour regarding Durga Puja is being spread through WhatsApp. No such decision has been taken. Please do not forward this message. It’s fake. Action is being taken,” the police said on its Twitter handle. On Wednesday, a team of officers started tracking the IP addresses from where the post had first come into circulation and traced them to Biswas and Acharya. “We are checking the antecedence of the accused,” an officer of the Barrackpore commissionerate said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-313
10-09-2020||Calcutta||3 Calcutta hospitals fined on 1 Covid patient||The state health regulatory commission has fined two private hospitals in Calcutta that did not admit a 78-year-old Covid patient and a third for not taking proper care of him after admission, the panel chairperson said on Wednesday. Fortis Hospital, Anandapur, has been fined Rs 1 lakh for not admitting the patient in their intensive care unit (ICU) and for not making arrangements for his admission in any other hospital. All Asia Medical Institute in Gariahat has been fined Rs 50,000. The patient’s daughter took him to the Gariahat hospital after she was pro-mised admission, but on reaching there they were apparently told no bed was available. The third hospital — R Flemming Hospital in Topsia — did not take proper care of the man after admitting him, said retired judge Ashim Kumar Banerjee, the chairperson of the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission. The patient, a resident of Hooghly’s Rishra, passed away on July 7 at a nursing home in Ekbalpore, where the family shifted him after they allegedly found that he was not getting proper care at R Flemming Hospital. He was taken to Fortis Hospital on July 3. “The man’s daughter lodged a complaint saying her father needed admission in the ICU but Fortis Hospital turned him away. During the hearing, the hospital said there was no bed available at the ICU,” said Banerjee. “We told the hospital they should have made arrangements for the man’s admission at another hospital if there was no ICU bed in their hospital. The hospital said they had tried to do so. But we felt the hospital could have done more,” the chairperson said. When the patient was taken to Fortis Hospital, he was suspected to be suffering from Covid-19. He tested positive for the disease at the Ekbalpore nursing home. An official at Fortis said: “The patient was brought to the hospital around midnight and stayed at our emergency for three hours, during which time our doctors stabilised him. We arranged for an ambulance. We also inquired with neighbouring hospitals but none had an ICU bed vacant…. We called up the family when an ICU bed became vacant in our hospital, but unfortunately the person had passed away by then,” he said. The Covid victim’s daughter told the commission that the family had called up many hospitals in the city. They either did not take calls or said they had no vacant beds. All Asia Medical Institute had promised admission but when the family took the elderly man there, the hospital refused admission. “We asked the hospital why the person who answered the call said a bed was available when no beds were vacant. We have fined them Rs 50,000,” the chairperson said. An official of All Asia Medical Institute said they would appeal against the fine. “The complainant could not give any evidence. We don’t have any record with us that shows that the patient had come to our hospital and refused admission. We had asked for some evidence so that we could inquire on our own, but the complainant was unable to give any evidence like call records or emergency unit records,” said an official of the hospital. The patient was admitted to R Flemming Hospital after being refused admission in other places, the daughter told the commission. “But when she went to the hospital to see her father about three hours later, she found he was not receiving proper care. We have fined Flemming Hospital Rs 50,000 for their negligence,” the retired judge said. This newspaper called the phone number of the hospital mentioned on its website but none answered. The commission fined ILS, Dum Dum, Rs 1 lakh for assigning a wrong blood group to a newborn. The hospital, where the baby was born, said her blood group was O positive. Later, before a surgery at another hospital, her blood group was found to be O negative. This newspaper called the number mentioned on the hospital’s website. The person who answered the call refused to comment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-313
10-09-2020||Business||Airfare refund quibble||The Supreme Court on Wednesday asked the Centre to clarify through an additional affidavit the government’s assurance that passengers who had booked flight tickets before the Covid-19 lockdown would also be refunded the cancelled fares along with those who had booked tickets during the actual lockdown period. The court passed the direction after senior advocate Sanjay Hegde, appearing for some passengers, expressed apprehension that the recent affidavit filed by the DGCA did not specify whether those passengers who booked tickets prior to the lockdown would be refunded the cancelled fares, too. “We only want to say relief should not be confined to those who booked tickets during the first lockdown. “The affidavit gives an impression that relief is confined to only those who had booked during the first lockdown. Relief should be granted to everyone whose flights had been cancelled because of the lockdown,” Hegde said. Justice Ashok Bhushan asked solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, who appeared for the Centre, whether cancellation of tickets for travel during lockdown but booked before it were also taken care of, to which Mehta said: “Yes.” However, the court wanted a written assurance and asked the government to clarify the point through an additional affidavit. “Airlines and other stakeholders have prayed for one week’s time to file their reply to the affidavit. The request in granted. “Tushar Mehta may also file the additional affidavit within the same period,” the bench headed by Justice Bhushan said, listing the matter for further hearing on September 23. The Centre had in a recent affidavit assured the court that passengers would be entitled to full refund of their cancelled fares for all tickets booked during lockdown 1 and 2 between March 25 to May 3.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-293
10-09-2020||Business||Satchet-sized credit only way to survive: Viral Acharya||Public sector banks should learn from FMCG players and “democratise credit”, a move that can help state-run banks solve the “biggest fiscal challenge” of recapitalisation, former RBI deputy governor Viral Acharya said on Wednesday. Acharya further said that re-privatisation of the lenders is necessary to help reduce the recapitalisation burden and stressed that public sector banks (PSBs) have had a mixed performance on financial inclusion. Banks were nationalised in 1969 and depend on the government for capital support, which has gone up with the spurt in NPAs. In the present times, as Covid-19 is likely to have an impact on buffers, many of the private sector banks have already raised capital but most of the PSBs are yet to move on and there is speculation of re-privatising some of the PSBs. “There are some PSBs whose business model is so broken in my assessment that there won’t be any immediate suitors who are interested in buying their equity in a significant manner or at decent prices. What is the option? I’d say they should focus on sachetisation or democratisation of credit,” Acharya said, speaking at a summit organised by ETBFSI.com. “Learning from the FMCG companies on how to democratise credit through a satchetisation approach would actually solve one of the biggest fiscal challenges that the country faces right now, which is how to ensure that the bills the government has to keep paying for recapitalising public sector banks can be brought down,” he added. Just like the fast-moving consumer goods ((FMCG) companies did with the shampoo selling in the 1970s, credit can be extended in small packets by such state-run lenders to the financially excluded people, Acharya said. SBI managing director Arijit Basu warned that banks should not solely focus on the retail segment as sluggish growth can impact this category of loans. “A complete shift to retail may not be in the best interests because if your economy doesn’t grow, even your retail at some point of time would get impacted,” Basu said at the virtual event. SBI on Wednesday said it has raised Rs 4,000 crore through  Basel-III compliant debt instruments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-293
10-09-2020||Business||Flaws surface in Boeing Dreamliner ||Boeing Co has warned of delays in deliveries of its 787 Dreamliner as three separate production flaws over the past year hamper efforts to develop an alternative cash cow to its grounded 737 MAX. In the latest issue, Boeing learned during fabrication of the 787 horizontal stabiliser that some components were clamped with greater force than specified, which could result in improper gap verification and shimming. Boeing identified the problem in February and announced it on Tuesday. The Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) said it “is investigating manufacturing flaws affecting certain Boeing 787 jetliners. The agency continues to engage with Boeing”. A person briefed on the matter said the horizontal stabiliser issue could require the inspection of as many as about 900 airplanes. Boeing said the stabiliser issue, identified at a production plant in Salt Lake City, Utah, was being corrected on airplanes not yet delivered and was not an immediate flight safety issue. “Analysis is underway to determine if action is required on the in-service fleet,” Boeing added. On Monday, the FAA said it was also investigating two other manufacturing flaws in some Boeing 787 Dreamliners, but said it was too early to say if it will require new inspections. In late August, Boeing had said that airlines had removed eight 787 Dreamliners from service as a result of two distinct manufacturing issues in fuselage sections. Boeing said on Monday some airplanes have shims that are not the proper size, and some airplanes have areas that do not meet skin flatness specifications. Boeing identified the shimming issue in August 2019. “Individually these issues, while not up to specifications, still meet limit load conditions. When combined in the same location, however, they result in a condition that does not meet limit load requirements,” Boeing said. Boeing said it expected the inspections to affect the timing of 787 deliveries in the near term. Boeing also said it secured its first 737 MAX order in 2020, while also recording more cancellations as customers continued to ditch orders for the grounded MAX jets.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-293
10-09-2020||Business||Freight sop boosts rail cargo traffic||Concessions have pushed up overall freight loading for Eastern Railways, which has set its sight to surpass the target of 69 million tonnes for 2020-21. Coal comprises over 60 per cent of the cargo handled by Eastern Railways. The Railway Board had earlier decided to offer a 15-20 per cent concession on coal, iron ore and steel over long distances. For short-distance traffic, the concessions range from 10-50 per cent, except coal and iron ore. While the railways is considering more sops, carrying coal over shorter distances such as less than 100 km is unlikely to be viable. With barely any passenger traffic, Eastern Railways is gradually picking up freight loading since June. “April and May were lean  periods for us. From June, we have seen a growth in freight loading. August was on a par with last year as some of the coal mines were flooded. With industry picking up, the numbers are expected to go up and we expect to surpass the target for the year,” said Suneet Sharma, general manager, Eastern Railways.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-293
10-09-2020||Business||LVMH-Tiffany deal off||The $16.2-billion deal that would have brought together LVMH Moët Hennessy Louis Vuitton and Tiffany & Company, which would have been the biggest acquisition ever in the luxury sector, is cratering. On Wednesday, LVMH said it was withdrawing its offer to buy Tiffany, while Tiffany said it had filed a lawsuit to force the luxury giant to move forward with its offer. There has been concern for months that LVMH would seek to renegotiate the deal, which was announced last November, in light of the stress the pandemic has put on the jewellery business. LVMH said in statement on Wednesday that it couldn’t complete the deal “as it stands”, citing a request from the French government to delay the deal beyond January 6, 2021, because of the threat of US tariffs on French goods. In a filing with the Securities Exchange Commission, Tiffany said that while LVMH had informed the jeweller that it had received a letter from the French government to delay the deal, the company had not yet seen a copy of that letter. Tiffany’s lawsuit, filed in the Delaware Court of Chancery on Wednesday, claims that LVMH is in breach of its contract relating to obtaining antitrust clearance. It rejects the idea that LVMH can avoid the deal by claiming that Tiffany has undergone a “material adverse effect” that would have breached its deal obligations. The lawsuit also says that LVMH cannot avoid completing the deal because it is inconsistent with its patriotic duties as a French company. Tiffany decided to sue LVMH over frustration that 10 months after the agreement, it had not yet filed for antitrust approval in the European Union, a source said. The proposed acquisition appeared to be a savvy move by LVMH, the world’s largest luxury goods company by sales.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-293
10-09-2020||Business||Texmaco Rail shelves rights issue||Texmaco Rail and Engineering on Wednesday said that it will not proceed with a proposed rights issue amid the crash in the economy. Instead its promoters will infuse Rs 200 crore through a preferential allotment. Texmaco said its board had met on Tuesday and decided to call off the rights issue because its share price had fallen since the rights were announced in April. “In view of the impracticality of the issue now, the board has decided not to proceed with the rights issue.” On the BSE, Texmaco shares fell to Rs 37 on Wednesday compared with a 52-week high of Rs 56.15. The gross revenue of the Adventz group firm, headed by Saroj Kumar Poddar, for the April-June quarter was Rs 225 crore compared with Rs 399 crore in the corresponding period a year ago. Net loss during the quarter was Rs 27 crore compared with a profit of Rs 10 crore in the corresponding period previous year. “The silver lining is privatisation of railway services and boost to rail infrastructure. This would lead to generation of new opportunities,” Texmaco said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-293
10-09-2020||Business||Eveready net jumps on cost check||Eveready Industries has posted a three-fold increase in net profit in the first quarter of the year, backed by a sharp drop in raw material prices, better product mix and stringent cost control. The storage cell battery maker recorded a profit of Rs 23.61 crore in April-June of 2020-21 compared with Rs 6.85 crore earned in the same period last year even as the operating income went down 18 per cent to Rs 263.45 crore from Rs 321.04 crore on a like-to-like basis. Battery and flashlight, the mainstay of Eveready’s business, did well in the month of May and June where volumes were higher by 12 per cent and 6 per cent, respectively, over the same period last year. “We have been able to contain cost and also sell premium category products (in battery) with higher margins. The results were achieved despite April being a washout,” Amritanshu Khaitan, managing director of Eveready, said. A higher demand for batteries was accounted by two factors —depleted inventory in the distribution chain because of the prolonged lockdown in the economy and a continuous fall of cheap Chinese import. The first-quarter profit of power producer CESC dipped 13.4 per cent to Rs 200 crore from Rs 231 crore in the same period last year. Total income went down 24.3 per cent to Rs 2,465 crore from Rs 3,257 crore a year ago as the company faced problems in tariff collection from consumers during the lockdown period.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-293
10-09-2020||Business||Silver Lake first to bet on RIL Retail||An investor rush is on way in Reliance Industries’ retail business — just as a bevy of marquee names flocked to its digital arm amid the economic mayhem triggered by the pandemic. A beginning was made on Wednesday when Reliance announced US private equity firm Silver Lake Partners will pick up 1.75 per cent in Reliance Retail Ventures Ltd for Rs 7,500 crore. Silver Lake is likely to be followed by KKR, which is reportedly in advanced talks to invest around $1.5 billion as Mukesh Ambani looks to lay the marker for Jeff Bezos’s Amazon and Walmart-led Flipkart in India. Silver Lake’s investment values Reliance Retail Ventures at a pre-money equity value of Rs 4.21 lakh crore, its second-billion dollar investment in a Reliance subsidiary after its $1.35 billion investment in Jio Platforms announced earlier this year. As much as Rs 1.52 lakh crore has been invested by 13 investors in Jio Platforms, the RIL subsidiary for digital services, and market circles are not ruling out the possibility of some of them picking up stakes in the retail arm as well. Speculation is rife on Facebook and Google’s interest as they try to create a base for their payment platforms, to be followed by others such as General Atlantic and Mubadala. It is learnt that all the 13 investors in Jio Platforms have been offered a chance to invest in the retail unit. “We believe technology will be key to bringing the much-needed transformation in this sector so that various constituents of the retail ecosystem can collaborate to build inclusive growth platforms. Silver Lake will be an invaluable partner in implementing our vision for Indian Retail,’’ Mukesh Ambani, chairman and managing director of RIL, said. While RIL had used the proceeds from the transactions in Jio Platforms to largely retire debt, it is now likely to plough the money in retail to scale up the business, more particularly the e-commerce operations in food and grocery as it looks to integrate more small shops. The announcement of the deal led to RIL shares settling 2.57 per cent higher at Rs 2,161.25 on the BSE. RIL has a market capitalisation of around Rs 14.24 lakh crore if one was to include the partly paid shares. The transaction has also thrown up questions on whether RIL is adequately valued at the current market price or is there is more upside in the stock. Amid differences, analysts have put the sum-of-parts valuation of the various businesses at around Rs 16 lakh crore: over Rs 4 lakh crore for the oil-to-chemicals business, Rs 4.2 lakh crore for retail, Rs 6 lakh crore for Jio Platforms and cash in books of over $1 billion. Going by this estimate, there could be only some upside left in the stock. While the latest transaction values Reliance Retail at over $58 billion post investment, it is below the estimate of brokerages such as CLSA. The brokerage said the deal value of Rs 4.21 lakh crore is 12 per cent lower than the Rs 4.77 lakh crore equity value assigned in its September 2021 target price. The brokerage has a sum-of-parts-valuation of Rs 14.32 lakh crore: Rs 4.7 lakh crore for O2C business, Rs 4.62 lakh crore (excluding the minority interest) for Jio, Rs 4.7 lakh crore for the retail business and Rs 44,700 crore as the value of other business minus debt. On the other hand, BofA Securities has a fair value of Rs 15.92 lakh crore on Reliance Industries minus debt and other payables of Rs 58,600 crore. It has an enterprise value of Rs 11.70 lakh crore on the consumer business and Rs 5.51 lakh crore on the other business.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-293
10-09-2020||Business||Clamour for stimulus to kick start demand||The government needs to go in for a major fiscal push on the demand side to return to positive growth trajectory, according to an industry survey released on Wednesday. “In the absence of a major fiscal push on the demand side, we could end up being stuck in a quagmire of low demand and low-income cycle. If we have to return to the positive growth trajectory, the time for bold and decisive action is now,” Ficci president Sangita Reddy said. Reddy said reviving the economy requires sustained efforts, especially when we have seen that in the first quarter, the gross domestic product (GDP) has suffered a major blow. In May, the government had announced a new financial package of over Rs 20 lakh crore. The Ficci-Dhruva Advisors survey, conducted in August among 166 firms, showed that some of their operational parameters were improving as the economy is progressively opening up in phases. However, improvement in performance on a sustained basis will have to wait, Ficci said. Dhruva Advisors LLP chief executive Dinesh Kanabar said the survey results were a reflection of the gradual improvement in the Indian economy after the staggered unlocking. “In the next phase, it is imperative that the critical business parameters continue to improve and are fast-tracked with government support and stimulus,” Kanabar said. He added that this would help the overall economy to grow. The chamber said the government and regulatory institutions must continue to lend strength to businesses through all possible measures as well as improve those already announced based on feedback from stakeholders. The survey respondents felt additional cash transfers for migrant workers, the poor and farmers, a temporary reduction in GST rates, an increase in government procurement; front-ending infrastructure projects and part-funding of wages would help. They also suggested that the Centre must come out with a uniform policy for entry of tourists across various states as movement of people will promote regional economies. In case of pending dues from a government entity, either the government should release the funds against the bank guarantee which will be part of the restructuring programme or the government should guarantee the release of these funds, they suggested. Hospitality, tourism, retail, healthcare, real estate and aviation sectors need a special package, said the surveyed companies. India’s travel and tourism industry and the entire value chain is likely to lose around Rs 5 lakh crore, or $65.57 billion, because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Hotel occupancy is likely to be at 30 per cent till early next year, according to a study by CII and hospitality consulting firm Hotelivate. The figures are quite alarming and the industry needs immediate measures for survival, the report says.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-293
10-09-2020||India||Paresh Rawal appointed as chairperson of the National School of Drama ||Veteran actor Paresh Rawal was Thursday appointed chairperson of the National School of Drama (NSD), India's premier theatre institute. The post had been vacant since 2017. "Renowned artiste Paresh Rawal has been appointed as Chairman of National School of Drama by Rashtrapati Bhavan. I am glad that students and artistes will be able to take advantage of his talent. I congratulate him," Union Culture Minister Prahlad Patel said on Twitter. Rawal, 65, who comes with years of experience in both cinema and theatre, told news agency PTI he is looking forward to the assignment. "It will be challenging but fun. I will do my best because this is a field I know very well," he said. Rawal, a former BJP MP, has been appointed for a period of four years, said Nitin Tripathi, advisor, media, Ministry of Culture. The actor is known for his role in films such as Hera Pheri , Atithi Tum Kab Jaoge and OMG-Oh My God .||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-677
10-09-2020||India||Five Rafale jets formally inducted into IAF||Five Rafale fighter jets were formally inducted into the Indian Air Force on Thursday at a glittering ceremony in the Ambala air base, in a major boost to India's air power capability at a time the country is engaged in a tense border row with China in eastern Ladakh. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, his French counterpart Florence Parly, Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat and Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria were among the dignitaries who attended the ceremony. A traditional sarva dharma puja', a ceremonial 'water cannon salute' to the Rafale jets and an aerial display featuring various breathtaking manoeuvres by the aircraft marked their induction into the 17 Squadron of the IAF. In a tweet, the IAF welcomed the "new bird" into its arsenal. The multi-role Rafale jets, built by French aerospace major Dassault Aviation, are known for air-superiority and precision strikes. A fleet of indigenously-developed combat jet Tejas and Sarang helicopter aerobatic team of the IAF too displayed a range of aerial manoeuvres demonstrating their agility at the ceremony which was attended by India's top military brass and executives of several French defence firms involved in the Rafale programme. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday used the ceremony to send a strong message to China over its belligerence in eastern Ladakh, saying national security is a major priority for India and it is determined to protect its territory. Singh said induction of Rafale jets into the IAF is crucial considering the kind of atmosphere being created along India's border. "It is a strong message for the entire world, especially those eyeing India's sovereignty," he said in an address at a ceremony in Ambala, marking formal induction of the Rafale fleet. The defence minister said India's responsibility is not limited to its territorial boundary and that it is committed to peace and security in Indo-Pacific and Indian Ocean, the two regions where China has been increasing its military assertiveness. "This kind of induction is very important for the kind of atmosphere that has been created on our borders in recent times," the defence minister said in a clear reference to the escalating tensions in eastern Ladakh. The defence minister also complimented the IAF for its "swift action" near the Line of Actual Control (LAC) during a "recent unfortunate incident" but did not elaborate on it. "The speed at which IAF deployed assets on forward bases creates confidence," he said. Singh's stern message to the neighbouring country came hours ahead of an expected meeting between External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi on the margins of a Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) conclave in Moscow. World Cup-winning former National captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni on Thursday hailed the induction of Rafale jets into the Indian Air Force, saying the "potent bird's lethality will only increase" in the hands of IAF pilots. Dhoni, who also serves as the lieutenant colonel in the Territorial Army, holds dear anything that is related to the military. An excited Dhoni promptly expressed his delight at five Rafale fighter jets being formally inducted into the 17 Squadron of the IAF at a glittering ceremony at the Ambala air base. "With the Final Induction Ceremony the world's best combat proven 4.5Gen fighter plane gets the world's best fighter pilots. In the hands of our pilots and the mix of different aircrafts with the IAF the potent bird's lethality will only increase," Dhoni tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-678
10-09-2020||India||95,000 Covid cases in a day takes India's tally to 44 lakh||The country saw a record single-day spike of 95,735 infections and 1,172 fatalities taking India's Covid-19 caseload past 44 lakh and death toll to 75,062, while recoveries surged to 34,71,783 on Thursday, according to the Union Health Ministry. The total cases mounted to 44,65,863, the ministry data updated at 8 am showed. The fatality rate has dropped to 1.68 per cent while the recovery rate was at 77.74 per cent. There are 9,19,018 active cases in the country which comprise 20.58 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20 lakh mark on August 7, it went past 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. According to ICMR, a total of 5,29,34,433 samples have been tested up to September 9 with 11,29,756 samples being tested on Wednesday. The 1,172 new deaths included 380 from Maharashtra, 128 from Karnataka, 74 from Andhra Pradesh, 71 from Punjab, 70 from Chhattisgarh, 65 each from Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh, 53 from West Bengal and 31 from Madhya Pradesh. The total 75,062 deaths included 27,787 from Maharashtra, 8,090 from Tamil Nadu, 6,808 from Karnataka, 4,638 in Delhi, 4,634 in Andhra Pradesh, 4,112 in Uttar Pradesh, 3,730 in West Bengal, 3,149 in Gujarat and 2,061 in Punjab, 1,640 from Madhya Pradesh, 1,178 from Rajasthan and 927 from Telangana. The Health Ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," it said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-678
10-09-2020||India||PM's advice to broom seller from MP||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday advised a broom seller from Madhya Pradesh on how he could increase his income. Chhagan Lal and his wife, who make and sell brooms at Sanwer in Indore district, were among beneficiaries of the PM Street Vendors’ Aatmanirbhar Nidhi (PM SVANidhi) in the state with whom Modi had a virtual interaction. The husband and wife said they would make about 50-60 brooms in a day using date palm leaves and go out to sell them the next day. To a question from the Prime Minister on the cost of making a broom, Chhagan Lal said they had to buy the “leaves, the piping, the wire and the nylon”. Modi interrupted him to ask if Chhagan Lal had ever thought of asking buyers to return their old brooms if the “pipe” was intact and offered a discount of 25 or 50 paise on that, then use the same “pipe” to make a new broom. Would this save him money? “Sir, the piping also gets spoilt with the broom,” Chhagan Lal ventured. “It gets spoilt so fast?” Modi responded. “Yes Sir, the piping gets spoilt,” the broom seller repeated. “For instance, if someone leaves the broom outside after using it, and another person treads on it….” Modi cut in: “No, if you tell the customers beforehand to keep the old brooms, they will bring them back and buy new brooms. Using the pipe from the old broom will save you a lot of expense. Think about it.” Chhagan Lal responded: “Theek hai.” Modi, with a wide grin, asked: “You never thought of this?” Chhagan Lal confessed that such a thought had never crossed his mind.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-678
10-09-2020||India||Modi-Xi ‘chemistry’ exam ||Thursday’s scheduled engagement between foreign minister S. Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi on the sidelines of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) ministerial session in Moscow could prove a watershed in finding a peaceable way out of the border belligerence in eastern Ladakh or an ominous washout for India. The meeting comes after close to a dozen fruitless attempts to settle differences at the military level and failure to secure a breakthrough might leave New Delhi with just one real shot at unlocking the impasse: a Narendra Modi-Xi Jinping summit. But despite the Modi establishment’s widely touted claims of “chemistry” between the two leaders, the possibility of such a summit may be snagged by two factors. First, Modi has famously let the Chinese off any blame and not brought the faintest mention of China to his lips since trouble began to rumble along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in late April. It will be tricky for him to suddenly claim a solution to a problem he has never admitted to. Second, Xi may be plainly uninterested in discussing border troubles at a time when the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) is busy consolidating to gain strategic advantage in eastern Ladakh. On their part, the Chinese have also admitted to no wrongdoing and put the blame for border transgressions squarely on India. The Chinese have claimed sovereignty over the Galwan Valley, where 20 Indian soldiers were killed in violent clashes in mid-June. India has countered the Chinese claim, but let its objections rest there. Contrary to fairly standard norm, the Chinese ambassador has not once been summoned by the foreign office. Not when he put out a press release asserting claim over Galwan as Chinese territory, not when the PLA killed Indian soldiers and took several captive. That said, experts believe that it has become incumbent upon New Delhi to demonstrate political leadership and take ownership of a crisis that has flamed for more than four months now. “Military and diplomatic efforts have failed to achieve a breakthrough,” army veteran and defence analyst Sushant Singh told The Telegraph on Wednesday. “The top political leadership has been mostly invisible through the crisis. The Prime Minister did not even mention China by name in the all-party meeting on June 19 or in his Independence Day speech. Modi has met Xi 18 times so far, including at two informal summits, and it was expected that he would take ownership of the crisis and deal with China at the highest level. Unfortunately that has not happened.” Asked why repeated rounds of talks at the military level may have failed, Singh said: “The Indian armed forces do not form policy, and unlike the PLA, they do not have a political commissar in the (power) hierarchy. They are thus constrained in talks with the PLA, the Indian armed forces can only implement what the political leadership decides.” Several expert voices, including eminent military veterans and foreign secretary Harsh Shringla, have likened the current crisis to 1962 whose military and psychological wounds still weigh heavy on Indian consciousness. Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) Gen. Bipin Rawat has asserted that India can exercise a “military option” and the army brass have spoken anonymously of being prepared to “deal with any military contingency”, but strategic analysts maintain New Delhi’s best option is to find a political or diplomatic solution given China’s patent military and economic advantages over India. The blow-hot-blow-cold standoff shows few signs of abating. Earlier this week, shots were fired on the India-China frontier for the first time since 1975; the previous occasion firearms were employed by border troops was at Tulung La in the Arunachal sector. Massing of troops and military hardware has continued apace on both sides of the invisible LAC these past four months. The last three major border standoffs with China — at Depsang in 2013, Chumar in 2014 and Doklam in 2017 — were resolved through diplomatic effort. The agreements arrived by both the sides were implemented by local military commanders through mutual talks on the ground, a diplomat involved in the 2014 Chumar negotiations explained. During the 73-day-long Doklam standoff in 2017, “13 rounds of diplomatic discussions were held”, led by then Indian ambassador to Beijing Vijay Gokhale and augmented “from time to time” by officials from Delhi. This was stated by foreign minister Jaishankar, who was then the foreign secretary, to the parliamentary standing committee on foreign affairs. Through the current standoff, Jaishankar has had one telephone conversation with his Chinese counterpart, while national security adviser Ajit Doval has also had a virtual meeting at the level of the Special Representatives. Three WMCC meetings have also taken place, but they have only acted as a prelude to the meetings at the level of the Corps Commanders. It isn’t yet clear what brief Jaishankar has carried along for his talks with Wang. “What exactly I am going to tell them, I am not going to tell you…. But the solution lies in diplomacy,” Jaishankar said during a recent media interaction. The least he might expect is to get an answer to a question he himself rhetorically posed recently when he said: “We have a very large number of Chinese forces (along the tension-ridden LAC) and frankly we are at a loss to know why.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-678
10-09-2020||India||Can your dog sue you? SC to ponder ||The Supreme Court on Wednesday sought the response of the Centre on the plea of an NGO for granting “legal entity” status to the entire animal kingdom on a par with human beings to prevent cruelty to animals. “What exactly do you want? You want animals to have the right to sue and be sued? Do you want them to be given legal personality?” Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde asked the counsel appearing for Peoples Charioteer Organisation. (A legal entity has a right to sue or be sued for legal rights). “It’s very unlikely that we can give legal entity to animals,” the bench that includes Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian observed. At one point, the CJI said: “But animals are not equal to human beings. Is your dog equal to you?” “We understand humans should be punished for hurting animals but we are on the legal entity argument…,” the  CJI added while issuing the notice to the Centre.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-678
10-09-2020||India||Provident Fund interest payment in driblets||The Narendra Modi government will defer a part of the interest payment on the employees provident fund corpus till December — the first time that the Centre has opted to pay out the obligated sum in driblets since the statutory fund was established 68 years ago. The Central Board of Trustees of the EPFO had committed to pay an interest rate of 8.5 per cent on PF accounts for 2019-20. The EPFO board, which met here on Wednesday, decided to fork out 8.15 per cent now. The trustees will meet again in December and take a call on crediting the remaining 0.35 per cent interest into the subscribers’ accounts. The retirement fund has 6 crore subscribers and it falls under the administrative control of the Union labour ministry. The EPFO had earlier planned to liquidate some of its investments in exchange-traded funds (ETFs) to make up for the deficit that has arisen because the returns on its investment have not matched expectations in a pandemic-wracked economy, falling far short of the sum required to pay out 8.5 per cent interest for the previous fiscal. “In view of exceptional circumstances arising out of Covid-19, the agenda regarding interest rate was reviewed by the Central Board and it recommended the same rate of 8.50 per cent to the Central Government. It would comprise of 8.15 per cent from debt income and balance 0.35 per cent (capital gain) from the sale of ETFs, subject to their redemption by December 31, 2020. It further recommended to account such capital gains in the income of the financial year 2019-20 as being an exceptional case,” the EPFO said in a media release. The announcement that the second payout of 0.35 per cent is “subject to redemption” of the ETFs introduces an element of uncertainty. If the stock markets dive, the redemptions may prove to be troublesome. Reports suggest that the EPFO’s ETF investments worth Rs 1 lakh crore have generated negative returns. Out of its annual deposits, the EPFO invests 85 per cent in debt instruments and 15 per cent in ETFs. K.E. Raghunathan, a board member representing employers, told The Telegraph that the EPFO was supposed to earn at least Rs 2,700 crore in capital gains from the equity investments made in 2016. This was factored into the March calculation before announcing the rate of interest. But due to the Covid-19 pandemic, it could not be realised. “The EPFO said the payout of 8.5 per cent and the redemption of equity portion as planned in March will not change. However, as a matter of rule, this will be notified once the finance ministry approves it,” Raghunathan added. “The debt investment returns of almost Rs 58,000 crore are in our hands. But the equity gains are yet to be realised because of the choppy markets,” he said, adding that interest would be credited to the fund holders’ account after it is cleared by the finance ministry and then notified by the labour ministry. In March, the EPFO had cut the interest rate on PF deposits to a seven-year low of 8.5 per cent — and had rubbished the notion that it might struggle to pay the sum this year. The interest rate for 2018-19 was 8.65 per cent. The interest rate for 2019-20 is the lowest since 2012-13 when it was also pegged at 8.5 per cent. The finance ministry has been nudging the labour ministry for quite some time to align the EPF interest rate with the small savings schemes where rates were cut in April by 1 to 1.6 percentage points. The highest rate on the small savings schemes is 7.6 per cent, which is offered on the Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana, a scheme meant for the girl child. The interest rate on PF deposits has increasingly been out of sync with the interest rates on other investment avenues like fixed deposits and even small savings instruments. The Reserve Bank of India’s policy interest rate — the repo — has been cut by 2.5 percentage points since February 2019 to 4 per cent, sending interest rates on all investment options skidding to historical lows. Despite Covid-related restrictions, the retirement fund body has settled 94.41 lakh claims totalling Rs 35,445 crore during the April-August period. During this period, it has settled around 32 per cent more claims as compared with the corresponding period last year. The amount disbursed increased by around 13 per cent. Back in March, officials had warned that the EPFO would tumble into a deficit if the interest rate was kept above 8.55 per cent. They had forecast at that time that the PF corpus would generate a surplus of over Rs 700 crore if the rate was pegged at 8.5 per cent — which now seems clearly overblown. Divya Baweja, partner, Deloitte India, said: “The rate of interest of 8.5 per cent announced by the Central Board of Trustees will surely provide cheer to the common man and is a welcome move from the perspective of individual members. However, meeting such a rate could pose a challenge for companies having Private PF Trusts which may not be able to generate adequate returns to meet this rate of interest during this pandemic.” Labour economist K.R. Shyam Sundar of XLRI said: “The fund has enough money to pay the 8.5 per cent interest rate and it is a social security measure and cannot, and should not, be driven by market forces. It is the only social security measure covering 10 per cent of the workforce, which have otherwise been battered due to the Covid pandemic.” The EPFO’s board of trustees also extended the tenure of the ETF fund managers — SBI Mutual Fund and UTI Mutual Fund — till December. The board has been scouting for new fund managers for some time but the process of selection has been halted during the lockdown. The two fund managers were given a three-month extension in March, which has been extended periodically during the pandemic. The EPFO board approved to increase the upper limit of payout under its deposit-linked insurance scheme to Rs 7 lakh from Rs 6 lakh if a subscriber dies while in service. “CBT was also informed that the actuarial valuation of EDLI Fund has allowed for continuation of minimum assurance benefit of Rs 2.5 lakh beyond February 14, 2020, and extension of minimum assurance benefit of Rs 2.5 lakh to the family of those deceased members who were employed in multiple establishments during the 12 months preceding the month in which they died,” the labour ministry release said. However, a proposal to increase the pension contribution and pension payout to subscribers earning above the Rs 15,000 salary threshold was deferred and will now be taken up at the December meeting. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday advised a broom seller from Madhya Pradesh on how he could increase his income. Chhagan Lal and his wife, who make and sell brooms at Sanwer in Indore district, were among beneficiaries of the PM Street Vendors’ Aatmanirbhar Nidhi (PM SVANidhi) in the state with whom Modi had a virtual interaction. The husband and wife said they would make about 50-60 brooms in a day using date palm leaves and go out to sell them the next day. To a question from the Prime Minister on the cost of making a broom, Chhagan Lal said they had to buy the “leaves, the piping, the wire and the nylon”. Modi interrupted him to ask if Chhagan Lal had ever thought of asking buyers to return their old brooms if the “pipe” was intact and offered a discount of 25 or 50 paise on that, then use the same “pipe” to make a new broom. Would this save him money? “Sir, the piping also gets spoilt with the broom,” Chhagan Lal ventured. “It gets spoilt so fast?” Modi responded. “Yes Sir, the piping gets spoilt,” the broom seller repeated. “For instance, if someone leaves the broom outside after using it, and another person treads on it….” Modi cut in: “No, if you tell the customers beforehand to keep the old brooms, they will bring them back and buy new brooms. Using the pipe from the old broom will save you a lot of expense. Think about it.” Chhagan Lal responded: “Theek hai.” Modi, with a wide grin, asked: “You never thought of this?” Chhagan Lal confessed that such a thought had never crossed his mind.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-678
10-09-2020||India||Amid talks, China ‘sets up camp’||The armies of India and China on Wednesday held brigade commander talks at Chushul in Ladakh. While the talks were underway, the Chinese side erected a makeshift camp near the latest friction point, sources in the security establishment said. A security official described the situation as “precarious and fragile” at Mukhpari on the Rezang La ridgeline where Chinese troops took positions close to the Indian forward post on Tuesday. Sources said the brigade commander talks were “positive” but “inconclusive”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-678
10-09-2020||India||Global pause on vaccine; Serum says will continue||The late-stage global trials of the Oxford vaccine for the coronavirus have been paused because of a serious suspected adverse reaction in a volunteer, pharma giant AstraZeneca has said. It is not yet known whether the reaction was directly caused by the company’s vaccine or was coincidental. The Oxford vaccine is in the third and final stage of its trials, with some 100,000 volunteers, many of them elderly, in the UK, and 30,000 others in Brazil, South Africa and the US. The Pune-based Serum Institute of India said on Wednesday it would continue with clinical trials (second stage) of the Oxford candidate vaccine in India although AstraZeneca has paused global trials. Serum Institute posted on Twitter: “We (Serum Institute of India) can’t comment on reports of AstraZeneca pausing the trials in the UK other than that they have been paused for review and shall restart soon. The Indian trials are continuing and we have faced no issues at all.” Serum Institute officials were not immediately available to explain how the Indian clinical trial would continue when AstraZeneca had paused global trials of the same vaccine. A company spokesperson said it had no additional information to provide other than that the trial in India will continue. Samiran Panda, head of the epidemiology division in the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and a member of the national task force on Covid-19, told The Telegraph that Serum would need to elaborate what it meant when it said the trial would continue in India even after AstraZeneca’s announcement. “But there is nothing surprising about the pause — when a vaccine is testedon thousands of patients, it is possible that some of the recipients might develop illness. But it may have nothing to do with the vaccine,” Panda added. Serum Institute is now conducting the second-stage trials, which are limited to 1,600 volunteers and monitoring antibodies. The third-stage trials will cover a significantly higher number of people and assess whether the vaccine actually offers protection from contracting the virus. The third-stage trials in the UK, Brazil, South Africa and the US are on hold. AstraZeneca, which is developing the vaccine, described the halt as a “routine action which has to happen whenever there is a potentially unexplained illness in one of the trials, while it is investigated, ensuring we maintain the integrity of the trials”. Officials in the US and Europe said that the pause was a sign that the process was working as designed, serving as reassurance that a vaccine that made it through the all the phases of the clinical trials would be safe. A person familiar with the situation told The New York Times that the participant who experienced the suspected adverse reaction had been enrolled in a Phase 2/3 trial based in the UK. The individual also said that a volunteer in the UK trial had received a diagnosis of transverse myelitis, an inflammatory syndrome that affects the spinal cord and is often sparked by viral infections. However, the timing of this diagnosis, and whether it was directly linked to AstraZeneca’s vaccine, is still unknown. Transverse myelitis can result from a number of causes that set off the body’s inflammatory responses, including viral infections, said Gabriella Garcia, a neurologist at Yale New Haven Hospital. But, she added, the condition is often treatable with steroids. AstraZeneca declined to comment on the location of the participant and did not confirm the diagnosis of transverse myelitis. The head of Cipla, Yusuf Hamied, who is keeping himself informed of vaccine trials because his firm will probably market the successful candidate in India, told this newspaper on Wednesday: “One should not rush into a vaccine until it is proven to be safe. One has to be very cautious. Instead of rushing it in October, it is better to wait until next year.” Commenting on the halt, the BBC’s medical editor, Fergus Walsh, was not unduly pessimistic: “At first glance this may seem alarming. A vaccine trial — and not just any vaccine, but one receiving massive global attention — is put on hold due to a suspected serious adverse reaction. But such events are not unheard of. “Indeed the Oxford team describe it as ‘routine’. Any time a volunteer is admitted to hospital and the cause of their illness is not immediately apparent, it triggers a study to be put on hold.” Additional reporting from New York Times News Service||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-678
10-09-2020||India||Handy scores to predict Covid mortality risk ||A new easy-to-calculate score can predict the mortality risk and guide clinical decisions for coronavirus disease patients with greater reliability and ease than existing scoring systems, doctors said on Wednesday after the world’s largest study of Covid-19 patients. The team of UK doctors has proposed a scoring system that relies on eight key health parameters that could be used to assign Covid-19 patients scores from 0 up to 21 with the probability of death increasing with rising scores. The doctors said their 4C (Coronavirus Clinical Characterisation Consortium) Mortality score uses readily available data to accurately categorise patients as being at low, intermediate, high or very high risk of death but would need to be validated in more populations. “We believe this scoring system is ready for use now — but we’d be happy to work with colleagues in other countries such as India to validate it,” Calum Semple, professor of outbreak medicine and child health physician at the University of Liverpool, told The Telegraph over phone. Semple and his colleagues designed the risk assessment tool using data from over 35,400 Covid-19 patients admitted to hospitals across the UK between February and May who met the criteria for one of the four categories of risks. The researchers — also based in universities in Edinburgh and Glasgow and the Imperial College, London — then tested and confirmed the utility of the tool on an additional 22,000 patients admitted in hospital during May and June. They have published their findings in the British Medical Journal. The tool uses a Covid-19 patient’s age, sex, number of underlying health disorders, breathing rate, oxygen saturation level, Glasgow coma scale score — a measure of impaired consciousness, if any, based on eye, motor and verbal responses — urea, and C reactive protein, a marker of inflammation, to assign scores. Patients with scores of 3 or lower have only 1 per cent probability of death, but the probability increases with rising scores — 22 per cent for score 10, 50 per cent for score 15, and 80 per cent for score 20. “We expect this tool might help doctors to look at these scores and decide how to manage patients,” Semple said. A low score would provide reassurance to a doctor but a high score might alert a doctor to the need for rigorous observation and preparations for aggressive treatment, he said. “This looks good and interesting,” said Anjan Trikha, a professor of anaesthesiology and critical care medicine at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, who was not associated with the UK study but is chairperson of the AIIMS Covid-19 clinical management team. Although doctors worldwide are already using several health and biochemical parameters to assess the mortality risk of Covid-19 patients, the UK researchers believe their tool outperforms most others. Critical care specialists in India said the tool could help in triage — the process of separating patients into those who can be treated at home, in a ward, or in an intensive care unit. “The advantage of this tool is that it is based on a very large number of patients — both in its design and validation,” said Sumit Ray, a critical care medicine specialist at the Holy Family Hospital, New Delhi, another doctor on India’s Covid-19 frontlines. The study emerged from a network of clinicians and researchers who have been preparing for outbreaks since 2012 involving 260 hospitals across England, Wales and Scotland. “These results highlight the benefit of being prepared in advance for the emergence of new pandemics such as Covid-19,” Fiona Watts, executive chair of the UK’s Medical Research Council, said in a statement released by the University of Edinburgh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-678
10-09-2020||India||Ageing nation and more job seekers by 2036||India is set to become an ageing nation by 2036 and the number of people seeking jobs will grow incrementally in the intervening period, a government report has said. The “Population Projections For India and States”, a report prepared by a technical group set up by the Union health ministry, shows that the median, or average, age of the country’s population will increase to 34.7 in the year 2036 from 24.9 in 2011, when the last census was conducted. Worldwide, an average population age of 30 or below is considered a young nation. According to the website of the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) of the US, the average age of the American population is 38.5, that of China is 38.4, that of the UK is 40.6 and that of Germany 47.8. The report says the population of India is expected to increase from 121.1 crore in 2011 to 151.8 crore in 2036, going by the current pattern. The proportion of population aged below 15 years is projected to decline from 30.8 per cent in 2011 to 19.8 per cent in 2036. The proportion of the working age population — those between 15 and 59 years — is expected to increase from 60.7 per cent in 2011 to 65.1 per cent in 2036. The share of people aged above 60, or senior citizens, is to go up from 8.4 per cent to 15 per cent. The report, released last month, has found that India had a Total Fertility Rate (TFR) of 2.1 in 2019. TFR, according to the World Health Organisation website, refers to the total number of children born or likely to be born to a woman in her life time if she were subject to the prevailing rate of age-specific fertility in the population. A TFR of about 2.1 children per woman is called replacement-level fertility. This value represents the average number of children a woman would need to have to reproduce herself by bearing a daughter who survives to childbearing age. If replacement level fertility is sustained over a sufficiently long period, each generation will exactly replace itself without any need for the country to balance the population by international migration. The report says that India’s TFR will come down to 1.7 by 2036, which means the rate of population grown will decrease. According to the Registrar General of India, the agency that conducts the decadal national population census, the TFR was 2.2 in 2017. The health ministry technical group report has projected, on the basis of assumptions using data of past trends of fertility and mortality rates, that Gujarat and Assam will reach a TFR of 2.1 in 2020, while Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Bihar will achieve it in 2024, 2025, 2028 and 2039, respectively. Bengal reached a TFR of 2.1 in 2003. In 2017, Bihar had the country’s highest TFR, at 3.2, followed by Uttar Pradesh (3), Madhya Pradesh (2.7) and Rajasthan (2.6). A labour economist and a population growth researcher said the states with high TFR needed to reduce it fast to be able to provide jobs and development to their populations. Prof. Suresh Sharma, the head of the Population Research Centre at the Institute of Economic Growth in New Delhi, said achievement of the TFR replacement level of 2.1 should not be a reason for complacency. “If the median age is around 30, a country is considered a young nation. As the median age increases, the country marches towards becoming an aging country. Hence states where the TFR is projected to be high must try to bring down current levels of fertility,” he said. “These are essentially the states that were the late entrants into the demographic transition and while it is assured that their TFR levels will decline in the coming decades, there will certainly be some lags here. These laggard states can bring down their fertility rates through better education and employment opportunities for women, improved awareness, better health care and uninterrupted access to family planning measures,” Sharma added. The report said changes to the proportion of the elderly population would be uneven in the states. For example, Kerala, where lower fertility and mortality rates have been achieved earlier than the other states, the proportion of people above 60 is expected to increase from 13 per cent in 2011 to 23 per cent in 2036. On the contrary, Uttar Pradesh can expect an increase from 7 per cent to 12 per cent during the same period. Prof. Santosh Mehrotra of Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) said the immediate concern, considering the figures mentioned in the report, would be the phenomenal increase in demand for jobs. “The people joining the workforce will grow at a swift pace. Every year, their numbers will increase. The problem will be severe in the northern and eastern states, including Bengal, which have poor health and education standards and have a very low presence of industry,” Mehrotra said. He pointed out that three groups of people — university and college pass-outs, those seeking to switch from agriculture to more remunerative profession and those already unemployed — will look for jobs. “The northern and eastern states must invest more in education and health. Once people get educated and are assured of better health care, their reproduction behaviour will change. That will help manage the workforce,” Mehrotra said. He said 90 per cent of India’s workers were in the unorganised sector, which does not have any social security. Since the report underlines the fact that India will become an aging nation, the government needs to ensure universal social security coverage through old-age pension and medical insurance, Mehrotra suggested.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-678
10-09-2020||India||Lalu sons to play  safe in elections||Unsure of their footing in the constituencies they now represent, Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) chief Lalu Prasad’s sons Tej Pratap Yadav and Tejashwi Prasad Yadav are looking to contest from safe seats in the forthcoming Assembly elections in Bihar. Lalu’s eldest son Tej Pratap is an MLA from Mahua constituency in Vaishali district, but plans to contest from Hasanpur constituency in Samastipur district. His younger brother and leader of Opposition Tejashwi represents Raghopur seat in Vaishali, but may contest from an additional seat to ensure that he returns to the Assembly. The brothers understand well that with their father serving time after being convicted in fodder scam cases and attrition rate in the party at an all-time high, it is imperative for them to win in the upcoming polls to remain relevant in state politics. However, both are facing different problems in their constituencies. Mahua has been a stronghold of chief minister Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal United (JDU) for the past decade. Tej Pratap was launched into politics from there in the 2015 elections because RJD and JDU were contesting as allies. He won by around 28,000 votes. There is a strong wave against Tej Pratap in Mahua constituency as voters say he has not done anything for the constituency. “Just show me one worthwhile development scheme or infrastructure work that Tej Pratap initiated here and I will vote for him. In fact, he was the health minister for over one-and-a-half years, but did nothing even for the primary health centre here,” said Ramesh Kumar, a voter in Mahua. Sources said Tej Pratap’s estranged wife Aishwarya Rai might also contest from Mahua, which would queer the pitch for him. Tej Pratap has zeroed in on Hasanpur constituency where around 20 per cent voters are Yadavs, who can become a winning combination when joined by Muslims. He has been camping there and also conducted a roadshow on Monday to gauge the mood of the electorate. However, incumbent Hasanpur MLA Rajkumar Rai is also a Yadav, and this could lead to a division in the caste votes and make the going tough for Tej Pratap. Tejashwi is also not feeling comfortable in Raghopur, considered a pocket borough of Lalu and his family since 1995. Lalu had won from there twice and his wife Rabri Devi once in 2005. But she lost in 2010 to JDU. The caste combination is such that it becomes a close fight between the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) and the Grand Alliance. RJD’s Raghuvansh Prasad Singh, a former Union minister, has a considerable influence in the seat, but he is unhappy with the party and has quit as its national vice-president over the entry of former MP Rama Singh, a man with alleged criminal antecedents, into the party. Minister of state for home affairs Nityanand Rai’s nephew Arvind Rai is also eyeing the Raghopur seat. Talking to The Telegraph about Lalu’s sons, a senior RJD leader said on the condition of anonymity that it was almost “certain that Tej Pratap would contest from Hasanpur constituency. The seat is being seen as safe for him given the caste equations of the Grand Alliance. But Lalu has not given Tejashwi the consent to leave Raghopur. There is a possibility that he (Tejashwi) may contest from an additional safe seat from anywhere else in the state”. Asked about their plans to contest from seats other than their current one, RJD spokesperson Mritunjay Tiwary said: “Tejashwi and Tej Pratap are Bihar’s leaders and they are capable of contesting and winning from any seat in the state, but I have not been told about any change in their plans or constituencies. Our party will make proper announcements about who will contest from where.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-679
10-09-2020||India||Scientists rise against Elgaar crackdown ||More than 1,000 scientists and scholars have expressed concern over the National Investigation Agency’s actions on the Bhima-Koregaon violence in 2018, saying the agency appears to be using the probe to crack down on citizens critical of the government. In a statement released on Wednesday, the scientists and scholars have also drawn attention to the NIA’s decision to summon Partha Sarathi Ray, a scientist at the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Calcutta, who, they said, has never visited the site of the violence. They said the NIA, instead of investigating those responsible for the actual violent clashes in Bhima-Koregaon, had focused on the Elgaar Parishad event, a large cultural and political gathering where the main organisers were two eminent retired judges. “In this process, investigating agencies have arrested several illustrious citizens — including academics, lawyers and prominent activists,” the statement said. “Most of the individuals taken into custody were not even present at the Elgaar Parishad event. So it is unlikely the government will secure a conviction in this case.” However, by using the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA), the government has prevented those who have been arrested from obtaining bail, the researchers said. “It appears to us that the NIA’s claims of investigating the ‘conspiracy’ in the Elgaar-Parishad case are actually a flimsy cover for cracking down on ‘urban naxals’ — who, in reality, are only dissident intellectuals — and keeping them in prison indefinitely.” Within 48 hours of its release, the statement drew 1,039 signatories from the Indian Institutes of Technology, Indian Institutes of Science Education and Research, Tata Institute of Fundamental Research, Mumbai, and the Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad, among other institutions. “The fact that we were able to collect so many signatures indicates a deep disquiet in the scientific and academic community about the shrinking democratic space in the country,” said Suvrat Raju, a senior physicist at the International Centre for Theoretical Sciences, Bangalore, a unit of the TIFR. The statement has pointed out that the NIA has summoned Ray, a scientist at IISER Calcutta, who has been involved in social cases and has helped in coordinating efforts to battle the coronavirus epidemic in Bengal’s Nadia district. While Ray has said he has never visited the Bhima-Koregaon area, the statement said: “It is well known that Ray has been critical of the central government’s response to the coronavirus pandemic and we suspect that this may not be unrelated to the summons that have been issued to him.” “We call on the government to immediately end the crackdown on dissidents, release those whom it has arrested in the Elgaar-Parishad case, and instead focus on identifying and prosecuting the true perpetrators of the Bhima-Koregaon violence,” it said. A day after the Elgaar Parishad’s December 31, 2017, meeting, caste violence had broken out when Dalits gathered at Bhima Koregaon to celebrate the bicentennial of a battle in which Dalit-dominated colonial troops had defeated the Brahmin Peshwa’s army. The Parishad event has been accused of having Maoist links and involvement in a plot to target the rallies of the Prime Minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-679
10-09-2020||India||Teen stabbed to death at Bharatpur||A class IX student, who was allegedly stabbed to death by four youths at Bharatpur under Khandagiri police station limits here, succumbed to his injuries on Tuesday night. The attack on Ashwini Padhi aka Badal, 14, took place on September 2. Padhi was attacked while he was going to fetch grocery for his family. Eyewitnesses said Padhi was attacked by the miscreants, who were allegedly drug addicts, after he refused to part with his money. However, Khandagiri police inspector Padmanabha Pradhan told The Telegraph, “It is a case of rivalry between two club members. He became its unwitting victim. We have started an inquiry and have arrested four persons.” “More persons are likely to be arrested soon.” Sources said that the Khandagiri area has become notorious for drug smuggling and other shady activities. Most parks in the area are frequented by drug addicts and peddlers at night. Police are likely to step up patrolling in the area.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-679
10-09-2020||India||Full salary, pension for kin on cop Covid death||The state government has decided to give full salary to the family members of police personnel at the forefront of the Covid-19 fight till their retirement if they die of the disease. “The family members of the employees who fall victim to the disease are entitled to their full salary. Besides, compensation will be provided to the family members of the deceased cops as per the government’s announcement,” director-general of police (DGP) Abhay said. The family members will also be entitled to pension. The government’s announcement comes at a time a constable of Satasankha police outpost under Pipili police station in Puri district succumbed to Covid-19. The police station has been closed after eight cops tested positive. Police have urged people not to visit the police station for the next seven days. The constable, who passed away, was undergoing treatment at a Covid hospital. “His body was cremated with full state honours,” said police inspector in-charge Gauranga Charan Prusty. So far, 21 police personnel in the state have succumbed to the deadly virus. Most of them contracted the virus while educating people on following the Covid-19 guidelines or doing their duty at various market squares where crowd management was necessary. Meanwhile, the Covid death toll in Odisha reached 580 with the death of 11 patients on Wednesday. The state’s recovery tally has crossed the one-lakh mark. Chief minister Naveen Patnaik congratulated health workers for achieving the feat. So far, 1,02,185 people have recovered from this disease. Lauding the efforts of health workers, Naveen tweeted, “In a momentous occasion in our fight against #COVID19, #Odisha has crossed one lakh recoveries. Salute to thousands of health workers and #CovidWarriors who have sacrificed hugely and worked with unflinching dedication to save precious lives.” Officials said the state achieved this target by opening up a number of Covid hospitals, constantly motivating the health workers to visit villages regularly and by introducing plasma therapy in the state. So far, Odisha has reported 1,35,130 Covid cases with 3,748 fresh cases reported during the last 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-679
10-09-2020||India||Swamy’s IT cell head sack ultimatum to BJP||BJP Rajya Sabha member Subramanian Swamy on Wednesday warned the leadership of a Mahabharata-like situation if party social media head Amit Malviya was not sacked by Thursday. “By tomorrow if Malviya is not removed from BJP IT cell (which is my five villages compromise proposal to Nadda) it means the party doesn’t want to defend me,” Swamy tweeted. “Since there is no forum in the party where I can ask for cadre opinion… I will have to defend myself,” he added. In the epic Mahabharata, Krishna had proposed that Duryodhana give five villages to the Pandavas as a compromise to avert a disastrous war. The ultimatum, addressed to BJP president J.P. Nadda, came after Swamy on Monday accused Malviya of running a campaign against him through tweets from fake IDs. Swamy, however, did not specify the issue. “The BJP IT cell has gone rogue. Some of its members are putting out fake ID tweets to make personal attacks on me,” Swamy had tweeted, threatening “counter attacks” by his followers. Swamy has a formidable base of 9.9 million followers on Twitter. Malviya did not respond to calls and messages from this newspaper for comment on Swamy’s outburst. Swamy, too, did not respond to calls. Malviya, who heads the BJP’s social media activities as the chief of the party’s information technology wing, has frequently been accused of peddling fake news and leading an army of trolls who viciously target any opposition to the government. Recently, several Twitter users displaying the national flag in their IDs had called Swamy a “Chinese agent”. Some videos of Swamy making comments against the Narendra Modi government had also been widely shared on social media platforms. On Tuesday, Swamy had objected to foreign minister S. Jaishankar’s meeting with his Chinese counterpart in Moscow over the border standoff. “Why does the Foreign Minister Jaishankar have to meet his Chinese counterpart in Moscow? Especially after the Defence Ministers have met? India has no foreign policy issues to settle since May 5, 2020. Therefore PM must ask the EAM to cancel his trip. It dilutes our resolve,” Swamy had tweeted. Swamy, known to be a maverick and a hardline Hindutva campaigner, has been strongly opposing the government’s move to hold the JEE and NEET exams amid the pandemic. He has supported the agitation by students against holding the exams and written to Modi on the issue. The Rajya Sabha MP has been trolled on social media for this too. Some BJP leaders suspect that Swamy had aided the recent social media campaign against Modi over the exams, during which uploads relating to the Prime Minister were widely “disliked” and received negative comments. In the past, Swamy had been critical of the government’s handling of the economy and openly expressed his desire to fix things if he was made finance minister. The BJP leadership has chosen not to comment in public on Swamy’s threat. BJP insiders, however, declined the possibility of any action against Malviya, pointing out that Swamy has on several occasions gone against the government and the party line.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-679
10-09-2020||India||BJP ‘plot’ in Kangana Ranaut rant||The ruling coalition in Maharashtra views Kangana Ranaut’s attack on the state government as a political plot of the BJP, pointing out that the grant of “Y-plus” security to the actress by the Narendra Modi government was a giveaway. The actress, who returned to Mumbai on Wednesday from hometown Manali, again described the country’s financial capital as “Pakistan-occupied Kashmir” – the second time she has done so. She also hit out at chief minister Uddhav Thackeray in a video message in which she addressed him as “tu” — which is disrespectful except when speaking to someone close. By the time Kangana landed in the city, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) officials had demolished “illegal alterations” at a Bandra bungalow that serves as her office. The actress lashed out at Uddhav for this, called the BMC team “Babur’s army” and likened her office to “Ram Mandir” in a storm of tweets. NCP veteran Sharad Pawar said the demolition had given unnecessary publicity to the actress. The allies believe she is being used by the BJP to destabilise the government. A minister in the government said: “They first used a TV anchor and now an actress. The BJP has lost its mind. Who doesn’t know Kangana is close to Prime Minister Narendra Modi?” The minister continued: “How many people in this country will be given Y-category security so promptly, without any real threat? Rape and murder are happening daily across the country, top activists who dedicated their lives to serve the poor are in jail and this actor is defended by a central agency without consultation with the state. That’s how she gets the courage to threaten the chief minister who hasn’t spoken a word about her.” Another leader said over phone from Mumbai: “Kangana revealed her agenda by using the phrases like Babur’s army and talking about Kashmiri Pandits, Ayodhya, Babri demolition, Jhansi Ki Rani….”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-679
10-09-2020||India||SC stays Maratha quota||The Supreme Court on Wednesday stayed the Maharashtra government’s policy of providing 16 per cent reservation to Marathas in jobs and education but made it clear it would not disturb those who have already received the benefits. The court also decided to refer to a nine or 11-judge constitution bench the larger question of whether states can provide quotas in excess of the 50 per cent ceiling set by a nine-judge constitution bench in 1992. A three-judge bench headed by Justice L. Nageswara Rao was on Wednesday hearing a batch of petitions challenging the Bombay High Court judgment of July 27, 2019, upholding the Maharashtra State Reservation of Seats (for admission in educational institutions in the state and for appointments to the posts in the public services under the state) for Socially and Educationally Backward Category Act, 2018, passed by the Assembly on November 29 that year granting reservation for Marathas. The high court had, however, held that the reservation for the Maratha community should not exceed 12 per cent in jobs and 13 per cent in education, as had been recommended by the State Backward Classes Commission. The state government had fixed a 16 per cent quota in both jobs and education. The petitioners had contented that the total reservation in Maharashtra was nearly 70 per cent now. The 50 per cent threshold had been set by a nine-judge bench of the Supreme Court in the Indra Sawhney case in 1992 in the wake of the anti-Mandal Commission report protests during the then V.P. Singh regime. However, despite the apex court ruling, several states such as Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Telangana have overshot the quota ceiling. On July 27 this year, the Maharashtra government had given an undertaking to the Supreme Court that the state would not make any job appointments under the Maratha reservation policy till September 15 as the court had indicated that it might refer to an 11-judge constitution bench the question whether states can exceed the 50 per cent ceiling. The BJP in Maharashtra alleged after Wednesday’s ruling that the Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress government had not been “serious” about ensuring that the quota held its ground before the apex court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-679
10-09-2020||India||ED ties Kerala gold case to Bangalore drugs bust||The Enforcement Directorate on Wednesday told a court in Kochi that some of those arrested in connection with the Bangalore drugs bust were suspected to have assisted those accused in the Kerala gold smuggling case. “Further investigation revealed that the accused in the Bengaluru drug trafficking case registered by the Narcotics Control Bureau, Bengaluru, are suspected to have assisted the accused in the gold smuggling case,” the ED submitted in the special court. The central agency said the NCB had requested it to share the details of the gold case. The ED also told the court that a high-profile person was being interrogated. Although the central agency did not name the person, Kerala CPM secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan’s businessman son Bineesh Kodiyeri was being interrogated by the ED in Kochi through the day. The NCB, probing the drugs case in Bangalore, had earlier found from the call records of one of those arrested, Anoop Mohammed, that he had been in touch with Bineesh. Bineesh has denied knowing that Anoop could be involved in drug peddling but had acknowledged their friendship. Sources said the ED was probing whether drugs money-linked hawala channels had been used to fund the smuggling of 30kg gold from the UAE. The ED also suspects that K.T. Rameez, one of the accused in the gold smuggling case, had contacted the drugs mafia to raise money for his gold smuggling activities. The gold, found in a baggage meant for the UAE embassy in the Kerala capital, had been seized at Thiruvananthapuram international airport in July and has since haunted the Left government in Kerala as an influential bureaucrat who used to run the chief minister’s office had been linked to one of the key accused. Recently, the BJP also got embroiled in the case when it emerged that the editor of a pro-BJP news channel had sought the UAE consulate’s help in 2018 to support the party. Anil Nambiar, the then coordinating editor of Janam TV, had also allegedly advised key accused Swapna Suresh to get the gold controversy defused through the consulate. The ED’s submission in the Kochi court came while it was seeking the extension of the custody of Swapna and two other accused, P.S. Sarith and Sandeep Nair, by another 14 days. Anoop, in whose call records Bineesh’s name has been found, was arrested along with two other suspected drug peddlers, Anikha D and Rijesh Ravindran, in Bangalore on August 21. Eventually, two leading Kannada actresses, Ragini Dwivedi and Sanjjanna Galrani, were also arrested in the case. Anoop and Rijesh are natives of Kerala who have been living in Bangalore for several years. Bineesh had earlier said that he had helped Anoop financially when Anoop wanted to open a restaurant in Bangalore a few years ago. In court on Wednesday, the ED, one of the three central agencies probing the gold case, said: “One of the high-profile persons who is alleged to be connected to the case is being interrogated. In addition to this, more than 20 persons who are involved in the gold smuggling are to be interrogated.” While it did not name anyone, the ED summoned and questioned Bineesh at its Kochi office on Wednesday. Although Bineesh had sought time to appear, the ED insisted he should make himself available at 11am on Wednesday. M. Sivasankar, the IAS officer who had been linked to Swapna, has also been questioned in the gold case. The Kerala government has suspended the officer, who had been the secretary in the chief minister’s office and the principal secretary in the IT department. The sources said the ED also wanted to know more about Bineesh’s links with UAFX, a visa service agency that allegedly paid Rs 70 lakh as commission to Swapna for securing a visa services contract from the UAE consulate in Thiruvananthapuram. Bineesh is suspected to have links with one of the directors of UAFX. Swapna and Sarith are former employees of the consulate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-679
10-09-2020||West Bengal||NEET in mind, Mamata calls off Saturday lockdown||The state-wide complete lockdown on September 12 has been withdrawn in the interest of the students appearing for NEET, Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee announced on Thursday. The decision was taken to help ease their travel to the centres for appearing in the all-India exam, which is scheduled on September 13, she said. However, the complete lockdown will be imposed on Friday as announced earlier, Banerjee said. The state government initially announced a statewide lockdown on September 11 and 12, she said. However, the government received numerous requests from the student community for lifting the lockdown on September 12, the chief minister said. "Keeping their interest in mind, while keeping the statewide lockdown as it is on Sep 11th, it has been decided to cancel the lockdown on 12th, so that the students can attend the examination on 13th without any apprehensions or concerns," she tweeted. Banerjee also wished the students appearing for the medical entrance examination.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-380
10-09-2020||West Bengal||Bengal district schools in a fix over online classes ||Authorities of 1,053 government schools in South 24-Parganas are in a fix on how to implement a district administration order to hold online classes as large swathes of the district lack high-speed Internet facility and at least 60 per cent of 16 lakh students in these schools come from poor families that can’t afford smartphones or computers. In an order issued on September 2, the district inspector of schools (secondary education) Prodyut Sarkar asked all schools to hold virtual classes as part of its “micro-plan to reach out to the students” in the time of pandemic. “The teachers have been asked to conduct classes online by using the Google Meet platform. The other option is to take classes online by forming WhatsApp groups,” said a senior district official. Many school headmasters this correspondent spoke to said the order was issued without considering the ground realities of the district where at least 400 schools are in remote areas, including pockets of the Sunderbans and other islands without Internet access. Sources said only around 70 per cent of the district has Internet coverage and high-speed Internet is available only in areas adjacent to the southern fringes of Calcutta. An official said that after Amphan, many mobile phone towers had been uprooted and telecom services in remote pockets are not fully restored. Then, as many as 37 per cent of people in the district live below the poverty line, making smartphones or computers unimaginable for many. Multiple sources in the administration said that in areas such as Kakdwip, Namkhana, Sagar, Pathar Pratima and Raidighi blocks, thousands of students are on the verge of dropping out amid lockdown job losses in their families. Chandan Maity, general secretary of State Forum of Headmasters and Headmistress, explained the problem. “I have 4,500 students in my school and only 1,200 of them have smartphones at home. Many of those with smartphones cannot afford high-speed Internet data packs,” said Maity. Jayanta Chatterjee, a Class XII student of Subhasgram Nabatara Vidyalaya, cites how online classes are likely to exclude most students from poorer homes. Jayanta, whose father is no more and mother earns hardly Rs 5,000 a month as an attendant to patients, has a smartphone. But he needs high-speed Internet connectivity to run Google Meet on the phone, which is costly. As school authorities have been asked to implement the online class order and file  performance reports, the district unit of the All Bengal Teachers’ Association has decided to write to the district inspector of schools and district magistrate. “A small fraction of students are attending online classes and it is leading to a digital divide. The plan to hold online classes for students, who come from families belonging to various income groups, is not a practical one,” said Anupam Roy, secretary of the ABTA’s South 24-Parganas’ unit. Asked about the problems schools face in holding online classes, district inspector of schools Sarkar said: “The decision had been taken by the district administration and I cannot comment on it.” District magistrate P. Ulaganathan said: “We have launched the drive to reach out to students and facilitate their studies. If students face any problem we will sort it out.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-380
10-09-2020||West Bengal||Tea-storage bag unit gutted in Jalpaiguri||A factory manufacturing tea storage bags on the outskirts of Jalpaiguri town was gutted in a sudden blaze on Wednesday morning. Fire officials and the owner of the factory, Gautam Das, suspect that the blaze erupted out of an electrical short circuit. The fire services department is conducting a probe to ascertain the cause of the blaze. No injury or casualty has been reported so far. Sources said on Wednesday morning, some residents spotted the blaze in the factory located in the Panga-Sahebbari area of Sadar block. Three fire engines from Jalpaiguri rushed to the spot but it took time to bring the fire under control. Gautam Das, who owns the factory, said they make bags which are used to store teas made in tea estates. “All machines and computers have been gutted in the fire. Also, bags worth around Rs 25 lakh which were ready and were about to be dispatched have been reduced to ashes. Also, the factory building is damaged in the fire. It seems an electrical short circuit has led to the fire,” said Das. He added that in all goods worth over Rs 1 crore were damaged in the blaze. The incident has also left around 50 workers, who used to work at the factory, jobless. “A number of local residents used to work at the factory. They are jobless now. We hope the management takes the initiative to resume production of tea bags at the unit so that the workers can get back to their jobs,” said Mrityunjay Das, a resident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-380
10-09-2020||West Bengal||Run more trains, plead north Bengal tourism stakeholders||Tourism industry stakeholders in north Bengal are urging senior railway officials of the Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR) to allow more trains to run in the region. Ever since regular train services were halted by the Centre because of the Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown, only a handful of special trains are running through the region. The move by tourism stakeholders to urge railway officials to allow more trains, sources said, follows the decisions made in the hills and in the Dooars to start reopening tourist accommodations ahead of Durga Puja and Diwali holidays. The state tourism department has already opened one of its accommodations in the Dooars. There are indications that the state forest department might resume car safaris in the national parks of the region. On Tuesday, a delegation of the Himalayan Hospitality & Tourism Development Network (HHTDN) went to the office of the additional divisional railway manager in New Jalpaiguri with a memo seeking more trains from north Bengal to Calcutta and Delhi. “As of now, only one train is running between the region and Calcutta and two or three trains between the Northeast and Delhi. The railway ministry is resuming trains in a phased manner and we want more trains in our area. This would encourage tourists to visit the region and help in revival of the tourism industry that has suffered these past six months,” said Samrat Sanyal, HHTDN general secretary. On Wednesday, members of Alipurduar District Tourism Association gave a memo at the office of the DRM of Alipurduar division to resume some popular long-distance passenger trains that link north Bengal with Calcutta. They also asked for at least one Calcutta-bound train via the Dooars. For the past six months, no such train has run. Manab Bakshi, secretary of Alipurduar District Tourism Association, said they wanted Saraighat Express, Kanchankanya Express, Teesta-Torsha Express and Uttarbanga Express to start.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-380
10-09-2020||West Bengal||Jalpaiguri tourism hub on fast track||Senior officials of Jalpaiguri district administration and state government departments held a meeting at the district magistrate office here on Wednesday to discuss the progress of ongoing work at the mega tourism hub that the state government has been developing at Gajoldoba, next to the Teesta Barrage. The hub named “Bhorer Alo” (light of dawn) by chief minister Mamata Banerjee is the largest tourism project taken up by her government in the state. On Wednesday, a number of decisions were made at the meeting, which include completion of the construction of a youth hostel at the site and a proposed elephant safari in the adjoining forests of the hub to attract tourists. The site of the hub is surrounded by Baikunthapur forest, one of the prominent reserve forests of north Bengal. So far, cottages have been developed by the state tourism department and a private company has opened a resort. Abhishek Kumar Tiwary, Jalpaiguri district magistrate,  said that state tourism minister Gautam Deb had instructed them to expedite the ongoing work at the hub, which is why Wednesday’s meeting was convened. “At the meeting, the progress of construction of the youth hostel was discussed. It was also planned to start work on a fire station immediately. On September 16, a team of officials from different departments will visit the site to check the progress of work,” said Jyoti Ghosh, the deputy director of the state tourism department posted in Siliguri. The upcoming tourism hub, though in Jalpaiguri district, is only around 25km from Siliguri. The state forest department is also installing pulsating fences to deter wild elephants and other animals from entering the hub. Rajendra Jakhar, the chief conservator of forests (wildlife, north Bengal), who was also at the meeting, said they were ready to send pet elephants to the site. “Two locations have already been identified for elephant safari. We are looking into the nitty-gritty...The elephant enclosure is also ready but considering the current situation (Covid 19 pandemic), we cannot really say when the safari would start,” said Jakhar. Sources in the forest and tourism departments, however, hinted that the safari might start in winter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-380
10-09-2020||West Bengal||Tribal forum demonstrates against Birbhum coal mine||Nearly 1,000 tribal people held a dharna in front of Mohammedbazar police station for around three hours on Wednesday to protest the Bengal government’s decision of setting up the Deocha-Pachami coal mine that would allegedly result in the eviction of the adivasis from the hamlets they had been living for generations. The protest was held under the aegis of a faction of the Birbhum Adivasi Gaonta, a platform of tribal people, which is against the proposed coal mine. The government is keen on starting mining by early next year. “We don’t want to be evicted at any cost from our land. We don’t want a coal mine in our area as our livelihood is already in crisis because of existing stone mines and crushers,” said a protester. The government is betting heavily on the Deocha-Pachami coal block, located in Birbhum’s Mohammedbazar. The coal block is spread over 11,222 acres and has an estimated coal reserve of around 2.2 billion tonnes. According to government estimates, the project can generate jobs for at least 1.5 lakh people and has the potential to act as an engine of economic growth for the entire south Bengal. Chief secretary Rajiva Sinha, along with some senior officials, had landed in Deocha on July 9 and held a meeting with stakeholders and landowners expressing the government’s desire to start mining soon. Sources had said the state was likely to kick off the coal mine’s operations early next year. “At the July 9 meeting, local Trinamul leaders produced some people to discuss the issue of rehabilitation.... The original stakeholders weren’t, however, allowed to take part in the meeting. We don’t support setting up any coal mine at any cost,” said Sunil Soren, the convener of Gaonta, who led the agitation. “We have also submitted a deputation to police, along with our other demands, including an end to police atrocities and halt to illegal stone crushers and mines,” he added. District officials, however, said the government was planning to start the work of the coal mine from around 40 acres of land vested with it. “There is no question of evicting any person in the first phase of the project. If any family is affected, we promise appropriate compensations,” said a senior official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-380
10-09-2020||West Bengal||Cop shuffle: New ADGP of Special Task Force||Vineet Goyal, who was posted as the director, security, in charge of the chief minister’s security, was appointed as additional director general of police (Special Task Force) on Wednesday. Vivek Sahay, who was posted as additional director general of police (traffic), has replaced Goyal. Ajoy Kumar, earlier posted as additional director general of police (counter intelligence force), has been posted in place of Sahay.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-380
10-09-2020||West Bengal||NH12 awaits traffic jam unlock||Regular traffic jams between Santipur and Barojagulia in Nadia on NH12, the highway that runs through the spine of Bengal linking the south to the north, are a commuting nightmare. Reason: the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has blocked one lane of the highway to repair the damaged stretch. Also, suburban trains off tracks have increased vehicular load on roads. A doctor, Goutam Majumder leaves his Kalyani home at 7am every day to reach his workplace at Nadia’s Krishnaganj block hospital, 81km away. After 30 minutes he hits the NH12 and manages to reach Chakdah Chowmatha, which is 10km away along the highway, in 90 minutes. To avoid further delay, he takes a diversion through village roads to reach the hospital at Krishnaganj at 11.15am. “It takes over four hours to cover 81km between home and office... In normal times, it used to take less than two hours,” rued the doctor. Those trying to reach Calcutta by skirting a clogged NH12 have few options, as the alternative Kalyani Expressway sees massive traffic between Naihati and Nimta in North 24-Parganas. The PWD’s road widening work on Kalyani Expressway triggers snarls at several places. Following Unlock 1 in June, many offices opened. But as suburban train services did not, the number of cars and motorcycles on NH12 and the Kalyani Expressway increased phenomenally. To add to commuter woes, the NHAI and the PWD have taken up projects that were pending because of the lockdown. Last month, Santipur resident, Samar Dutta, lost his job as he regularly reported late at his workplace, a shopping mall on CIT Road in Calcutta. Without trains, Samar would take the first bus out of Santipur at 5.30am for the 91km trip to Calcutta but could never reach the mall by 9.30am. After a few warnings, Samar’s employers sacked him. Usually, the distance between Santipur and Calcutta takes less than three hours by road. Santipur resident Samit Dutta Chowdhury, an employee with a private firm in Calcutta, said: “The journey has become unbearable. Two-way travel from Santipur to Calcutta has become a 10-hour affair.” Since Monday, Samit has been trying to reach Calcutta by taking the Delhi Road. Samit and three others have hired a car to travel to Calcutta every day. They, along with the car, cross the Hooghly river on a vessel to reach Guptipara from where they take the Delhi Road. “The new route has reduced our travel time by two hours,” he said. Admitting that repair work choked traffic on NH12, Soutam Pal, director of NH Project Implementation Unit in Krishnagar, said: “We will take four more days to complete the work. Work remains incomplete at a few places towards the Santipur end of the stretch and it will be completed soon.” A PWD official monitoring the widening works on Kalyani Expressway said: “We are trying our best to finish work fast. We are trying to avoid work during the morning rush hours.” Choked roads have become a challenge for the police to maintain flow of traffic on both NH12 and the Kalyani Expressway. Ranaghat police district SP V.S.R. Ananthnag said: “It is a difficult situation. We are in touch with the NHAI as they are repairing the craters. We are hopeful that the situation will normalise within the next seven days.” He said the job to repair potholes between Chakdah and Jagulia had become the main reason for the snarl and also blamed wayward driving for aggravating the situation. “It appears everybody is in a hurry,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-380
10-09-2020||West Bengal||Students write to Modi for free phone, Net||Around 300 school and college students from Hooghly’s Goghat have written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and some of his cabinet colleagues, asking for free Internet data and smartphones to be distributed among poor students of the country. Poor students from semi-rural and rural schools and colleges were becoming victims of the digital divide amid the pandemic, they pointed out. An initiative of the local unit of Trinamul Chhatra Parishad, a group of 100 students on Wednesday wrote on postcards and another group of 200 sent emails with the same demand at a time Covid-19 made online classes the norm. The postcards were addressed to telecommunications minister Ravi Sankar Prasad. The emails were sent to the office of the Prime Minister with copies marked to home minister Amit Shah, telecommunications minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, and education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal. Syed Ashik Hossain, Trinamul Chhatra Parishad president in Goghat-I block, said faced with financial hurdles to online classes, many students were demanding smartphones and Internet packs from the central government. He called it just “just the beginning”, and said “it will soon become a movement”. “Thousands of students are finding it difficult to buy smartphones and Internet packs. The Centre should shoulder the responsibility of providing smartphones and Internet packs to underprivileged students as most classes are being held online,” said Hossain. “My father is a farmer and he cannot spend Rs 800 per month on Internet. There are thousands of students like me. So, we request the Centre to think about our situation,” said Payel Chakraborty, a third-year undergraduate student at Netaji Mahavidyalaya, Arambagh. Sweety Khatun, a Class X student of Arambagh Girls’ High School, echoed Payel. Sweety, who sent a postcard on Wednesday, said: “I do not have a smartphone. My mother, a widow, runs the family by working as a tailor. How can I ask her to spend on a smartphone for my online classes?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-381
10-09-2020||West Bengal||Adhir Bengal Congress chief||Behrampore MP Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury was made the Bengal Congress chief late on Wednesday night with the appointment being seen as a clear hint that the party wouldn’t have an alliance with Mamata Banerjee in the Assembly polls next year. The five-time MP and a known Mamata baiter will take charge as the West Bengal Pradesh Congress Committee president with “immediate effect”, said a release issued by AICC general secretary K.C. Venugopal. The post of PCC chief had been lying vacant since the death of Somen Mitra on July 30. “I am an obedient worker of the party… I have always tried to perform the responsibilities given to me by the party to the best of my abilities and I will keep doing that,” said Chowdhury late on Wednesday night. A senior state Congress leader said the AICC, especially party president Sonia Gandhi, sent out a clear signal about the Congress’s strategy for the Assembly polls. “Adhir-da’s appointment makes it clear that the Congress is not going to have any truck with Trinamul in the Assembly polls,” said the source. While there is little doubt that Chowdhury, a firebrand leader, will rejuvenate the party and carry on with the alliance with the Left, there is a lack of clarity on whether he will retain his position as the leader of the party in the Lok Sabha. Asked about it, Chowdhury himself said he hadn’t been told to give up his responsibility in the Lok Sabha. A leader close to the Behrampore MP said that there were several instances of leaders performing dual responsibilities in the Congress. “Pranab Mukherjee, A.B.A. Ghani Khan Choudhury and Priya Ranjan Das Munshi had performed the role of PCC president even when they were central ministers… So, Adhir-da can continue playing his roles both in Delhi and Calcutta,” said the leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-381
10-09-2020||West Bengal||MLA tests positive at Bengal Assembly||Jalangi MLA Abdur Razzak Mandal on Wednesday tested positive in a Covid-19 rapid antigen test conducted on Bengal Assembly premises where chief minister Mamata Banerjee was present with many of her cabinet colleagues and hundreds of legislators, staff members and journalists. Mandal was not factored in the 3,107 new Covid-19 cases found in Bengal, over 24 hours till Wednesday 9am, as testing on Assembly premises only began then. Of the 195 persons tested on Wednesday in the Assembly, Mandal and a security guard assigned to him tested positive. “The Assembly premises and the MLA hostel (where Mandal had gone) would be thoroughly sanitised. Those found positive underwent the rapid test and would have more testing during treatment,” said a senior member of the treasury benches. Mandal, 62, is part of over 20 members of the Assembly who have so far been infected. The session, limited to 45 minutes on Wednesday, had to be convened despite the pandemic because of a constitutional stipulation of the House meeting at least once in six months. Mamata was present for 15 minutes in the sanitised and socially-distanced House before leaving for the state secretariat. “We carried out a quick contact-tracing. Mandal hadn’t been in close proximity to the chief minister...,” the source from the treasury benches said. On Wednesday, Bengal also reported 2,967 recoveries and 53 deaths. The total case count now is over 1.9 lakh, of which nearly 1.63 lakh are recoveries, besides 3,730 deaths. . Of the 53 casualties, 17 persons succumbed in Calcutta and 10 in North 24-Parganas. As of Wednesday, the state government reported comorbid 3,211 or 86.1 per cent of deaths. Bengal’s mortality rate is 1.96, still behind the national rate of 1.69 per cent. But its recovery rate is 85.76, substantially higher than the 77.78 per cent national rate. On Tuesday, a gardener, a cop, a journalist and the driver of MLA Sujan Chakraborty tested positive in the Assembly. Mandal, still a Congress-backed CPM MLA from Murshidabad’s Jalangi on paper, who defected to the ruling Trinamul Congress last year, was awaiting his test results before entering the House when he was informed. On learning he was positive, Mandal went to the MLA hostel on Kyd Street, from where he was asked by Speaker Biman Banerjee to go on institutional isolation in a state-run safe home. In Bengal, the pandemic has infected ministers Jyotipriya Mullick, Sujit Bose, Swapan Debnath and Soumen Mahapatra, and claimed the lives of CPM veteran and former transport minister Shyamal Chakraborty, Trinamul MLAs Samaresh Das and Tamonash Ghosh. The state logged 42,642 tests on Wednesday, which took the total to nearly 22.86 lakh, at 25,399 tests per million people. Steady rise in testing, coupled with relatively lower cases being found improved the positive confirmation rate after August 23, from 8.9 to 8.31 per cent. A decreasing positive confirmation rate is indicative of reducing levels of Covid-19 spread.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-381
10-09-2020||West Bengal||Incentives for industrial parks to continue||The Bengal cabinet on Wednesday extended the incentive policy for industrial parks set up by private investors for another five years. The extension of the scheme, which had lapsed in September last year, is part of the state’s strategy to promote micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME). “The cabinet today (Wednesday) approved a proposal to extend the incentive scheme for stateapproved industrial parks. The state wants to set up 100 such parks in the next few years,” Bengal home secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay said at Nabanna on Wednesday. But there has not been any decision on the incentive policy for large industries, which also expired last September. “There hasn’t been any proposal for large investments... Besides, the state coffers are almost empty and it’s difficult to offer anything to large industries,” said a source. Sources at Nabanna said the state had extended the incentive scheme for the private industrial parks as the policy had yielded desired results till now. In the past five years, 14 such industrial parks were set up on a total of 1,300 acres, said the source. “The prime objective of the state government right at this moment is creation of employment opportunities. The MSME units set up in industrial parks are generating jobs and that’s why the state is focusing on such facilities,” said a senior state government official. As part of the incentive scheme for the industrial parks, the government has offered return of a handsome portion of basic infrastructure investment, besides several other facilities. If a park is spread between 20 and 39 acres, the investor can claim cash back up to Rs 2 crore. In case a park is set up on land measuring between 40 and 59 acres, maximum Rs 4 crore can be refunded. The investors can claim refund up to Rs 6 crore if the park is spread over land meas¬uring between 60 and 79 acres. In case it is spread over between 80 and 99 acres, the promoter can claim a refund of Rs 8 crore. An investor can claim cash back up to Rs 10 crore if the park is set up on or above 100 acres. Moreover, if parks set up common effluent treatment plants, the promoters will be eligible for an incentive of Rs 5 lakh per acre. Besides, the state government also has a policy of reimbursing 100 per cent stamp duty for all industrial parks, laying a 1.5km road to connect with the nearest major road and setting up a power substation free of cost. The sources said the industrial parks had generated more than 40,000 jobs in the past few years. “The apparel park and the hosiery park — both in Howrah — and the Bantala leather park have generated nearly 20,000 employment opportunities in the past few years. If the state can promote the sector, more jobs could be generated,” said another senior government official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-381
10-09-2020||West Bengal||Banking service launched in tea gardens||Banking infrastructure made a benign entry in the brew belt of north Bengal on Wednesday as the State Bank of India opened five Customer Service Points (CSPs) in different tea gardens of the Terai. The CSP is a kind of a small branch of a bank and its operations are generally outsourced. Lack of banking facilities in tea gardens has been a pet peeve of the industry for long. The demand for some banking infrastructure grew louder after the 2016 demonetisation drive as the Centre had time and again insisted that wages and bonus be paid to workers through banks to encourage cashless transactions. “Some tea estates had taken the initiative to open bank accounts for workers at the nearest branches. But it didn’t help as the workers found it inconvenient to travel to banks to withdraw their wages,” said Prabir Bhattacharjee, secretary general, Tea Association of India (TAI). The tea planters confronted another problem last year when the Centre levied a 2 per cent TDS on annual cash drawings above Rs 1 crore. According to a tea planter based in Siliguri, there are around 1,300 workers in his garden and every fortnight, he needs to pay over Rs 34 lakh in wages. “This means a monthly payment of around Rs 70 lakh and about Rs 8.5 crore a year. Added to it are the bonus and some other cash payments. Altogether, around Rs 10 crore of cash is required annually. This means a TDS deduction of Rs 18 lakh,” he pointed out. The extra cost spurred the tea planters into action and arrangements were maid to open the CSPs. On Wednesday, the CSPs were opened in Thanjhora, Atal, Satvaiya (a division of Atal), Pahargoomiah and Dagapur tea gardens. “We plan to open CSPs in all our member gardens. Similar initiatives have been started in the Dooars and we are in constant touch with the bankers and representatives of a private company that is setting up the CSPs. The facility would also enable the workers to avail themselves of other benefits like taking loans, making deposits and investments,” Sumit Ghosh, the secretary of the Terai branch of TAI, said. Trade unions have also welcomed the initiative. “It is good that CSPs are coming up in the gardens of the Terai. We hope those posted at the CSPs will extend all help to workers,” said a trade union leader in Siliguri.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-381
10-09-2020||West Bengal||Cyclone Amphan spurs change in site of Digha Jagannath shrine||The Digha Sankarpur Development Authority has decided to shift the site for the proposed 214ft-high Jagannath Temple further away from the sea because of the experience of Cyclone Amphan that caused havoc in Bengal in May. The temple will be built near the Digha railway station, a kilometre away from the original site that was closer to the sea. “The cyclone on May 20 forced us to make a few changes to the original plan. While a small shrine will come up near the sea, the main temple will be built close to the Digha railway station,” said Akhil Giri, the vice-chairman of the DSDA. Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee had unveiled a plan to build the Jagannath Temple, like the one in Puri, near the Old Digha beach in August last year. The announcement was made during the inauguration of a convention centre at Digha. “There is already a small Jagannath Temple near the beach,” Giri said. According to sources, experts have told the DSDA authorities that a temple taller than 30ft near the sea will not be able to withstand a cyclone as strong as Amphan. The proposed 214ft-high temple, which will be built at Rs 70 crore, will come up on a 14-acre plot near the Digha railway station. “We have a one-acre plot near the beach. The forest department was supposed to give us four more acres. The temple was to come up on the five acres after clearing off the vegetation,” an official at the DSDA said. However, with the new plan in place, the DSDA will not need any extra land and there will be no deforestation. “A small temple, which will be identified as Lord Jagannath’s aunt’s temple, will be built on the one-acre plot,” the official added. In Puri, the Gundicha temple is referred to as the temple of Jagannath’s aunt. A year has gone by since Mamata had unveiled the plan but there has been no progress. However, with an eye on the Assembly elections next year, the DSDA has allotted Rs 15 crore for the development of the site where a smaller temple will be built near the beach. To roll out the project, the development authority had invited tenders on September 4. According to sources, the DSDA plans to set up entertainment centres, restaurants, parking facilities, toilets, paved walkways, and pavilion-like structures close to the temple near the beach for Rs 11.36 crore. The road leading to the Jagannath temple ghat near the beach will be illuminated and a few 500m-high mast lights will also be installed. The DSDA has also decided to repair the Digha Welcome Gate for Rs 1.45 crore. The gate was damaged during Amphan, said a DSDA official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-381
10-09-2020||West Bengal||Binay Tamang reminds Modi of hills promise||Gorkha Janmukti Morcha leader Binay Tamang wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday, reminding him that time had come for the BJP to deliver on its promise of “a permanent political solution” for the Darjeeling hills. “I have written to the Prime Minister, mentioning that for the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha and for the entire Gorkha community in India, ‘a permanent political solution’ unequivocally means a separate state of Gorkhaland,” said Tamang, who heads a faction of the Morcha. The BJP manifesto for the 2019 general election reads: “We are committed to work towards finding a permanent political solution to the issue of Darjeeling Hills, Siliguri, Terai and Dooars region.” During the past fortnight, this is the second letter that Tamang sent to Modi. Last week, he had written to the Prime Minister, seeking conferment of Scheduled Tribe status on 11 hill communities — another longstanding demand of the hills. In his letter, the Morcha leader said 11 years had passed since the BJP had promised to look into the main demand of the Darjeeling hills. “We had high hopes that if the BJP came to power, our problem would be solved but we are unhappy now with the silence of the Centre and the party. The separate statehood would also create a separate identity of the Indian Gorkhas who are not differentiated from the Nepalese on many occasions,” said Tamang. The Tamang faction’s renewed statehood call has surprised political observers in the hills and the adjoining foothills. This is because the Tamang faction is an ally of Trinamul which is against the division of Bengal. A number of political analysts said there could be a number of reasons behind Tamang’s move. According to them, it seems his party wants to mount pressure on the BJP and its allies in the hills (GNLF and the Bimal Gurung faction of the Morcha). “By raising the Gorkhaland and the ST status issue, Tamang probably wants to drive home the point that his party is the principal political force in the hills. Also, he might be trying to prove that his party has the credibility for the Centre to initiate any talks with,” said a senior politician in Siliguri. L.B. Rai, the president, Darjeeling (hills), district Trinamul, said: “It is true they are our ally but we cannot right now comment. We would hold talks within our party to ascertain what made him (Tamang) suddenly raise the demand. We are keeping a close watch and if required, we will speak to our central leaders.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-381
10-09-2020||North East||Arunachal kin ‘relieved’||The family members of the five youths from Arunachal Pradesh who had “inadvertently crossed over” to the Chinese side on September 2 are a “little relieved” after receiving the news that they are in the neighbouring country but have cautioned that the “job is only half done”. The affected families met at Daparijo, the district headquarters about 120km from the remote Nacho circle from where they hail, on Wednesday evening to discuss their course of action, Prakash Ringling, the elder brother of 16-year-old Prasat who is among those who had strayed into the Chinese side from Upper Subansiri district, said. The frontier state shares a 1,080km border with China, which claims Arunachal Pradesh to be an extension of South Tibet. The border dispute had led to the 1962 India-China war. Upper Subansiri was one of the districts affected in the month-long war. “Thoda sukoon mila kal sham ko after Kiren ji’s tweet…. But unko ghar jaldi lana hain (We felt a little relieved after Union minister Kiren Rijiju’s tweet. But they have to be brought back home soon). The job is only half done,” Prakash, a final-year degree student who lives with three of his six brothers at district headquarters Daparijo, told The Telegraph after the meeting attended by two members from each family and a few friends. Rijiju, the Arunachal West MP, had on Tuesday evening tweeted about the Chinese People’s Liberation Army confirming that the five missing youths “have been found by their side”. The defence PRO later said the youths had “inadvertently crossed over to the other side on September 2”. The families of the youths have approached the local MLA and state minister Nakat Nalo to take forward the process of getting them released. “We have submitted a memorandum to the DC (district commissioner), seeking help. We are now depending on our MLA to take the process forward with the government and the army because it is an issue between two countries now,” Prakash said. Media reports had initially claimed that the Chinese army had kidnapped the five youths who might have got close to a disputed border point, Sera 7, during a hunting expedition, adding to the growing tension back home because of the standoff between the two neighbours in Ladakh. Prakash said he had last met Prasat, a Class XI student, at their Nacho home on August 19 before the younger sibling left with his six friends on the hunting expedition. “I had told him the night before his departure to be careful because of the ongoing standoff with China. Two of their friends, who were behind the five, said they lost track of the five at the Tungdara Pass near the border. Thinking they may have been detained, the two returned home as soon as possible. The weather had deteriorated the day they went missing,” Prakash said. According to Prakash, it is difficult to know where the border is located because it is “porous and undemarcated”. All the youths belong to the Tagin community and are between 16 and 25 years old. “Most boys from the Nacho circle go on hunting trips. It is a kind of tradition. The local people depend on forest produce such as medicinal plants for their livelihood because surviving alone on jhum (shifting) cultivation is not possible. I have myself made four-five trips, each taking about 10-12 days or more. It is a very difficult trek through mountains and thick forests,” Prakash said. Prakash’s family hails from Ringling village, about 2km from Nacho. “There are about 150 people in our village but we have another house in Nacho. The other boys also live in Nacho because life is hard in the villages of the Nacho circle, hard in the bordering areas,” he said. The families are hoping the youths will be released soon just like 21-year-old Togley Singkam, who had been detained by the PLA from March 19 to April 7 when he had gone to collect medicinal plants. The Indian Army had negotiated his release.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-45
10-09-2020||North East||Arunachal pins hope on connectivity promise||Arunachal Pradesh is desperately hoping that Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement on Independence Day to connect every village (over 6 lakh) in the country through high-speed Internet using fibre optic cables within 1,000 days turns into reality. The reasons are many. The frontier state “not only suffers” from lack of or poor roads in most areas but also unreliable or no telecom connectivity, especially in villages and bordering areas. The Telegraph had on Monday reported on the poor infrastructure in the border areas which came into spotlight after the alleged abduction of five youths by Chinese troops from Upper Subansiri district last Friday. BSNL general manager Arung Siram told this newspaper that 50 per cent of the state’s area does not possess telecom facilities, including over 80 per cent of the villages along the borders. Arunachal Pradesh, the largest state in the Northeast, has an area of 83,743sqkm with a population of 12.6 lakh (2012) spread over 25 districts. Of these, 12 districts share borders with China, three with Myanmar and two share boundary with Bhutan. The length of the border with China is 1,080km, porous and disputed. China claims the state as part of South Tibet. The reasons for reliable and robust connectivity are many, according to locals. But the need for good roads and proper telecom connectivity have been accentuated during the Covid-19 pandemic and the growing border tension with China in eastern Ladakh. Strong communication network would help the administration in carrying out their work smoothly and promptly, students would benefit by being able to access online study material or attend online classes and would provide timely help for the ailing. It will also help share information and plan better in the event of any conflict, something which was missing during the 1962 Chinese aggression, locals said. The districts bordering China include Tawang, East Kameng, West Kameng, Kurung Kumey, Kra Daadi, Upper Subansiri, Shi Yomi, Upper Siang, Dibang Valley, Anjaw and Lower Dibang Valley. Tawang and West Kameng share border with Bhutan and Anjaw, Changlang, Tirap and Longding with Myanmar. Lardik Kare, from Upper Subansiri’s Nacho circle and secretary general of Tagin Council Society, said: “We hope Modiji ensures that the connectivity deadline is met. We suffer from lack of basic facilities, roads and telecom, which are important from security, health and education angles. Execution is the key here.” The Line of Actual Control is a 10 to 12 days’ trek from Nacho, and has no telecom facilities. All Arunachal Pradesh Students’ Union (AAPSU) general secretary Tobom Dai said the Centre needs to “walk the talk” because its attitude towards the frontier state seems indifferent. “We feel sad because we are still struggling for basic facilities even after over 7 decades of Independence. Unlike some other states, ours is peaceful border state but we have not got our dues. Announcements are fine but the need of the hour is implementation. We hope strategic states like ours get priority, more so due to the changing geopolitical situation,” Dai said. Siram said the BSNL and the army have started making joint efforts in improving communication in those districts where the army has or is going to have optical fibre connectivity like Anjaw, Dibang Valley, Shi Yomi, Upper Siang, Upper Subansiri, Tawang and West Kameng. Tawang and Bomdila have 2G and 3G mobile connectivity, barring the village areas. But still we need to improve and upgrade the services for higher Internet speed and better coverage of areas, Siram said. He also said one reason for low penetration of telecom facility is the difficult terrain, lack of proper road connectivity, unavailability of electricity supply and difficulties in establishing optical fibre network. “The ongoing road widening work in various parts of Arunachal Pradesh has damaged the existing cables. It’s causing a huge disturbance to the BSNL network. It’s not possible to restore and relay the optical fibre cable till the road widening work gets completed,” Siram said. The senior BSNL official said there was a need to extend robust communication facility upto the remote village level, referring to Vijoynagar, bordering Myanmar, which got mobile connectivity last month. “We hope to connect more such remote areas with all-round support,” Siram said. For a frontier state, its importance can never be overstated. “Villagers are also the natural guards of the border areas and with proper communication network, the information can be immediately passed on to the authority concerned,” said Kare.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-45
10-09-2020||Opinion||Unfortunate loss: Novak Djokovic out of US Open||Sir — With the disqualification of Novak Djokovic, the top seeded player in men’s tennis, the US Open 2020 has lost much of its charm (“Novak out of US Open after accidentally hitting line judge”, Sept 8). With Rafael Nadal withdrawing from the tournament owing to safety concerns amidst the Covid-19 pandemic and Roger Federer recovering from a knee injury which might keep him from playing till 2021, Djokovic was a fan-favourite to win the championship. While modern tennis has seen many outbursts — John McEnroe was infamous for his antics on court — any untoward behaviour must be penalized. The Serbian was dramatically disqualified after striking a line judge with a ball in frustration during the fourth round. Although he has apologized, he should consider taking a leaf out of the playbook of Federer, who is known for his politeness and calm demeanour on and off the court. While this mishap was clearly accidental, Djokovic is a habitual offender and has a history of losing his temper. It is deeply disappointing to see the 17-time Grand Slam winner exit like this. The argument that his punishment was too harsh and that he would have simply been asked to pay a fine had the ball not hit the line judge in the throat misses the point. Perhaps now Djokovic will be far more professional in his conduct on court. Shovanlal Chakraborty,Calcutta True grit Sir — The 25-year-old law student from Ranchi, Ananya Choudhary, must be lauded for taking a stand against the decision of the Indian railways to cut short a trip from Delhi to Ranchi that left hundreds of passengers scrambling for alternative transportation (“‘Atma nirbhar’ Ananya tames rail”, Sept 5). The Delhi-Ranchi Rajdhani Express truncated the trip at Daltonganj citing a track agitation and asked the 900-odd passengers on board to catch buses to their destination. While most passengers submitted to the railway authorities, one young woman opposed the decision and refused to budge from her seat. Choudhary — she was returning home after appearing for her exams in Varanasi — insisted that the move was irresponsible, especially when it was the only train linking Delhi to Ranchi. After a long agitation the authorities gave in to her demand and finally resumed the journey with Choudhary as the lone passenger for 300 kilometres, even providing her with a Railway Police Force escort. Although the railway authorities have since tried to downplay Choudhary’s fight for her rights — they argued that the train had to be taken to Ranchi at some point anyway — it must be admitted that the Banaras Hindu University student displayed exceptional grit. Moreover, if the route could have been eventually diverted and the passengers taken to their final destination, the Delhi-Ranchi Rajdhani Express should have done so to begin with. The railways ministry must look into the matter at the earliest. Rabindranath Sarkar,Calcutta Sir — While Ananya Choudhary must be commended for taking a stand against the Indian railways and refusing to leave her seat on the Delhi-Ranchi Rajdhani Express, it is unfortunate that she had to evoke the prime minister’s mantra of being “atma nirbhar”. The moral strength shown by the 25-year-old law student from Ranchi, who single-handedly fought for her rights, is truly one of a kind. However, the call to atmanirbharta by Narendra Modi does grave injustice to the millions of ordinary Indians who have always struggled for their basic rights without any support from the government. The Centre must be called out for suggesting that people become self-reliant at a time when they need the government to fulfil its duties the most. Kajal Chatterjee,Calcutta Health first Sir — An alarming study conducted by a team of experts at the University of Navarra, Spain, found that excessive consumption of sugar and fat-laden foods doubles the chance of shortening telomeres — a section of chromosome that helps determine biological age. Processed foods have long been linked to obesity, heart disease and diabetes. Given the fact that our health infrastructure is already groaning under the weight of the Covid-19 pandemic, it is of utmost importance that we pay close attention to the food we consume so that we can at least avoid falling prey to other serious illnesses. Ritabrata Ray,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-151
10-09-2020||Opinion||Road to hell: Failure of Motor Vehicles Act||The outcome of irresponsibility is seldom favourable; in the worst case, recklessness can even lead to the loss of lives. The latter is what the new Motor Vehicles Act — the amended legislation was passed by Parliament in July last year — aimed to prevent or, at least, significantly reduce. That, unfortunately, does not seem to have happened for the most part. According to new data from the National Crime Records Bureau, while the number of road crashes stood at 4.37 lakh for 2019 — it has come down marginally since 2018 — two-wheeler deaths accounted for 38 per cent of all road fatalities. This figure was around 35 per cent in 2018. Moreover, national highways continue to be the site of the highest number of accidents. When these numbers are viewed in conjunction with data that show that over 80 per cent of road accident-related fatalities in the country occurred on account of speeding or dangerous driving, it becomes clear that the law has not had its intended effect. In fact, a large number of states had either resolved to not implement the new rules under the amended legislation or had significantly diluted the heftier penalties it prescribed, thereby rendering the legislation ineffectual. How is a road safety law supposed to work if it meets with such vociferous opposition from populist governments? The implications of these findings are deeply worrying. It is clear that the failure to ensure road safety can be attributed to a lethal combination of administrative apathy and poor implementation of laws. The latter, undoubtedly, is a key contributor to the problem: in the Global Status Report on Road Safety 2018, which analysed the traffic laws of 175 countries, the enforcement of laws on speeding and drink driving in India were rated 3 and 4 out of 10, respectively. Comparatively, China notched up a rank of 8 and 9 for these same parameters and Sri Lanka was rated 9 on both counts. Even though structural changes along with focused awareness campaigns can make a difference, the likelihood of India’s roads turning safer without the active engagement of ordinary citizens is low. There is a case for making road safety a matter of public responsibility in India, especially given the marked lack of collective consciousness around protecting lives — this is evident, for instance, in the regular sight of helmetless children riding pillion on motorcycles. Policy must be designed to push for such a meaningful transformation so that all stakeholders — citizens, law enforcement agencies and the government — begin to prioritize road safety.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-151
10-09-2020||Opinion||At risk: 100% literacy still a far cry||With the passing of another International Literacy Day, India needs to confront the problem of its literacy levels. A report based on a 2017-18 survey by the National Statistical Office puts the country’s overall literacy rate at 77.7 per cent. This is far from the goal of full literacy by 2030. Among states, Kerala still leads with 96.2 per cent literacy, followed by Delhi, Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh. These smaller states seem to have done better than many larger ones, although Gujarat, Assam and Maharashtra are above the national average, as is West Bengal. But scoring above 80 per cent is still not good enough. The situation in Andhra Pradesh is worrying; its literacy rate is 66.4 per cent. There is nothing playful in this competition. Illiteracy demonstrates one of the gravest failures in a country that has been independent for 73 years. More, illiteracy in the 21st century is dangerous from the point of view of survival: reading is now a life-skill. Not to be able to read a sign on a highway, for example, or the label on a medicine bottle can be costly. Besides, female literacy is consistently lower than levels of male literacy, even in the better performing states. This not only points to women’s status and the neglect of their education, but also puts their children at a disadvantage. The government, however, seems oblivious to these dangers. Is it an advantage to have an illiterate population? The Saakshar Bharat Mission, a literacy-cum-continuous learning programme begun in 2009, trained 7.6 crore people in literacy by March 2018 through an informal but structured process out of the 24 crore that the 2011 census had counted as illiterate. The SBM has lapsed, with the present government promising a remodelled programme: the Padhna Likhna Abhiyan that has not begun yet. The education minister has made vague noises about a volunteer army of students and teachers which raise doubts about the government’s seriousness. Neo-literate individuals need practice or continuous learning; the two-year interval means that many would have returned to illiteracy. As it is, India already has 16 crore illiterate people. This is an easy indicator of the most disadvantaged segment in the country. No government concerned about its people can be comfortable leaving its citizens in this position.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-151
10-09-2020||Opinion||Conscience is selective||The American criminal justice system has been put on trial by the Black Lives Matter movement. BLM accuses the system of being racially biased against blacks. The evidence includes the statistical over-representation of blacks on death row. This critique provides an opportunity for India to reflect on the structural inequalities in its death penalty jurisprudence. One source of this structural inequality is the nebulous concept of collective conscience of society. In the Macchi Singh case, the Supreme Court introduced the principle that crimes that shock the collective conscience of society must be punished with the death sentence. This principle is legally unsound but is, unfortunately, used to pronounce death sentences. The apex court subsequently criticized this principle, but has not overruled it. This principle is unsound on various grounds. It presumes that ‘society’ is a monolithic entity and that in a free marketplace of ideas, the most heinous crimes will garner the most serious protests. This is not true. Indian neighbourhoods are gentrified along the lines of class, caste and faith and there is significant difference in the reactions to similar crimes. Serious crimes in urban, middleclass localities are considered an aberration; violent crimes in lower income areas are considered the norm. Hence, violence and crime in poor neighbourhoods do not elicit outrage, while such transgressions in urban, middleclass areas are met with protests. Caste identities, too, play a role. The State machinery drags its feet while investigating charges filed by Dalit complainants. The criminally low conviction rate under such special statutes as the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989 is proof of this. Conversely, crimes of similar magnitude committed by Dalits are punished severely. This difference in the severity of punishment results in Dalit convicts having a higher chance of being given the death penalty than upper caste perpetrators. A case in point is the Bara massacre in which a group of Dalits killed some upper castes in retaliation to a Dalit massacre committed by the same caste group earlier. Many of the Dalit retaliators were handed the death penalty; while the accused in the killing of Dalits were acquitted. It is often assumed that societal ‘shock’ can be quantified. This is also a fool’s errand. Media coverage is instrumental in the success of any public protest. Unfortunately, all protests are not equal. Protests against crimes in metropolitan India dominate news cycles, while protests against similar crimes in a village barely register in the zeitgeist. Lastly, collective consciousness posits an arbitrary hierarchy of victims. It implies that some victims are more sacrosanct than others, and that crimes against such people should be punished more severely. Such an arbitrary hierarchy of citizens violates the equal protection clause of the Constitution. This point is usually countered by stating that the death penalty is reserved only for the most heinous crimes. It is not the victim but the manner of crime that determines the punishment of the criminal. There are two responses to this. First, the Supreme Court has held that brutality alone cannot be the sole criterion to inflict the death penalty. It is mandatory to assess various mitigating factors, such as the age of the accused, his/her upbringing, level of education and so on. It is also necessary to hear the accused on the question of his sentence so as to understand his/her mindset transcending the narrow lens of laws. The mandate of Section 235 (2), CrPC is required so as to ensure that an appropriate sentence will be inflicted and that sentencing as an exercise would become consistent and uniform. Thus, not just the judiciary but also the legislatures have recognized that brutality or severity of crime cannot be the sole criterion in death penalty cases. Second, the media elevate some victims above others. The reasoning of the judiciary may be influenced by the media spotlight and the reaction of society in a certain case. Unfortunately, the judicial safeguard of assessing the mitigating circumstances and the legislative safeguard of hearing the accused are routinely circumvented. In the Nirbhaya case, the sessions court and the Delhi High Court skipped the mandate of law under Section 235(2). The course correction of the same only happened at the Supreme Court. Unfortunately, research conducted by Project 39A has shown that the Nirbhaya case was not the only exception. The Media and public protest should not be the barometer to determine punishment in a country where access to the media is not uniform. The doctrine of collective conscience seems to have become a legal standard. The doctrine has, in fact, become an exclusive space amenable to selective outrage and even majoritarianism that severely hamper the dispensation of justice. Bryan Stevenson, the founder of the Equal Justice Initiative, had noted that slogans such as ‘three strikes’ in the United States of America were used as a dangerous rhetoric to condemn vulnerable constituencies. Similarly, the principle of collective conscience betrays the sentiments of a society comfortable with executing oppressed members to retain historical hierarchies and a sense of security. Is there a case for scrapping this doctrine to make the criminal justice system in India less discriminatory?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-151
10-09-2020||Opinion||A strange era||Those who follow international political developments have observed that there has been an increase in the number of countries with authoritarian heads of state. Surprisingly, most of these governments headed by authoritarian leaders have been democratically elected through reasonably free and fair elections. After being elected, they have in some cases postponed elections or made themselves heads of state, commander of the military, and chiefs of their political parties. However, other heads of state have been termed as authoritarian for the activities and practices they promote or promulgate within the democratic process. In other words, authoritarianism is no longer linked to the political science text-book definition of a government that does not conduct elections on a regular basis. After the Second World War, with the retreat of old-time colonialism, a number of nations, in spite of their hard-earned independence, could not prevent internecine conflicts and turned to dictators who became military commanders as well. In many cases, these leaders were supported by large business corporations with economic interests. This was observed in Africa and Latin America and in some countries in Asia. Gradually, during the 1990s, more and more nations began to turn to democracy with elected representatives as a superior means of governance. Multi-national institutions like the United Nations were pleased to notice this trend of expanding representative democracy. It was the high tide of liberalism modelled along Anglo-American political and economic structures. Liberalism, very broadly, was built upon two pillars: parliamentary democracy and free markets. Within this brand of ideology, there were shades of difference. For instance, there were those who believed in the minimum role of the State in economic affairs, and there were those who wanted the State to be party to a contract that assured access to basic economic resources for all citizens. The former political group was referred to as right-of-centre conservatives, while the latter group was known as left-of-centre liberals. All of them believed in keeping certain institutions free from political interference, such as the judiciary, the armed forces, the civil services, academic institutions and religious organizations. Private enterprises would be going about their own business, and the rule of law would prevail to ensure property rights, the right to earn profits, and uphold the sanctity of voluntary contracts. Each citizen had a defined set of political rights and civil liberties. These included, among other things, not being incarcerated without a fair trial, having freedom of speech and organization, enjoying the right to worship according to one’s own beliefs. Decades of experimentation with liberalism witnessed the rise and fall of challenging alternatives like fascism, communism and military dictatorships. The liberal model appeared to work better. This was indeed the underlying ideology of globalization where all nations were supposed to get transformed, economically and politically, into clones of Western democracies. During the two and a half decades of globalization since the early 1990s, with free markets, unhindered trade and astonishing technological developments, something snapped. People began to realize that democratically-elected governments did not always work for the ordinary citizen. Economic inequality and disparities had become extraordinarily high and labour rights and job security had almost disappeared. People faced uncertainties in employment, personal safety, and social stability. Political accountability of the elected representatives withered away. This was accompanied by a fall in the economic support that governments gave to ordinary citizens during hard times as part of the implicit social contract of the liberal State. With the rise in inequality, some of the wealthiest people and giant corporations began to exert enormous influence over the State. Politicians found tax cuts an easy way to please the rich and mighty class, which could then be nudged to donate funds for electoral campaigns. Welfare funding was thought to be a waste of resources because it tended to promote laziness among the poor and unemployed. Electorates began to increasingly find the conservatives and liberals alike when it came to governance. They were two sections of the same propertied class. Ordinary people found their political leaders wanting when it came to making their lives better. Corruption in politics was rampant. All these perceptions gave rise to a deep-seated suspicion of political establishments. Hence, any political leader who was not considered part of the establishment was preferred. The preference would be pronounced when the leader had a strong, tough-talking personality, and if he promised to make the nation great again, playing on the sentiments of a large section of people who thought that their nation was on the decline in terms of power and prestige. This erosion of perceived national strength could only be restored by a strong leader who would clearly ascertain the root cause and an identifiable enemy. The enemy could be immigrants, ethnic or religious minorities, the political Left, members of the intelligentsia, foreigners in general, or some targeted nations. Once in power, these leaders quickly turned to implementing their agenda of fixing society and economy. Gradually, they would exert influence on public institutions like the bureaucracy, the judiciary, religious organizations, the armed forces, intelligence agencies, surveillance systems, the media and, of course, big corporations that would be obliged to ‘purchase’ their ease of doing business. The strong leader demands complete obedience. An effective way of ensuring this would be to sabotage accountability. Accountability, in a democracy, implies non-domination through access to information and the right to disagree. Accountability can be sabotaged by scuttling these processes, providing false and incomplete information, and coercively disabling the voice of dissent. The definition of the enemy is expanded to include those who showed the courage to disagree and protest against authoritarian acts. Human rights abuses are a good way to attain the goals of disabling the voices of dissent and violating the autonomy and dignity of individuals. Institutions gradually get irrelevant as all decision-making gets centralized. People can be imprisoned without trial, shot dead in encounters with the police, murdered, lynched by sycophant mobs, or gang-raped. The media, the judiciary, the political spokespersons can all find ways to justify the authoritarian acts. It is pointed out that democracy is still alive. If one does not like the leader, he can be voted out the next time around. However, elections are manipulated, voters terrorized, electoral rolls tampered with, massive amounts of money distributed, and the rhetoric of hate let loose on the Opposition, even when they are impotent and terrorized. Different leaders — Donald Trump, Narendra Modi, Vladimir Putin, Xi Jinping, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, Viktor Orbán, Rodrigo Duterte, Jair Bolsonaro, to name just a few — have different styles of functioning. But the end result is the same. Some of these leaders are friends with one another, willing to help each other out; others do not see eye to eye. Authoritarianism can be both competitive as well as collaborative. It is becoming a worldwide phenomenon, marking the end of liberalism. The recent changes are regressive in the sense they reduce freedom and increase inequality in unprecedented degrees. Many of these regimes, however, continue to enjoy the support of a large part of the electorate. It is indeed a strange time indeed when Trump gets applauded while he tells his supporters publicly to vote twice, or Modi’s approval ratings shoot up in spite of 19 million Indians losing their jobs and livelihoods in a matter of just a few days. The author is former professor of Economics, IIM Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-151
10-09-2020||Jharkhand||Nigerian international Stephen Eze signs up for Jamshedpur FC||Nigerian international Stephen Eze became a prized pick for Jamshedpur FC on Thursday . The 26-year-old is the sixth foreign signing and the second foreign centre-back along with the recently announced Peter Hartley. Eze is a current international with the Nigerian national team having represented them 13 times since his debut in 2016. In May 2018, he was named in Nigeria’s preliminary 30-man squad for the 2018 FIFA World Cup in Russia but did not make it to the final 23. His Super Eagles side finished runner-up in the African Nations Championship in 2018 with Eze playing all six games. The defender has been playing with Lokomotiv Plovidiv in the Bulgarian top division for the past three seasons and comes off the back of a runner-up finish in the 2019-20 season. He won the Bulgarian Cup in the 2018-19 season with Lokomotiv and represented them in the Europa League 2019-20 in four games. The right-footed Eze is an imposing 6’6” in stature. He is excellent in positioning and anticipation and calm while distributing the ball. His dominance in the air in defending as well as in the attacking third will be an asset for Jamshedpur. He is of high quality in attacking set pieces, which reflects in his 3 goals last season for Lokomotiv. Eze was thrilled with the move to Jamshedpur FC and said: “ I have been following the ISL closely and it is one of the  most exciting and competitive leagues. I have seen the passion of fans of Jamshedpur, which is why I’m excited and can’t wait to get started. My aim is simple, and it is to win. There have been some exciting signings by the club in the past few weeks and I look forward to working with my teammates and ending the season with silverware.” He also spoke of Owen Coyle influence on convincing him to join Jamshedpur. “ Owen Coyle is a top football manager who I have followed since my childhood when he was with Burnley, Bolton Wanderers and Wigan Athletic in the English Premier League. I looked up to him and was elated at the prospects when this opportunity was presented. He is clear in his vision and that made my decision easy,” Eze said. Lauding the defender, delighted head coach Owen Coyle said: “ Eze will be crucial in making our defence mean and miserly. His towering personality and unyielding attitude towards the game could make him one of the best centre-backs in the ISL.” Eze will be donning jersey number 66 for the upcoming ISL season.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-305
10-09-2020||Jharkhand||Author on 3-day fast for better roads in Santhal Pargana||A Sahitya Akademi-feted author launched a three-day hunger strike in Dumka on Thursday to protest against the poor condition of roads in Santhal Pargana, particularly the Nonihat-Basukinath stretch in Dumka, some 300km from Ranchi. Nilotpal Mrinal, recipient of the Youth Sahitya Akademi award for his novel Dark Horse: Ek ankahi dastaan in 2016, said that he was forced to resort to a fast because successive governments had paid little attention to public safety. Mrinal was accompanied by a handful of supporters holding banners titled “— Hemant hai toh himmat hai, but sadar kahan hain?” “I should have protested for a medical college, or for the improvement of a hospital, jobs for youths and so on. But I am forced to sit on a road for better roads because no one is concerned about public safety,” Mrinal said. Snubbing the political class cutting across the parties, he said, “Today, everyone is concerned about their own well-being, their lobbies and their future. But no one is talking about the improvement of roads in this part of the state, which has turned from bad to worse.” Santhal Pargana comprises six districts of Dumka, Jamtara, Sahebganj, Godda, Pakur and Deoghar and has 18 Assembly constituencies. Of them, 15 are held by the ruling JMM and Congress combine, while the rest are with Opposition BJP. In the last month, at least a dozen people have died in various road mishaps. On August 26, six persons, including a toddler, died in Dumka after a rice laden truck fell over a car while trying to negotiate a pothole.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-305
10-09-2020||Jharkhand||Rush for tickets for Dhanbad’s first Covid special train ||Of the 80 trains that are to resume operations across the country from Saturday, one is from Dhanbad and going by the huge demand on Thursday, when bookings opened, railway authorities had to increase the number of ticket counters at the station. The restored train is the Ganga Sutlej Express, now named Ganga Sutlej Covid-19 Special with number 03307, plying between Dhanbad and Ferozepur in Punjab. Instead of its usual departure time of 9.20pm, the train will leave Dhanbad station on September 12 half an hour late, at 9.50pm. It will, however, reach Ferozepur at the usual time of 10.45 am two days later, ie, on September 14. For its return journey, the train will leave Ferozepur on September 14 at 4.10pm and reach Dhanbad at 4.55am on September 16. Chief reservation supervisor of Dhanbad Sanjeev Kumar said, “Due to the rush, we have had to increase the number of counters. Instead of three counters we opened four counters on Thursday. In the first half, we registered a sale of Rs 2.35 lakh, more than three times the usual day sales.” There is no general category ticket in the train. Instead, second class seating tickets are being sold at Rs 15 extra. “Apart from September 12 bookings, we also registering bookings for journeys on September 13,14,15 also in all categories of AC, sleeper and second class seating,” said Kumar. Preparations are on at the coach depot for relaunching train services. Ranjit Dutta, who is in-charge of the yard in Dhanbad, said, “We have already prepared three rakes, ie, cleaning, watering and undergear work has been completed. We started work from August 28 itself.” Besides full sanitisation of all coaches, Data said rail personnel would also be deputed on the train to carry out regular cleaning and sanitisation at various stations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-305
10-09-2020||Jharkhand||Two teenagers drown in Subernarekha river ||The body of one of the teenaged boys who drowned in the Subernarekha river at Sakchi on Wednesday afternoon was found floating 4km away near Babudih Ghat at Sidhogra on Thursday afternoon. The body, identified as that of Suman Kumar, was recovered from the swollen river by a team of divers pressed by the police. But the body of the second victim, Aman Kumar, is yet to be traced. A resident of Kunjnagar in Sonari, Suman was the son of a Tata Steel employee . Sidhgora OC Manoj Thakur said some residents of Babudih had spotted the body trapped in a rock in the river, and subsequently informed the Sidhgora police. "We had immediately pressed a divers to the point where the body was trapped in the rock and got it recovered.  As we were aware that two youths had drowned in the area on Wednesday afternoon, we informed Sakchi police who passed on the information to the families of the victims.  The victims' families rushed to Babudih Ghat and identified the body as that of Suman Kumar," Thakur told The Telegraph Online. Sakchi OC Kunal Kumar said efforts were on to trace the other body. According to family sources, five boys, namely Aman Kumar, Suman Kumar, Ayush, Ranjit and Sagar, all residents of various localities in Sonari, went to take a bath in the Subernarekha river on Wednesday afternoon. "First they had gone over to the Subernarekha river's Domuhani Bridge point, but seeing the river swollen, they did not dare to plunge into it.  Subsequently, the five rode to Sakchi, about 3 km away. Though the river was swollen there too, one of them, Aman,  stepped in. But the tide was so intense, he was swept away downstream.  At the sight of Aman being swept away, Suman, who is a Tata Steel employee's son, jumped into the river to save Aman.  But he too was swept away in the strong current," said Subodh Kumar, uncle of Ayush Kumar. According to Subodh, the three other boys, Ayush, Ranjit and Sagar, were in a state of shock as they could do nothing to save their friends. They kept on standing, shell-shocked, watching the duo being swept away in the river water. Family members of Aman Kumar, son of an assistant sub-inspector of police at Dhanbad, are frantically searching for his body along with police and divers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-305
10-09-2020||Jharkhand||Medal-winning archer gets his cash award, finally ||Archer Anil Lohar’s stellar show in a national competition has finally been recognised. The 23-year-old, who used his days spent in lockdown to dig a well on the courtyard of his home to tide over water scarcity, has received a cash award of Rs 75,000 from the state government for claiming gold in the Indian round section (shooting with traditional bows and arrows) in the senior national archery championship in Cuttack in March last year. Lohar received the cash award three days back and has plans to buy medicines for his ailing father and spend some money to repair of his home at Pinderbera village in Gamharia block of Seraikela-Kharsawan district. “Teen din pehle paisa mere bank khate mein aaya. Bahut khush hun. Mein apne parivar ko kisi tarah chala rahan hu (The money was deposited in my bank account four days back. I am very happy. I am somehow managing my family),” Lohar said on phone from Pinderbera, 35 km from Jamshedpur. Lohar said he would use some of money to fund his poultry business. “Ab aachha lag rahan hain (I am feeling relieved),” he said, adding that he had stopped digging the well due to the rains. “The well I am digging is now filled with rainwater. I will wait when it dries up before resuming work,” he added. The talented archer said he was still fetching water from a nearby government school which is closed in view of the Covid pandemic. Lohar said sale of chicken was not much but he had to continue with it since he was without options. “I am able to sell four-five chickens a day. It’s better to do something than sit idle,” he added. He has stated practicing with his Indian round bow at a ground near his house. “I usually train in the evening. I cannot lose touch with archery as I want to grow in the sport. I think I am shooting well,” he added. According to him, he was still waiting for his compound bow to be given by the state sports department. “I am yet to receive the bow which I need badly since I am eager to compete in the compound section,” he added. Union tribal affairs minister and president of Archery Association of India Arjun Munda has recommended to the sports department to arrange a compound bow for Lohar. Seraikela-Kharsawan District Archery Association secretary Sumant Mohanty said Lohar was in urgent need of money and the cash award was a big relief for him. “He (Lohar) is a talented archer who needs support. He also needs regular practice as it takes time to get back into the groove,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-305
10-09-2020||Jharkhand||Steel city loses a friend in need, as cases near 10,000-mark ||The number of Covid cases is fast approaching the 10,000-mark in East Singhbhum with 280 new cases recorded in the last 24 hours, district health officials said on Thursday while the steel city mourned the demise of a well-known social worker who was among six persons who succumbed to the deadly virus. Social worker and district president of RJD Ambika Banerjee (56) had been ill for the past week. According to family members, he was admitted to Tata Main Hospital's Covid ward after he developed breathing problems on Saturday. His condition deteriorated and he was shifted to the critical care unit of the hospital where he breathed his last at 7 pm on Wednesday. A resident of Haludbani in Parsudih, Banerjee was a social worker and residents remembered him as one who was always ready to help others. He was a member of the Central Durga Puja Committee. Advocate Sudhir Kumar said Banerjee’s demise was most shocking. “We lost a man who used to give all kinds of support to anyone in distress," he said. District civil surgeon Rajendra Jha said as many as 5,492 samples were tested on Wednesday. "Our target is to test 40,000 samples by Friday evening using rapid antigen test kits. Due to unavoidable circumstances, we could only test 5,492 samples,” he said. The total number cases in East Singhbhum was 9,391. Jha pointed out that of the targeted 40,000, over 25,000 samples had already been tested. The remaining 15,000 samples would be tested on Thursday and Friday. “The fresh round of rapid antigen tests which began on Monday began at a time when a Central health department team was in the city. Hence, bulk of the tests were conducted in the rural areas only,” he explained. The Centre's health department team left on Wednesday. Nitish Kumar Singh who joined as the new SDO of Jamshedpur on Monday, launched a special drive to penalise commuters for not wearing masks. He has moving around markets, slapping penalties on those violating Covid norms. He has also instructed OCs of various police stations to take over the drive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-305
10-09-2020||Jharkhand||Ranchi clocks 635 new cases in a single day, accounts for 25% of the total cases in the state||Over 1600 people, including 635 in Ranchi alone, tested positive for Covid-19 in 24 hours, taking the tally in Jharkhand close to 57,000, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) on Wednesday late night stated. The count of Covid fatalities in the state also crossed the 500 mark on Wednesday with nine patients dying during treatment, the bulletin highlighted. Out of the 512 Covid casualties reported in Jharkhand so far, at least 232 occurred in East Singhbhum, a district that reported six of state’s nine Covid deaths on Wednesday. While East Singhbhum accounted for nearly half of state’s Covid fatalities, Ranchi alone has reported over 25 per cent of cases in Jharkhand. As per latest figures with the health department, Wednesday’s findings took the tally in Ranchi to 11,983, while the number of active cases here stood at 3,545. The number of active cases of Covid infection in Jharkhand also drew close to 16,000 on Wednesday as only 1297 patients recovered while 1601 fresh cases were reported in 24 hours, the health department said in its bulletin. The recovery rate in Jharkhand, as per government data, was 71.46 per cent against the national average of 77.32 per cent. Of the 56,897 Covid people infected by the virus in Jharkhand so far, at least 40,659 have recovered, figures with the health department state. Meanwhile, East Singhbhum reported 250 fresh cases of infection and only 31 recoveries, which took the number of active cases in the district to 3417. The district is only behind Ranchi in terms of active Covid cases. Interestingly, besides Ranchi and East Singhbhum, all other districts in the state reported a double-digit spike in Covid cases. The government has so far collected swab samples of 12.80 lakh people and tested 12.69 lakh of them. Health workers on Wednesday tested swab samples of 20,437 people and 18,836 of them tested negative. The district administration in Ranchi ran a special Covid testing drive on Wednesday and tested swab samples of at least 3833 people as a part of the drive. As per government data, as many as 15,726 people were battling the lethal virus in Jharkhand by Wednesday midnight, and several hundred of them were in home quarantine.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-305
10-09-2020||Jharkhand||Father and son found dead on railway tracks at Khairbani||Bodies of a 45-year-old man, and a 10-year-old boy were found lying on the railway track near Khairbani level crossing early on Wednesday morning. The area falls under suburban Govindpur thana,12 km away from Jamshedpur. Police identified the deceased as Inder Sonkar (businessman) and Naitik Sonkar, father and son. They were residents of Dhatkidih in Bistupur. Govindpur thana OC Ranjit Kumar Sinha said a scooter was parked near the site where the bodies were found. The scooter's registration number, verified via the district transport office led to police to identify the two. Sinha then informed Bistupur OC Ranvijay Sharma about the incident. Inder’s family members had lodged a missing persons report with the Bistupur thana on Tuesday evening. The police have initiated an investigation into the deaths and recovered a suicidde note written by Inder from his room in Dhatkidih. Sharma informed that this is a case of double suicide and it was made clear by the note Inder left. Talking to The Telegraph Online, he said "Inder Sonkar has mentioned he was pushed to take his and his son’s lIfe because of his in-laws. We have registered a case under section 306 of the IPC against them on Wednesday." Sharma further said that a month ago (in August), Inder’s wife died of an unknown cause. Though her autopsy report is still pending, Inder’s in-laws alleged that it was he who was responsible for her death. "As per the statement made by Inder's nephew Kundan Sonkar, his brothers in-laws were constantly threatening to implicate him in the case. The threats made him live under constant fear,” Sharma said. Sharna informed that an investigation is underway and the police would arrest those who are responsible for the deaths. The police have sent the bodies to MGM Medical College Hospital for Covid tests before shifting them to the medical college in Dimna for autopsy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-305
10-09-2020||Jharkhand||Film on loudspeaker model for online classes||An innovative effort by a school principal to use loudspeakers to impart education to tribal students not possessing smartphones in a village in Dumka in Jharkhand will soon feature in a documentary film. Delhi-based filmmaker Satyajit Sharma, with roots in Dumka, has started shooting for a nearly 50-minute documentary on the effort of the principal to continue education during the lockdown at Upgraded Middle School in Bankati in Masalia block of Dumka district, around 290km from state capital Ranchi. “I came to know about this through a news article and was impressed with the effort to ensure that lessons are not hampered for students who cannot afford smartphones to access online classes. I started shooting the film earlier this week and hope to complete it in the next week. I am yet to finalise the name of the documentary but it would be loosely based on Mohalla School: Bankati Model. The documentary will be screened at film festivals. I have also planned to send it to National Geographic Channel and Doordarshan,” said Sharma, 44, an alumnus of Kirorimal College, Delhi. Sharma has edited films for National Geographic Channel, BBC, Doordarshan and the reality show MTV Roadies. The principal, however, feels that the credit for the education initiative goes to the perseverance of the students. “There were a total of 250 students, mostly girls (nearly 60 per cent), of whom more than 206 did not have smartphones and hailed from very poor backgrounds. When the lockdown began and we were asked to start online classes with content provided by the Jharkhand Education Project Council (JEPC), I was in a dilemma imagining the helpless situation of the students. I took two loudspeakers on rent (daily rent of Rs 800) and used one lying in the school to start the classes. I was not sure if it would be a success. All credit goes to my students who have made this innovative idea a success by religiously attending all classes during the specified time with almost 100 per cent attendance,” said Shyam Kishore Singh Gandhi, the principal of the school. The school has classes between I and VIII and has seven teachers. Seeing the efforts of the principal, 14 volunteers from the village came forward to assist the students. “The loudspeakers were installed on treetops and on high walls and wires were fitted to the microphone in the school and we played the online content from the smartphones. Gradually, a few matriculate and intermediate passed youths volunteered to assist us. Earlier students used to contact teachers for any clarification through other mobile phones. But after the volunteers came forward, we could cover almost all of the mohallas (areas) and students could get in touch with the volunteers who either solved it on the spot or routed it to the teachers who then solved it in the next class. Each class starts from 10.30am and lasts for 3 hours,” the principal said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-306
10-09-2020||Jharkhand||Jharkhand House session next week||The monsoon session of the Jharkhand Assembly will commence on September 18. “Though the session will last till September 22, there will be just three working days on September 18, 21 and 22,” said Vinay Kumar Singh, additional secretary at the Assembly secretariat. He said there will be no business on September 19 and 20. The state government is likely to present the first supplementary budget for the current fiscal (2020-21) and the ordinances that were introduced when the House was not in session. In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Assembly secretariat has issued guidelines and standard operating procedures (SOP) for the monsoon session. All the MLAs have been requested get tested for Covid-19 three days before the session begins. Those MLAs who test positive for Covid-19 would not attend the session personally but can authorise, with prior intimation to the Assembly secretariat, other members to do business such as raising questions, etc, on their behalf as per rules, the guidelines said. The MLAs have also been requested not to take their personal staff members inside the Assembly premises. All other state government officials, magistrates, police personnel and staff members of the Assembly secretariat, who are required to be present during the session, have also been asked to get themselves tested for Covid-19 three days before the session begins. The mediapersons interested to cover the Assembly proceedings will also have to get themselves tested for Covid-19 three days prior to the session and can enter the premises only after showing their negative reports, the guidelines said. The Assembly secretariat has also decided that no visitor will be allowed in the visitors’ gallery during the session. Those entering the Assembly premises will be provided with sanitiser, face covers, shields, masks and hand gloves at the entrance. All have to also maintain social distancing. As the new Assembly building has enough space, it will not be a problem to make necessary sitting arrangements for the MLAs, sources said. The state cabinet, in its meeting on Tuesday evening, sanctioned Rs 141.56 crore for providing 5kg food grains, free of cost every month, to each beneficiary under the National Food Security Act (NFSA) 2013 during the period from July to November 2020. The state cabinet also decided to provide rice at a subsidised rate under the Jharkhand Rajya Khadya Suraksha Yojana to 15 lakh other beneficiaries who are not covered under the NFSA.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-306
