11-09-2020||Calcutta||Our pick of your lockdown pictures||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-310
11-09-2020||Calcutta||Lockdown timepass||Do you have an interest in art and always wanted to learn new forms and techniques of craft? Now that you are locked down and have hours of leisure time, try your hand at sculpting small figures. Get hold of air dry clay and you can try your hand at sculpting any shape. With Ganesha puja recently held and Durga puja coming up, you may start with the elephant god to build up the festive mood. Make your clay Open a pack of Fevicryl Mouldit and mix the resin and hardener provided inside. Use them in equal parts and mix till you form white clay. Keep in an air-tight container. You can also make your clay at home. For this, in a bowl take half cup cornflour/cornstarch and add half cup Fevicol glue, one teaspoon vegetable oil and vinegar and mix them together to form white air dry clay. Again, store it in an air-tight container. Step 1: Divide the clay into three different sized balls. Place the bigger ball at the bottom, then the medium one to form the body. Place the third ball on top to form the head, as shown in the picture on the left. Step 2 : Take two small portions of the clay and roll it to form the legs. Slightly press at the bottom of the legs to make the shape of the feet and attach it to the body.  Follow the pictures for reference.  Step 3 . Take two more  small clay portions and make the hands.  Step 4: Roll a small portion of the clay and attach to the face in the between, to make the trunk.    Step 5: Make two small-sized clay balls and press them to form flat round shapes to represent the ears. Attach behind the head.    Step 6: Now take a small amount of clay and make the eyes. Add a small laddoo in the left hand. Let it dry. Your Ganesha is ready. Shatadipa Bhattacharya Step 1: Take a big amount of clay and divide into five portions . One big oval shape for the shell and four small flattened  shapes for the legs.  Step 2: Place the four small flattened shapes at the bottom and attach them to the oval  shape to form the legs. Take another small round-shaped clay and make the head.  Step 3: Make the eyes. Take a modelling tool or use the side of a flattened surface to give designs on the back and legs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-310
11-09-2020||Calcutta||Artistes back on stage for Rabindra-Nazrul shows||There were barely 15 people off stage and they were all involved with the programme — be it as technician, as official or as participant waiting for his or her turn. This year, the death anniversary observations of Rabindranath Tagore and Kazi Nazrul Islam by Hidco in New Town were special for both the audience and the artistes. As is customary, Rabindra Tirtha hosted the former and Nazrul Tirtha hosted the latter programme. But the venues are where the similarity ended with what happens in other years. “We are used to celebrating every occasion. But this year, because of the total lockdown in April, we had to let Nava Varsha go by. Only artistes of Dakshinee recorded some performances from home for us which we posted online. On Tagore’s birth anniversary in May, the Hidco chairman and the Rabindra Tirtha curator spoke on stage and we repeated last year’s 25 Baisakh programme on our Facebook page. When things started opening up in the Unlock phase, we thought of holding programmes at the venue but of course without an audience. The programmes were recorded on stage a couple of days in advance and uploaded on the Facebook pages of the respective venues and on the WBHidco YouTube page,” said an official. The occasion turned out to be memorable for the artistes for it was the first time almost all of them were taking the stage in months. “We are born to the stage. We experience an adrenaline rush while stepping on one. While I was thrilled to get on a stage after four and a half months, I had mixed feelings about the experience as there was no audience,” recalled elocutionist Pranati Tagore, who had a special word for the way the stage was beautifully decorated. The scent of tuberoses and jasmine is what struck another elocutionist, Shovansundar Bosu, as he took his place next to musicians in masks. He savoured the feeling of being part of a concert so much that even after recording was over for his performance, he stayed back till the end to watch others. “We were all in a relaxed mood which is never the case as we are always rushing to finish off and head for the next show during peak season,” said the Kestopur resident. Seeing Pranati Tagore wait as he took the stage, he asked her if she wanted to perform ahead of him. “She smilingly asked me to carry on.” Pranati smiled wistfully at the mention of how such days would be spent in other years. “Baishe Sravan would start early in the morning with a programme at Nimtala Ghat, where Kaviguru was cremated. About eight to nine shows would be lined up for the rest of the day,” she recalled, adding that she was not thinking of taking part in live concerts with audience any time soon, even if such gatherings were allowed. All the artistes rued the lack of audience reaction. “After a song, you can make out if the audience liked it. Here there was no one to react. It was a strange test to get used to,” said Prabuddha Raha, who has gone online with his weekly classes that took place in DB and CK blocks. Iman Chakraborty, whose performance opened the online show, felt the experience was more like a studio shoot. “But it felt great to sit on a stage after months. My last show before this was on March 10.” So excited was she to meet other performers that on seeing Srikanta Acharya, she took out her sanitiser bottle, applied some to her palm and extended her arm for a handshake. “He also did the same. We did that in jest to accept the new normal,” said Iman. Nazrul’s 44th death anniversary on August 29 also went the online way, with performances of four artistes from Chhayanat being recorded at Nazrul Tirtha the day before. “We deal round the year with Kazi Nazrul Islam’s work. We had prepared a documentary film titled Nazruler Churulia, by visiting the poet’s birthplace near Asansol and interviewing his nephew Rezaul Karim, the current president of Nazrul Academy, which is located where his house stood. It was to have been screened at Nazrul Tirtha on this occasion but that was cancelled in this pandemic situation,” said Somerita Mallik, president of Chhayanat. Speaking at the Baishey Srabon show, Hidco chairman Debashis Sen said though conventional concerts could not be held, the “online window has opened”. “We are getting an opportunity to reach our programme across the world,” he said, welcoming the artistes who “have conquered fear to come and perform” at Rabindra Tirtha, which he described as the “Santiniketan of Calcutta”. The two programmes can still be viewed on the WBHidco YouTube page.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-310
11-09-2020||Calcutta||Cards ready for new voters ||As part of the continuous updation of electoral rolls, voter identity cards of those who had applied for inclusion of name in the voter list are being given out since September 1. Other changes and corrections can be done when the summary revision of electoral rolls (SRER) takes place in November. According to sources, the exercise has been delayed given the extraordinary situation prevailing because of the Covid-19 pandemic. “Last year, the SRER had taken place from September to November. This year, it will be held from November 15 to December 16 in accordance with the Election Commission guidelines,” an official said. The publication of draft electoral rolls had taken place in January, followed by the final publication in February. Currently the distribution of cards is happening at election booths. In some cases, the booth level officers are also making door-to-door trips.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-310
11-09-2020||Calcutta||Bee-keeping class in Eco Park||At a time when unemployment is on the rise, an initiative has been introduced in New Town to help people earn on the side. It has to do with rearing bees and will also help increase greenery. On September 4, residents of nearby villages had been invited to Eco Park to be familiarised with beekeeping. Arijit Das, an expert in the field, explained the stakes. “Besides honey, bees produce wax that has a huge demand in the pharmaceutical industry. It forms the base of medicines, moisturisers and lipsticks,” he said. Debashis Sen encouraged the villagers to seize the opportunity. Sen is chairman of New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) and chairman cum managing director of Housing and Infrastructure Development Corporation (Hidco), that runs Eco Park. “We are not asking you to quit your day job but to add beekeeping to your portfolio for some additional income. You have an expert trainer for guidance and the whole project will be good for the environment.” The outreach programme is an initiative of Schoppen Solutions, of which Das is the founder. Last year, the bee corridor project had won a start-up contest and was incubated by Webel-BCC&I Tech Incubation Centre. Das then got a chance to build a prototype of his project at Eco Park, which was formally launched in March 2020, at the Banglar Gram enclosure. “Once you understand the basics, two hours of effort a day is enough to maintain bee colonies,” Das explained to the villagers. “But the most important factor is environment. Bees need lots of flowers nearby to suck nectar from. This is what they convert into honey and store in honeycombs that they create using beeswax. The excess honey is extracted by humans.” The villagers expressed curiosity about the project. “I don’t know anything about bees but I’m a farmer growing pumpkins, bitter gourd and jhinge in Rajarhat. If my neighbours start keeping bees I shall too,” said Sudhangsu Mondal. Tapas Biswas may be a labourer but he grew up in the Sundarbans, a region renowned for honey. “My father would head to the forest to get honey. This is a lucrative profession and I might take it up,” he said. Das encouraged the individuals to form a self-help group. “If an entire neighbourhood joins the cause everyone will grow flowering plants for the bees. It will be more conducive than a single person growing plants on his terrace,” he explained. Bees at home Das has two separate designs of bee boxes for rural and urban folk.  While the former, explained above, is targeted at maximum honey production, the one for urban folk is more aesthetic and meant for self-consumption of honey. The box, to be launched later this month, can be mounted on a wall and has transparent exteriors for enthusiasts to watch the bees at work inside. “It is linked to an app that will inform the user whenever anything is amiss or give estimates about the production of honey,” says Das. It costs about Rs 5,000, including the app and some 1,500 bees. It should produce about 3l of honey a year,” says Das. Any home in New Town or Salt Lake can practise apiculture successfully, provided there are flowers around — mustard, calendula, litchi, and mango are most suitable. As for the fear of stings, Das promised to teach handling bees in a way they do not find threatening. “Besides, bees die after stinging so they only sting as a last resort. They won’t harm you unless you’re out to destroy their colony,” he says.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-310
11-09-2020||Calcutta||Covid transmission rate dips||There has been a major dip in the transmission rate of Covid-19 in areas falling under the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation, particularly in Salt Lake, health officials of the corporation are claiming. Transmission rate is the rate of increase of new Covid cases over a 14-day period. “The rate of transmission in Salt Lake, Teghoria, Baguiati and parts of Rajarhat was highest in the month of April,” said a health official. “It had peaked at 5.7 but since then the curve has flattened and there has been a decline in the curve of Covid transmission rate, especially in Salt Lake.” The reduced transmission rate, along with the dipping rate of active cases, shows a reverse of the trend prevailing in the rest of North 24-Parganas. The district has recorded more Covid cases than Calcutta in the later half of August. In May, the rate within the corporation area had dipped to 2.1 and then further to 1.2. In August, it had gone up to 1.7 but in September it has once again dipped to 1.4, the official added. Mayor Krishna Chakraborty said that a combined effort of raising awareness levels, constant disinfection drives and strict implementation of the total lockdowns, especially in Salt Lake, has resulted in the fall in the number of residents testing positive. “During Unlock-1, the cases rose as most people joined their workplaces or went to their businesses in crowded places like Burrabazar, that reported a high number of cases. But now, the figures are not rising drastically. People too have become more aware,” said Chakraborty. Residents, however, feel it’s too early to rejoice. “Only the other day, a neighbour tested positive,” said Preeti Agarwal, an FD Block resident. Buddhadeb Basu, a DB Block resident, said that a restaurant opposite their block had been shut for long as several of its employees had got Covid. “The restaurant has opened up now but new cases got reported in our block in August too,” said Basu. Deputy mayor infected Deputy mayor of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation Tapas Chatterjee tested positive earlier this week. Chatterjee had been organising Covid testing camps in Rajarhat and arranging for people to be sent to safe houses and quarantine centres. On Wednesday, he told The Telegraph Salt Lake that he was feeling better at a hospital off EM Bypass.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-311
11-09-2020||Calcutta||Woman delivers on road, treated and sent home||A woman was reunited with her family over 60km away last Friday along with her newborn son after more than a fortnight of being adrift. On August 17 around 1am, the Techno City police station was alerted about a vagrant woman writhing in labour pain in front of a milk booth near Tata Memorial Center. When a team with a woman constable visited the spot, they found the woman had already delivered the baby which was still tied to her umbilical cord. She was also bleeding profusely. When an ambulance could not be arranged, the police flagged down a taxi and took her to Bidhannagar Subdivisional Hospital. “We arranged for the umbilical cord to be snapped but realised that she was suffering from puerperal psychosis (a mental health illness that can affect a woman soon after she has a baby). She could neither give her address nor was she willing to nurse the newborn. Other new mothers in the ward helped out but the milk was not enough. We had to make arrangements for food,” said Partha Pratim Guha, hospital superintendant. Things got further complicated when the baby developed jaundice two days later. By then, the mother had accepted the baby and refused to part with him. “We needed to give the baby phototherapy. My colleagues suggested referring him to another hospital. But I decided to keep him with us and manage the treatment.” Once the woman responded to treatment, she could give her address — a refugee colony under Basanti police station in South 24-Parganas. Police got in touch with the family but no one was coming to take her. “The family, we learnt, was too poor to hire a car and come all the way. So I arranged for an ambulance while Techno City police station inspector in charge Partha Sikdar provided an escort to take mother and child home.” The woman, identified as Abeda Sardar, was handed over to her parents.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-311
11-09-2020||Calcutta||When school goes online||Who would have thought class would one day be disrupted by pets? “This student has five pet dogs and they climb over and under her whenever she performs asanas,” laughs Mousumi Mukherjee, an FE Block resident who teaches yoga and history to students of Our Lady Queen of the Missions, Salt Lake. “The dogs’ wagging tails have knocked the student’s phone off the table too.” Indira Mukherjee, a CD Block resident and tutor of arts subjects, has to compete with TV stars to vie for her students’ attention. “What else to do if their grannies sit next to them watching Star Jalsha all evening?” she asks. Another English tutor from Salt Lake Sector I says she can hear a maths tutor teaching when her student “unmutes” herself to ask a question over Zoom. “Two sisters share the room at home and both have tuitions simultaneously. What can they to do?” Like work-from-home, study-from-home is the new normal. Living rooms have replaced classrooms, phones have replaced blackboards and teachers no longer shout: “Stop talking!” They now say: “Mute yourselves!” The world of teachers has undergone a sea change since the lockdown.Speaking to a black screen The most obvious problem is that of not being able to see the students. “It’s odd addressing a screen without faces. One can neither judge from their expressions nor hear their response. So sometimes I have to tell them to switch on their video and audio feed but when the microphones are on for too many students, it creates an echo,” complains Madhurima Sen, who teaches English at Bidhannagar Government High School. Then there is the deluge of scanned documents sent on her WhatsApp. “My phone is ready to crash every day as students send their home tasks,” adds Sen, a resident of CE Block. The appeal of chemistry is in watching the chemicals change colour, says Purnendu Chakraborty, chemistry teacher at St Francis Xavier school. “Students used to wait for practical sessions. So now along with theory, I’m showing them YouTube videos of the reactions,” he says. Indira has a trying time teaching geography students maps and topography. “I’m sharing my screen and asking them to do as I do and to send me their scanned copies to check,” she says. Ditto with biology teacher Rima Mitra Ghosh, who used to draw diagrams extensively on the board. “I’m now drawing on a notebook and holding it up before the phone,” says the BK Block resident. Not to mention the strain teachers are undergoing. “My eyes start watering after reading the answers sent by students over WhatsApp. The glare is too much,” says Sagarika Ghosh of AC Block, who has retired from a school and now imparts tuition. Sumana Bagchi of BF Block is taking print-outs of her students’ answers, marking them with red ink pen and mailing them back. “I’m deducting marks for poor handwriting and encouraging them to send typed out answers as this is clearly the future,” says the English tutor. Perhaps no teachers have it tougher than those dealing with pre-school students, who refuse to sit still. “To teach A for apple, we are asking parents beforehand to hide an apple somewhere around the house and the kids are to go find that apple,” says Sneha Mukherjee of Little Laureates in Kestopur. “While the kids are happy at home now they may have separation anxiety once the lockdown is over. Maybe we’ll ask parents to sit outside class for a few days and reduce the duration of classes initially,” says Sneha. Eurokids in BB Block has been grooming tots for online admission tests into primary schools. “It’s not easy but we are using props, colourful videos, story-telling techniques. Initially the kids would eat or lie down during class but now they look forward to class, even asking to put on hairbands and deodorant,” says Soma Chandra. Then there is of course the ultimate challenge this season — Covid. “The mother of one of my students got infected while for another both his parents were infected. The situation was tough at home yet they tried their best to attend classes,” said a Bangur Avenue resident who teaches at a south Calcutta school. Mischief managed As if technology wasn’t enough, teachers now have to deal with students determined to stir trouble even during online classes. Puloma Sen of Hariyana Vidya Mandir removes anyone chatting on the chatbox during class. “Remove” is the digital equivalent of asking a student to leave a classroom. Teachers mention how some students log in during roll call and then walk off, of how they share their screen, thereby distracting others. Mousumi once had to remove a Class X student who was being fed by her mother during class! “Another time I removed a primary school girl from yoga class as she would just not respond. She wouldn’t turn on her audio or video feed either. Later the child confessed she had dozed off on her yoga mat before class began,” laughed Mousumi. Madhurima says that while using the “white board” feature on Zoom once, a student scribbled and drew pictures on it while she spoke. “And it was not possible to make out who did it,” she says.  When parents attend class Pompa Banerjee, a primary school teacher at Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan, has found parents prompting or even doing classwork for the kids. “It’s evident when I see the child looking around aimlessly. And when I ask to see his work he drags his copy from outside the frame and shows me,” says the GC Block resident. “I ask the parents to let the kids be independent. Bagchi knows of colleagues who have parents sitting in during class, as if testing the teachers. “It’s counter-productive,” she says. Mousumi talks about bare-chested, pot-bellied fathers, walking into the frame and pulling off underwear from clotheslines behind students. “In other homes, mothers shout at younger siblings while the elder one is attending class. Some dads have even tried to click photos of young teachers! Many parents are uncouth and it is they who need training before their kids,” the lady shakes her head.  Full attendance If there’s one upside to online classes it’s attendance. “Never before have I had 100 per cent attendance for such a long stretch of time. No one is late for class and new students have joined from south and north Calcutta and even Mumbai for my English tuitions! One student was travelling during class one day and he attended the session sitting in his car,” says Sumana. The irony is that even Sumana, a BF Block resident, is in Delhi at the moment but most of her students don’t even know it. “While lazy students can while away their time on online classes, this is a fantastic set up for sincere students.” Puloma is delighted with attendance too. “I’ve even had ill students attending class lying in bed, dressed in uniform,” she says. Mousumi feels students who were timid in school have blossomed during online classes as they are in their own lair now. “They are more interactive, showing me their pets, plants, balconies and even baby brothers and sisters,” she says. Honesty test “When students cheat in broad daylight under the noses of their teachers at school, how will we stop them from doing so in the sanctuary of their homes?” asks Sagarika, who feels open-book exams may be the only way out.   Puloma has been holding oral tests for primary school kids, ensuring they look straight into the camera while answering and straining her ears to ensure there is no prompting from behind. When Purnendu sat to check online chemistry test papers he found the answers rather bookish. “They must have been Googled,” he says. “Henceforth I asked parents to invigilate during tests.” But Rahul Mojumder, primary school teacher of St. Francis Xavier School, has had unbelievable response. “I told the kids these questions were a test  of honesty. And I was overwhelmed to see many had left questions blank instead of copying them off. I praised their integrity and they loved it. Now when I mention their upcoming half-yearly exams, they tell me it’s not ‘half-yearly’ but ‘honesty’ exams,” he laughs.  Neither online nor off Network issues seem like First World problems compared to the hardships faced by certain students. “Parents of our students are coming to school once a month to pick up their mid-day meal ration of rice and lentils. It’s ridiculous to expect them to have smartphones,” says Bipasa Das Biswas, head teacher of Bidyadhari Vidyalaya in Duttabad. The school has been distributing worksheets to the parents when they come for rations but after Amphan many of families left for the Sundarbans to salvage what they could of their ancestral homes there. “When their roofs have blown away can we expect them to retain their homework?” asks the resident of Karunamoyee. “Besides, the chief minister has announced that this year all students will be promoted and so they are laid back.” Despite this order, Suparna Bose and other teachers of Krishnapur Chanchal Kumari Balika Vidyalay between Sector V and New Town, have been telling students they must hand in assignments to get promoted.  Why pay for online class While teachers felt appreciated when showered with cards and videos of songs and dances on Teachers’ Day last week, they have mixed feelings for parents. “Many parents have not paid me in months,” says Indira. “All my tutor friends are facing the same problem. I find it demeaning to ask payment for a vocation that is sacred to me but parents are taking advantage of the situation and simply ignoring the issue. It cannot be financial constraints either since these families are celebrating birthdays and anniversaries without a worry amidst lockdown.” Purnendu’s colleagues in other schools are suffering too. “Many parents feel fees are to be paid for sending children to school. They don’t regard online classes as education,” he says. This when the teachers say they are slogging harder than ever before. “It has taken hours of technical assistance and training sessions, topped with continuous pressure to prepare online teaching aids, an area of expertise we were expected to master overnight. We have been working 12 to 14 hours a day to help keep kids engaged,” says the teacher of Bangur Avenue. Suparna has been working as hard as she had to in the initial years of her career. “If it wasn’t hard enough teaching Anton Chekhov to first generation learners, I’m doing it over the phone now, sending them word meaning and notes over voice message. I’m calling each of my 52 students and urging them to do their assignments,” says the resident of Eastern High in New Town. “Some parents are claiming that since only one teacher teaches their child online they should not have to pay for the school’s operational costs. It’s painful,” says Soma of Eurokids. Rima, however, feels for both sides. “I’m working very hard for the students but I wish I could do more. In school, I’d haul them up and discipline them for putting a toe out of line but now I can’t even see them. The students’ motivation and dedication have fallen and we have to push them harder than ever to work.” The Sector I tutor however shares how some of her colleagues are taking it easy now. “They are sending video links instead of slogging it out one-on-one, they are feigning network problems whenever it rains and cutting short their classes. It’s a sham!” The teacher from Bangur Avenue, who teaches in Class II, feels most classes are being held to justify salaries. “The children probably don’t need an online class or an online test as much as their teacher needs it to keep receiving his or her salary at the end of the month,” she says.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-311
11-09-2020||Calcutta||Nilanjana Chatterjee: Saviour on road to recovery||Nilanjana Chatterjee, who suffered fractures in her left leg while trying to save a woman who was screaming  in a car on Saturday night near the Ruby crossing, was able to walk again on Thursday, albeit with the help of a walker. She walked twice during the day in her cabin, said an official of Ruby General Hospital, where the 48-year-old woman is undergoing treatment. “She responded very well to doctor’s instructions. Doctors are satisfied with the way her wound is healing,” the official said. She will be made to walk in her cabin on Friday, too. If the progress is satisfactory, doctors will try to make her walk in the corridor on Saturday. “If everything goes according to plan, we may discharge her on Sunday,” the official said. Nilanjana was returning home with her husband in their car when she heard screams of a woman inside another car. Her husband stopped their car blocking the way of the other car, a Honda City. The woman, who was screaming, was then allegedly thrown out of the car. When Nilanjana reached out to the woman, the man at the wheel of the Honda City, identified as Abhishek Kumar Pandey, pressed the accelerator and fled. The car ran over Nilanjana’s left leg. She suffered fractures in the tibia and fibula of her left leg. Pandey has been arrested. The woman who was allegedly beaten and thrown off the Honda City got her statement recorded before a magistrate in the Alipore court on Thursday. The statement can be considered as primary evidence in court as it has been recorded under Section 164 of the CrPC. Nilanjana’s husband Deep Satpati, who was a witness to the incident, also got his statement recorded before the magistrate on Thursday. The police carried out a reconstruction of Saturday night’s incident by taking the accused with them to the spot on Wednesday night.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-311
11-09-2020||Calcutta||Jadavpur University teacher files police complaint||A Jadavpur University teacher who was identified by her “Adivasi” background by a student of another institution and told that she was not qualified to comment on exams has written to Jadavpur police station what she has been facing on social media. The associate professor’s writing on Facebook that an academic year could not be more important than a student’s life was the trigger. Maroona Murmu told Metro that the experience was “dehumanising and amounting to harassment”. She lodged a formal complaint with the police station eight days after she had faced the student’s rant because she continues to be trolled and the student had defended whatever she had said in a post on social media, Murmu said on Thursday. The complaint, running into four pages, was mailed to the officer in charge of Jadavpur police station early on Thursday. “In the complaint I have narrated the chronology of what I experienced on my Facebook wall, starting from September 2 when the student — whom I did not know — posted comments identifying me by my ‘Adivasi’ background and said in various ways that I was not qualified to comment on examinations given my background. These comments are dehumanising and amount to harassment. I have asked the police to do what they deem fit based on the complaint,” she said. The associate professor of JU's history department said the post the student had put out on social media on Monday night virtually defending what she had earlier said “was another round of humiliation”. “Following legal advice, I decided to lodge the complaint.” She has said in her complaint that the actions of the student of a government college in the city fall under the SC/ST atrocities prevention act, Murmu, who has been teaching at JU for over a decade, said. “In the complaint I have written, it also falls under sections of the IPC, which describe offences about promoting enmity in different groups on grounds of religion, race, creed, place of birth. I want the police administration to take it up,” Murmu said. The teacher said 1,900 comments in support of the student had flooded her comment box when she sent the complaint. She told this newspaper: “I feel that certain rights of mine, both as an individual and also as a person belonging to a particular ethnic background, have been violated.” Murmu said someone sent her a screenshot suggesting that hashtags like #stopreservation and #shameeonmurmu has been created to express support for the accused. “Presently Murmu Ji is spewing hatred against… (she has named the student). Our first order of business would be to stall her. Plz friends report against her profile in every social media platform,” says one purported post from this group. An officer at Lalbazar said cops had taken cognisance of the complaint and an FIR would be lodged. “We are in touch with Jadavpur police station,” the officer said. The exchange between Murmu and the student had taken place on September 2 when most people in the country were debating the central government’s decision to conduct exams despite the pandemic. Commenting on a friend’s post, the JU teacher had written on Facebook: “One year in this long life cannot be bigger than life itself, no exams this time.” The student responded saying: “Maroona Murmu, that’s what surprised me…. How could a professor of JU think like that…. I am astonished…. I don’t want to belittle you, but this is the difference between quota and unquota…. You don’t need to be a so-called professor to understand that life is more important than life’s one year…. The problem is not about missing a year…. It is about progress because of caste and being disadvantaged for life despite having the ability….” After she found a battery of takers, the student had posted on September 3: “This morning, just reminded one ‘Murmu’ Santhali in restrained language that she is an Adivasi…. But some uncles and aunts of her age reminded me that some so-called professors sitting at home have grown a thicker layer of fat.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-311
11-09-2020||Calcutta||Covid waste finds its way to yellow bins in Calcutta||Yellow bins on Calcutta’s roads are now being put to better use. About 70 per cent of the waste in them is Covid or biomedical waste, the agency that cleans the bins on the civic body’s behalf has said. The bins have labels saying they are meant for Covid waste. Other biomedical waste, too, can also be dumped in the bins, an official of the agency said. Discarded masks, gloves, PPEs, syringes, cottons, sanitary napkins, used medicine strips and bandages can be dumped in these bins. Metro had on August 22 reported that the bins had been filled with food and kitchen waste and construction and demolition waste, none of which is meant to be dumped in them. “The Calcutta Municipal Corporation ran awareness campaigns in several places about what to dump in these bins. Besides, media reports helped in making people more aware,” Ramakant Burman, an official of GreenTech Environ, the agency, said. “We are now getting nearly 70 per cent biomedical waste in the bins. Some people, though, still dump kitchen waste and construction and demolition waste.” The agency clears the bins once every week. The CMC has installed 200 bins across the city for people to dump Covid waste, Burman said. After the yellow bins were installed across the city, the collection of waste from Covid positive people in home isolation has gone down, the official of the agency said. “Earlier, we used to collect Covid waste from 200-odd homes every day. Now, we are collecting waste from 50 homes in a day. It seems most people are dumping Covid waste in the yellow bins.” The agency now receives fewer calls from civic officials asking its officials to collect PPEs lying on the road. “We are collecting plenty of PPEs from the bins. It seems a lot of private practitioners and other people who wear PPEs are dumping them in the bins,” the official said. Apart from Covid waste, people can dump any biomedical waste in the bins, Burman said. “Any waste that is contaminated with body fluid is considered as biomedical waste.” The waste collected from the bins is taken to a plant belonging to the agency and burnt. The residual ash is sent to an engineered landfill in Haldia, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-311
11-09-2020||Calcutta||Scramble for milk dries up Calcutta stock||The supply of milk was way short of the demand across the city on Thursday morning as people tried to stock up for Friday and Saturday, the two total lockdown days. By evening, the government had called off the total lockdown on Saturday (September 12). The government hasn’t kept milk on the list of essential commodities that enjoy relaxation during days of total lockdown and so the rush to stock up. A shop owner at Gariahat who stocks multiple brands of milk said the demand was almost three times the normal. “Regular customers who usually buy four packets of milk in the morning asked for 12 packets. Some called up and placed their orders in advance,” he said. Every morning, Calcutta and its adjoining areas require around 1.5 million litres of milk. Amul with close to 700,000 litres is the market leader followed by Red Cow with close to 200,000 litres. Mother Dairy and Metro Dairy supply about 170,000 litres each. Officials of various dairies quoted distributors as saying retailers had possibly not realised the extent of the demand. Besides, what contributed to the spike was Jitiya Puja, which is observed by people hailing from parts of Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and Jharkhand. Many distributors said they did not place full orders because retailers were unsure if they could store the unsold milk. Two days of lockdown would have posed a challenge in storing unsold packets of milk in the right temperature. “Milk is a perishable item that reaches outlets from the plants and it needs to be stored at eight degrees centigrade or below,” Abhijit Maity of Amul said. The company has 450 distributors catering to more than 17,000 outlets across the state. Some retail chains like Spencers have a cold chain mechanism wherein they can preserve milk almost at the same temperature as that of the plants where it is produced. But even these outlets ran short of supply on Thursday evening. “We only have Tetra Paks. Milk packets are sold out,” an executive of Spencers at Acropolis Mall said in the evening. Large parts of Ballygunge, Gariahat, Kasba, Tollygunge, and Behala in the south and Maniktala, Phoolbagan, Kankurgachhi, Lake Town, and Kalinidi in the north ran out of milk by 11am on Thursday. There is another problem as well. “It is difficult to meet a sudden surge in demand. Every plant has a maximum capacity of production and that can’t be increased overnight,” Sushmita Mukherjee, the chief general manager of Mother Dairy, said. The company has close to 200 outlets of its own and 150 kiosks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-311
11-09-2020||Calcutta||Virtual tour of Victoria Memorial Hall||A virtual tour of the Victoria Memorial Hall (VMH) garden, accompanied by notes on the various landmarks within the precincts, is available at the Google Arts and Culture website. Titled The Taj of the Raj: The Victoria Memorial Hall and its Gardens, the tour takes the virtual visitor through lush green surroundings of the memorial with a commentary on the architectural pieces and the history of the garden.1500 “We will soon have a link of this virtual tour at our official VMH website. Google Arts and Culture will also do a virtual tour of our galleries,” said Jayanta Sengupta, curator, VMH. The marble monument and the garden have been off limits to visitors since March 15 because of the Covid-19 pandemic. On March 15, the most visited museum in the country had recorded a footfall of 11,000. Not just tourists from outside, the VMH with its 57-acre garden attracts even the Calcuttan for a daily stroll amidst its greens. But how many really know the various landmarks on the campus and the stories behind them? Memorial enthusiasts keen to know the history of the landmarks can take the virtual tour. The tour informs the viewer, for instance, that the identical ornamental cast iron gates on the northern and southern sides were designed by Vincent Esch, who was the superintending architect of the Memorial, during its construction in 1921 and was “shipped in whole from England”. The garden scheme was drawn up in 1915 by landscape gardeners and architects, along with experts like David Prain (who was director of the Botanical Survey of India, Royal Botanic Garden, Calcutta, and he Royal Botanic Gardens at Kew Gardens, London) and the first Earl Redesdale (acknowledged as one of the greatest amateur authorities on the subject at the time). The 57-acre Memorial campus includes the garden, the museum, six water bodies, nearly 2,800 trees, shrubs and hedges representing 80 species and a nursery garden.The tour focuses on the King Edward VII Memorial Arch with a bronze equestrian statue of the king, the eldest son of Queen Victoria, the marble statue of Lord Curzon right in front of the southern façade of the building and the bronze statue of Queen Victoria on the northern side of the campus. Sculpted by Sir George Frampton, a renowned sculptor of his time, Victoria’s statue was installed in 1901 on Red Road but was subsequently moved in front of the VMH building in 1921. Lord Curzon, who was the viceroy of British India from 1899 to 1905, played a key role in the making of the memorial. Views of the chhatri style pavilions on the four corner turrets exemplify the Indo-Saracenic architecture in India. A black-and white marble floored terrace runs around the building above the basement and provides access to two colonnaded areas, the Eastern and Western Quadrangles, which are popular spaces used for public programmes. The front lobby in the northern (main) entrance of the Hall, is also on view. A 360-degree view of each of these spots is provided and a virtual visitor can amble along a few paces at each of these spots that provide a real-time feel and view.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-311
11-09-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta school gives tech lessons to parents||Two schools on the city’s northern outskirts have been training parents on the basics of technology so that they can help their children with online learning. St Augustine’s Day School, which has branches in Barrackpore and Shyamnagar, have been explaining to parents the know-how of online classes, how to enter a class when a teacher shares a link or how to scan and upload assignments. The training programme is for parents whose children are in nursery and from classes I-VI. The school authorities realised that beyond that age students are “savvy enough online” and can handle online classes and assignments by themselves. Parents who want some help are coming to school for the sessions with the teachers because the school realised there were some parents who were struggling and that they required help. “While children were attending classes a lot of queries came from parents who sat with them. There are things they were unable to do online and needed help; so, we realised we should guide them,” Janet Gasper Chowdhury, the president of St Augustine’s Education Society, which runs the two schools, said. “It’s not that everybody has issues with technology but a large section does.” The Barrackpore school has a strength of 2,800 and the Shyamnagar one 1,500 up to Class VI. The sessions will be for an hour or two depending on the requirement and though it is open to both parents the school has noticed either the father or the mother has been opting for it. Schoolteachers, whether in the city or outside, have switched to the online mode of teaching during the pandemic. But it is also a challenge for parents to guide their children with the devices and how they are used when they themselves might not be comfortable with them. “I went to school yesterday and cleared my doubts about uploading assignments on the online platform. In fact, I was facing problems with links and once we got disconnected we were finding it difficult to rejoin,” Avijit Dey whose son is in the Shyamnagar school said on Thursday. Many parents said it was easier and comfortable to seek clarification from teachers in person rather than ask them during online classes. The pandemic and the subsequent online classes have been an eye-opener for both parents and schools when it came to handling smart devices. “It was a shock… we noticed many parents did not have smartphones and many were not savvy with their usage and applications apart from making phone calls,” Gasper Chowdhury said. On many occasions, the children who are adept at it will not help their parents because they are apprehensive that they will join social media platforms that children frequent. For the pre-primary, the school has been training parents on how they should teach their kids at home. “We train them in the Montessori method of teaching. We don’t want the child to get another set of instructions at home,” Gasper Chowdhury said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-311
11-09-2020||Calcutta||UK visa rule tweak to aid students||The UK has announced a new points-based immigration system that will replace the previous Tier 4 visa route and promises to make the process “more streamlined” and simplified for students and their institutes in that country. The new Student Route will open for international students on October 5, the British high commission in New Delhi said in a statement issued on Thursday. “Under the new system, students will require a total of 70 points to be granted a visa. They will achieve the required points if they can demonstrate that they have an offer from an approved educational institution, speak English and are able to support themselves during their studies in the UK,” the release said. Under the new system, students will also be able to make a visa application up to six months  before their course starts, unlike three months under Tier 4, and they will not be required to resubmit proof of academic qualifications with their visa application. The statement also mentions that the UK recognises that a section of overseas students is opting to defer their entry into courses in the UK till the spring semester of 2021 because of Covid-19 and says the new visa route will benefit them. The Graduate route for international students to allow them to work or look for work will open in summer 2021, the statement said. "This will allow eligible international students... who have completed undergraduate and master's degree to stay for two years and those who have completed a PhD to stay for three years to work or look for work.” Jan Thompson, the UK’s acting high commissioner to India, said: “India accounts for one of the UK's largest groups of international students…. Now that we have left the EU, we can introduce this streamlined visa route and the Graduate Route in summer 2021, to ensure the brightest and the best students continue to pick the UK.” Barbara Wickham, director, British Council India, said: “The new Student route is a welcome announcement…. It offers greater flexibility and ease of immigration for applicants.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-311
11-09-2020||Calcutta||Disabled patient accuses Calcutta lab of being unfriendly||A 33-year-old physically challenged woman has lodged a complaint with the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission against a diagnostic centre saying the USG room or the washrooms there were not equipped for a person with physical disabilities, the panel chairperson said on Thursday. The woman has told the commission that she faced difficulties when she went to Quadra Medical Services, on Hazra Road, for an ultrasonography test in August last year. The woman approached the commission in January this year. The woman’s complaint has brought to the fore an issue that is not restricted to one clinical establishment. Only a handful of public spaces in the city have facilities that can make visits by physically challenged people free of troubles. During the hearing conducted by the commission on Thursday, an official from Quadra said they were unable to create a washroom designed for the physically challenged as they did not have any more space in the building and any new construction would violate rules of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC). Retired judge Ashim Kumar Banerjee, the chairperson of the commission, said they had told the CMC requesting it to consider offering some relaxation to Quadra so it could do the needful. “The woman told us that she faced problems both in the room where ultrasonography was done and also while using washrooms. We have told the CMC to consider the case in a humanitarian context and see if they can allow some relaxation to construct a toilet for the physically challenged people,” Banerjee said. People with physical disabilities face similar problems at clinical establishments across the city, said disability rights activists, doctors, civic officials and architects. Jeeja Ghosh, a disability rights activist, said most public spaces in the city were not friendly for people with disabilities. “It is a problem that is faced everywhere. The door in washrooms meant for people with disabilities must be wider than a door in washrooms for people without disabilities. Besides, the basins and urinals must be at a lower height so that someone who is in a wheelchair can use them. Also, there should be handrails on the walls,” Ghosh said. The CMC’s Building Rules, 2009, do mention that all public utility buildings should have “disabled friendly devices like ramps with railing, toilet and drinking water facilities. Braille or auditory signals shall be provided in all lifts”. Not all public utility buildings adhere to the rules. Moreover, the buildings that came up or the building plans approved before 2009 often did not make provisions for people with disabilities. Architect Abin Chaudhuri said the National Building Code had very clear instructions on what facilities a public utility should have to welcome people with disabilities. “The code is detailed and clear. I also think the civic authorities should make a rule that forces owners of old public utility buildings to make changes so the buildings become friendly to physically challenged people. They should do whatever is possible within the structure. No one stops them from doing that,” he said. “But none would do so till the authorities force them. That is why a rule or a law is needed to that effect.” In the case of Quadra, the building has ramps and lifts but no toilet especially designed for the physically challenged. “We do not deny that this is a problem. After the woman complained to us, we fitted hand railings on the walls of our washrooms. But we do not have space to construct a new washroom for people with disabilities. If the CMC offers some relaxation, we can build a washroom,” said Pinak Pani Bhattacharya, one of the directors of Quadra. A CMC official said Quadra did not need their permission to lower the height of basins, urinals or commode. The clinical establishment regulatory commission on Thursday asked Midland Nursing Home, In Belghoria,  to deposit Rs 5 lakh with it after it found that the hospital was prima facie negligent in dealing with an 18-year-old who went there in July. The teenager died subsequently. “The youth’s mother lodged a complaint saying he was taken to Midland... . Midland conducted a rapid test and said the teenager was Covid  positive. They asked the family to take him elsewhere,” said Banerjee. During Thursday’s hearing, Midland officials said the hospital was not equipped to treat Covid patients. “We told them they should have given him some treatment. We have asked the nursing home to file an affidavit explaining what med-ical aid they had extended to the patient. We have asked Midland to deposit Rs 5 lakh as an interim measure…. Prima facie, it seems they were negligent,” said Banerjee. An official of Midland, when contacted, said he was on medical leave and would not be able to speak.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-312
11-09-2020||Calcutta||UGC okays state final semester exam plan||The University Grants Commission on Thursday okayed the state higher education department’s proposal to hold final-year undergraduate and postgraduate exams between October 1 and 18, a department official said. Education minister Partha Chatterjee had on August 31 announced that state-aided universities will have to conduct the end semester exams between October 1 and 18. But universities did not announce the exam schedule as the UGC was still to approve the dates, as mandated by the Supreme Court in its August 28 order. If any state or Union territory, in exercise of the jurisdiction of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, decides it is not possible to hold the exams by September 30 in keeping with UGC’s July 6 advisory, it can seek an extension from the UGC, the apex court had said. Manish Jain, the higher education department principal secretary, had on September 2 sought the UGC’s permission in a letter to its chairman. The UGC gave its permission on Thursday and universities have been advised to announce the exam schedule at the earliest, a department official said. Jadavpur University will hold the end semester exams in arts and science between October 1 and 10, university pro vice-chancellor Pradip Ghosh said on Thursday afternoon. “A notification with the detailed schedule will be issued soon.” Earlier this week, the university had finalised the modalities for holding the exams and students started filling forms. The schedule hadn’t been announced, though. Soma Bandyopadhyay, the vice-chancellor of the West Bengal University of Teachers’ Training, said BEd and MEd final semester exams would be held between October 1 and 9. North Bengal University will hold the end semester exams from October 1 to 8, vice-chancellor Subiresh Bhattacharya said. Calcutta University will hold the end semester exams between October 1 and 18, an official said. All the universities feel students should not have to take the exams on the campus in the middle of the pandemic. Questions papers will be emailed or sent via WhatsApp. Jadavpur University has announced to provide students with smartphones and high-speed data packs so that everyone can take the exams. Calcutta University has plans to upload final-year and end semester undergraduate question papers on its website. Candidates can take the exams at their homes and mail back the answers or send them over WhatsApp within 24 hours. Among the state universities, six, including JU, had published the results in July, following the state higher education department’s June 27 directive that recommended graduating students be evaluated based on their performance in previous semesters and internal assessments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-312
11-09-2020||Calcutta||How to catch a Metro from Monday in Calcutta ||The first Metro train on commercial run in 174 days will leave the terminal stations at 8am on Monday but booking of e-passes will start at 8pm on Sunday, officials of the utility said. The timings, number of trains and their frequency have been changed. The last trains will leave the terminal stations at 7pm. “Only smart card users will be allowed to travel by Metro trains,” said Metro general manager Manoj Joshi. New smart cards can be bought from stations — at counters and smart card vending machines at some stations. Existing smart card users can recharge at stations or online — from the Metro app and website. The smart card will be for access to the platform. To enter a station, a person needs a “QR code-based colour coded e-pass”. The following steps have to be taken to get a pass: The passenger will have to show the pass at the station gate and enter the station at any time in the designated slot. “There will be 12 colour codes, each for entry during one slot. The colour for each slot will be known by cops posted at the gates,” said a representative of the agency which has developed the system. If one books a pass from a smartphone, the colour-coded pass will be downloaded in the service. General manager Joshi said people without phones can access the link through a computer and take a colour print-out of the pass. But Metro sources said the carrier did not expect many people without phones to turn up at the stations. The booking window will open 12 hours before the first train of the day. “The URL will go live from 8pm on Sunday. Monday’s passes will be available from 8pm on Sunday to 7.59pm on Monday. From 8pm on Monday, Tuesday’s passes will be available on the system,” an official said. The pass is only for entry into the station. For platform access, a smart card is a must, said Metro officials. An algorithm — based on data provided by Metro Railway — that is driving the system has also computed an estimated volume of passengers expected to enter and exit each station within each slot. Around 1,000 people are expected to board trains from Dum Dum between 8am and 9am on Monday, said the developer. During the same slot, only 25 are expected to board trains from Park Street. The e-passes will be allotted to passengers based on these calculations. A set of standard operating procedures — based on these computations — has also been shared with the police for deployment at stations. The idea is to have more deployment at stations where more passengers are expected. All but two stations will have one gate each for entry and exit. Dum Dum and Esplanade will have two gates each for both. “We used to carry over 3,000 passengers on a train during peak rush. If that number has to be brought down to 400 per train, we need some checks,” said an official. The carrier hopes to ferry 100,000 to 120,000 people every day. The pre-Covid daily count was over 600,000. Metro had suspended service on March 23 as a precaution against Covid-19. Monday’s service will mark the first commercial run since. On Sunday, Metro will run trains for free for NEET candidates and their guardians. From Monday, according to officials, 50 passengers will be allowed in each of the eight coaches and they have to keep the space of one seat in between. Passengers will also have to wear masks and undergo thermal scanning at the station entrances. The first and last trains will now leave the terminal stations at 8am and 7pm, respectively. The previous timings were 6.45am and 9.55pm. “Many of our staff were dependent on suburban trains to come to work and go home. Since trains are suspended now, they will have to leave a little early,” said Indrani Banerjee, the Metro spokesperson.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-312
11-09-2020||Business||Titagarh inks solar power pact||Titagarh Wagons has signed a power purchase agreement with renewable energy firm Fourth Partner Energy to procure 4.8MW of solar power for its units in Bengal. The company plans to replace 25 per cent of its current annual electricity demand with clean energy. Three installations in Titagarh and Uttarpara will be spread over 48,000 square metre of roof space which will offset over 1.3 lakh tonnes of carbon in the next two decades for Titagarh Wagons. The installation is expected to be commissioned by January 2021. “Apart from a significant reduction in our carbon footprint, solar power is cheaper than grid electricity. We expect to see substantial savings in our annual power cost through solar energy. We shall evaluate adding solar power capacity in these as well as other units to increase the percentage of clean energy used in our plants,” said Pritish Chowdhary, vice-president, Titagarh Wagons.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-292
11-09-2020||Business||Inflation forecast above target||There is unlikely to be any good news on the inflation front with prices rising above the Reserve Bank of India’s medium term target in August, a Reuters poll has showed. The poll of nearly 50 economists showed retail inflation to rise 6.85 per cent for the month because of supply disruptions which kept food and fuel prices high. Though this is lower than the 6.93 per cent rise in July, it still means that headline CPI inflation is above the RBI’s target of 2-6 per cent for the fifth straight month. This would disappoint those expecting another round of interest rate cut from the RBI. The central bank has since March brought down the policy repo rate by 115 basis points. However, firm inflation saw the monetary policy committee deciding on a status quo in the August policy. A report from the economic research wing of State Bank of India (SBI) also expects inflation to be well above the 6 per cent mark in August. Attributing the recent surge in retail inflation to huge government procurement and supply disruptions on account of the Covid-19 pandemic, the SBI report said the rate of price rise was likely to come down to below 4 per cent only after December. The Consumer Price Index (CPI) inflation during August was likely to remain at about 7 per cent, SBI Ecowrap said. The data is scheduled to be released on Monday. However, the report said that it looks difficult to believe that supply disruptions would normalise soon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-292
11-09-2020||Business||Fuel demand declines in August||The country’s fuel demand in August saw its biggest decline in monthly sales since April because of a surge in coronavirus cases which continue to impact economic activity. Sales of refined fuels, a proxy for oil demand, fell to 14.39 million tonnes in August, about 16 per cent lower from a year earlier, its sixth consecutive year-on-year slide. It also fell 7.5 per cent from July, its biggest month-on-month decline after April, data from the Petroleum Planning and Analysis Cell (PPAC) of the ministry of petroleum and natural gas showed. Fuel demand had slumped a record 48.6 per cent in April to 9.4 million tonnes as the government imposed a nationwide lockdown in an attempt to curb the spread of coronavirus. It recovered in the subsequent two months but has been falling again since July, on a monthly basis. Sale of diesel, the most consumed fuel, fell 12 per cent to 4.84 million tonnes in August from 5.51 million tonnes in the previous month. Petrol sales fell 7.4 per cent year-on-year to 2.38 million tonnes although it rose 5.3 per cent from 2.26 million tonnes in July as commuters preferred driving personal vehicles to using public transportation. Demand for aviation turbine fuel grew 9.9 per cent to 256 million tonnes, growing for the fourth consecutive month, as domestic carriers ramped up services.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-292
11-09-2020||Business||Indiabulls sells UK bank stake||Indiabulls Housing Finance on Thursday said it has sold a part of its stake in the UK-based OakNorth Holding Ltd, the parent company of OakNorth Bank Ltd, to HighSage Ventures LLC for Rs 440 crore. In a regulatory filing, Indiabulls Housing Finance said that the sale proceeds will be accretive to the regulatory net worth and the capital to risk weighted assets ratio (CRAR) of the non-banking finance company. On Wednesday, the company had informed about a partial stake sale in OakNorth Bank in one or more tranches to boost its capital. HighSage Ventures LLC is a Boston-based investment firm with an investor network spanning the venture capital, private equity and public equity communities. “The company plans to conclude a few other transactions on the partial stake sale in OakNorth Bank over the next few days. The divestments in OakNorth Bank will result in boosting CRAR and shall free up capital to grow the loan book of the company,” Indiabulls Housing Finance added. OakNorth Bank was launched in September 2015 and the company had invested Rs 663 crore in November 2015 for a 40 per cent stake in the bank. With the first major investment from Indiabulls Housing in 2015, the bank started addressing the mid-market funding gap in the UK, a business similar to loans against property business that Indiabulls Housing has done very successfully, the non-bank lender said. The Indiabulls Housing Finance stock closed at Rs 194.55 on the BSE, down 3.28 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-292
11-09-2020||Business||CIL to revive 12 closed mines||Coal India is planning to revive underground mine production in a bid to boost overall output. The public sector miner has identified 12 mines with provisional reserves of around 1,060 million tonnes (mt). Of these, eight mines with estimated reserves of 596mt belong to Eastern Coalfields and four mines with a reserve of 464 mt belong to Bharat Coking Coal. Bengal and Jharkhand stand to benefit from this revival move with all 12 mines spread across the two states. Of the 12 mines, seven are in Bengal. Coal India’s primary production is from opencast mining with underground mining constituting less than 10 per cent of the overall production. According to Coal India officials, these underground mines were discontinued earlier not because of exhaustion of reserves but on account of difficult geo-mining conditions, economic unviability and lack of suitable methods at that time to extract coal from deep seated reserves. Underground mines tend to have better quality of coal. Moreover, five of the mines have coking coal, which is used in steel making and is scarce in the country . “With the advancement of technology in coal mining, it is now possible to extract the locked coal reserves of these mines and this has prompted us to explore this option once again,” a CIL executive said. The Central Mine Planning and Design Institute, the in-house mine consultancy arm of Coal India, will prepare a feasibility report. Subsequently, coal companies will float tenders according to their requirement to engage suitable developers and operators and firms with the requisite technical knowhow to pursue the operations on their behalf. “The project is on the drawing board but CIL aims to start the process soon to bring these mines to active production. This is an effort towards increasing production from indigenous sources,” said the executive. In the ongoing fiscal, Coal India has increased its pace of production, recording a 9.3 per cent growth in offtake and 7.1 per cent growth in production for August compared with last year after mining in the early months was affected by the nationwide lockdown and the monsoons. “The growth slowdown is contained and going forward we hope to maintain our production and off-take tempo,” the executive said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-292
11-09-2020||Business||BSNL asset sale plan||The department of telecommunications has mooted a draft cabinet note on asset monetisation of BSNL and MTNL as part of a Rs 69,000-crore revival package for the state-owned telecom firms. Officials said the asset monetisation will help the two operators to upgrade their network, offer voluntary retirement schemes and also repay a part of their debt. The two PSUs have a combined debt of about Rs 40,000 crore. Sources said CBRE, JLL and Knight Frank  — the consultants appointed to identify the land and other properties for monetisation —have submitted their preliminary reports. The land parcels identified are spread across the country in locations such as Mumbai, Thiruvananthapuram, Chennai and Ghaziabad. The three consultants were asked to look at the valuation of the land assets, gauge the market appetite and assess the process that could be adopted for monetisation. The officials said it would take a few years for the asset monetisation process to be complete and much would depend on the prevailing market conditions. The draft cabinet note just kicks off the process. Sanjay Dhotre, the minister of state for communications, had informed the Lok Sabha last year that BSNL and MTNL had identified 14 and 16 properties, respectively, “for monetisation through the Department of Investment and Public Asset Management (DIPAM). Eleven  properties of BSNL and six of MTNL have been approved for monetisation by DIPAM’s Alternate Mechanism”. In October last year, telecom minister Ravi Shankar Prasad had said: “BSNL and MTNL are strategic assets. They will raise a sovereign bond of Rs 15,000 crore and their assets will be monetised. The cabinet has also approved an attractive VRS package for the employees.” Over the last few weeks, both the companies have launched their VRS plans and thousands of employees have opted for the scheme. The scheme will help reduce BSNL’s wage bill by 50 per cent and MTNL’s by 75 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-292
11-09-2020||Business||Jane Fraser to lead Citigroup||Citigroup said on Thursday that its chief executive, Michael Corbat, plans to retire in February, paving the way for his top lieutenant, Jane Fraser, to become the first woman to lead a big Wall Street bank. Corbat, who has served as chief executive since 2012, will be succeeded by Fraser, who is Citi’s president and the head of its global consumer banking business. A 16-year veteran of the firm, Fraser was teed up as the bank’s next CEO last year when she was promoted to her current role. Fraser has also overseen several of the bank’s businesses, serving as the chief executive of its private bank, its Latin American region and its US consumer and commercial bank and mortgage business. She worked at Goldman Sachs and McKinsey & Company before joining Citi in 2004. “We believe Jane is the right person to build on Mike’s record and take Citi to the next level,” John C. Dugan, Citi’s chairman, said in a statement. “She has deep experience across our lines of business and regions, and we are highly confident about her.” Fraser’s ascension will break one of corporate America’s longest-enduring glass ceilings. At a hearing of the House Financial Services Committee last April, one lawmaker asked Corbat and six of his peers to raise their hand if any of them believed they would be succeeded by a woman or person of colour. None did. Fraser, 53, is poised to join a very small group of female leaders at major corporations. There are only 31 women among the CEOs of the 500 companies that make up the S&P 500 stock index, according to the advocacy group Catalyst. Succession plans at other Wall Street firms may now attract more attention. JPMorgan Chase, for example, has two women, Marianne Lake and Jennifer Piepszak, among the potential candidates to succeed its longtime chairman and chief executive Jamie Dimon. Under Corbat — who took over in 2012 after the sudden resignation of his predecessor, Vikram S. Pandit, amid a revolt by its board — the bank sought to rebuild after the 2008 global financial crisis. In its statement, Citi noted that its net income during Corbat’s tenure grew to nearly $20 billion last year, from $7 billion in 2012. New York Times News Service||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-292
11-09-2020||Business||SC against interest penalty||The Supreme Court on Thursday said it will announce its verdict on the plea for an interest waiver during the six-month loan moratorium period till August 31 in two weeks’ time. The court allowed parties to file all documents and decisions in the next two weeks. The court indicated that banks may not be allowed to charge interest on interest during the six-month moratorium period on loans even as it gave the Centre and the RBI two weeks to come out with a suitable mechanism on charging interest from customers and allay their apprehensions regarding credit rating downgrades by banks. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R. Subhash Reddy and M.R. Shah passed the directions after Solicitor General Tushar Mehta appearing for the Centre sought two weeks adjournment on the grounds that the issue with regard to compound interests, downgrading of credit ratings during the moratorium period was being considered “at the highest level”. “With respect to interest, we are yet to take a decision but on the aspect of debiting of interest on interest, we are inclined to pass an order that it may not be debited,” Justice Bhushan heading the bench orally observed during the hearing. In other words, the court holds prima facie the view that it would not be proper for banks to charge interest on interest during the six-month moratorium on loans announced by the RBI which ended on August 31. The court also recorded the submission of various petitioners that status quo be maintained on the court’s interim order. The order said no account shall be declared NPA by banks post August 31 till the present matter was resolved. The bench was dealing with a batch of petitions filed by UP-based businessman Gajendra Sharma and several others challenging the banks’ decision to charge interests on interests during the six-month moratorium period. The petitioners also wanted the extension of the moratorium period which had ended on August 31. Senior advocate Harish Salve, appearing for banks’ association said that norms and guidelines have to be issued with regard to individual borrowers. The bench asked who will formulate “these norms” to which Salve replied that the finance ministry will do as it has been done at the level of the RBI. Mehta said that it was being done at a level higher than the RBI and whatever will be there it would be comprehensive. Salve pointed out that for the power sector, the states will have to be taken on board as entire loans cannot be put on banks. The government has formed a three-member committee under former CAG Rajiv Mehrishi to look into the concerns raised during the Supreme Court hearings in the Covid-19 loan moratorium case. The panel will help the government assess the need to offer relief to borrowers on the issue of interest charged on loan instalments deferred during the moratorium period. The panel will measure the impact of the pandemic on the economy and the financial viability of waiving of interest and of interest on interest for this payment holiday. The committee will suggest ways to alleviate financial constraints of borrowers and other suitable measures, the finance ministry said in a statement. The committee will also have Ravindra H. Dholakia, former professor, IIM Ahmedabad & ex-member, Monetary Policy Committee of the RBI, and B. Sriram, former managing director, State Bank of India & IDBI Bank. The committee will submit its report within a week. Additional reporting by our special correspondent in New Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-292
11-09-2020||Business||Reliance’s market capitalisation hits $200 billion||Reliance on Thursday became the first Indian company to record a market capitalisation of $200 billion. News of Silver Lake Partners investing in its retail arm and the possibility of similar announcements over the next few weeks buoyed the stock. On the BSE, the RIL share closed at Rs 2,314.65, a gain of Rs 153.40 or 7.10 per cent. Earlier in the day, the stock hit a 52-week high of Rs 2343.90 — a rise of 8.45 per cent over the previous close. At close, it had a market cap of Rs 14.67 lakh crore or $199.74 billion. RIL’s partly paid shares also finished 10 per cent higher, leading to a market cap of Rs 58,937.43 crore — adding up to a total market cap of almost $208 billion. In July 2018, RIL had re-claimed a $100-billion market cap after a period of 11 years. However, the jump in its market value has been meteoric in the past six months, particularly after March. After hitting a 52-week low of Rs 867.82 as markets were hit by fears over the Covid-19 pandemic, its shares have rallied a whopping 170 per cent after it announced a string of investments in its digital services business.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-292
11-09-2020||Business||Amazon eyes foothold in RIL Retail||Retail industry rivals Mukesh Ambani and Jeff Bezos could bake the bread together in India with Bezos’s Amazon reportedly eyeing a slice of Ambani’s Reliance Retail Ventures, which has started selling a part of the equity to global investors. Bloomberg on Thursday said Amazon.com Inc was in discussions with Reliance Industries Limited to invest around $20 billion in Ambani’s retail business. RIL could even sell as much as a 40 per cent stake in Reliance Retail Ventures to Amazon. Though the buzz of Amazon investing in the retail arm of RIL has been doing the rounds the past couple of months, a stake sale of such a magnitude should come as a surprise. “We would like to reiterate that as a policy, we do not comment on media speculation and rumours and we cannot confirm or deny any transaction which may or may not be in the works. Our company evaluates various opportunities on an ongoing basis,” Reliance said in a clarification to the stock exchanges after market hours. “We have made and will continue to make necessary disclosures in compliance with our obligations under Securities Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations 2015 and our agreements with the stock exchanges,” Reliance said. Amazon’s keenness to invest in the retail business of RIL comes only a day after it sold 1.75 per cent in Reliance Retail Ventures to US private equity firm Silver Lake Partners for Rs 7,500 crore. According to the analysts at Credit Suisse, the combined entity can leverage the deep offline network of Reliance Retail and the established logistics network of Amazon to harness cross-selling and omni-channel opportunities. The brokerage said RIL can benefit through an increase in the addressable user base for JioMart via access to the existing 140 million monthly active users of Amazon. Besides, the business of cash-and-carry arm Reliance Market would grow with Amazon sellers such as Cloudtail and Appario Retail supplying their products to it. On the other hand, Amazon will gain access to a large logistics network, which has further strengthened post Reliance Retail’s acquisition of Future Group’s logistics and warehousing business. Amazon will also expand its user base by tapping footfalls in the Reliance Retail stores to drive its online cross-purchases. Brokerages have also signalled the risks to the deal: one being the integration of Amazon Pay with WhatsApp Pay. JP Morgan said that though such a transaction would be positive for Reliance Retail, there are certain matters which they are unable to “square off”. “What would happen to growth plans for JioMart/New Commerce; WhatsApp partnership?” its analysts asked.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-293
11-09-2020||India||Azad and others dropped as AICC general secretaries||In a major reshuffle of the party, Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Friday removed Ghulam Nabi Azad, Motilal Vora, Ambika Soni, Mallikarjun Kharge as AICC general secretaries, and reconstituted CWC and appointed P Chidambaram, Randeep Surjewala, Tariq Anwar and Jitendra Singh as its regular members. Gandhi also removed Luizinho Faleiro from AICC general secretaries, and formed a special committee to assist her in party matters. The new members in the Congress Working Committee (CWC), the party's highest decision making body, will replace Faleiro, Vora, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury and Tamradhwaj Sahu. The six-member special committee, formed to assist her in organisational and operational matters, will have AK Antony, Ahmed Patel, Ambika Soni, KC Venugopal, Mukul Wasnik and Randeep Surjewala as its members. Surjewala has also been made the general secretary in-charge for Congress affairs in Karnataka. From the 'group of 23' leaders, who had written letter to Gandhi seeking Congress' overhaul, Azad and Sharma continue to be regular members of the CWC, while Jitin Prasada has been made a permanent invitee to CWC from being a special invitee earlier. Prasada has also been made in-charge of party affairs in West Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-675
11-09-2020||India||DGCA asks IndiGo to take action on 'safety violation' by media on Kangana flight ||The DGCA has asked IndiGo to take “appropriate action” after the regulator found alleged violation of safety and social distancing protocols by the media in the airline's Chandigarh-Mumbai flight that had actor Kangana Ranaut as a passenger, senior officials said on Friday. ”We have seen some videos wherein mediapersons are standing too close to each other in the 6E264 flight on Wednesday. It seems to be a violation of safety and social distancing protocols,” a DGCA official said. There are multiple issues with this incident, and prominent among them are related to “photography on board in violation of Aircraft rules 13, violation of Covid-19 protocols and certain actions falling within the purview of unruly behaviour on board”, the official stated. As per the DGCA rules, an airline can put an “unruly passenger” on its “no-fly list” for a certain period of time after an internal enquiry. A viral video of the Wednesday's incident showed that reporters and camerapersons of various TV channels were jostling and bunching up near the front rows to get a comment from Ranaut after the plane landed at the Mumbai airport. The video showed that the actor was sitting in one of the front rows. In the video, one crew member can be heard telling the passengers to sit down in their seats and not “harass” anyone as the seat belt sign had not been turned off. According to the video, Ranaut disembarked from the plane without giving any comment to the media on board. On PTI's request for a statement, IndiGo said, “We have given our statement to the DGCA regarding the matter pertaining to flight 6E 264 from Chandigarh to Mumbai, on September 9, 2020.” ”We would like to reiterate that our cabin crew, as well as the captain followed all the requisite protocols, including announcements to restrict photography, follow social distancing and maintain overall safety,” the airline stated. IndiGo said it also followed the requisite protocol of documenting this matter in its post-flight report. ”We are committed to providing a safe, hassle-free experience to our passengers,” it added. On this incident, a DGCA official on Friday said, “We have asked the airline (IndiGo) to take appropriate action against those responsible.” Also, the regulator has asked the airline to submit a report on this incident, the official mentioned. Later during the day, IndiGo gave the following statement, “We are in receipt of certain directions from DGCA in relation to flight 6E 264. We will follow the prescribed guidelines.” As per the Civil Aviation Ministry's social distancing rules issued on May 25, “On arrival at the destination, passengers should be allowed to exit (the plane) in a sequence so as to avoid any bunching.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-675
11-09-2020||India||5 missing youths from Arunachal likely to be handed over by China on Saturday: Rijiju||China's People's Liberation Army (PLA) is likely to hand over five youths missing from Arunachal Pradesh to the Indian authorities on Saturday, Union minister Kiren Rijiju said. The PLA on Tuesday had conveyed that the five youths, who went missing on September 4 from the Sino-Indian border in Upper Subansiri district, were found by them across the border.  "The Chinese PLA has confirmed to the Indian Army to hand over the youths from Arunachal Pradesh to our side. The handing over is likely to take place anytime tomorrow i.e. 12th September 2020 at a designated location," Rijiju tweeted on Friday.  It was Rijiju who first broke the news about the PLA's confirmation that the youths were found on the Chinese side of the Sino-Indian border.  The incident came to light when two members from the group of youths, who went hunting in the jungle, returned home and informed the families of the five that they were whisked away by the Chinese troops from Sera-7, an Army patrol zone located about 12 km further north of Nacho.  Nacho is the last administrative circle along the McMahon line and is around 120 km from the district headquarters Daporijo.  Those who were allegedly kidnapped by the Chinese Army were identified as Toch Singkam, Prasat Ringling, Dongtu Ebiya, Tanu Baker and Ngaru Diri.  On Monday, China brushed off concerns over the whereabouts of the five youths and needled India, saying it has never recognised Arunachal Pradesh which it claims is part of south Tibet.  "China's position on the east sector of the China-India boundary, or Zangnan (the southern part of China's Xizang (Tibet) ), is consistent and clear," Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian told a media briefing in Beijing, adding the Chinese government has never recognized the so-called "Arunachal Pradesh".  "I'm not aware of the situation you mentioned," the spokesperson said when asked about any updates about the missing Indian nationals.  The development comes at a time when the Indian Army has enhanced its deployment along the 3,400 km-long Line of Actual Control (LAC) in view of the tense border row between India and China in eastern Ladakh.  In March, a 21-year-old man was abducted by the PLA from Asapila sector near the McMahon line.  While his two friends managed to escape, Togley Sinkam was taken away at gunpoint, his family had said.  After 19 days in captivity, the youth was released by the Chinese Army.  On September 2, the Indian Army provided food, warm clothes and medical assistance to three Chinese citizens who had lost their way in sub-zero temperatures at an altitude of 17,500 feet in a border area in North Sikkim.  The Indian Army personnel deployed in the area also guided the Chinese citizens, including a woman, to return to the Chinese side and reach their destination.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-675
11-09-2020||India||Social activist Swami Agnivesh dies at Delhi hospital||Social activist Swami Agnivesh, who had for long been suffering from liver cirrhosis, died of multi-organ failure at a Delhi hospital on Friday, doctors said. He was 80. Agnivesh was critically ill and admitted to the ICU of the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences, the doctors said. He had been on ventilatory support since Tuesday. “He was suffering from liver cirrhosis and died today due to multi-organ failure as his condition deteriorated and he went into cardiac arrest at 6pm,” a spokesperson of the hospital said. Resuscitation was attempted but he passed away at 6.30pm, the spokesperson added. Leaders from across the political spectrum mourned Agnivesh’s death.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-675
11-09-2020||India||Rhea Chakraborty denied bail by special court||A special court here on Friday rejected the bail pleas of Rhea Chakraborty and her brother Showik, arrested by the NCB in connection with a drugs-related case pertaining to the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput. The court also rejected the bail pleas of four other accused in the case. Special Judge G B Gurao, presiding over cases under the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, rejected their bail applications. All the accused are currently in judicial custody. Special public prosecutor Atul Sarpande, appearing for the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), welcomed the decision and said the court, while rejecting the bail pleas, has accepted the contentions of the prosecution that the investigation is at a crucial stage. Rhea's lawyer Satish Maneshinde said they would decide further course of action after perusing the court order. "Once we get a copy of the order passed by the special NDPS court, we will decide next week on further course of action and about approaching the Bombay High Court," he said. In her bail plea, Rhea had claimed that she was falsely implicated in the case. Rhea had also retracted the confessional statement recorded by the NCB when she was questioned for three days. She had claimed that the NCB officials had coerced her into making self-incriminating statements. The NCB had strongly opposed the bail pleas and said that Rhea was conscious of the fact that Rajput was consuming drugs, but despite that she continued procuring and making payments for drugs. The NCB had said that although the quantity of banned drugs seized in the case was small, it was still a commercial quantity and worth Rs 1,85,200. "Rhea Chakraborty and Showik Chakraborty financed and arranged drugs for Sushant Singh Rajput and at his instructions," the NCB had said in its affidavit responding to the bail pleas. It added that as per the statement given by co-accused and Rajput's domestic help Dipesh Sawant, he used to procure drugs from other accused in the case on the instructions of Rajput and Rhea. "The financial transactions were handled by Rhea and sometimes Rajput. Dipesh Sawant used to procure drugs along with co-accused Samuel Miranda (former house manager of Rajput) for Sushant Singh Rajput's consumption," the affidavit said. The NCB had further said that if the accused are released on bail, they may tamper with evidence and try to intimidate key witnesses in the case. The NCB began its investigation after the Enforcement Directorate (ED), which was probing money laundering charges linked to the case, shared the social media chats retrieved from Rhea's mobile phone, hinting at the use of banned drugs. Rajput was found hanging in his residence in suburban Bandra on June 14. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) is separately probing a case against Rhea and others for allegedly abetting the 34-year-old actor's suicide.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-675
11-09-2020||India||India, China agree on 5-point roadmap to resolve border stand-off ||India and China have agreed on a five-point roadmap, including quick disengagement of troops and avoiding any action that could escalate tensions for resolving the four-month-long face-off in eastern Ladakh, indicating a mutual understanding that the ongoing border isn’t in the interest of either side. As the two countries reached the agreement during the talks between External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi on Thursday evening, government sources said the Indian side strongly raised the deployment of large number of troops and military equipment by China along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh and conveyed its concern. The Chinese side could not provide a credible explanation for the troops build-up, the sources said on Friday. Jaishankar and Wang met in Moscow on the sidelines of the meeting of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO). The talks _ the second highest political contact between the two countries in a week _ lasted two-and-a-half-hours. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and his Chinese counterpart Gen. Wei Fenghe had also met in Moscow on Friday on the sidelines of a SCO meet. Government sources said the five-point agreement will guide the approach of the two countries to the current border situation. The Indian Army and the Chinese People's Liberation Army (PLA) have been locked in a tense standoff in multiple areas along the LAC in eastern Ladakh since early May. Shots were fired across the LAC on Monday for the first time in 45 years with the two sides accusing each other of firing in the air. Besides striving for quick disengagement of troops, the two countries agreed that their soldiers should maintain proper distance from each other and abide by all existing agreements and protocol on management of the de-facto border. The ministry of external affairs (MEA) issued a joint press statement early on Friday featuring five points which were agreed upon by both the sides at the "frank and constructive" discussions by the two ministers. "The two foreign ministers agreed that the current situation in the border areas is not in the interest of either side. They agreed, therefore, that the border troops of both sides should continue their dialogue, quickly disengage, maintain proper distance and ease tensions," it said. The joint statement said Jaishankar and Wang agreed that both sides should take guidance from the series of consensus reached between leaders of the two countries on developing India-China relations, including not allowing differences to become disputes. This assessment was a clear reference to decisions taken by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chinese President Xi Jinping at their two informal summits in 2018 and 2019. "The two ministers agreed that both sides shall abide by all the existing agreements and protocol on China-India boundary affairs, maintain peace and tranquility in the border areas and avoid any action that could escalate matters," the joint statement said. At the talks, Jaishankar and Wang agreed that as the situation eases on the border, the two sides should expedite work to conclude new confidence building measures to maintain and enhance peace and tranquility in the border areas. The joint statement said the two sides also agreed to continue to have dialogue and communication through the special representative (SR) mechanism on the India-China boundary question. "They also agreed in this context that the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination on India-China border affairs (WMCC) should also continue at its meetings," it added. A press release issued by the Chinese Foreign Ministry in Beijing quoted Wang as having told Jaishankar it is normal for both the countries to have differences but it is important to put them in proper context and take the guidance of the leaders. Wang noted that it is normal for China and India to have differences as two neighbouring major countries. What is important is to put these differences in a proper context vis-a-vis bilateral relations , the release said. Wang stressed that as two large developing countries emerging rapidly, what China and India need right now is cooperation, not confrontation; and mutual trust, not suspicion, the release added. “Whenever the situation gets difficult, it is all the more important to ensure the stability of the overall relationship and preserve mutual trust,” Wang said. “China-India relations have once again come to a crossroads. But as long as the two sides keep moving the relationship in the right direction, there will be no difficulty or challenge that can't be overcome,” Wang added. At the talks, sources said the Indian side highlighted its strong concern over amassing of large number of troops by China along with military equipment along the LAC, and noted that the presence of such a large concentration of military personnel was not in accordance with the bilateral pacts of 1993 and 1996 on border affairs. They said the Indian delegation conveyed that the provocative behavior of Chinese frontline troops at the friction points along the LAC showed their disregard for bilateral agreements and protocols. "The Indian side clearly conveyed that it expected full adherence to all agreements on management of border areas and would not countenance any attempt to change the status quo unilaterally. "It was also emphasized that the Indian troops had scrupulously followed all agreements and protocols pertaining to the management of the border areas," said a source. Jaishankar told Wang that maintenance of peace and tranquility on the border areas was essential to the forward development of ties, the sources said. He conveyed to his Chinese counterpart that the recent incidents in eastern Ladakh, however, inevitably impacted the development of the bilateral relationship. Therefore, he told Wang that an urgent resolution of the current situation was in the interest of both the nations, the sources said. The Indian side insisted that the immediate task is to ensure a comprehensive disengagement of troops in all the friction areas and that it is necessary to prevent any untoward incident in the future, the sources said, adding the final disposition of the deployment of troops to their permanent posts and the phasing of the process is to be worked out by the military commanders of the two sides.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-675
11-09-2020||India||Kerala: twin gold scandals hit Left & Congress-led fronts||Both the ruling and Opposition fronts in Kerala have been buffeted by allegations of corruption as each looks to upstage the other in the poll-bound state. The ruling CPM-led Left Democratic Front has landed in choppy waters in the aftermath of the gold smuggling case in which a powerful bureaucrat who ran the chief minister’s office was accused of having links with one of the key accused. Now, another angle has been injected into the case with the state CPM chief’s son getting embroiled in a drugs case in Bangalore that has been linked to the smuggling case. However, the Congress-led United Democratic Front is also on the back foot as an MLA of the combine and another influential leader have been booked for swindling depositors out of crores of rupees through a gold scheme. The CPM has pointed out that Bineesh Kodiyeri, the businessman son of Kerala unit secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan is not a member of the party. Balakrishnan has made it clear that there is no question of defending his son if he is found guilty. The IUML, a constituent of the Congress-led United Democratic Front, has decided to remove Manjeshwar MLA M.C. Kamaruddin from the post of Kasaragod district president of the UDF. Kamaruddin and the managing director of his Fashion Gold Jewellery, T.P. Pookaya Thangal, have been accused of cheating depositors in a gold scheme. Pookaya Thangal is also a Kasaragod district working committee member of the IUML “The party is with the depositors and we have asked Kamaruddin to produce details of his assets and liabilities by September 30 and return the depositors’ money within six months,” IUML general secretary P.K. Kunhalikutty told a media conference in Malappuram on Thursday. “Let law take its course. But Kamaruddin has agreed to return all the money,” he added. While there is no clear estimate of the total amount, the CPM claims that Kamaruddin owed more than Rs 150 crore to his depositors in Kasaragod and Kannur. As of Thursday, 35 complaints have been filed against the IUML duo. With complaints piling up, the IUML and the UDF had been increasingly under pressure to act against the two leaders. While Bineesh coming under the lens investigating agencies would have otherwise given a handle to the Opposition UDF, eyeing power in next year’s Kerala elections, it has held back from a full-fledged attack because of the cheating controversy its own leaders have got entangled in. Bineesh was on Wednesday questioned by the Enforcement Directorate for 12 hours in connection with the seizure of gold smuggled in from the UAE at Thiruvananthapuram International Airport in July. Sources said he was now likely to be summoned by the Narcotics Control Bureau over the drugs bust in Bangalore that has led to the arrests of two top actresses, an event organiser and some suspected drug peddlers. The call records of one of the suspected drug peddlers suggest that he had been in touch with Bineesh. Bineesh has expressed shock at the alleged involvement of Anoop Mohammed in the drugs racket but conceded that he is a friend. The agencies are probing if the drug peddlers had helped the accused in the gold smuggling case. The CPM has pointed out that Bineesh is not a CPM member but Kamaruddin and Pookoya Thangal are highly respected leaders of the IUML. Balakrishnan has backed a full-fledged investigation on whether his son had any links with those arrested in the drugs case. “If he deserves to be hanged, so be it. Nobody is going to protect him if he has done anything unlawful,” the CPM state secretary said recently. While the IUML had been hesitant to even make a public statement on Kamaruddin’s cheating case until on Thursday, ally Congress has also been mute on the issue. Instead, state Congress president Mullapally Ramachandran on Thursday demanded the resignation of the CPM state secretary since the ED had questioned his son. Kasaragod district CPM secretary M.V. Balakrishnan said there was no parallel between the two cases haunting the LDF and the UDF. “Bineesh is not even a member of the CPM and his father has made it clear that the law should take its course. But Kamaruddin and Pookoya Thangal are senior leaders of the IUML,” he told The Telegraph. “As of today there are 749 depositors who had deposited from a few thousands to Rs 2 crore and above (in the gold scheme). Many of them had deposited their life’s savings trusting the IUML leaders,” he added. With the local elections a month away and the Assembly elections next summer, both fronts are trying to ensure the controversies don’t affect their fortunes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-675
11-09-2020||India||Rare orchid found in Uttarakhand||Liparis Pygmaea, a rare variety of orchid, has been found for the first time in the western Himalayan region in Uttarakhand. A team of Uttarakhand forest department spotted the flower at an altitude of 3,800 metres during a trek to Saptakund in Chamoli district in June this year, chief conservator of forest (research) Sanjiv Chaturvedi told PTI. Samples sent by the forest department to Botanical Survey of India were confirmed as Liparis Pygmaea and the Pune-based body preserved them in its herbarium, Chaturvedi said. The discovery made by a two-member team consisting of range officer Harish Negi and JRF Manoj Singh has been recognised by French scientific research journal Richardiana, which published a paper on the discovery. Liparis Pygmaea is a small terrestrial orchid with beautiful flowers springing on it in the month of June-July. As it has been found for the first time in the western Himalayas, botanists consider it a significant discovery, the official said. Apart from one place in Uttarakhand the species has been found in the past at three locations in Sikkim and at one location in Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-675
11-09-2020||India||Covid stress more on women||Nearly 50 per cent of India’s women employees are feeling increased stress because of the Covid-19 pandemic, showed a survey conducted by online professional network LinkedIn. The survey revealed that the pandemic is taking a toll on the emotional well being of India’s women employees as 47 per cent report they are experiencing more stress or anxiety because of the pandemic, LinkedIn said. For men, this number stood at 38 per cent, pointing at a disproportionate impact on women in these testing times, it said. LinkedIn on Thursday announced the findings of the tenth edition of the LinkedIn Workforce Confidence Index, a fortnightly pulse on the confidence of India’s workforce. Based on the survey responses of 2,254 professionals in India, findings from the weeks of July 27 to August 23 reveal the pandemic’s impact on India’s women employees, including mothers, and the cautious optimism of freelancers towards personal finances and career prospects, it said. The survey underscored the challenges of childcare during the pandemic, according to a LinkedIn statement. The survey showed that India’s overall confidence is growing steadily. Remote working has laid out a tougher road for India’s working mothers as the survey showed that around one in three (31 per cent) working mothers are currently providing childcare full-time, when compared to nearly one in five (17 per cent) working fathers, the statement said. “Worryingly, more than two in five (44 per cent) working moms are working outside their business hours to provide childcare, nearly twice as many men (25 per cent),” it said. The survey showed that only one in five (20 per cent) working mothers rely on a family member or friend to take care of their children, when compared to 32 per cent men. More than 46 per cent mothers reported working till late to make up for work, and 42 per cent are unable to focus on work with their children at home, it said. The findings show that about one in four freelancers anticipate an increase in their earned income (25 per cent) and personal savings (27 per cent), while close to one in three (31 per cent) expect their number of investments to increase in the next six months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-676
11-09-2020||India||Why should TV not be regulated: Bombay HC||Bombay High Court on Thursday said it was surprised to know that the government had no control over the electronic media and asked why television news should not be regulated by the State. The observation was made by a bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G.S. Kulkarni while hearing a bunch of petitions that sought various orders related to the Sushant Singh Rajput death case, including a directive to restrain the media in its coverage of the matter. “We are surprised that the State has no control over the electronic media. Why should it (TV news) not be regulated in case they may have serious ramifications,” the court said. The court impleaded the Union ministry of information and broadcasting as a party in the matter. It directed the ministry to file a reply in court indicating the extent of State control that is exercised in respect of telecasting news, particularly such news that “may have serious ramifications”. The bench  made the Narcotics Control Bureau and the Enforcement Directorate, the central agencies probing issues related to the death of the actor, as parties. One of the petitioners had alleged that the agencies were “leaking” probe-related information to the media and the public. The bench, however, refused to implead actress Rhea Chakraborty as a respondent in the case. “We do not see any reason to implead the proposed respondent number 12 (Chakraborty), an accused who is presently in judicial custody,” the court said. The petitions, filed by activists and eight retired senior police officers, have alleged, among other things, that several TV channels are running a parallel probe in the case, and that they are conducting a malicious campaign against Mumbai police through their reportage in the case. On September 3, another bench had heard the same pleas and passed an order urging the media to show restraint while covering the developments. On Thursday, senior advocate Milind Sathe, who appeared for the former police officers, told the bench that despite the order, TV channels were continuing with their slander against Mumbai police. Sathe submitted transcripts from news broadcasts in which channels had insinuated that Mumbai police had been assisting or shielding the accused, and the “drug mafia”. Chief Justice Datta told advocate Sathe that he shouldn’t be bothered by what a news anchor was saying. He, however, added that the court hoped and trusted that “the spirit of the order dated September 3” would be kept in mind by TV news channels. The Union government pointed out that the petitioners should have approached the Press Council of India, a statutory body that regulates the print media, and the News Broadcasting Standards Authority (NBSA) with its grievances against the TV news channels. The court noted that the NBSA wasn’t a statutory body. The court directed all parties to file their replies and rejoinders within two weeks, adding that while the pleas remained pending the NBSA was free to act upon any complaints received so far against such news.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-676
11-09-2020||India||Delhi HC: Learn law before journalism||People must take a course in criminal trial and then get into journalism, was how an annoyed Delhi High Court remarked while expressing displeasure over the alleged parallel investigation being run by anchor Arnab Goswami on his TV channel in connection with Congress leader Shashi Tharoor’s wife Sunanda Pushkar’s death case. The high court, which observed responsible journalism is the need of the time, said it was not saying that anyone would gag the media but at the same time, sanctity of investigation must be maintained. “Can the media sit in appeal against the chargesheet filed by an investigating agency? Justice Mukta Gupta asked. “It is not a reflection on the plaintiff (Tharoor) but the investigating agency. Can there be a parallel investigation or trial?.. Would you not like the courts to take their own course?” the judge asked. The high court was hearing an application by Congress MP Tharoor seeking an interim injunction against Goswami, editor-in-chief of Republic TV, from making defamatory remarks against the leader. Tharoor’s grievance relates to broadcast of the programmes naming him on the TV channel in July and August and the journalist claiming that they had investigated Sunanda Pushkar case better than the police and that he still had no doubt that Pushkar was murdered. The high court expressed its displeasure over the claims made by the journalist when the trial in the criminal case was still pending. “People must take a course in criminal trial and then get into journalism,” the judge remarked. “Please show restraint. Once the police investigation is going on in the criminal case, there cannot be a parallel investigation by the media,” the judge said. The high court referred to a December 1, 2017 order passed in the matter in which it was stated that “Press cannot ‘convict anyone’ or insinuate that he/she is guilty or make any other unsubstantiated claims. Press has to exercise care and caution while reporting about matters under investigation or pending trial.” Pushkar was found dead in a suite of a five-star hotel in south Delhi on the night of January 17, 2014 under mysterious circumstances. Tharoor has alleged that Goswami and his channel continued to engage in “defaming and maligning” him despite an assurance given by their counsel in the court on May 29, 2017.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-676
11-09-2020||India||Fraudsters steal Rs 6 lakh from Ayodhya temple trust||Fraudsters used forged cheques to withdraw Rs 6 lakh in two instalments from the bank account of the trust set up by the Centre to build a Ram temple in Ayodhya, police said on Thursday. Officers blamed the “negligence” of the State Bank of India, with which the Shree Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust had the account. A case has been registered against unidentified people for cheating, impersonation and forgery. The fraud was discovered when the gang on Wednesday tried to transfer Rs 9.86 lakh from the account, held with the SBI’s Naya Ghat branch in Ayodhya, to a Bank of Baroda account in Lucknow, the police said. Trust general secretary Champat Rai was quoted as saying in his police complaint that he had received a verification call from an SBI branch in Lucknow on Wednesday afternoon about the cheque. While this cheque was blocked immediately, Rai checked the account and found that Rs 2.5 lakh had been withdrawn on September 1 and Rs 3.5 lakh on September 3 in favour of a Punjab National Bank account in Lucknow. The police did not reveal the names under which the Bank of Baroda and PNB accounts had been opened. No arrests had been made till Thursday evening. A police source blamed the fraud on the “lackadaisical approach” of the SBI. “The SBI branch in Lucknow, which cleared the previous two cheques without cross-checking with the account holder, has to pay back the money to the trust. It also had the responsibility to identify the cloned cheque and the forged signature,” he said. If a cheque forgery is proved through the bank’s own investigation or a police probe, the bank is required to reimburse the amount. An SBI official, speaking on the condition of anonymity, said the bank had started an internal inquiry. “The customer’s interest must be protected,” he said. Ayodhya deputy inspector-general of police Deepak Kumar said: “The involvement of bank employees cannot be ruled out.” Ayodhya circle officer Rajesh Rai suggested the involvement of a “big gang”. He added that trust general secretary Champat Rai and trustee Anil Mishra were the authorised signatories for the SBI account held with the Naya Ghat branch. “The trust did not receive any SMS alert during the previous two transactions. The bank only called them for verification during the fraudsters’ third attempt,” he said. Earlier, the trust had lodged an FIR saying fraudsters and fake organisations had been using its name to illegally collect money, ostensibly for the construction of the Ram temple. The Centre had formed the temple trust early this year on the direction of the Supreme Court, which had handed the disputed plot to the Hindu side last November.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-676
11-09-2020||India||AG aid sought on graft charge against judges||The Supreme Court on Thursday asked attorney-general K.K. Venugopal to assist it in determining whether citizens have a right to allege corruption among sitting and former judges and, if yes, under what circumstances this right can be exercised. The request came in the context of the 2009 contempt proceedings against lawyer-activist Prashant Bhushan, who had told Tehelka magazine that year that half the 16 former Chief Justices of India (CJIs) were corrupt. Bhushan had qualified his allegation by saying he had no evidence to back it up. The apex court had last month convicted Bhushan of criminal contempt for two tweets posted in June this year about past and present CJIs, fining him Re 1 after he refused to apologise. The same bench of Justices Arun Mishra, B.R. Gavai and Krishna Murari was hearing the 2009 case too, but had decided to expand its scope beyond Bhushan and examine the larger issue of citizens’ right to allege corruption by judges. However, with Justice Mishra retiring on September 2, Chief Justice S.A. Bobde has constituted a new bench to hear the matter. On Thursday, when the 2009 case came up before the bench of Justices A.M. Khanwilkar, Dinesh Maheshwari and Sanjiv Khanna, they sought the attorney-general’s assistance and posted the next hearing to mid-October. “Registry is directed to furnish complete record of this proceeding(s) in the office of the Attorney General for India, who is requested to appear in the matter to assist the court. List the matter in the week commencing from 12.10.2020,” the bench said after briefly hearing senior advocate Rajeev Dhavan, who appeared for Bhushan. On August 17, the bench headed by Justice Mishra had held that the matter had far-reaching ramifications and decided to frame certain broader questions for consideration by the apex court. “The question that has been framed by this court has certain far-reaching ramifications on which we would like to hear the learned counsel for the parties,” that bench had said. “We would also like the learned counsel to address this court on the following additional issues: (i) In case a public statement as to corruption by a particular judge(s) is permissible, under what circumstances and on what basis it can be made, and (what are the) safeguards, if any, to be observed in that regard? “(ii) What procedure is to be adopted to make (a) complaint in such cases when the allegation is about the conduct of a sitting judge? (iii) Whether against retired judge(s), any allegation as to corruption can be made publicly, thereby shaking the confidence of general public in the judiciary; and whether the same would be punishable under the Contempt of Courts Act.” In June, Bhushan had alleged in a tweet that democracy had been destroyed during the tenure of the last four CJIs. In another tweet he had questioned CJI Bobde’s act of posing for pictures on a Harley-Davidson without a mask at a time when he had suspended physical court hearings citing the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-676
11-09-2020||India||RJD's Manoj Jha to be Opposition candidate for RS poll ||In Bihar poll season, Rashtriya Janata Dal member Manoj Jha has emerged as the Opposition’s consensus candidate for Rajya Sabha Deputy Chair, forcing an election for a post that the NDA is comfortably poised to win. Aware of the odds, Jha has agreed to be the Opposition candidate for Monday’s vote out of a conviction that democracy is not just about numbers but also about providing alternatives. After the DMK rejected an offer to field T. Siva, it fell on Jha to mount what should be a symbolic fight unless the three major non-NDA, non-UPA parties — the Biju Janata Dal, YSR Congress and the Telangana Rashtra Samiti — back his candidature. Efforts will be made to reach out to these parties, Opposition leaders said. Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Thursday called his Odisha counterpart Naveen Patnaik and sought the BJD’s support for his party colleague and NDA candidate, Harivansh, who held the Deputy Chair’s post before his term expired in April. In the 2018 election that Harivansh had won, the BJD had supported him. Confirming he would be filing his nomination on Friday, Jha told The Telegraph that this was not just about winning an election but about claiming space for the Opposition in a parliamentary democracy. “Just because we are short of numbers does not mean that we quit fighting,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-676
11-09-2020||India||Nitish seeks Naveen help for RS deputy chairman ||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Thursday called up his Odisha counterpart, Naveen Patnaik and sought his party Biju Janata Dal’s support for JD(U) candidate in the election to the post of Rajya Sabha deputy chairman. Sources said Nitish, who is also the JD(U) chief, informed Naveen that his party MP Harivansh Narayan Singh, who held the post till April 9, is seeking re-election. The election is scheduled for September 14 and the last date for filing of nomination is September 11. A former journalist, Harivansh had been elected to the Rajya Sabha on a JD(U) ticket from Bihar in 2014 for a period of six years. On August 8, 2018, he was elected the deputy chairperson of the Upper House of Parliament. In those elections, the Naveen Patnaik-led BJD had supported Harivansh drawing criticism from several quarters as JD(U) is running a coalition government with BJP in Bihar. The BJD follows an avowed policy of maintaining equidistance from BJP and Congress. The BJD had sought to clear the air over the issue, saying that it had supported the JD(U) because of “ideological similarities”. BJD Rajya Sabha member Amar Patnaik said the chief minister would take the appropriate decision on the issue after considering all angles.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-676
11-09-2020||India||Call to hike NREGA days and wages||A research group on Thursday said the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) had emerged as the main source of income for the rural populace during the pandemic and demanded a hike in the wage rate and the number of permissible days for work per family. The People’s Action for Employment Guarantee (PAEG) told reporters that with the limited employment opportunities in rural India, the only viable livelihood option for the migrants who retuned home during the lockdown and the local people was the MGNREGA, which provides up to 100 days of employment per family per year. The notified wage rate under the scheme varies from state to state, ranging between Rs 194 and Rs 309 a day. Anuradha Talwar, an activist, demanded that the number of permissible days be doubled to 200 per family per year. The PAEG made a presentation on the scheme’s performance based on data sourced from the MGNREGA website. According to the presentation, 5.8 crore households have got work under the MGNREGA since April, already exceeding the scheme’s usual annual beneficiaries of 5 crore. Around 85 lakh job cards have been issued this year, 22 per cent more than the usual annual average. Rajendran Narayanan, a researcher, said the scheme, which was envisaged to be a demand-driven programme, had become a supply-fuelled scheme, limiting its scope because of disruptions in funding. The government had allocated Rs 61,500 crore in this year’s budget for the MGNREGA. Another Rs 40,000 crore was announced in May. Rajendran said the programme’s funding had already run into a deficit and urged the government to release the additional amount. During Thursday’s session, videos of several MGNREGA workers were shared in which they highlighted the importance of the scheme and demanded an increase in wage rates and the number of days for which work is provided. Economist Jayati Ghosh highlighted the need to spend more funds under the MGNREGA, which would help address the general drop in demand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-676
11-09-2020||India||Slugfest over Delhi slum along railway lines||Aam Aadmi Party MLA Raghav Chadha on Thursday tore an eviction notice to slum dwellers from the railways at a media conference, amidst criticism of inaction by his party that rules the national capital. On August 31, the Supreme Court had ordered the clearing of 48,000 hutments along railway tracks in the capital within three months. The court also prevented any stay orders on the eviction by any other court, notwithstanding a 2015 order from Delhi High Court that stalled such removals until a survey of those who live in the slums was completed. Civil society groups have demanded that the Delhi government file a review petition against the order, which could jeopardise the efforts to contain the Covid-19 pandemic in the capital that is fast exhausting its capacity of critical-care facilities. Chadha said: “I want to tell the people of Delhi who stay in the slums that the Kejriwal government always cares for you. The Kejriwal government is the first government in the country that accepted the slum dwellers of the national capital as its family members. Arvind Kejriwal is not only the chief minister in the eyes of Delhi’s slum dwellers but also an elder brother. Kejriwal will never allow any suffering of these people till the time he is alive.” He added: “I have with me various notices served by the BJP-ruled central government. One such notice, which was put up at the houses of slum dwellers in the Tughlakabad area, ordered that they have to vacate their houses by September 11 (Friday). After this, their houses will be demolished. At the same time, in some other areas notices were issued noting that by September 14 (Monday) the slum dwellers will need to vacate their houses.” Chadha’s actions came after the BJP demanded that the AAP government move the slum dwellers to unoccupied homes constructed on the outskirts of the capital a decade ago. Several slum dwellers who were relocated there moved back to other slums due to the lack of civic amenities and jobs in those areas. In a news conference on Wednesday, leaders of the BJP — the main Opposition party in the city — said the AAP’s promises to resettle slum dwellers in proper homes has remained a non-starter since 2016. BJP’s Delhi unit president Adesh Gupta said that the Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board was yet to reveal how it had utilised Rs 11.25 crore given by the railways for the resettlement in 2017 on orders of the National Green Tribunal. As the AAP’s strategy on the eviction order remains unclear, the CPIML-Liberation held demonstrations in all the slums along railway lines in the capital. The Congress has offered to go to court on behalf of the slum dwellers if the Kejriwal government does not. The issue has caught the AAP off guard at a time when the party has started preparations for municipal polls two years away and has been leading demonstrations by striking municipal workers — as has the Congress — against the BJP-ruled municipal corporations defaulting on their wages. Delhi Pradesh Congress Committee president Chaudhary Anil Kumar told reporters: “The Congress government (under Sheila Dikshit) started the construction of over 64,000 flats under the Rajiv Awas Yojana. Of these, 90 per cent of houses are vacant in Dwarka, Tughlakabad, Bhalswa, Narela, Bawana and other areas. Due to the apathy of the Arvind Kejriwal government, these flats are still vacant while no new scheme has been planned or launched in the last seven years by the AAP government for slum clusters.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-676
11-09-2020||India||Kashmir Editors Guild slam critics of silence||Kashmir’s top editors’ body has crawled out of its self-created shell, not to break its silence on the government’s crackdown on journalists or the sufferings of the Valley’s people but to chastise criticism of this silence as “vilification”. The Kashmir Editors Guild on Wednesday held its first meeting since the removal of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status on August 5 last year and the accompanying government clampdown on the then state’s entire population. Yet the only unambiguous words of censure in its statement, issued on Thursday, were reserved for the “vilification” by “vested interests” looking to “undermine the institution of media in Kashmir”. Guild sources suggested the targets included some leading Jammu and Kashmir journalists who have questioned their peers’ reportage, for instance, the way most of them have sidestepped the pellet injuries caused to Muharram mourners in security force firing this month. “KEG members regretted that the vilification campaigns launched by the vested interests from within the systems of governance, within and outside the wider social media and offshore are aimed at undoing the Himalaya of reportage on which Kashmir’s history rests,” the statement said. Guild sources said the editors had been particularly incensed by the writings of Anuradha Bhasin — executive editor of the Jammu-based The Kashmir Times, the region’s oldest English-language newspaper — in the news and opinion website, The Wire. “The Valley’s leading newspapers have chosen to keep their publications alive by killing news stories and burying all morals of journalism,” Bhasin has written. “For over a year, I have grappled with the question of ethics — whether as an editor of the newspaper Kashmir Times, I might be crossing the principled stand of commenting on the content and conduct of ‘rival’ newspapers, and thus held my peace.” Kashmir’s newspapers had in the past been sympathetic to the azadi cause and prioritised the coverage of rights violations by the forces. But after remaining shut in the initial days of the post-August 5 clampdown, most local newspapers had turned into voices of the government as they resumed publication. They provided wide publicity to official versions of events while reports of the people’s sufferings and outrage found little space. Their journalists, however, continued to face all kinds of hurdles, particularly because of a communication bl-ockade during which Internet and phone services were suspended for months. Many jo-urnalists were hounded, summoned, arrested or booked under the anti-terror law. But the guild’s statement mentioned none of this as the editors stuck to their year-old policy of not annoying the government lest there be a backlash or an advertisement squeeze. Bhasin had written that a race “driven by purely material considerations is not my line of work”. “More importantly, when the actions of some affect a trend impacting journalism as a whole — and perilously so — it is important to speak out.” Bhasin had filed a public interest plea in the Supreme Court last year to fight the government ban on the Internet, mobile and landline services. Her newspaper, which is part of the guild, has since borne the brunt of alleged government reprisal. Since November, guild sources said, the newspaper had received no government advertisements — a major source of revenue for the region’s dailies. “They have also received notices to vacate government-allotted space for their office in Srinagar and (residential) accommodation in Jammu,” a source said. Many other newspapers too enjoy such facilities. Financial problems have forced Bhasin’s newspaper to shut down its Valley edition. Thursday’s guild statement spoke vaguely about some of the issues confronting the media in the Valley. “The members said that the forum must meet frequently to respond to the evolving situations and to revisit the interventions that have taken place in the last more than a year,” it said. The statement was silent on the new media policy the government had framed in June, empowering the State to decide what is fake news and act on it, or on the crackdown on journalists. “The purpose of the meeting was also to revive the KEG. A three-member committee has been set up to decide about new elections to the body,” a source said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-676
11-09-2020||India||Serum Institute to suspend vaccine trial ||The Pune-based Serum Institute of India said on Thursday that it would suspend its clinical trials of the Oxford candidate vaccine against the coronavirus disease, a day after the central drug regulatory authority charged the company of disregarding a global pause. The international firm AstraZeneca had on Wednesday announced a pause in global clinical trials of the candidate vaccine after an unexplained illness in a vaccine recipient, but Serum Institute had asserted it would continue with the Indian trial, surprising the scientific community. The Drug Controller General of India had on Wednesday issued a “showcause notice” to Serum Institute, citing AstraZeneca’s decision to suspend clinical trials in Brazil, South Africa, the UK and the US and questioning the world’s largest vaccine maker’s decision to continue the trial in India. In response to the DCGI’s notice, Serum Institute on Thursday said: “We are reviewing the situation and pausing the India trial till AstraZeneca restarts the trial. We are following the DCGI’s instructions. If the DCGI has any safety concerns, we will follow their instructions and abide by the standard protocols.” While Serum Institute’s stand on Wednesday had puzzled some scientists, a member of the national task force on Covid-19 had told The Telegraph that it is possible no one was to “immediately” receive the candidate vaccine in the coming days. In the India arm of the trial, around 100 healthy volunteers would have already received the candidate vaccine and the associated data would be currently under review by the data safety and monitoring board. It is only after an analysis of this data that more volunteers would receive the vaccine. “The right thing to be done is to pause trials to understand this,” said Shahid Jameel, a senior virologist and head of the Wellcome Trust DBT India Alliance, a UK-India research partnership. Around 1,600 healthy volunteers in India are expected to receive the Oxford candidate vaccine at 17 medical colleges across the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-677
11-09-2020||India||Covid: At least 1 in 4 skipped JEE Main ||More than one in four candidates skipped the Joint Entrance Examination Main held this month amid the pandemic, which is more than four times the absenteeism figure usually witnessed, official data show. The JEE Main was held from September 1 to 6 amid criticism of the move from many students, parents, teachers and others who argued that it endangered the health of the candidates. According to figures tweeted by education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal, about 8.58 lakh candidates had applied for the exam but only 6.35 lakh — 74 per cent — turned up. Data with the National Testing Agency (NTA), which began conducting the JEE Main from 2019, show that 929,198 candidates had registered for the exam in January 2019 while 874,469, or 94.11 per cent, actually took it. In April 2019, there were 935,755 candidates of whom 881,096, or 94.15 per cent, appeared. The absenteeism in the January 2020 exam too was about 6 per cent, which means the 26 per cent absenteeism in September is more than fourfold the figure seen in the past three editions of the twice-a-year exam. Going by absolute numbers, 2.23 lakh students dropped out this time compared with figures between 50,000 and 55,000 in recent editions. After the JEE Main ended on Sunday, neither the NTA nor the education ministry had released the turnout figures. On Wednesday, BJP leader Subramanian Swamy — who had opposed the exams being held in the middle of the Covid-19 outbreak — tweeted that “out of 18 lakh (candidates) who downloaded passes, 8 lakh turned up to take the exam”. Pokhriyal then released the figures of 8.58 lakh and 6.35 lakh late on Wednesday evening. On Thursday, Swamy contested the figure of 8.58 lakh candidates, highlighting that the ministry had furnished a figure of 9.53 lakh registered candidates before the Supreme Court. Pokhriyal again clarified that 9.53 lakh was the number of total registrations but since 95,000 candidates had applied for both the BTech and architecture-and-planning papers, the actual number of candidates was 8.58 lakh. The JEE Main is held twice a year so that students who appeared in January can take the test in April again to improve their scores. A government official suggested that most of the absentees would be candidates from January. The April exam had been deferred because of the countrywide lockdown. He conceded that this was only a conjecture.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-677
11-09-2020||India||Mascot Modi outshines Nitish ||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday launched a bunch of initiatives for the fisheries and animal husbandry sector, most of them for Bihar, and sought to strike a chord with the people of the poll-bound state by beginning his speech in Bhojpuri. The otherwise official event, coming ahead of the Assembly elections in Bihar that are scheduled to be held in November, was seen as an attempt by the BJP to woo the electorate and dominate the narrative in the state by tapping into Modi’s popularity. BJP ally, Bihar chief minister and JDU leader Nitish Kumar, also attended the virtual event but appeared overshadowed in Modi’s presence. After interacting with some of the beneficiaries of his government’s schemes, the Prime Minister delivered a speech on his pet theme of self-reliance, starting with a few sentences in Bhojpuri. Bhojpuri is one of the dominant dialects in Bihar, with many people who don’t speak it also having a connect with the language because of a popular film and music industry. Through the videoconference, Modi launched a Rs 20,050-crore PM Matsya Sampada Yojana and a mobile app to provide farmers a marketplace for livestock, and inaugurated a Rs 84.27-crore semen station at Purnia with state-of-the-art facilities. Some other schemes relating to animal husbandry and fisheries were also announced. The majority of the schemes are part of Modi’s Aatmanirbhar Bharat package that the BJP has now turned into a campaign plank, calling for an “Aatmanirbhar Bihar”. “All the schemes started today resonate our belief that our villages should become the strength of 21st-century India, a self-reliant India,” Modi said. The BJP, which is a junior partner in Bihar’s ruling alliance, is trying to emerge from Nitish’s shadow and play a dominant role. Although the party has endorsed Nitish as the chief ministerial face of the NDA, it is learnt to be working on a strategy to assert itself after the elections. The BJP has usually contested a lesser number of seats than the JDU but this time it has indirectly piled pressure for an equal share even before seat-sharing talks have begun. The BJP hopes to win more seats than the JDU and leverage that in the post-poll scenario. Nitish, too, spoke at Thursday’s virtual event, highlighting that his government has done a lot of work in the agriculture and animal husbandry sectors and seeking to take a swipe at his detractors. Nitish thanked Modi for the initiatives. Modi lauded Nitish, but briefly, for accelerating the scheme to provide clean drinking water in the villages. Mostly, the Prime Minister focussed on the central government’s vision to improve the livelihood of the poor and make the country self-reliant.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-677
11-09-2020||India||RJD loyalist quits, olive branch offered||Former Union minister Raghuvansh Prasad Singh resigned from the Rashtriya Janata Dal on Thursday, dealing a big blow to Lalu Prasad’s party ahead of the Bihar Assembly elections, but Lalu immediately offered the olive branch to the disgruntled leader by writing back saying “you are not going anywhere”. Speculation is rife that Raghuvansh, a Lalu loyalist from long, plans to join chief minister Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal United. Raghuvansh, 74, a stalwart and the second most popular leader of the RJD after party chief Lalu, is undergoing treatment at AIIMS New Delhi after experiencing trouble in breathing and other post-Covid issues. In a brief handwritten letter addressed to Lalu in Hindi, he said: “I stood behind you for 32 years after the demise of Jan Nayak Karpoori Thakur (a popular socialist leader and former Bihar chief minister), but no more now. The party, its leaders, workers and the common people gave me much affection. I am sorry.” Hours later, the RJD released a letter handwritten by Lalu placating Raghuvansh and hoping to bend his ear on the issues riling him. “A letter purportedly written by you is doing the rounds in the media. Right now, I, my family and the RJD family want you to get well and see you back among us. We have always sat down together and discussed all political, social, and even family matters over the past four decades. Get well soon and then we will again sit down to talk. You are not going anywhere. Understand this,” Lalu’s letter said. Raghuvansh, a former Vaishali MP, is credited with conceptualising and implementing the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA), the Centre’s hugely popular 100-day job scheme, as the rural development minister in the Manmohan Singh government in 2006. The Opposition Congress-RJD alliance has already suffered a setback with HAMS leader and former chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi breaking ranks and joining the ruling NDA. Also, eight RJD legislators have switched to the JDU over the past few months. Raghuvansh is believed to have been miffed with the party leadership, especially Lalu’s younger son and leader of Opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, for insisting on inducting former MP and muscleman Rama Singh, who faces several criminal charges, into the RJD. Raghuvansh and Rama do not see eye to eye since the latter defeated the veteran leader as an LJP candidate in the 2014 Lok Sabha polls. Raghuvansh, sources said, suspects that Rama engineered his defeat in the 2019 general election. Raghuvansh resigned from the RJD vice-president’s post in June this year while being treated for the coronavirus disease at AIIMS Patna. He had made his displeasure known about inducting people with criminal antecedents into the party and sending “businessmen” to the Rajya Sabha. Lalu had intervened then and the entry of Rama into the RJD was put on hold. However, it came to light recently that Rama’s wife could contest the Bihar elections, scheduled to be held in November, on an RJD ticket. Raghuvansh is also said to have been unhappy with the alleged autocratic style of functioning of RJD state unit chief Jagdanand Singh, as well as with Tej Pratap calling him dispensable. Sources said that the former Union minister and five-term Lok Sabha member is planning to join the JDU. Nitish had been in touch with Raghuvansh during his treatment for Covid-19. The exit of Raghuvansh, who has the image of an honest socialist leader loyal to the party, is expected to impact the RJD’s fortunes in the elections. He belongs to the influential Rajput caste and is considered one of its tallest leaders in the state. Raghuvansh’s resignation will also queer the pitch for Tejashwi’s re-election bid from the Raghopur constituency that has a sizeable number of Rajput voters. Lalu’s younger son is said to be looking to contest from an additional seat to offset a possible fallout.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-677
11-09-2020||India||Congress raises relief bar for Centre||The Congress on Thursday asked the government to provide Rs 6,000 for the next 12 months to every poor family and unemployed youth, raising the bar way above anything the Narendra Modi government has doled out till now. The demand came amid reports that suggested the government was planning a second stimulus package as its much-hyped Rs 20-lakh-crore intervention earlier in the summer had failed to address the economic crisis, having contained little to boost demand. The Congress had emphatically rejected the package, saying it was just a “loan mela (fair)” and that the real stimulus it contained was less than 1 per cent of the GDP rather than the professed 10 per cent. Rahul Gandhi on Thursday accused the government of having ignored every good suggestion from the Congress and dragging the economy into a mess. “When I said in February before the corona(virus) struck that a tsunami is going to come, the government made fun of me,” he said in a video message. “When the crisis struck, I gave three suggestions. 1. Put money into the accounts of every poor person, on the lines of the Nyay (minimum income guarantee) scheme we had proposed (before the 2019 general election). 2. Help the MSMEs (micro, small and medium enterprises) which are our backbone and the future of our youth. 3. Protect our strategic industries.” Rahul added: “Modi did nothing. Kuchh nahin kiya. Instead, he gave tax relief and loan waivers to 15-20 corporate friends. Today I want to tell the Prime Minister again, ‘You have destroyed India’s economy and our youth’s future. Even today, you can salvage the situation by doing three things: Put money directly into the accounts of the poor, help the MSMEs and stop handing over our public-sector companies to your friends. And why have you fallen silent? Why don’t you speak on economy and China? Please say something; the country is eager to listen to you’.” Rahul was participating in an online campaign on job losses a day after party workers had held candlelight marches in many cities to stress the issue. Congress leaders from across the country posted videos explaining the gravity of the situation. They accused Modi of fuelling the crisis through wrong policies — from the November 2016 demonetisation to the unplanned lockdown — and regretted that the government still preferred to divert the nation’s attention with irrelevant issues. They asked the jobless youth to speak out and alleged the government’s policies had destroyed existing jobs instead of fulfilling its promise of creating two crore jobs every year. While some alleged that 14 crore jobs had been destroyed in the past six years, others underlined that nearly 2 crore salaried employees had lost their jobs during the lockdown alone. They all repeated the demand for the Rs 6,000-a-year relief, with former finance minister P. Chidambaram underscoring that it would far outstrip anything the government had handed out so far. “How much did each beneficiary get under the PM Garib Kalyan Yojana? Was it relief in any real sense or tokenism?”  Chidambaram tweeted. “Under NSAP (National Social Assistance Programme) 2.81 crore persons got Rs 2,814 crore or Rs 1,000 per person. Could that sum have kept body and soul together? Jan Dhan account holding women (20.6 crore) got Rs 30,925 crore or Rs 1,500 each over three months. Could a homemaker have run a family on Rs 500 a month? “Migrants (2.66 crore) got 2.67 lakh MT of food grains over 2 months. That is 5 kg per month. Could it have sustained a migrant and his family? The numbers prove that the money given was niggardly and totally insufficient. And certainly, the money could not have acted as a ‘stimulus’ to boost demand and revive the economy.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-677
11-09-2020||India||Rafale message to ‘those who raised eye’||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday called the formal induction of five Rafale fighters jets into the Indian Air Force a “game changer” and asserted that it was an important step in the light of the prevailing security situation that “has been created along India’s border”. “It sends a strong message to the world and specially to those who have dared to raise an eye at us. This induction is a game changer in the light of the prevailing situation that has been created at the border,” Rajnath said while referring to the ongoing border tensions with China but not naming the neighbour. The armies of the two countries have been locked in an intense standoff along the Line of Actual Control in eastern Ladakh since May. Several rounds of diplomatic and military discussions have failed to break the deadlock. Defence minister Rajnath himself had met his Chinese counterpart in Russia last week but not much emerged from the session. Rajnath, his French counterpart Florence Parly, Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat and IAF chief R.K.S. Bhadauria were among those who attended the formal induction ceremony for the Rafale jets at Haryana’s Ambala Air Force Station, the country’s oldest IAF base. The first set of five Rafale fighter aircraft arrived in India on July 27 and were formally inducted on Thursday to the IAF’s 17 Squadron “Golden Arrows”. Rajnath complimented the IAF for its quick deployment along the LAC during the border dispute with China. “I want to congratulate the IAF for the presence of mind they showed and the speed with which it deployed its assets at forward bases. It exudes confidence that our air force is fully prepared to fulfill its operational obligations,” the defence minister said. The IAF, he said, plays a “crucial role in military deterrence and their actions will be a key in case of any future war”. “The induction of jets is a game changer and it marks a historic moment for the country,” Rajnath added. In an apparent reference to Pakistan, he said that while the current border situation had “drawn our attention, we should also not ignore the threat posed by cross-border terrorism”. “We are very much aware of the security challenges along the northern borders and we have to stay alert for the protection of our nation,” Rajnath said. Referring to his meeting with his Chinese counterpart in Moscow, the defence minister said: “Recently, I put forth India’s point of view in front of the world.… I also made everyone aware of our resolve to not compromise with our sovereignty and territorial integrity under any circumstances. We are strongly committed to doing everything possible towards this.” Rajnath said India’s strengthening of its defence capabilities had always been driven by the desire for world peace. “India will not take any such step that can disturb peace anywhere. We expect the same from our neighbours and the rest of the world,” he said while underlining that India’s responsibilities were not limited to its borders alone. “We play a responsible role in the entire Indo-Pacific and the Indian Ocean Region.” Of the 36 Rafale jets India has bought under an April 2015 deal inked during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to France, another 26 will be delivered on schedule by the end of 2021. The remaining five will be delivered later. During the induction ceremony, a traditional “Sarva Dharma Puja” was performed, followed by an air display by the Rafale and the indigenous Tejas aircraft. A traditional water cannon salute was also given to the Rafale aircraft before the formal induction of the jets. Welcoming the jets, the air force tweeted: “New bird in the arsenal of IAF.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-677
11-09-2020||India||External affairs minister S. Jaishankar and Chinese counterpart meet in Moscow||External affairs minister S. Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi held talks in Moscow on Thursday amid a prolonged border standoff in eastern Ladakh, PTI reported. It is learnt that the two foreign ministers began their meeting a little after 8pm IST and the talks went on for at least two hours with the sole focus on bringing down tensions and ensuring disengagement of troops from the face-off sites. There was no official word on the outcome of the parleys that took place on the sidelines of a Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) meeting amid hopes of a possible breakthrough in ending the four-month-long face-off. “The focus of the talks was to lower the temperature between the two armies and begin disengagement of troops,” said a source. It was the first face-to-face meeting between the two foreign ministers since the standoff erupted in May. Earlier in the day, while the Indian Air Force was inducting Rafale fighters in Ambala, defence minister Rajnath Singh had said without mentioning China: “It sends a strong message to the world and specially to those who have dared to raise an eye at us.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-677
11-09-2020||India||‘Anti-Hindu’: BJP’s weapon of choice for Bengal||The fig leaf has been dropped. “Anti-Hindu” has become the weapon of choice for the BJP in its quest to capture Bengal. BJP national president J.P. Nadda on Thursday told the Bengal party leadership to highlight chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s “anti-Hindu approach”. “Mamatadi announced a lockdown on August 5 when the foundation stone for the Ram Mandir was laid (in Ayodhya).… However, she lifted the lockdown on the day of Bakrid. This proves her anti-Hindu approach,” Nadda told the BJP’s newly constituted Bengal state committee during an online meeting. “Our workers should make people understand that this is her politics of appeasement to stay in power,” Nadda added. The crux of the plank is in itself not new — the BJP had used a polarising campaign and reaped rich dividends in the Lok Sabha elections. But when a national president of a mainstream party openly describes an elected chief minister in such communal terms in the middle of national crises on multiple fronts, it does not betray a bankruptcy of ideas alone. The reckless label also takes it for granted that Bengal, once the battlefield of progressive discourse even though the communal card had been played by individuals occasionally in some seats, can easily be made to dance to such toxic tunes. Nadda was economical with the truth, too. Had Nadda not been playing mischief, he would have said the whole truth while handling a subject involving multiple religions: in the same announcement that exempted Bakrid, the Mamata government had exempted Independence Day, too, from the lockdown. The days had fallen on different Saturdays. Besides, several full-lockdown days in Bengal have been changed for reasons ranging from proximity to national exams to events important for multiple groups of people. Nadda singled out one day. Fifty state committee members, including Bengal unit president Dilip Ghosh, Mukul Roy and Rahul Sinha, and national leaders such as Kailash Vijayvargiya and Arvind Menon were present at Maheshwari Bhavan in central Calcutta to attend the videoconference addressed by Nadda. Not all of them need any encouragement or lesson from Nadda to play the polarisation card. Yet, it was an unusual sight to see the ruling party at the Centre being reduced to mouthing a regressive label to profile a public figure. A senior state BJP leader said the tone set by Nadda was in consonance with the central leadership’s understanding that the party’s chances of coming to power in Bengal rested on the saffron ecosystem’s ability to polarise the electorate. “If we succeed in creating a narrative that Mamata Banerjee’s politics is anti-Hindu and depends entirely on minority appeasement, our chances will increase manifold,” the leader said, preferring anonymity. During Thursday’s address, Nadda did speak about some of the development initiatives of the Narendra Modi government and asked the state party to spread the information. A state BJP leader  who was present at the meeting  later said such outreach initiatives meant little when the country was being battered on multiple fronts. “Given the condition of the economy and the nature of politics in Bengal, a development narrative would not be enough,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-677
11-09-2020||India||Covid tip-of-iceberg findings||India by early May already had over 6.4 million people infected with the new coronavirus, the national health research agency said on Thursday, estimating an epidemic size about 100-fold higher than counted through lab-confirmed cases. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), releasing detailed findings of the first nationwide household survey for the coronavirus, has estimated that for every lab-confirmed diagnosed case, India has 82 to 130 undocumented coronavirus infections, depending on the location. (During the day, the Union health ministry directed states to ensure that symptomatic patients who test negative on an “antigen” test for the coronavirus infection are retested with a confirmatory viral test amid concerns that the infection could spread without retests. The directive follows concerns that in some large states, symptomatic patients found negative through the relatively less reliable rapid antigen tests (RATs) are not being followed up by the more reliable confirmatory RT-PCR tests, the health ministry said.) The nationwide household survey that screened 28,000 persons from randomly selected households in 70 districts or cities across India found the infection prevalence ranged from 0.68 per cent to 1.03 per cent, with an overall nationwide prevalence rate of 0.73 per cent. The findings suggest a cumulative 6,468,388 adult infections by early May, Manoj Murhekar, director of the ICMR’s National Institute of Epidemiology, and his collaborators said, describing their findings in the Indian Journal of Medical Research. The survey from May 11 to June 4 looked for antibodies that indicate previous exposure to the infection. Health authorities across the country had by May 8 detected 59,662 lab-confirmed cases of the coronavirus disease. The estimate of over 6.4 million actual infections points to a silent and undetected spread of the infection long suspected by public health experts. The high infection-to-case ratio in India may be due to the “prioritisation of testing among symptomatics and variability of testing rates across states”, the researchers said. Public health specialists had in the early months of the epidemic expressed concern that narrow testing strategies would miss many people infected as 80 per cent of infected persons have no symptoms or only mild symptoms. The survey has estimated that the infection fatality rate — the proportion of deaths among the total number of infections — in India ranged from 0.18 (0.0018 per cent) in districts with least prevalence to 11 (0.11 per cent) per 10,000 infections in districts with the highest prevalence on May 24. The numbers changed to 0.27 (0.0027 per cent) to 15 (0.15 per cent) on June 1. In comparison, India’s case fatality rate — the proportion of deaths among lab-confirmed Covid-19 cases — is 1.7 per cent. The IFR in India, the researchers said, appears lower than documented in other countries — such as 0.12 per cent in the US or 1 per cent in Brazil and Spain. But the ICMR researchers cautioned that their IFR estimate is likely an “underestimate” because of incomplete death reporting and lack of access to testing facilities required to confirm Covid-19 deaths. The ICMR has since embarked on a second nationwide survey in the same districts whose results are expected to be analysed later this month. “A second survey in the same locations would allow us to assess how the infection prevalence has changed in three months,” a survey team member said. The IFR, the researchers have pointed out, represents the “societal cost” of achieving herd immunity to SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, through infections. Herd immunity is a phenomenon under which a viral infection has spread to such a large proportion of people that the infected persons themselves pose a barrier to further spread of the virus. Some medical experts have estimated that herd immunity against SARS-CoV-2 would require roughly 60 per cent of a population to be infected, although there is still uncertainty about this number. The Union health ministry explained why it directed states to ensure that symptomatic patients who test negative on an “antigen” test for the coronavirus infection are retested with a confirmatory viral test. Retesting is necessary to ensure that such symptomatic negative cases on antigen tests do not spread the infection among their contacts, the health ministry and the ICMR said in a joint letter to all states and Union Territories. The antigen tests, which look for tiny chunks of viral proteins, are less expensive and can yield results within 30 minutes, but also come with significant proportions of “false negative” results — a condition in which an infected patient is labelled as negative. The ICMR’s testing strategy, recognising this potential for false negative results, had asserted that all patients with symptoms of cough, fever or breathlessness who test negative on RAT (rapid antigen tests) should be tested again with RT-PCR, a more reliable test that looks for viral genetic material. It had also recommended that asymptomatic negative cases of RAT who develop symptoms within two or three days of testing should also be retested with RT-PCR. While the guidelines state the need for retesting, accounts from some states suggest not all symptomatic negative antigen cases are retested. Public health experts suspect the gaps in retesting might be the outcomes of either poor capacity or fatigue or a mix of both. “The numbers we’re seeing today makes testing all contacts and symptomatic people logistically cumbersome and challenging,” said Oommen John, a public health specialist at The George Institute of Global Health, New Delhi. India on Thursday recorded 95,903 new Covid-19 cases, raising the total number of infections to over 4.46 million of whom over 3.47 million have recovered, over 919,000 patients are under medical supervision and 75,062 have died. The average daily increase over the past seven days was 87,000 cases. Under health ministry guidelines, states are expected to trace and test all direct contacts of 80 per cent of new Covid-19 cases within 72 hours of their diagnosis. Public health experts point out that even if each new Covid-19 patient had three contacts, health staff would need to test more than 250,000 contacts daily. The Indian Public Health Association had last month urged the government to tweak the testing strategy to focus on patients with symptoms, cautioning that the current policy could lead to fatigue among health staff.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-677
11-09-2020||West Bengal||Bengal government withdraws Saturday lockdown, ‘no more’ hint||The Bengal government has withdrawn the complete lockdown on Saturday (September 12) in view of the NEET examination on Sunday amid suggestions that the state may not announce more total lockdowns for the time being. If the assessment crystallises into an official order, Friday’s total lockdown could be the last such shutdown unless the Covid situation worsens. “The state is not in a mood to announce the complete lockdown on any more days in the remaining half of the month,” a senior official said. “Further lockdowns in the latter half of September and October would hit the trading community badly during the festival season,” the official added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-378
11-09-2020||West Bengal||Metro to resume from Monday with e-pass||Metro train services, closed since March 23, will resume in Calcutta from Monday. The services will be suspended on Sundays for now, barring September 13 when a special service with 66 trains will be run for NEET. “We will run 110 trains (55 in each direction) daily,” general manager Manoj Joshi said on Thursday. Metro used to run 288 trains every weekday before the lockdown. The first and last trains will leave the terminal stations at 8am and 7pm. Smart-card users alone can board the trains. To enter a station, a commuter needs a “QR code-based colour-coded e-pass”, to be generated from the URL http//pathadisha.com/metro.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-378
11-09-2020||West Bengal||3,112 new Covid cases in Bengal||Bengal reported 3,112 new Covid cases on Thursday. The state also reported 41 deaths, the lowest daily toll in weeks, and 3,035 recoveries. Of the deaths, five were from Calcutta and 10 from North 24Parganas. Bengal logged over 1.93 lakh Covid-19 cases — since the first was detected on March 17 — of which over 1.66 lakh are recoveries and 3,771 are deaths. Of the total deaths, 3,242 (86 per cent) were reported as comorbid by the state government. The overall mortality rate stayed at 1.95, while the national rate is 1.67 per cent. The recovery rate is at 85.95, far ahead of the national rate of 77.63 per cent. With 44,347 tests on Thursday, the state went past 23 lakh in total testing, at over 23.3 lakh now. The tests per mil¬lion now is 25,892. From early February, Bengal took over three-and-a-half months to conduct 1 lakh tests, on May 19. Over the next 114 days, it conducted over 22 lakh tests. With the surge in testing, and the relatively less new cases found over the past few weeks, the positive confirmation rate improved from a high of 8.9 to 8.29 per cent. Bengal reported 32.75 per cent occupancy of 12,385 Covid19 beds in 92 hospitals. Telemedicine services ha¬ve been provided to nearly 1.92 lakh, 4,216 of them in the past 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-379
11-09-2020||West Bengal||Car crash kills family of 3 in Murshidabad||An elderly couple and their daughter died when their car collided head-on with a Berhampore-bound bus on NH12 in Murshidabad’s Rejinagar around 5.30pm on Wednesday. The three were returning home in Nadia’s Santipur after attending a family event at Englishbazar in Malda when the accident took place. Former employee of Krishnagar Women’s College Saileshwar Kashthya, 76, and his wife Jayanti Kashthya, 65, a retired schoolteacher, died on the spot. Their daughter Lipika Saha, 49, succumbed to injuries at Murshidabad Medical College and Hospital in Berhampore. The driver of the Maruti Swift, which the couple had hired to return home, suffered serious injuries and is undergoing treatment at NRS Medical College and Hospital in Calcutta. He was shifted to Calcutta after treatment at the Murshidabad Medical College and Hospital in Berhampore. Susanta De, a neighbour of the victims in Santipur, said: "Earlier this week the couple had gone to visit the in-laws’ of their granddaughter in Malda. Their daughter Lipika had also accompanied them. We were expecting them in the evening. We were shocked to hear the news of their demise.” According to the police and eyewitnesses, the accident occurred near Moradighi village on NH12 when the Maruti Swift broke a lane to overtake a lorry and rammed into the private bus coming from the opposite direction. Moradighi resident Mannan Seikh said: “The car tried to overtake the lorry at high speed but the driver failed to control the vehicle and rammed into the bus with a crushing sound.” “We were working in a field adjacent to NH12 and rushed towards the car immediately after the accident. We saw four persons trapped inside the mangled car and bleeding heavily. We called the police who came and took the two injured persons (the couple’s daughter and the driver) to the hospital. The couple had already died,” said another resident, Marju Hossain. An officer of Rejinagar police said: “The two injured, including the driver, were initially taken to a rural health centre from where they were taken to the Berhampore hospital. The woman died in hospital and the driver was transferred to NRS hospital.” Residents said the stretch was accident-prone. “It is a narrow single-lane stretch but vehicles speed. The work to widen the 3km road at Moradighi is yet to begin. We had asked the police to deploy cops on the stretch, but our pleas have gone unanswered,” said a resident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-379
11-09-2020||West Bengal||Load bar on colonial-era bridge spells detour||The decision by the state PWD to bar vehicles weighing 10 tonnes or more over the Coronation Bridge in Sevoke along NH 31C has prompted residents of the Dooars to demand a second bridge on the Teesta in the river’s downstream near Sevoke Bazaar, some 20km from here. The Coronation Bridge was built in 1941 to mark the coronation of King George V. In 2011, cracks spotted on the bridge prompted the PWD to carry out repairs. A tourist attraction, the giant structure can be conserved only by reducing traffic load, say many. On August 19 this year, the state PWD (NH division) ordered that vehicles weighing 10 tonnes and above could not ply on the bridge. “Some repair work has to be done on bridge but because of monsoon they could not be carried out. The restriction is imposed to avoid any detrimental effect on the structure,” said a PWD source. But with this curb, goods vehicles bound for the Dooars from Siliguri or vice-versa have to detour along NH27, that is, skirt Jalpaiguri to cross the Teesta. Apart from the Coronation Bridge, there are two more ways to cross the Teesta. One is a bridge at the Teesta Barrage in Gajoldoba that is not suitable for heavy vehicular movement and the other is the Teesta bridge (there are two parallel bridges now) on Jalpaiguri outskirts. In fact, as of now this pair of bridges — each used for one-way traffic — is the only means for heavy vehicles to cross the river and head for the Dooars and the Northeast. “This means more time as more distance has to be covered. Also, transport cost rises. From the Dooars, hundreds of vehicles used to ferry teas from estates to Siliguri warehouses via Sevoke. But now, these vehicles have to take the detour like other goods vehicles. People are facing inconvenience in the Dooars. We have decided to launch a movement soon, demanding a second bridge over the Teesta in an alignment like the Coronation Bridge so that direct connectivity between the Dooars and Siliguri is maintained,” said Chandan Roy, founder-secretary, the Dooars Forum for Social Reform, an apolitical outfit. Earlier, a plan was drawn up by the state and the Centre to build another bridge over the Teesta, as has been mentioned by the Dooars residents. The project, however, has not started even today. This July, in reply to a letter of MP of Jalpaiguri Jayanta Roy, Union minister for road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari had said that the state PWD was making a detailed project report for building another bridge over Teesta. Gadkari also said that for the project some 20.69 hectares had to be taken from the railways and the process had been initiated. “We want both the governments (Centre and state) to take up the project on priority basis. The bridge is also strategically important,” said Roy. The Forum, he said, has lined up certain activities to mount pressure on the state and central governments. On September 24, they will stage symbolic road blockades in areas such as Malbazar, Odlabari, Chalsa and Nagrakata in the Dooars. “Later this month, we will also go to the office of the executive engineer of the division of state PWD concerned and submit a memorandum to him,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-379
11-09-2020||West Bengal||Amphan: Peanuts to fix cyclone scars||Authorities of 2,472 schools in East Midnapore, devastated by Cyclone Amphan, had asked the district administration for funds to repair the buildings. What they received from the state government fell far short of their needs. Though schools are shut because of Covid curbs, talks of resuming classes, particularly for students of classes IX-XII, have left teachers worried as most classrooms need immediate repairs. The premises of these schools, which account for around 6 lakh pupils, are being used to distribute midday meal rations to students. A district official said most damaged schools received between Rs 15,000 and Rs 25,000 to repair kitchen sheds. He added the schools had been paid from a corpus of Rs 4.75 crore. That’s too little, say school authorities. Around 1,200 students study at Bhowanichak Aghore Chand High School in Contai. The school has been severely damaged during Amphan. During a recent inspection, teachers found that monsoon further damaged the building. “We got a civil contractor to assess the damage and he put the cost of repair at Rs 15 lakh. Amphan has blown away most sheds of our 12 classrooms. Left with no roof, classrooms have been exposed to rain for months..,” said headmaster Tapan Kumar Das. On funds received, Das said: “We only got Rs 15,000 so far to repair the shed of the room where midday meal is prepared.” The situation is no different at neighbouring Banamalichhatta High School with 1,100 students on its rolls. Teachers said that Amphan had ravaged the school’s three buildings, including the kitchen shed, and now rain keeps pounding on the damaged structures. “We received Rs 25,000 towards the repair of the kitchen shed but we need much more,” said assistant headmaster Ramanikanta Patra, putting the estimate at Rs 10 lakh. Patra led a crowd-funding campaign among stakeholders of the school and managed to raise nearly Rs 3 lakh to repair “walls crumbling from rainfall-induced damp”. Das has been pleading with panchayat and block authorities for funds since June to no success so far. Schools are asking district authorities to seek at least Rs 50 crore from the state government to get all schools repaired. “Buildings of most schools have been damaged. It is more important to take care of structural damages than replacing a kitchen shed, something schools can repair on their own,” said a source. However, around 282 schools in Nandigram-I and Sutahata blocks are better off. In the first phase, the schools in these two blocks received nearly Rs 5 crore from the state government’s minority welfare department to repair the Amphan damage. On alleged administrative inaction to release funds for school repairs, district inspector of schools (secondary) Aminul Hasan said: “Within a few days of Amphan hitting the district we sent a list of damaged schools to the education department. We have allotted funds to the schools to repair damaged kitchen sheds. The government has also allotted money to repair damaged school buildings in Nandigram-I and Sutahata blocks. The government is yet to give us funds to repair all damaged schools in the district.” BDO of Deshpran block Manoj Mullick said: “The education department is looking into the matter.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-379
11-09-2020||West Bengal||Ganga’s fury or storm, students suffer||Nearly 3,000 students, their guardians and teachers are keeping fingers crossed as the swelling Ganga nears a high school and a primary school in Birnagar area of Malda’s Kaliachak-III block, gobbling chunks of land by the minute. Things have reached such a pass that authorities of both schools have urged the administration to arrange land in safer places for the institutions. Mohammed Ainuddin, headmaster of Birnagar High School, said: “The Ganga is barely 200 metres from our school. Any moment the river may gobble the building.” Mohammed Jiaul Haque, who heads the primary school nearby, is equally concerned. “Back in 2016, we had seen similar erosion. Anticipating a rerun, I started knocking on the administration’s door for alternative land for both schools,” he said. Erosion by the Ganga in 2016 had swallowed the house of Swadhin Sarkar, BJP MLA of Baishnabnagar. Sources said around 3,000 students study in the high school. Around 300 students study in the primary school. “This is the only higher secondary institution in the area since 1955. If these two schools are swallowed by the river, the future of our wards’ will be insecure,” said Manik Mandal, a guardian. Mausam Noor, Rajya Sabha member and district Trinamul chief, said she would approach state education minister Partha Chatterjee and chief minister Mamata Banerjee for government land for these institutions. MLA Sarkar also said he had written to the Union water resources development ministry to arrest the erosion. “It is necessary to save these schools,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-379
11-09-2020||West Bengal||For them, walking to Bangladesh is easier||Nazmul Haque of Daribas village in Cooch Behar district near the India-Bangladesh border prefers health centres in Mogolhat or Durgapur in Lalmonirhat district of the neighbouring country, especially during monsoon when the river Dharala swells. In his village he often finds Bangladeshi hawkers selling various kinds of wares, including essential items, but hardly any vendor from Cooch Behar. For years now, residents of two Indian villages Daribas and Jaridharala depend on Bangladesh for buying essentials or for health needs. Gitaldaha in Cooch Behar on the other bank of the Dharala river, happens to be the first locality on Indian mainland for these villagers. But crossing it during monsoon is quite a task, Nazmul said. “There are many women in our village who have delivered their babies at health centres in Bangladesh,” he said. Another resident pointed that even during dry seasons, the way to reach Gitaldaha was cumbersome. When the river is thin, one has to walk over 3km along its dry bed, take a short boat ride, and get themselves screened by BSF jawans posted at Kashem Ghat — the spot on the Gitaldaha side where boats ferry them. “Only then can we head for the market or a health centre or hospital in Gitaldaha. During monsoon, the river swells and we have to take the risky boat ride. This year, a large boat we had here had submerged. We are yet to take it out. The entire population is now dependent on two smaller boats. In this situation, it is always better to enter Bangladesh to get any item or medical treatment,” the resident said. As most parts of the international border are riverine, there are no fences. Also, there is no water body on the other side towards Bangladesh. So, residents of these two villages — the total population is around 6,000 — can simply walk a few hundred metres to reach Mogolhat or Durgapur. “People in Bangladeshi villages in Lalmonirhat district are aware of our situation. The Border Guard Bangladesh (BGB) personnel know our plight. None of them (the BGB) stops us if we carry a patient to their health centres. Also, we often find hawkers from their areas visiting our villages,” Mansur Ali Mian, another resident, said. In fact, during monsoons, if the Dharala inundates low-lying areas of Daribas and Jaridharala, their residents get refuge at flood shelters of Bangladesh. “It might sound surprising but this is the practice here for years now. When the river floods villages, what else can we do? We cannot head towards the Indian mainland,” added Mansur. North Bengal development minister Rabindranath Ghosh admitted to the residents’ problems. “The Dharala river is so wide in that stretch and at times, they do not have any option but to go to Bangladesh. But if they have any problem with boats, we can sort it out in consultation with the district administration,” said Ghosh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-379
11-09-2020||West Bengal||Malda librarian keeps old coins for posterity||Hundreds of coins dating back to the Sultanate era and of the current age have helped librarian Subir Saha spend his days indoors during the Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown. Saha, a known numismatist who stays at Green Park here, is now dreaming of developing a modest museum in association with the state government where he can display his stock of coins and ensure that the rare coins are preserved properly for the future. A visit to his residence, and one would be delighted to see the “Gani” coin used during the regime of Mohammed Bin Tughlaq, “Tanka” of Kutubuddin Aibaq to “Dam” of Akbar, Jahangir and Aurangzeb. The repertoire also contains “Falus”, a coin used during regimes of emperors Humayun and Shah Jahan, “Paisa” used during the rule of Sher Shah Suri and also coins used during the eras of rulers like Alauddin Khilji and Gias Uddin Balban. A postgraduate in economics and a postgraduate diploma holder in business management, Saha, who is posted as a librarian at a state-run library in Old Malda, also takes the pride of displaying coins used during the rules of King George V and George VI and King Edward. “I also have a gold-plated replica of ‘Mohor’ that was used in transactions during the regime of Queen Victoria. I have coins made of silver, copper, nickel, blending of aluminium and magnesium and stainless steel,” said the numismatist, who is in his early fifties. His collection of coins which have been minted in India post-independence is no less surprising. He has the coin of 1,000 rupees denomination that was introduced to celebrate the 1,000th anniversary of a temple in Thanjavur, Tamil Nadu, and also the coins of Rs 500, Rs 200, Rs 150, Rs 125, Rs 60, Rs 25 and Rs 20, introduced as souvenirs to celebrate occasions like Indo-African summit, sesquicentennial anniversary of Rabindranath Tagore and platinum jubilee of the Reserve Bank of India. “During the recent lockdown, it is these coins with which I had spent most of my time. These coins keep me busy as I also make different models with the coins which have turned outdated in our country. I had developed the habit of collecting coins since my university days and I feel equally enthusiastic even now to collect rare coins,” said Saha, who has created a collection of over 2,000 coins during the past 30 years. At his home, there are at least 50 such models made of coins, which include a coin plant, decorative pieces and figures. The librarian-cum-numismatist also has coins of over 20 countries with him, including coins of the US, France, UK, Canada, Japan and Thailand. “My aspiration is to make a permanent display of these coins so that more and more people can see the collections. Each coin carries a piece of history with it. Once the situation normalises, I will approach the administration and the state government with a proposal of a museum that can be set up jointly in Malda,” he said. His collection has also made some local youths propose an exhibition in the town. “However, we can think of it only after this pandemic is over,” said Saha. Interestingly, the numismatist is a phillumenist as well and has a collection of thousands of matchboxes. “This is yet another collection that I have. In the past few months, we often heard that people feel bored or are depressed as they have to spend hours and days at home. I believe they can utilise their time and develop some hobby or other to remain mentally fit,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-379
11-09-2020||West Bengal||Anit Thapa stress on job creation in hills ||Anit Thapa, the chairperson of the board of administrators of the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA) and a prominent leader of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha’s Binay Tamang faction, has said he will focus on generation of employment in the hills to prevent the exodus of youths in search of jobs. “While working during the Covid-19 pandemic in different areas across the hills, I have realised that many educated youths are leaving their native places to earn their livelihood. Many of them belong to tea gardens and do not want to join the tea industry like their parents. Instead, they are choosing other occupations and in the absence of job opportunities in the hills, they are leaving homes. It is time that we take the initiative to create jobs for them here so that this trend of leaving the native places can be stopped,” said Thapa. He was speaking on the sidelines of a meeting that he held with representatives of development boards and civic bodies in Darjeeling on Wednesday. The Morcha leader pointed out that it had become a common trend among the hill youths, both men and women, to move out elsewhere and scout for jobs. “To generate employment, we need to bring in investors here. There are people who are willing to invest in various sectors in the hills. But what discourages them is an apprehension that a statehood movement might break out in the hills again, which can lead to breach of peace, arson and vandalism. We also have to change this perception of them by ensuring stability in the hills,” added Thapa. He also said many hill youths were seen knocking on the doors of leaders for jobs even after completing their higher education in different fields. “We will ensure that our local youths are given priority in case of any recruitment made by any private investor. But what we need right now is a steady focus on generation of employment,” said the Morcha leader. In recent weeks, this is the second time that Thapa has focused on the employment issue. A couple of weeks back, he had written to the state government, pleading that contractual employees of the GTA, many of whom had been working since the DGHC days, be made permanent. According to political observers in the hills, two top leaders of the Binay Tamang faction (Tamang himself and Thapa) seem to have taken the strategy of flagging all prominent issues of the hills, right from the demand for separate statehood and conferment of Scheduled Tribe status on 11 hill communities to granting of land rights. “It is evident that the leaders want to prove that they are the lone party to raise the voice on all pertinent issues of the hills,” said an observer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-379
11-09-2020||West Bengal||Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury’s plea to defectors: Return to Congress||Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, the newly-appointed Bengal Congress president, on Thursday urged people who had switched over to other parties to return to the Congress. “Several Congress workers in Bengal joined the Trinamul Congress or the BJP in the past few years. I request them to come back. The party will give them their rightful respect and honour,” Chowdhury told a news conference, a day after the party high command had appointed him as the state Congress chief. The message, sources said, was an indication that Chowdhury is keen to take all factions of the party along with him in his fresh stint as the PCC chief. In his earlier innings, between 2014 and 2018, Chowdhury was often accused of not taking all factions of the party along with him. During that stint, several Congress leaders, including lawmaker Manas Bhunia, had switched over to Trinamul. In his first media interaction as the PCC president, Chowdhury made it clear that his appointment as the state party chief was the wish of Congress president Sonia Gandhi, who had called him up on Wednesday evening to inform him about the new assignment. The Behrampore MP said the Congress was keen on allying with the Left Front for the Assembly polls. Speaking to journalists with Abdul Mannan — the leader of the Opposition in Bengal Assembly — by his side, Chowdhury said the veteran leader, along with Rajya Sabha member Pradip Battacharya would oversee the alliance with Left parties. “Our stand to be in an alliance with the Left parties has never changed. After the 2016 polls, the CPM had felt that the alliance had not fared well for them. However, they are willing to join forces again. We will turn this political understanding into an electoral understanding,” Chowdhury said. “Discussions with the Left parties will begin,” he added. He urged party workers to prepare to hit the streets against the “autocratic” rule of Trinamul as soon as the Covid-19 pandemic was over. “The state Congress will launch a massive campaign against Trinamul immediately after the coronavirus pandemic is over. Our programs will be organised in accordance with the directions from the national leadership,” the Behrampore MP said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-379
11-09-2020||West Bengal||Plea to govt to take back control of road handed over to Visva-Bharati in 2017||Around 60 old-timers of Santiniketan, including family members of Nobel laureates Rabindranath Tagore and Amartya Sen, wrote to chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday, requesting her to take back control of a 2.9km road that the state government had handed over to Visva-Bharati in 2017. Varsity authorities are allegedly stopping people from using a part of the road that runs through the campus, they have written. The 2.9-km-long road connects the varsity’s two campuses — Santiniketan and Sriniketan. The stretch, earlier looked after by the public works department, was handed over to Visva-Bharati in March 2017 following requests from varsity. As Visva-Bharati authorities intend to stop people from using a 600-metre stretch — between Sangeet Bhavana and Upsana Griha — of the 2.9km road, those living along the road have to take a detour of 2.5km via two new bypasses. The varsity had built a bypass from Shyambati to Siksha Bhavan junction and was constructing another one from Sangeet Bhavan to Nisha lodge to divert the commuters who usually take the 2.9km stretch that goes past Upasana Griha and Uttarayan complex, sources said. Homes of around 3,000 people, including landmark residences of Amartya Sen and Nandalal Bose, are located along the 2.9km road and its adjoining areas. Shanta Bhanu Sen, a cousin of Nobel laureate Amartya Sen and a signatory to the letter, said: “Security personnel of Visva-Bharati are stopping residents from using the road on occasions like the weekly prayer.” Supriya Tagore, a descendant of the Tagore family and former principal of Patha Bhavana, added: “We use the road regularly and it would mean big trouble for us if we were to be barred from using it.” Residents said the stretch was a vital link the Ratan Pally market, the post office and medicine shops. Varsity sources said many high-level committees had advised against a thoroughfare cutting the campus. “The plan to stop public use of the thoroughfare is not new and the process had begun in 2010. We will not close the road permanently but plying of private and commercial vehicles will be barred on a part of the stretch to avoid nuisance and ensure campus security,” said a senior varsity official. However, Subir Banerjee, a varsity alumnus in his seventies, alleged: “Visva-Bharati is stopping us from going on the road even on bicycles during various occasions. Even the elderly are being forced to take a detour.” Residents said they would send the copy of the letter to the local administration, including district magistrate and district police chief. “I will look into the demand after receiving the letter,” said Birbhum district magistrate Moumita Godara Basu.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-379
11-09-2020||West Bengal||Tomorrow’s total lockdown withdrawn||Bengal government has withdrawn the complete lockdown on September 12 in view of travel difficulties likely to be faced by students who will appear for NEET examination on Sunday. There is no change in the total lockdown announced for Friday and government sources said it might be the last, at least for the time being. “GoWB had initially announced a statewide lockdown on September 11 & 12th. Considering the NEET 2020 examination scheduled on 13th, we have received numerous requests from the student community on lifting lockdown norms on 12th, helping ease their travel to examination centres,” chief minister Mamata Banerjee tweeted on Thursday. Sources at Nabanna said the government was forced to reconsider the decision after hundreds of requests to withdraw the lockdown a day ahead of the NEET exam on Sunday had flooded the state secretariat over the past few days. “Nearly 37,000 candidates would appear in the exam and majority of them have to travel long distances to reach exam centres set up in a handful of cities and major towns across the state. As many want to reach the towns and cities a day ahead of the exam, the government decided to withdraw the complete lockdown scheduled for Saturday,” said a senior government official. For example, the official said, some students from Murshidabad would have to travel to Kharagpur to write the test. “It is not possible for the examinees to travel such a long way on the day of the exam. Withdrawal of the complete lockdown on September 12 would help the students,” the official added. Sources in the state administration said Friday’s lockdown was likely to be the last full lockdown day in Bengal — at least for the time being — as the government was not in a mood to declare further lockdown dates in September. “In the notification for Unlock 4 issued on August 31, the state government had announced three complete lockdown dates — September 7, 11 and 12. The state has already observed a complete lockdown on September 7 and another would be observed tomorrow. The state is not in a mood to announce the complete lockdown on any more days in the remaining half of the month,” a senior state government official said. The official said, given the present situation of the Covid-19 pandemic, the government was unlikely to announce any further lockdown dates in October either as it would create trouble for the organisers of Durga Puja, the biggest festival of the state. “Moreover, further lockdown in the last half of September and October would hit the traders’ community badly. It has also been seen that a day ahead of and the day after a complete lockdown, markets and streets are getting overcrowded throwing social distancing norms out of gear,” said the official. A top government official said the state was now focusing on panic management as Covid cases were rising steadily in the country. “We have successfully tackled the initial panic by introducing several facilities like Covid Patient Management system and 24X7 helpline and bringing down the death rate to nearly 2 percent,” the bureaucrat said. Officials have said the state now wants to restore normalcy as much as possible but at the same time it aims to ensure people follow personal hygiene and maintain all safety norms like physical distancing. “This is the only way of tackling the pandemic and at the same time saving the economy of the state,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-380
11-09-2020||West Bengal||Baisakhi Bandyopadhyay in Bengal BJP committee||The Bengal BJP on Thursday inducted Baisakhi Bandyopadhyay into the party’s extended state committee amid murmurs that she found a berth because the leadership wanted to keep her friend and Trinamul turncoat Sovan Chatterjee in good humour. “On Tuesday when the list of extended state committee members was released, it didn’t include Baisakhi’s name. However, Sovanda’s name was there. The decision to include Baisakhi in the committee was taken on Wednesday evening on second thoughts as Sovanda was upset with her exclusion,” a source said. A total of 230 names had initially been announced as members of the extended state committee, which has 110 permanent invitees. The remaining members on the list are 96 state committee members, three permanent invitees at all the meetings of the office-bearers and 21 special invitees. Sovan made it to this list of permanent invitees. Names of several lawmakers and chiefs of various wings of the party are in the list. After the announcement, Chatterjee had told journalists that he had heard about his induction on television, thereby making it clear his discontent for not being officially communicated. Party sources said that he also informed his displeasure as Baisakhi, who was once the general secretary in Trinamul-backed West Bengal College and University Professors Association, wasn’t named among the 230. “The party doesn’t want Sovanda to feel upset and thus the party’s leadership decided to include Baisakhi in the extended state committee,” the source said. Following the BJP’s structure, the main decisions in the party are taken by the unit’s president and the organisational general secretary. Dilip Ghosh, the state president, has never shown much keenness in rehabilitating turncoats from different parties, especially Trinamul, by giving them official positions in the party. Ghosh, however, had approved Chatterjee’s name for the extended state committee acknowledging the latter’s political experience and background, said a source. “But Dilipda was always against the idea of giving any importance to Baisakhi. He has always said,’ what does she bring to the table?’,” a senior party leader said. Chatterjee, however, got the help from Kailash Vijayvargiya, who apparently prevailed on Ghosh to include Baisakhi in the second round. “A meeting took place at the party’s Hastings office on Wednesday where the decision to include Baisakhi and Rakesh Singh, a Congress turncoat, into the extended state committee was taken. Kailashji insisted that these names are included,” a source close to Ghosh said. Ghosh, however, said that Baisakhi was inducted as it was the party's decision. This person added that another 50 new names will be included in the extended state committee as the party is keen on broadbasing representation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-380
11-09-2020||North East||IIT-Guwahati self-check kiosk for symptoms||Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Guwahati, in collaboration with an Udaipur-based company, has developed a “first-of-its-kind” self-check kiosk that “instantly” detects and records Covid-19 symptoms such as high body temperature and low blood oxygen content. The fully-automated kiosk, developed according to World Health Organisation (WHO) guidelines and costing between Rs 3.5 lakh and Rs 7.5 lakh depending on the specification and features, “takes only about 30 seconds” to check whether a person is safe to enter any premises or not. “It is a swift and very accurate contactless check which can determine if an individual is running a fever, low blood oxygen levels and, therefore, potentially has Covid-19 or any another viral or bacterial infection,” the release said. The release also said a person and his belongings will also undergo 360 degrees disinfection while passing through the UV-C chamber of the kiosk. The kiosk has been developed by Senthilmurugan Subbiah, associate professor, department of chemical engineering, IIT Guwahati, and Puneet Talesara, founder, Workspace Metal Solutions Private Ltd, Udaipur. The IIT has also installed a kiosk on its campus. The team has also filed for a patent. Talking about the innovation, Subbiah said, “Overall, the kiosk system can provide a community solution to fight against Covid-19 by ensuring surveillance of an individual’s health and disinfection of the items belonging to the individual.” With the gradual easing of lockdown restrictions and return to normal life, it is the need of the hour to ensure safe entry to any premises, the team said. Assam is one of the worst-affected states in the country, with over 1.33 lakh Covid-19 cases and 396 deaths. The rising number of critical cases prompted the state health department to launch a one-week plasma donation drive — Lohitanjali — in Guwahati on Thursday. Overall, India has more than 4.47 million coronavirus cases and 75,062 deaths. Talesara, founder of Workspace Metal Solutions Private Ltd and also an IIT Guwahati alumnus, said: “The current catastrophic situation made us realise the importance of hygiene for a safe environment. ‘The self-check kiosk’ is an invaluable solution for quick detection of illnesses and reduce the spread of bacteria and viruses. This is a 100 per cent Indian product and I feel that it will be a very good resource to fight the pandemic.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-45
11-09-2020||Opinion||Prized company||Sir — The news that the president of the United States of America, Donald Trump, has been nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize has stunned many. But given the controversial history of the award, this should not come as a surprise. Several infamous world leaders — Josef Stalin, Benito Mussolini and Adolf Hitler, for instance — had been nominees in this category. The Norwegian body’s choice of awardees is no less dubious. In the recent past, as Greece was struggling with a massive debt crisis, the Nobel committee handed over the prize to the European Union. As such, this ‘honour’ should not be taken too seriously. Madhumita Das North 24 Parganas Sir — At a time when most people take photographs or videos of people in trouble on the streets instead of helping them, Nilanjana Chatterjee and her husband, Deep Satpati, put their own lives at risk in order to rescue a 31-year old woman, who was allegedly being assaulted in a car by her acquaintance on a nearly deserted road (“Family rescues woman molested inside car”, Sept 7). The couple stopped their car as soon as they heard cries for help; they tried to intervene as they saw the woman get thrown out of the car. Chatterjee sustained severe injuries on her leg and head after the driver struck her with his car. But the family did not rest until they had called the police, who arrived shortly and helped take the two women to the hospital. The couple has proven that they are not just good but also brave samaritans. They have set an example for others to follow. It is unfortunate that crimes against women and children are increasing by the day across India. More disconcerting is the fact that such crimes are often committed by people known to the victim — be they relatives, neighbours or friends. The prime suspect in this case has been arrested. One hopes that the woman will testify without fear and exemplary punishment will be meted out to the culprit. The concern shown by the Calcutta police commissioner, Anuj Sharma, is also heartening. The chief minister, Mamata Banerjee, has assured that the state will help Chatterjee bear the hospital expenses. This sends out a positive message to other states — they, too, should support honest citizens who risk their lives for a good cause. The Tamil philosopher, Thiruvalluvar, wrote in one of his couplets that just as rain does not expect anything from the world, people should demand no return for their duty to society. Chatterjee and Satpati have done exactly that. S. Balakrishnan Jamshedpur Sir — It is heartening to learn that the brave couple, Nilanjana Chatterjee and Deep Satpati, came to the rescue of a woman in the dead of the night. Such acts of courage have become few and far between as more people have begun to stay cocooned within their social-networking circles. The couple’s courage almost cost Chatterjee her leg. We often shout our lungs out demanding citizens’ safety, but we fail to understand that keeping society safe is dependent on our own actions to a great extent. People may suffer immensely in their pursuit of justice — consider the struggles of freedom fighters — but they must never veer off the correct path. There are movements against injustice both in India and abroad. But our protests should not remain restricted to hashtags. In the real world, too, citizens should take a stand and not look the other way when a fellow passenger is assaulted, a majestic tree is illegally felled or an animal is lynched. Only then can the world be a better place. Dyutiman Bhattacharya Calcutta Sir — The recent incident on the EM Bypass has shown once again that women’s safety is at stake. But the bravery of Nilanjana Chatterjee and Deep Satpati is commendable. Chatterjee’s action was exemplary. Chatterjee refused to abandon another woman in her plight even after suffering severe injuries. She would inspire many others to not just be empathetic but also to do the right thing at the right time. Sarupa Roy Calcutta Sir — One salutes the couple, Nilanjana Chatterjee and Deep Satpati, for risking their own lives to save another person. One also wishes the two injured women a speedy recovery. This news truly deserved a place on the front page.Rajiv Roy Patna Sir — Thanks to the courageous act of Nilanjana Chatterjee and her family, I will be able to proudly defend Calcutta the next time someone says that the city is becoming selfish. The family has brought glory to the City of Joy. Sabari Chatterjee Calcutta Sir — This year there will be a 35-day gap between Mahalaya and Mahashasthi because, for only the second time in the 21st century, there will be two new moons in Ashwin. This phenomenon — called ‘mala maash’ — is considered unholy for rituals related to Durga Puja. While this could have dampened the spirits of pandal hoppers on any other year, this time it might prove to be a blessing. Given the Covid-19 situation at present, perhaps it would not be too bad to have the Puja postponed by a month.  R. Pal Choudhury Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-150
11-09-2020||Opinion||Rare balance: Kerala stems man-animal conflict||The ‘Kerala Model’ has shown India the way when it comes to achieving success in education and healthcare. The state, it now seems, has come up with a solution for what is believed to be an intractable problem — man-animal conflict. A report by the Wildlife Trust of India has shown that four years after the Thirunelli-Kudrakote elephant corridor — it is spread across 2,200 acres — was accorded State protection, it has facilitated unhindered movement for pachyderms, raised the presence of other species and — this is very significant — augmented the incomes of families that have been relocated. The success of this project — Kerala has announced that it would secure the remaining elephant corridors in the state — reiterates several important facts. First, conservation is not merely about numbers or the elimination of poaching; it is a holistic enterprise where the survival of species, great or small, is predicated upon the protection of their habitats. Corridors that ensure movement and, consequently, a healthy dispersion of species are a critical element. Second, man-animal conflict will not abate unless the welfare of forest-dwelling communities is taken into consideration. Kerala, hearteningly, has kept this principle in mind. The relocation of the settlers was seamless because the government ensured that they were resettled not only with proper accommodation, education and healthcare but also had better access to market facilities and employment. Alternative livelihood reduced their dependence and depredations on the forest. The question is whether Wayanad’s achievements can be replicated in the rest of India. There are serious obstacles in the path of such implementation. The topography of India’s wilderness varies greatly. Neither can every state boast of Kerala’s achievements in establishing a formidable network of schools and hospitals in the hinterland. There is also the thorny issue of the rehabilitation of forest communities, a process that is, more often than not, marked by coercion rather than consensus. But what can be emulated from this experiment is the spirit of political and administrative will. At a time when successive elected governments have been accused of bartering India’s biodiversity for profit with marauding industry, Kerala has shown that a conscientious government can still make a difference to the lives of men and animals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-150
11-09-2020||Opinion||Stark irony: when rankings are decidedly dodgy||The irony could not have been starker. Late last month, the World Bank announced that it had decided to pause the publication of its closely-watched Ease of Doing Business report because of serious data integrity issues. Its officials expressed wonder that for three years in a row, India had consistently figured among the top 10 countries that had most improved their rankings. In the report for 2020, India had jumped 14 places to rank 63rd. A World Bank director voiced suspicions that things looked decidedly dodgy as very few countries showed the sort of success that India had shown over 20 years of the project. Less than 10 days later, the finance minister, Nirmala Sitharaman, unveiled a new rankings table for the 36 Indian states and Union territories that carried big surprises. Uttar Pradesh had jumped 10 places to rank second while Himachal Pradesh had leapt nine rungs to come in at seven. Gujarat — the state that the prime minister once stewarded — tumbled five places to 10, a notch below West Bengal. There has been a lot of clucking of tongues over the new state rankings and it has nothing to do with the changed methodology and the new parameters on which performance was measured. The states were rated on the basis of 180 reform initiatives across 12 business regulatory areas, ranging from a single window system for submission of documents to secure business licences, to timelines for obtaining land, labour and environmental approvals. As in every year, each assertion made by a state government on its reforms initiative has been verified through feedback from firms. The difference this time is that the ranking has been solely based on feedback from over 30,000 firms. In theory, this is how it should work. In practice, feedback from firms can be manipulated by an autocratic leader. The department for promotion of industry and internal trade, which oversees this exercise, sought feedback on 80 recommended reform action points with the respondents. According to the feedback methodology, full marks were awarded for the question if 70 per cent or more respondents indicated they had “felt the reform”. Yogi Adityanath’s government has unveiled a new industrial policy with an attractive capital investment subsidy and is aggressively courting overseas investment, especially from entities looking to shift production facilities out of China. Gujarat must feel disappointed that it has plunged five places. That is an ignominy that Karnataka has suffered as well, dropping nine spots to 17. Maharashtra, the other popular destination for foreign investment, continues to lurk at the 13th spot. Rankings provide great chest-thumping moments. But if the exercise lacks credibility and stretches credulity, then all that enthusiasm can vaporize quickly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-150
11-09-2020||Opinion||Heed the chorus of life||The chorus of vendors weaving their way through the streets of Calcutta has impacted auditory nerves for centuries, a trend well documented since the mid-19th century, in lithographs and etchings by artists like Balthazar Solvyns and Abanindranath Tagore. It also finds mention in sundry books. While our generation grew up to welcome sounds of the ice-cream cart (Kwality, Magnolia and Farini), the more rustic ghoti garam or the ‘cake man’ with a trunk on his head selling gaudy pastries and bakarkhani, the tribe of these alley vendors multiplied over the years, their entrepreneurship matching their ability to customize their wares to the changing needs of buyers. In May, the Zurich Museum hosted a virtual exhibition of these soundscapes recorded by two Swiss tourists, the diurnal cacophony of hawker and traffic sounds offset by Calcutta’s nocturnal serenity. Prior to our Covid-19 routine, most vendor calls went unheeded, primarily because daytime sounds took precedence and the demand for their wares or expertise was not all-consuming. Once the lockdown was clamped, these vendors became conspicuous by their absence. Housebound residents began to crave the arrival of the cobbler or the locksmith, or the man who chisels the grindstone. Their unique calls, sometimes indecipherable, were missed. When the “unlocking” phase began at the end of May, a different array of hawkers trooped in. Those selling vegetables, fish and fruit brought the market to the doorstep. Enterprising rickshaw-pullers peddled their wares door to door, their metamorphosis filling a need of the residents as well as their pockets. Even during ‘Unlock 4’, the fishmonger’s cry continues to be the first in our lane every morning: jyanto maach (live fish), he cries, the voice muffled by the customary face mask. He rattles off the variety on offer in the huge handi precariously perched on his bicycle: rui, katla, koi, tangra, chingri, pabda... sometimes even the hilsa and mourala. He is followed by the vendor selling bread and milk. The hawker seeking old newspapers had disappeared for a while, just as the printed dailies did in the initial stages of lockdown, but has resurfaced. There is no difficulty in deciphering his call; he does not wear a mask. There is also a man who will accept anything old and non-functional. His list is diverse — harmonium, watch, laptop, inverter, air-conditioner, washing machine — yet he rarely finds any custom. The mattress-maker’s “tasak-balish” intonations make it well-nigh impossible to guess his identity. In his wake, the vegetable vendor is accompanied by his wife, whose lung-power belies her diminutive frame. “Sobji nebe go?” she calls out, loud and clear. The fruit vendor too, mask under his chin but gloves in place, is audible well before he comes into view. He used to be a bus conductor in his pre-pandemic heyday, so the vocal cords are well exercised! Most of these hawkers, a godsend in the Covid-19 environment, have switched professions to survive. Many lost their jobs and opted for the vending route, masks and sanitizers offering good returns. In their desperation to earn a living, those who used to travel by local train now arrive in vans ferrying vegetables. We have grown accustomed to this ‘new normal’. Every time the state government announces random ‘total lockdown’ days, we suffer in unison: these vendors are deprived of their earnings and the residents of fresh doorstep supplies and domestic help. Unlike the strict lockdown in Odisha, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh and even Arunachal Pradesh, have these stray lockdown days in Bengal, in spite of the Centre’s September notification to the contrary, served any purpose? They have certainly not ‘broken the chain’ of virus spread as intended. Can anyone please proffer the benefits of today’s lockdown or the one initially scheduled for tomorrow but scrapped at the last minute? Is there any method in the selection of dates, considering they are altered at will? Surely we have a right to know.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-150
11-09-2020||Opinion||Join the tiny dots||Deeply embroiled as we are in a troubling stand-off with China in Ladakh and in the midst of a major pandemic that shows no signs of easing, the prevailing meta narrative of a risen and assertive China and a United States of America in retreat, if not in decline, has a certain compelling logic. Nevertheless, it is still instructive to take a look around us with a perspective that is more localized and regional: geopolitics is shaped not only by the grand encounters but also by subplots, which persist for long periods of time. To our east, we have Malaysia and the Philippines providing a useful reminder of how territorial disputes linger on and on. Both countries claim sovereignty over Sabah and like many disputes in Asia its roots lie in the ambiguities left behind by colonial overlords — in this case, the British. Sabah is an oil and timber rich area situated in the northern part of the island of Borneo. The latter is itself divided among Indonesia, the small kingdom of Brunei, and the Malaysian provinces of Sarawak and Sabah. Sabah is claimed by and governed as a Malaysian province — a claim that the Philippines has rejected and countered with its own claim ever since Malaysia’s emergence as a sovereign state. Sarawak and Sabah are separated from Malaysia by a vast stretch of the South China Sea; Sabah is much closer to the nearest Philippine island. Now there are reports that the Philippines passport will carry a map showing Sabah as a part of its territory. This is a war of diplomatic postures and démarches but as recently as 2013 there had been a violent clash in Sabah arising out of the disputed claim, although the Philippines itself was not involved. Territorial disputes in Southeast Asia are further complicated by the fact that during the late 19th and the first half of the 20th centuries, the region as a whole was impacted by five different imperial systems: the British in Myanmar and what is now Malaysia and Singapore; the Dutch in Indonesia; the French in Indo-China (Vietnam, Cambodia, Laos); and in the Philippines, Spain and, then, in the first half of the 20th century, the US. Post-decolonization claims and counter-claims had at one stage in the early 1960s led Indonesia, Malaysia and the Philippines to consider a union through ‘Maphilindo’ (from the initial letters of the three countries’ names). This came to nothing but the germ of the idea possibly resurfaced later as regional cooperation. It says something about the Asean and the ‘Asean way’ that such conflicts — and there are others — while they may have remained alive, have not impeded the organization’s principal mandate: regional economic cooperation. Asean’s success lies in transcending the history of bitter dispute and fiery rhetoric that characterized the region from the 1950s to the 1980s. These conflicts were often so intense that they had extra-regional implications. In the 1960s, Malaysia and Indonesia had fought an undeclared, low-intensity war in Borneo — the Konfrontasi. This coincided with the India-Pakistan war of 1965 — also undeclared but of much greater intensity. Their own conflict, not surprisingly, saw Indonesia and Malaysia ranged on opposite sides of the India-Pakistan divide. In the United Nations security council, when the India-Pakistan conflict was discussed on September 18, 1965, the Malaysian representative asked difficult questions to Pakistan about largescale armed infiltration and said that India’s reaction was defensive in nature. This so angered Pakistan that it broke diplomatic relations with Malaysia. Tunku Abdul Rahman, the then foreign minister of Malaysia, was said to comment to the effect that Pakistan had not broken diplomatic relations with India with which it was fighting a war but was doing so with Malaysia! This was, he said, an act “unprecedented in the annals of diplomatic history for its apparent lack of rational motivation.” The 1970s saw other conflicts, including a full-blown genocide in Cambodia, but from the 1990s Asean welded together in a manner that dampened and tempered disputes between its member states. In the process, it has also managed to keep the region relatively insulated from inter-regional rivalries. In the past decade, Chinese assertive behaviour has posed numerous challenges for individual Asean states, but the existence of a robust regional mechanism has been both useful and effective. Despite all this, the rekindling of the Malaysia-Philippines war of words over Sabah only goes to show that amongst neighbours you cannot take a linear trajectory in bilateral relations for granted. On our west, the growing proximity of the Gulf states with India has, in turn, triggered other reactions — in particular Pakistan’s obvious desire to use China’s relations with Iran and Turkey to erect and cement a Iran-Pakistan-Turkey triangle. If this looks similar to the Baghdad Pact or Cento of the 1950s, the differences are equally striking and clearly derive from the importance accorded to China by each of these countries. Some ascribe Turkey’s drift away from Europe — the Hagia Sophia reconversion into a mosque is an instance — to this. Others argue, however, that this drift was predictable once the European Union shut its doors on Turkey as an outsider to Europe in civilizational terms. In any event, Turkey-Europe differences are growing for other reasons and there is also a looming Turkish-Greek confrontation — although both are Nato members — over tiny Kastellorizo, a Greek island in the eastern Mediterranean. Unlike the Sabah dispute, which is straightforwardly territorial, this is an issue of complex maritime boundaries and claims. The issue flared up after a Turkish vessel started a drilling survey close to Kastellorizo. Disputes between Turkey and Greece are not new but this is one more layer in a very long history of political conflict and cultural contestation. How far back should one go to trace the roots of Greece-Turkish differences? Mehmet II led the Ottomans to establish an empire from Constantinople in 1453 when the Hagia Sophia was converted from a cathedral into a mosque. He is believed to have claimed, or so the mythology goes, that by conquering Constantinople the Ottomans had avenged the Trojans by taking revenge for the deceit used by the Greeks to capture Troy. A little less than five centuries later, in August 1922, after a Turkish victory against the Greeks, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk is more reliably known to have said “Now we have taken revenge for Hector.” Turkey — from Ataturk to Erdogan — has traversed a great distance but in geopolitics history and mythology merge seamlessly. Is there a common thread in these developments? Possibly one takeaway is that regions and sub-regions will have their own dynamics and, most of all, neighbourhood relations will follow their own logic. This is not easily related to the larger meta narratives of the time but the bigger picture is equally important. The Sabah dispute is significant because it centres around the South China Sea, which has a new salience today because of Chinese assertion. The Greek-Turkish frictions assume importance because of the question being posed for Europe on whether it can steer a path on its own given a US that is self-absorbed and devoid for the first time in perhaps three quarters of a century of a global narrative to match its military and technological power. The author is a Director General of the Indian Council of World Affairs||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-150
11-09-2020||Jharkhand||Mirchaiya Falls to get facelift||Tourist favourite Mirchaiya Falls under Garu East range of Palamau Tiger Reserve will get a facelift. Deputy director, South division of the tiger reserve, Mukesh Kumar said the project will be completed with central government funds. Kumar said that under the Swadesh Darshan programme, the Government of India had allotted Rs 50 lakh for a makeover of the falls. Gazebos and prefabricated toilets will be built for the tourists and the management of the spot will be given to the eco-development committee, he said. The two wooden bridges at the falls will also get a facelift. Kumar said the number of tourists has fallen drastically due to the pandemic. Mirchaiya Falls, which is rain-fed, is a favorite among tourists from Bengal. A joint team of Nirsa police, Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) and Eastern Coalfields Ltd security personnel on Friday conducted a raid at Kusum Kanali area of Nirsa and seized 7 tonnes of smuggled coal stacked in gunny sacks. The officer in charge of the CISF at Baijna Camp, Vikrant Kumar, said the raid was conducted after a tip-off. The coal has been deposited in the Chapapur colliery of Eastern Coalfields. Dhanbad deputy commissioner Uma Shankar Singh on Friday conducted a review of the ongoing rehabilitation of people from areas affected by underground fires to safer places in the district under the Jharia master plan. At the meeting, which was attended by Jharia Rehabilitation and Development Authority adviser Sunil Dalela and BCCL director (technical) Rakesh Kumar, the ways of accelerating the rehabilitation work by carrying out distribution of compensation among the legal title holders and allotment of homes at safer places to non-legal title holders of affected areas were discussed. Only around 4,000 families of the total 1.04 lakh families living in the 595 affected areas have so far been rehabilitated. Activists of the trade union Bhartiya Mazdoor Sangh on Friday demonstrated at Randhir Verma Chowk in Dhanbad near the district headquarters and charged both the state and central governments of failing to address the problem of migrant labourers. The protesters said that though tall promises were made and several schemes announced to provide employment to migrant labourers under MNREGS, the ground reality seems different as the migrant labourers are again compelled to leave for their former workplaces due to a lack of employment opportunities at home. A 16-year-old girl, Reena Soren, who had cleared her matriculation exam last year, allegedly committed suicide at her rented flat in the posh Jullu Park area of Hazaribagh town. She committed suicide by hanging herself from a ceiling fan. Her uncle, Suresh Soren, said Reena showed no signs of depression. He said she had been living at the flat for the past four years. When her parents went to meet a relative, she killed herself, he added. The dead body was handed over to her relatives after a post-mortem at Hazaribagh medical college and hospital. Mustkim Ansari, 38, died and two of his young daughters were hurt on Thursday when a speeding truck hit their motorcycle on GT Road in Barhi, 47km from the Hazaribagh district headquarters. Police said Ansari was on his way to the block office with his daughters Tamana Khatoon, 15, and Salma Khatoon, 10. A truck coming from the opposite direction hit the bike, injuring the trio near Barhi subdivisional hospital. Local residents called Barhi police who took them to the hospital. Ansari’s condition deteriorated, however, prompting doctors to refer him to Hazaribagh medical college and hospital (HMCH), but he died on the way. Later, his dead body was handed over to relatives after a post-mortem at HMCH. The police have arrested the driver and seized his truck. An FIR has been lodged against him. Kumardubi police early on Friday arrested Tipu Yadav, a resident of Bardangal, during patrolling for illegal possession of a pistol. The police arrested three others, Jay Tiwari of Bardangal, Abhishek Singh of Panchmohli village and Rahul Singh of Dumarkunda village, and questioned them in connection with a robbery last week. To ensure the smooth flow of traffic on Dhanbad’s roads, a team of policemen led by DSP (traffic) Rajesh Kumar on Friday conducted a drive at Randhir Verma Chowk and City Centre chowk against encroachment and unauthorised parking on roads. Kumar said: “Many roads in the district witness regular traffic jams due to encroachment and haphazard parking of vehicles. This also affects the movement of vehicles, including ambulances carrying Covid-19 patients.” Kumar added that the traffic police will be conducting intensive awareness programmes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-303
11-09-2020||Jharkhand||Steel city witnesses spike in suicide cases||The steel city has witnessed a spate of suicides with as many as 29 people ending their lives last month. And so far, 11 persons have allegedly committed suicide this month. According to statistics provided by Jeevan, a Bistupur-based suicide prevention centre, 29 people (20 men and 9 women) committed suicide in August. “In most of the cases, people committed suicide by hanging. The Covid-19 cases in Jamshedpur are having a negative impact on the psyche of citizens who are stressed and frustrated,” said Jeevan director Jeoraj Jain. Speaking to The Telegraph Online, Jain said a majority of the people who committed suicide last month were in the 40-45 years age group. “This shows young people are no longer happy with their lives due to various reasons, including job loss and financial crisis. It is not a very good signal,” he explained. According to Jain, the centre was trying its best to counsel people about the futility of committing suicide but the efforts seem not to be proving enough. “The number of distress calls to our volunteers has increased ever since the district administration publicised our telephone numbers in the city. People started calling for much-needed counselling. However, there is no stopping people from ending their lives,” he said. Volunteers of Jeevan are receiving 20-25 calls daily. A majority of calls are related to job loss, financial problems and closure of business establishments. Jain said Jeevan and Inner Wheel Club of Jamshedpur had organised a webinar on the occasion of World Suicide Prevention Day on Thursday. “East Singhbhum deputy commissioner Suraj Kumar was the chief guest on the occasion, who expressed concern on the rise in suicide cases in the city. He appreciated our efforts and also assured all support,” Jain added. According to a Jeevan volunteer, people are stressed after being forced to stay indoors in view of the pandemic. “Job loss and the closure of educational institutions are driving people into depression. Young people have called us to inform us that they are at their wits end after losing their job. They are not finding any other jobs,” he added. Jeevan volunteers are available at 9297777499, 9297777500 (only call), 9955377500, 9955435500 (call or WhatsApp).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-303
11-09-2020||Jharkhand||Cyber fraudsters siphon Rs 29,000 off Army jawan in steel city||An Army jawan fell prey to cyber criminals in the steel city on Friday. Rajiv Ranjan Singh, presently posted at the Bihar Regiment's battalion 17 in Nathula Pass, is at home in Adityapur on leave.  He had some Google Pay transaction issues which needed sorting out. He searched Google for the GPay customer care contact and came across a phone number. "I dialed the number but my call went unanswered.  Soon someone called back and introduced himself as a GPay customer care executive. I informed him that I was facing a transaction issue involving a few hundreds rupees. The person on the other end asked me to click a link that he would send immediately. I received a link on my phone and clicked it. A few minutes later I received an alert saying Rs 29,000 has been deducted from my bank account.  I called the number again, someone picked up, abused me and hung up," Singh told The Telegraph Online. Singh lodged a complaint at the Bistupur Cyber thana on Friday. On Thursday, Bistupur Cyber thana authorities shut down an SBI ATM at Circuit House petrol pump after receiving a complaint about criminals decamping with thousands of rupees by tampering the ATM dispenser on Wednesday, This is the first time that such a crime has been committed in the steel city. The same day, cyber criminals siphoned off thousands of rupees from Axis Bank ATMs at Jawaharnagar in Mango and Karandih in Parsudih, by cloning ATM cards of two customers. Inspector, Bistupur Cyber thana, Upendra Mandal confirmed that the cyber criminals have once again become active in the steel city recently. "We have received seven complaints of cyber crime during the past one week. We were successful in dismantling the network of such criminals in March by arresting three people and seizing card readers along with other equipment they used for fraudulent withdrawals.  It seems criminals have become active again and deploying new techniques, such as tampering with ATM dispensers," Mondal said. Singh further informed that fraudulent withdrawals are possible from older model and unmanned ATM kiosks. "Banks have now installed new ATMs in which a customer can withdraw money and also deposit cash. The new ATMs are not possible to breach by cloning cards. Criminals have, therefore, evolved a way out to take out cash by tampering the dispenser.  Once the dispenser is tampered, a customer will not be dispensed cash, although the amount will get deducted from their account," Mondal explained. He said that police have shut down three ATMs after receiving complaints of fraudulent withdrawals and have asked concerned banks to provide them with CCTV footage from the ATMs in questions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-304
11-09-2020||Jharkhand||Five held guilty for daylight shooting of gangster in Hazaribagh||Five accused, including the mastermind, were pronounced guilty on Friday for the daylight shooting of gangster Sushil Srivastava on the premises of the Hazaribagh civil court in June 2015, the sensational murder executed amid the presence of a large number of policemen. The court of additional district and sessions judge, which will announce the quantum of punishment on September 22, came to the decision after multiple hearings in which 42 witnesses recorded statements. Court found five accused guilty for the June 2, 2015 murder. They are mastermind and gunman Vikas Tiwary, Dileep Sahu, Vishal Kumar Singh, Rahul Dev Pandey and Santosh Dev Pandey. One of the accused, Deepak Sahu, is still at large. Another accused was acquitted, citing benefit of doubt. Tiwary is presently lodged in Palamau jail while Santosh and Rahul are in Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan Central jail. The two others, Dileep and Vishal were on bail but were taken into custody as soon as the verdict was announced Friday afternoon. The shooting took place on June 2, 2015 at 10.40am on the civil court premises. Srivastava (53) came out of the court building after being produced before a judge in connection with a murder case in Ramgarh. Two of his aides - Gyas Khan and Kamal Khan _ who were out on bail in the same case reached out to greet him when amid a cloud of smoke there was firing. Srivastava’s aides took three bullets each and instantly fell to the ground dead. Srivastava instinctively flattened himself on the ground, but two gunmen  came out of hiding from behind an SUV on the court premises and pumped eight bullets into his body from point-blank range. Police investigation confirmed the involvement of one Vikas Tiwary as the mastermind who was also leader of the notorious Bhola Pandey Gang. The murder was planned to avenge the death of former gang chief Kishore Pandey in Jamshedpur. Soon after the incident, police sealed the borders of the district to catch the mastermind Vikas. But he managed to escape from Hazaribagh. Vikas was carrying seven to eight mobile phones. He switched off these numbers after the June 2 shooting. In August, he switched on one of his cell phones because of which police were able to track his location to Connaught Place in Delhi from where he was arrested.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-304
11-09-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad deputy commissioner inaugurates 30-bed Covid ICU||On a day Dhanbad Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner Uma Shankar Singh carried out the inauguration of a 30 bed state of the art Covid ICU at PMCH Cath lab Dhanbad meant for the treatment of seriously affected Covid patients, the district administration in the district also completed all preparation for carrying out special Covid testing drive on September 12 at various government offices, industrial instalments besides the NH-2 and Chirkunda Check posts situated on Jharkhand border, which had witnessed higher percentage of Covid infection recently and have been categorized as vulnerable. Notably, Rapid antigen tests of 5800 persons have been planned at 11 vulnerable places  including 500 at IIT (ISM); 400 at Mines Rescue station of BCCL in Bastacola; 500 at Kustore Regional Hospital of Putli Balihari area of BCCL; 300 at Baijna dispensary of BCCL; 500 at ECL Kumbardubi Colliery near Kumarbudi Railway station; 1000 tests in BCCL Dumra 1 and Dumra II office; 400 at Katras Tilatand office of BCCL; 600 at BIT Sindri;500 at Chirkunda Check post situated on Jharkhand Bengal border; 500 at NH Check Post and 600 at Dhanbad Railway station. During the special Rapid Antigen test of altogether 8177 persons conducted at 20 places across the district on September 8, altogether 168 person (2.1%) were found to be Covid Positive while during a similar drive conducted at different residential and commercial places of the district altogether 107 person out of total 3708 persons were detected to be Covid positive. Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner Uma Shankar Singh said that the Covid test of all persons coming from outside that state at Chirkunda Check post, NH-2 Check post and Dhanbad Railway station will continue till further orders from tomorrow. At present, altogether 328 persons of the Covid infected areas are admitted to different Covid treatment facilities of the district, out of which 29 are admitted to dedicated Covid Hospital at Jagjivan Nagar, Dhanbad meant for serious covid patients while rest 299 are undergoing treatment at other different health centers as well as hotels meant for treatment of asymptomatic patients with mild or moderate symptoms, including 41at PMCH Cath lab, 52 in  Sadar Hospital, 21 in  Tata Central Hospital at Jamadoba;  29 at Regional Hospital of BCCL in Bhuli, 37 at Zonal Training Institute of Railway in Bhuli, two at  at SSLNT Hospita at temple road Dhanbad for pregnant women;  80 at Nirsa Polytechnic in Gopalpur area of Nirsa;  26 in  Wedlock greens at Govindpur at 11 at King's resort Govindpur of Dhanbad.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-304
11-09-2020||Jharkhand||Jamshedpur FC want to be in Goa well before start of ISL||The Jamshedpur FC contingent will assemble in Goa, the venue for the Indian Super League (ISL) 2020-21 season, for pre-seasons by the end of this month. With most of the players, including the ones from abroad, on board, the Tata Steel-owned club is in no mood to lose precious time in slipping into the training groove. The club had arranged its pre-seasons in Thailand in the 2017-18 season and Spain was the destination in the following season. However, JFC conducted its pre-seasons in Jamshedpur for the 2019-20 calendar. The pandemic has forced ISL organisers Football Sports Development Limited to organise the tournament at a single venue (Goa). “Goa has already opened up for tourism. So there is no harm in reaching there early. We would be getting adequate time to prepare since the ISL is scheduled in November,” a team management said on condition of anonymity. According to him, the players and the support staff would go through Covid test and remain consigned to a secure bio-bubble environment for at least a week after reaching Goa. "Regular Covid testing will be done even though SOP (standard operating procedure) is yet to be announced," he said, adding that even the bus drivers ferrying the players to the ground for training would be quarantined. “Special precautionary measures will be taken to ensure the safety and security of the players, support staff and officials,” the member pointed out. The Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium in Fatorda, the Tilak Nagar Stadium in Vasco da Gama and the GMC Athletic Stadium in Bambolim are the three venues slated to host the matches with strict training and social distancing protocols. The JFC squad is almost in place and preparations for the Goa sojourn is underway. The club is currently busy in intimating the players and support staff about the proposed pre-season and working out the logistics. Jamshedpur has this time made serious efforts to form a strong unit. The robust team formation is aimed at making the club qualify for the play-offs this time. Appointing Owen Coyle as the head coach is also a step in that direction. Coyle has been instrumental in pulling in the top foreign players, including Nerijus Valskis, Peter Hartley and Stephen Eze. JFC has not been able to make it to the knock-out stage ever since it made its debut in the cash-rich tournament three years ago. “Goa could well prove lucky for us. We have a strong team and we see no reason why we won’t be able to make it to the play-offs and beyond. In fact, we have rivetted our attention on the trophy,” another team management member said. Chief executive officer of JFC Mukul Choudhari said they are very positive about their prospects and were sure the players would perform as per their reputation. “We have stitched out a strong unit and are optimistic about a positive outcome,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-304
11-09-2020||Jharkhand||Pandal sanitization twice a day this year in Dhanbad||Puja organizers in Dhanbad have decided to carry out full sanitization of Puja Pandals twice every day in view of the Covid-19 pandemic this year. Any artist coming to perform in the district from outside the state will also have to undergo mandatory Covid test as per the rule meant for any person entering Jharkhand from outside the state. A delegation of newly constituted district level association of over 250 Puja Committees of the district , Dhanbad Zila Durgapuja Samiti, led by it’s president Prem Mandal today submitted a memorandum to the Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner, Uma Shankar Singh. The committee in the memorandum has asked for the district administration's logistical support in the form of chemicals and water tanker for carrying out the sanitization of process. Talking to The Telegraph Online today, Gopal Bhattarcharya, general secretary of Bengali Welfare Society which organizes Durga Puja at Park Market Hirapur said, “Though we had decided in a meeting of all Puja Committees held on September 6 to take all possible steps to organize puja on smaller scale to avoid any violation of social distancing norms,  like not organizing any fair,  restricting the Pandal height and idol size (to 5-6 Feet), doing away with grandiose immersion ceremony but we will be giving equal attention to the safety measures to ensure cleanliness.” “We have only demanded Sodium Hypochlorite for making the sanitization solution, the extensive use of which will be carried in the puja pandal for sanitization work,” said Bhattacharya. He also added that no visitor would be allowed inside the pandal without mask and mandatory hand washing will be ensured. “Though we have decided to restrict the artists from outside the state during Puja Celebration but since majority of Dhakis come here from Bengal, they will have to undergo the mandatory Covid testing as per the norms” said Bhattacharya. He also mentioned that they will place the order for Idols only after meeting the Deputy Commissioner during the next week and after as they receive the district administration's guidelines. Notably, in Dhanbad more than 250 registered Puja Committees organize Durga Puja every year besides around 150 small unregistered pujas at small level. Large number of sculptors, pandal artist, light artist, Dhaki drummer also arrive from different parts of Bengal every year to work for various puja committee having a total budget of around Rs 10 lakh each.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-304
11-09-2020||Jharkhand||State rejects Centre’s plan to amend mining rules under 1957 Act||Jharkhand has rejected the Centre’s proposal to change the definition of illegal mining under the sunshine law which governs mining in the country, saying that any drastic alterations could adversely impact the state’s economy and the industrial climate. In response to a letter from the Union ministry of mines on the proposed changes in the Mines and Mineral (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957,  chief minister Hemant Soren demanded that all states with mineral deposits, specially Jharkhand, be consulted before drafting any final plan on mining. Tweeting his government’s objections to certain proposals, he also took a dig at the Centre for giving only 10 days for states to reply. The Union government’s proposals, that include a change in the definition of illegal mining, are in pursuance of mining reforms with a focus transparent allocation of resources and employment generation under its Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyaan. The Centre is keen on amending section 21 (4) and 21 (5) of the MMDR Act of 1957. While 21(4) empowers a competent authority to take action against illegal mining, lifting or transportation without due permit, 21 (5) empowers state governments to impose penalties on persons for illegal mining. The Hemant government has categorically disapproved of changes in these sections citing a Supreme Court verdict. His letter, uploaded on the chief minister’s twitter handle on Thursday, read, “We don’t agree with the proposed amendment in these sections or the proposed definition of illegal mining and the existing provisions shall continue. “The above matter has been deliberated in detail in the Supreme Court and the apex court has already given an unambiguous and clear verdict in this matter. We agree with the apex court’s judgement and there shall not be a change in the statutory provisions to circumvent Supreme Court’s order.” Jharkhand is also opposed to the Centre’s proposal to rationalise stamp duty, stating that it falls in the ambit of the state government and the latter would decide on as per the need. “Stamp duty isn’t governed by MMDR Act, 1957. It is governed by the state government’s land and registration department. Therefore, any attempt to change it is in violation of the federal structure of the country,” he noted. Hemant also rejected the idea of introducing a national mineral index (NMI) to replace the Indian Mines Bureau (IBM) average sale price on mined minerals to decide royalties. Notably, IBM was set up in 1948 as a multi-disciplinary government body for promotion of conservation, scientific development of mineral resources and protection of environment in mines besides computing average prices of leased mines in the country. Similarly, the state government also dismissed the Centre’s proposal to make the National Mineral Exploration Trust (NMET) autonomous, stating that there wasn’t any need for it. The existing provisions related to NMET may be allowed to continue, Jharkhand has said. Hemant, however, demanded that the Union government consult states before preparing the final as the note forwarded by the Centre did not elaborate on its proposed mining reforms plan. The chief minister added that any changes in the MMDR Act can create a huge impact on the economy, jobs and the industrial climate. “Particularly for Jharkhand, which is dependent on mining and related industries, any drastic changes in the policy may create a huge impact on the existing scenario and socio-economic development of the people. Therefore, we request that before making any final draft, the state government may be consulted again,” read his letter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-304
11-09-2020||Jharkhand||Active Covid cases close to 16,000; 1,244 recoveries in 24 hours||Number of active cases of the Covid-19 infection in Jharkhand drew close to 15,500 on Thursday despite higher count of recoveries than fresh cases reported in 24 hours, figures with the health department stated. As per a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) on Thursday night, as many as 1152 people were found Covid-positive in the state, taking the tally to 58,097. Meanwhile, 1244 Covid patients recovered from the viral infection and were subsequently discharged from hospitals. Ranchi, the worst-affected district in Jharkhand in terms of Covid cases, reported 382 cases of infection on Thursday, the highest among all the 24 districts in Jharkhand. The number of active cases of infection in the district was 3,811 by Thursday midnight despite 115 patients recovering from the viral infection in 24 hours, government data stated. Meanwhile, the Covid mortality rate in Jharkhand dropped to 0.89 per cent but the virtue of only two casualties on Thursday, the lowest in a day this month. Both the Covid victims, as per government data, were from East Singhbhum, a district that accounts for nearly 50 per cent of state’s Covid casualties. Out of the 517 Covid deaths in Jharkhand, 234 were from East Singhbhum, figures with the state health department state. The Covid tally in East Singhbhum inched towards 10,000 on Thursday, while the tally in Ranchi drew close to 12,000. Each of the remaining 22 districts in Jharkhand have reported fewer cases than 5000 so far, which is less than half of the tally in Ranchi, government data highlights. Except East Singhbhum and Ranchi, no other district reported cases in triple digits on Thursday. The government on Thursday collected swab samples of 18,861 people and tested 18,975 of them. Health workers have collected swab samples of 13.12 lakh people in the state so far and tested 12.99 lakh of them. Of the 13 lakh-odd people that have been tested for the virus, nearly 60,000 were found infected. As per figures with the health department, Jharkhand’s Covid recovery rate reached 72.51 per cent on Thursday, which is lower than the national average of 77.32 per cent. As per government records, at least 42,115 of the 58,079 Covid patients in Jharkhand have recovered from the infection.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-304
11-09-2020||Jharkhand|| New initiative for disabled tribals||An NGO has launched an initiative to provide a source of livelihood to disabled poor tribal people residing in rural areas of Dhanbad in Jharkhand. Nand Care Foundation, a 9-month-old NGO founded by final-year MBA student Deepak Kumar, started the project by helping two such families in Dhanbad on Wednesday. “During distribution of meals to the poor during the lockdown induced by the Covid-19 pandemic since March, we have seen the pathetic condition of tribals who are disabled. We had a talk with our contributors to chalk out a strategy which would be sustainable for the disabled people in the long run instead of distribution of a few ration items and cash “ After discussion we have decided to contribute goats to such families which would not require any investment and provide them a sustainable livelihood in future. In addition we would distribute a one-time ration kit and Rs 5,000 in cash to tide over the emergency,” said Kumar, a student of Binod Bihari Mahto Koylanchal University. His NGO has so far distributed 10 lakh meals to the poor in and around Dhanbad during the lockdown. The NGO gave four goats and a male goat along with ration kits and cash to the beneficiaries on Wednesday. “We will be giving 5 goats (including the male goat) in the first phase. After a few months, we will provide them another lot of 5 goats after seeing if they are able to rear them well. We have also provided animal insurance for all the goats. The tribals know about goat rearing and since they are of local breed, the animals do not require much maintenance. They can earn income by selling goat milk,” said Kumar. The beneficiaries included Gajju Mahato, 35, a resident of Topchanchi in Dhanbad who suffers from paralysis in his right hand and leg due to polio while his wife has lost vision in one eye. The other beneficiary was 27-year-old Lakhi Munni from Sindurpur in Baliapur block of Dhanbad, who suffers from vision impairment sustained during a fire mishap in which her face was burnt. The NGO plans to select more such beneficiaries in the near future. “We would be searching for more such poor tribal people who have disabilities of any form and are residing in rural parts of Dhanbad and provide benefits under this project. We have plans to help 100 such people in the near future,” said Kumar. His NGO has also provided two truckloads of edible items for flood victims in Bihar and also runs several playschools for poor children in Dhanbad.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-304
11-09-2020||Jharkhand||NGT slaps Rs 113cr fine on Jharkhand||The cash-strapped Hemant Soren government has been burdened with the responsibility of paying a hefty fine of Rs 113 crore for the lapses made during the previous government run by his predecessor. The eastern zonal bench of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) on Wednesday slapped a fine of Rs 66 crore for constructing the new high court building and Rs 47 crore for the new state Assembly building without obtaining the mandatory environment clearance certificates. Both the impressive structures were constructed at Kute village on the outskirts of Ranchi during the regime of the BJP government led by Raghubar Das. The Assembly building was inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on September 12 last year (2019) that critics of the BJP felt was done by the then Das government in a hurry to grab the credit for doing it. Saryu Roy, Jamshedpur East MLA and former food minister in Das government who fought the last Assembly election as an Independent when the BJP denied him a ticket and defeated Das in his own bastion, lost no time to inform it through a tweet. Informing that a hefty fine was slapped for want of environment clearance,  Roy raised a question in his tweet on Wednesday, asking who would pay the fine —the contractors, the government officials (who were at fault) or the government exchequer made of taxpayers’ money. “I just came to know about it but am yet to receive the NGT order,” chief minister Hemant Soren replied when Roy’s question was repeated to him in the evening that day, adding he would discuss it after going through the detailed judgment. “I had even written a letter to the Prime Minister drawing his attention to the lapses that were being made not unknowingly,” Roy told The Telegraph when contacted on Thursday, adding a Delhi-based well known environmentalist R.K. Singh had moved the NGT on the matter. “Glaring lapses and wilful violations are being made by the responsible office holders sitting at the helms in the government system... in the process of construction of Jharkhand state Assembly building and others as well,” Roy informed in his letter to the PM a few days after the latter had inaugurated the assembly building, adding it was required “to procure necessary environment clearance before starting construction of such buildings”. Following Singh’s complaint, the state government had hurriedly applied to the State Environmental Impact Assessment Authority (SEIAA) that, in turn, issued clearance after imposing a fine of Rs 5.26 crore, Roy informed this paper. “But SEIAA was not competent to do so,” he further said, adding the NGT went ahead with the complaint and finally imposed the fine.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-304
11-09-2020||Jharkhand||Hemant Soren directs Bokaro DC to help ailing student||Chief minister Hemant Soren on Thursday asked Bokaro deputy commissioner Rajesh Kumar Singh to provide medical help to a Class X student ailing from chronic kidney disease. The move came after the chief minister was tagged in a video on Twitter. The student seen in the video is a resident of Bhandaridah in the Chandrapura block of Bokaro. He scored 96 per cent in his Class 10 board exam. The student says in the video that he dreams of becoming an IITian but both his kidneys have failed and he requires treatment immediately. Jharkhand health minister Banna Gupta, education minister Jagarnath Mahato, Jama MLA Sita Soren and the DC Singh have also been tagged in the video. Hemant has directed the health minister and the DC to investigate the case and help the student under the incurable disease treatment scheme. Pappu Vishwakarma, an undertrial who was kept at an isolation ward in Koderma Sadar hospital after testing positive for Covid-19, escaped on Thursday morning. A resident of Deori village in Giridih, he was accused in a murder case. Pappu was shifted to Koderma jail due to large number of prisoners in Giridih jail. A doctor named Sharad Kumar said he jumped from the window of his room situated on the first floor to escape. A massive manhunt has been launched to catch him. Bokaro Steel Plant bagged the prestigious ELETS National Water Innovation Award in the category of Leading Corporate for its significant contribution in the field of industrial water conservation. Chief of communication, BSL, Manikant Dhan said that BSL a unit of SAIL, is a water-positive company where the water for production is not taken from the ground water sources, but rather the ground water level is raised by the water stored in the cooling pond spread over 5 sq. km. A rainwater harvesting project at BSL has also been completed and five other such projects are in the pipeline. The residents of Kujama Colliery on Thursday staged a protest at the Lodna area office against the allotment of quarters to 80 families by Jharia Rehabilitation and Developement Authority. Kujama Colliery is one of the 595 underground fire-affected areas of Jharia coalfield region. The protesters said that out of over 300 families living in the area, only 80 have been provided quarters at the new place. Some old settlers of Kujama, living in the area before 2004 (the cut-off date for rehabilitation benefits) have not been allotted quarters while others who are new settlers had been allotted quarters. The list of persons along with their allotted quarters in Belgarhia had been posted in Kujama Colliery office on September 8. The dead body of a 13-year-old boy was found in a small pond in the Topchanchi block on Thursday morning. Family members of Banti Rai said that he left the house last evening at around 7 to go to the market but didn't return all night. A team from Hariharpur police station sent the body for post-mortem and launched an investigation into the case as the body bore injury marks near the face and abdomen. Thirty-four Covid-19 patients have been discharged from various treatment facilities in Dhanbad, including 23 from the Sadar hospital, nine from the Zonal Training Institute of Railway at Bhuli and two from Wedlock Greens. Dhanbad deputy commissioner Uma Shankar Singh said the discharged persons have been provided medical kits and instructed to remain in home quarantine for next 14 days. He said that currently, there are 328 active Covid-19 cases in the district. Traffic DSP Rajesh Kumar on Monday held a meeting with the officials of various road divisions to discuss the steps to be taken to prevent accidents with special focus on increasing safety at “black” spots. Kumar appealed to the road division officials to put signages, blinkers and speed restriction boards at all strategic positions. An electric substation of Eastern Coalfields was robbed by more than 20 armed criminals around 3am on Thursday. More than 50ft of electric cable was stolen by them from the substation situated near Central Pool Colliery of Mugma area. The criminals fled from the site when a mobile security team of ECL reached the site. Security forces in Latehar district have recovered an AK-47, one country-made rifle and around four dozen live rounds in two encounters with the rebels of a splinter group on Thursday. Latehar superintendent of police Prashant Anand said security forces also recovered cell phones and other articles.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-304
11-09-2020||Jharkhand||Two post graduate students die in car crash at Chaingadha||Two post graduate students from Hazaribagh died in a car accident near Chaingadha four lane bridge, under the Bhadani Nagar outpost in Ramgarh district on Wednesday late evening They were travelling with two other friends, also students of the Vinoba Bhave University, to Ranchi for a friend’s birthday. The deceased Aditya Raj (19) and Ashutosh Singh (19) were accompanied by Golu and Abhishek Kumar. Eyewitnesses said the car was speeding while crossing Chaingadha bridge, and the driver lost control over the vehicle. The car wheeled off the bridge and landed 100meter ahead in a paddy field, eventually overturning. Local villagers present at the spot rushed to their help but one of them died on impact. Villagers informed police at the Bhadani nagar outpost, who took the three injured to Ramgarh sadar hospital where the second succumbed to his injuries. Aditya Raj was a resident of Shahpur village in Katkamsandi and Ashutosh Singh was a resident of Shivpuri mohalla in town. Golu hails from the Shivpuri mohalla in town and Abhishek resides in Hari Nagar. Both have sustained grave injuries and are now admitted at RIMS, Ranchi. The bodies have been handed over to the families after postmortem. Relatives expressed grief and shock at the tragic incident. Hazaribagh sadar MLA Manish Jaiswal expressed his condolences for family members of the deceased.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-305
11-09-2020||Jharkhand||Nursing college students protest over affiliation question||More than 20 students of Dhanbad College of Nursing at the town’s Asharfi Hospital on Thursday staged a protest and lodged a complaint against the management of the institute for allegedly deceiving them and operating the four-year Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BSc Nursing) course without the mandatory affiliation of the Indian Nursing Council. The students accompanied by their parents and guardians also met Dhanbad city superintendent of police R. Ramkumar and requested him to register a case against the hospital administration and take suitable action. Sudhanshu Ranjan Roy, the father of one of the protesting students, said: “A majority of the 42 students of the first batch, who will be studying from 2019-’23, are from nearby areas of Bengal such as Purulia, Asansol and Burdwan. During admissions, we were assured that the college is affiliated with the Indian Nursing Council. However, the college authorities could not submit the requisite documents.” “The fraud came to light in March when some of the senior students raised the issue of affiliation. This prompted us to seek the documents pertaining to affiliation with the council. The college authorities tried to avoid answering the question,” said a student from Purulia, adding that when the students demanded that the college authorities return their original certificates and marksheets, the college authorities said the students must first pay up the full course fee of Rs 5.5 lakh. “We also met the Bengal minister for labour and law, Moloy Ghatak, recently who advised us to take up the issue with the Jharkhand chief minister. We wrote a letter to chief minister Hemant Soren to intervene,” said the parent of another student requesting anonymity, and added that some of the students had already deposited the full course fee of Rs 5.5 lakh to the college. Harendra Singh, chief executive officer of Aharfi Hospital which runs the BSc Nursing course, said, “The charges of fraud are completely baseless. Rules have changed. An affiliation with INC is not necessary for operating the nursing course as per the latest ruling of the Supreme Court.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-305
