12-09-2020||Calcutta||The man who grasped statistics and its untapped potential||In 1981, I was a young man in my late teens, about to make the transition from school to college. My mother was a professor of economics and I was veering towards making a career in economics as well. When our higher secondary results were declared, I went to Presidency College to pick up a form to apply for the honours course in economics. At that time, I was told that each candidate could apply for two subjects. After some thought I picked up another form for statistics. Although I had studied statistics in plus+2, I had not developed a liking for the subject as our statistics teachers in high school could not provide enough motivation for us to develop an appreciation for the topic. Hence, while I may have filled in applications for both subjects, I was not seriously thinking about majoring in statistics at that point of time. Being successful in both admission tests, I then had to decide. Economics or statistics honours? Although I was still overwhelmingly in favour of joining the economics course, I met Prof Atindra Mohan Gun, with whom my father was  acquainted, for advice. I knew that being the head of the department of statistics, his opinion was likely to be biased towards his subject, but I considered myself mature enough to be able to weigh his advice rationally. That meeting changed the course of my life. Of course, Prof Gun explained to me why somebody should study statistics, and what options a well-trained statistician had. He also told me that the discipline was yet to attain its full potential, a statement which seems prophetic today with the emergence of analytics and data science. To some extent, I was expecting to hear such things. But to a greater extent, it was the force of his personality which convinced me. By the time I left his chamber, I had made up my mind. I joined the statistics honours course in Presidency College, and since then, never for a single day in my life have I regretted my decision. It is debatable whether Presidency College in the 1980s was qualitatively at par with the Presidency College of 1950s and 60s. But there is no doubt that it was still the best college of the state. And Prof Gun was prominent among the handful of teachers whose dedication allowed the college to retain this distinction. As a teacher his effectiveness was beyond question. Within the classroom he was a perfectionist. His class-notes were complete in every respect, and simply compiling them was enough to produce a complete textbook. He was also a strict disciplinarian. If a group of students would bunk a certain class, he would send the non-teaching staff to look for them, and, if found, haul them back to class. Occasionally he would wander in the classrooms of younger teachers and observe, sometimes for long durations, how they fared in class. Yet, he was a classic old school professor, who cared not only about students’ education but also about their complete well-being. There was an aura about him, which all teachers and professors hope to attain, but very few actually do. He was an institution by himself. Prof Gun was extremely protective of the status and stature of Presidency College. He strongly resented any move to dilute the elite status of the college. This led him to several conflicts with the state’s higher education authorities of the time which continued for almost the entire second half of his tenure at the college. He was a very vocal proponent of autonomy for Presidency College but that did not happen during his tenure, although the institution has now been converted into a university. It is also widely believed that he was passed over for several appointments and positions because he did not see eye-to-eye with the authorities controlling the education system. It is to our great pleasure and satisfaction that in 2012, on Teacher’s Day (September 5), we could felicitate Prof Gun, together with his contemporaries Prof Milan K. Gupta and Prof Bhagbat Dasgupta, at Presidency University on their attaining the milestone of 80 years. And although we did not realise it at the time, it was later pointed out that the year 2012 also marked the 50th year of the publication of the famous book, Fundamentals of Statistics, co-authored by these three legendary professors. And this year, 2020, marks the 50th year of their other famous book, An Outline of Statistical Theory. One is amazed to think that over the last five-six decades no other textbook has come to the market which could effectively replace these epic texts; and that too in a modern subject like statistics which is constantly evolving. Generations of statisticians, many of whom have never seen Prof Gun, or professors Gupta and Dasgupta, have learnt the subject through these textbooks, and the same may happen for many generations in future.  The entire community should be grateful to them for leaving behind such valuable resources for us. It is also my great personal satisfaction that I got to dedicate one of my own books to him. In 2016, I wrote a book on predictive analytics with my wife Srabashi, who was also a student of Prof Gun and my classmate at Presidency College. We were very happy to pay our intellectual debt to him through the dedication, and he was also very happy when we visited him at his residence to present him a copy of the book. That was in 2016, and it was my last meeting with him. The demise of Prof Gun signals the end of an era. I consider myself to be fortunate to have him as my first statistics mentor. (Ayanendranath Basu is a professor at Indian Statistical Institute)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-309
12-09-2020||Calcutta||Covid surveyors see healthy change in residents||The response to the survey to identify comorbidities among Calcuttans, which started four days ago, suggests the city has started taking public health issues more seriously than it did before Covid-19 had struck, those connected with the survey said. Volunteers and health workers who are visiting houses as part of the survey said the resistance they would face during the anti-dengue or polio vaccination drive was missing when they were asking residents about their comorbidities. The survey on comorbidities is being undertaken to make Covid response in the city more focussed. Public health experts and civic officials said the overwhelming death toll of Covid-19  - which till September 11 claimed 3,828 lives in Bengal, including 1,449 in Calcutta - had changed the way people think and act. According to the state health department, 85.9 per cent of those who died after testing positive for the disease had comorbidities, a fact that serves as a pointer to the importance of such a survey. “The change in Calcuttans’ thinking on public health matters reveals how deep an impact Covid has created and the fear it has instilled in our minds,” said a public health expert. The comorbidity surveillance programme, which started on September 7, targets to cover 10 lakh households across the 144 wards of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC). A form is being handed over to residents which asks whether a person is above 60 or has conditions like diabetes, hypertension, cardiac ailments, kidney ailment, liver disease, cancer, respiratory problems and tuberculosis. The state health department, CMC and Covid Care Network (a voluntary organisation comprising health officials, doctors and those who have recovered from Covid) are jointly conducting the survey. The CMC has deployed 2,880 workers to collect data from residents. There are 288 supervisors, one for 10 data collectors. The target is to complete the survey in 14 days. Several CMC workers taking part in the survey said they were observing a change in people’s behaviour. “Many would not allow us to enter their premises to find out whether fresh water had accumulated, where dengue mosquitoes breed. We face such problems in highrises and housing complexes... our workers were shooed away from the gates,” said a data collector who did not want to be named. “For the comorbidity survey, we have not yet faced any such problem. Most people are interested to know what this survey is about. Once convinced about it’s need, they are giving all details,” he said. Abhijit Chowdhury, a public health expert and member of the chief minister’s expert team on Covid, had visited several houses in Tollygunge and Kalighat a couple of days ago with data collectors. “In Tollygunge, we went to a house where a middle-aged man came out and asked why we were there. The man listened patiently to the volunteers. Then he asked how a person would benefit from the survey,” Chowdhury recounted. “When he was told that those with comorbidities could get priorities when vaccines for Covid-19 are available, he said there was a person in his family with diabetes.” The experience was the same in Kalighat, too. “I asked the volunteers whether they were facing the resistance they used to face while taking part in dengue prevention programmes. They said there was hardly any resistance. At places where they are not allowed inside, the forms are being distributed through security personnel,” said Chowdhury, who is also the mentor of Covid Care Network. “The volunteers told me that more than 80 to 90 per cent households are actively taking part in the survey. People are getting tuned to the need of the hour and the change is for the better.” When the authorities were planning the comorbidity survey, there were apprehensions about how residents of housing complexes and other pockets would react. Officials had also thought that the fear of catching Covid would make volunteers and health workers reluctant to visit houses. But at least till Friday, officials said, the enthusiasm among volunteers and health workers was high. “Through this challenging period of four or five months, people’s psyche has matured. They are now welcoming surveyors without any inhibitions,” said Subrata Roy Chowdhury, officer on special duty, health, and deputy chief municipal health officer of the CMC. He is the nodal officer for the programme. He said that unlike dengue or pulse polio, no campaign had been launched for the comorbidity survey. “Despite that, the response is good. People have come to understand that if the comorbidity issue can be addressed, the risk of a Covid patient can be reduced,” he said. A resident of south Calcutta welcomed the way the comorbidity survey was being conducted but had one complaint: the form was only in Bengali. Officials said forms in Hindi and English would soon be distributed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-309
12-09-2020||Calcutta||He who found God in all things||Swami Agnivesh, who was hospitalised due to liver cirrhosis at the Institute of Liver and Billary Sciences (ILBS) in Delhi, passed away on Friday evening. I had spoken to him on Tuesday. The 80-year-old former professor of St Xavier’s College (1963-69) and friend of St. Xavier’s University, Calcutta, and a social activist was an advocate for dialogue between religions. He was involved in various areas of social activism, including campaigns against female feticide and the emancipation of women. He was a prominent associate of Anna Hazare during the India Against Corruption campaign in 2011 to implement the Jan Lokpal Bill. Swami Agnivesh was truly “a man for others”…. A sanyasi in the Arya Samaj order, he stood tall, both on the national and international stage, as an educationist, a philanthropist, a philosopher, a spiritualist, most of all as a humanist. The sublime words of Saint Ignatius of Loyola, founder of the Jesuit Order, applies to him perfectly… “He was contemplative in action, finding God in all things”. And also important to me, Swamiji and I were close associates and friends. I met Swami Agnivesh 34 years ago in Delhi, although I had heard of him three years prior to that, while I was a lecturer at St Xavier’s College. He was known for his revolutionary ideas, oratory skills and the bold stand he often took for the liberation of the disadvantaged people. A 14-year-old Sri Lankan girl had been arrested for unlawfully entering India. She was housed in Tihar jail in 1987. My Sri Lankan friends had requested my help for the child. I met Swami Agnivesh seeking his guidance and advice. Both Swamiji and I were at the court when the case came up, we modestly sat in the last row. When the judge entered, he happened to notice Swamiji and questioned his presence. Swamiji explained the context and that he hoped for the smooth release of the minor. Since then our friendship blossomed. We worked on several issues, social and religious. Thereafter I often invited him to visit Xavier institutions, be it the Jesuit College of theology in Delhi, Vidyajothi, St Xavier’s College or St Xavier’s University, Kolkata. He also figures amongst one of the most notable and prominent former faculty members of St Xavier’s College. Vepa Syam Rao was born into a Brahmin Telegu family. He completed his Masters from Calcutta University. He taught at St Xavier’s College from 1963 to 1969. At 24, young Rao was inquisitive and curious to know the inner workings of the Belgian Jesuits. One day he sneaked into the Jesuit residence known as cloister and peeped in. The austerity and simplicity of the Jesuit living quarters astounded him... only a table, two chairs, a bed and a wooden almirah. It was unbelievable…. “The Jesuits lived a life of high thinking and simple living,” this made a deep impact on him. While coming out of the Jesuit cloister, Rao met a senior Belgian Jesuit in the corridor. He asked the priest as to what had motivated him to come to the distant shores of India leaving behind his home and the comforts he had had there. The Jesuit answered him: “I am here like my fellow Jesuit Fathers. Our mission is to serve the people of India, particularly of Bengal, mainly to impart quality education to Indian students; this is the humble contribution we hope to make.” Swamiji was deeply impressed and he has often reiterated that this response by the Jesuit priest had an influence on his future life and missionary zeal. He said: “It made me ponder. What is MY mission for India?” Swamiji has always stressed his strong faith in spirituality. He insists that spirituality ought to be social spirituality. This spirituality should not be an individualistic or escapist type. He insists that it should be one that would keep the interest of the society intact; which would depend on the respect for individual interest. These are inextricably linked. They are complimentary… religion must be a thrust for social awakening and revolution. Swamji has written a number of books on this subject to promote and share his views and ideas. He was a bridge between religions, respecting the differences.... “Do unto others as you would have others do unto you,” was his golden rule. He further advocated, if we want life, let us give life to others; if we want opportunities, let us provide these opportunities to others. God’s love is the same for all, no matter what one’s religion or nationality is. He was against the throwaway culture, where people not only throw junk but also the poor, the refugees and the downtrodden. He promoted through his work an education in fraternity for real solidarity. This in fact was the essence of Swamiji’s conviction and work. Swamiji was termed an anti-national, Christian sympathiser. It is forgotten that he believes the world is one family: “Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam”. God enjoins us to stay united as one family. Swamiji was a messenger of God. He was a giant among men. India is blessed to have him. He was a relentless fighter for the downtrodden, not caring for personal attacks or even results… just fight till something positive emerges was his firm belief. As Shakespeare said, reiterated by Justice V.R Krishna Iyer: “What a piece of work is a man, how noble in reason, how infinite in faculty, in form and moving how express and admirable, in action how like an angel, in apprehension how like a god, never at rest but ever in meditative communication with God.” Swamiji was diamond hard in his convictions, honeybee in his sweet collectivism for all suffering humans, a defender of the Constitution and a humanist, aware of the religious pluralism of Bharat. Anything that might destroy the fabric of this country or threaten its development was the recipient of his ire. Swami Agnivesh was indeed a man among men…. A prophet for all seasons on the side of truth and justice with a deep-seated spiritual perspective. A true inspiration. A Karma Yogi. Champion of the socially challenged... A true Arya Samaji. Fr. J. Felix Raj is the vice-chancellor of St Xavier’s University, Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-309
12-09-2020||Calcutta||Pocket phone leads cops to body||A 30-year-old man reported missing for more than a day from his Chetla home was found buried on the premises of an abandoned building in New Alipore on Friday evening. Police tracked him through his phone, which was left switched on in his pocket. One of his neighbours, Dipak Das, has been arrested on the charge of murder. Bipul Dutta, a resident of Chetla Road, had left his home around 8am on Thursday. His family lodged a missing diary with New Alipore police station on Friday around 11am. Cops tracked the phone’s location to an abandoned two-storey building in New Alipore’s Block O. The soil appeared loose at a particular place and a spade was lying nearby. “A sniffer dog headed straight for the spot. The place was dug up and Dutta’s body found around 6.45pm on Friday,” an officer of New Alipore police station said. Das, 47, the building’s caretaker and a resident of Chetla Road, has been arrested on charges of murder. “He has confessed to the crime. They were drinking when both picked a fight and Das hit him with a spade. When he died, he was buried,” the officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-309
12-09-2020||Calcutta||Durga reaches home, 40 days before schedule||The goddess Durga has arrived in a house near Entally, 40 days before she steps into pandals or thakurdalans, while organisers wait for the government’s instructions on Durga Puja. The Das family in Seal Lane follows the longest of the seven prescribed periods of worship, starting on the ninth day of the new moon fortnight before Devipaksha or the divine full moon fortnight. And this year, because of the mala mash (a lunar month with two new moons when no auspicious rituals can take place) the gap with the schedule followed by most pujas has got even bigger. This year, because of the pandemic and the lockdown, attendance was thin on Day 1 of the puja. “None of our relatives could come. Because of the situation, we have not pressured them to come, too,” said Prosenjit Das, who does the puja himself since the inception in 2008. Two priests, in masks and sitting apart, are assisting him. They are the only outsiders allowed. The family has taken other precautions, too. “We are offering only whole fruits as naibedya. The duration of the daily rituals will be shortened. The surfaces are being periodically sanitised. Nor will bhog be offered to 200-300 people as is our custom on Mahanavami,” said Das. They are unsure of calling a dhaki. “Usually we have one on duty from Panchami. But we may have to make do with a digital recording this year,” he said. During the mala mash from September 18 to October 18, only nitya puja, done for any household deity, will take place. “As puja will be such a long-drawn affair this year, we had to start preparing a lot in advance,” Prosenjit ’s wife Reema said. Though relatives, including Prosenjit’s sister Moumita who had trained with him on conducting the rituals, could not attend, Das has found an assistant in his six-year-old son Ayush who has insisted on getting his own mini set of conchshell, bell, koshakushi and chamor, and is ready to imitate every move of his father during arati, clad in his little dhoti. “No pandemic can dent his enthusiasm. He says he is a brave boy who does not fear the coronavirus demon,” Reema laughed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-309
12-09-2020||Calcutta||Parkomat repairs for full use||Parkomat, a multi-storey car park at the intersection of Rawdon Street and Park Street, will undergo repairs to make it fully operational. Half the capacity of the facility has been lying unused for years, while cars found it difficult to get a parking space on and around Park Street. Officials of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC), which manages the car park, said a company had been hired to repair the faults in the hydraulic system in the third and half of the second tier of the three-tier facility. The repairs will allow about 70 more cars to be parked at Parkomat, said an official. Parkomat can accommodate 165 cars but it has been operating at half its capacity for years. A fully functional Parkomat will benefit many people who drive to their offices located on Park Street or some of the roads running perpendicular to it and have to struggle every day to find a parking spot. The CMC official said he had received many letters from such people who spoke about difficulties they faced in parking their cars. “Once all slots are functional, patients and their families visiting Bhagirathi Neotia Women and Child Care Centre will find it easier to parktheir cars. Now they have a harrowing time scouting for space,” said a traffic police officer. “We have selected a company to do the repairs. The repairs will be completed within a month after they start. We are waiting for funds to be allotted for the repairs before we ask the company to start work,” said a CMC official. The tender for the repair project was floated before the pandemic struck in India. Since April, no work could be done. Recently, there has again been some progress and the CMC officials hope repairs will start soon. “The pandemic will end one day. We want to make the facility fully operational before things become normal again, which is why we are pushing ahead with the project,” an official said. “In the pre-pandemic period, many cars would park along the sides of Rawdon Street, especially near Bhagirathi Neotia hospital. The cars mostly belonged to patients visiting the hospital. Many of them were pregnant women and babies. The cars would eat up the road space at the junction of Rawdon Street and Park Street. If the capacity of the Parkomat is increased, the road will hopefully be free,” said a police officer. The Parkomat was built as a joint venture between the CMC and Simplex Infrastructures Limited. It began operation in 2000. An official of Simpark Infrastructure, a group company of Simplex that ran Parkomat, said that even when the hydraulic system was fully operational, the upper tiers remained empty mostly. “Cars used to park along the roads and police did not force them to enter Parkomat,” he said. The parking charges at Parkomat are higher than what one has to pay to park a car on a road. The Parkomat rates for four-wheelers and two-wheelers are Rs 35 and Rs 11 an hour, respectively. The corresponding rates for road parking are Rs 10 and Rs 5. According to the CMC’s website, owners of four-wheelers can book monthly parking slots at Parkomat for Rs 3,450 (24 hours daily), Rs 2,300 (12 hours during day time) and Rs 1,725 (12 hours at night). Another hydraulic parking facility in the city, outside New Market, has been functioning at around half its capacity for years. The facility can accommodate over 200 cars but now has slots for only 100-odd cars.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-310
12-09-2020||Calcutta||1400 tonnes of Bangladesh Hilsa for Bengal||Bangladesh will export more than 1,400 tonnes of Hilsa to Bengal, the largest consignment in recent times, according to several fish exporters in Dhaka. The Bangladesh government’s permission to Hilsa exporters (order dated September 10, 2020) says the allowance is for Durga Puja and will remain valid till October 10. The fish, packed in styrofoam boxes, will start reaching Calcutta from next week and will be delivered in phases by trucks crossing over the Petrapole border outpost near Bongaon in North 24-Parganas. “Last year, the Bangladesh government had sent 500 tonnes of Hilsa as a goodwill gesture to Bengal ahead of Durga Puja. This time the volume is nearly three times that,” Syed Anwar Maqsood, secretary of the West Bengal Fish Importers’ Association. “Apart from markets in Calcutta, Howrah and adjoining areas, we will distribute this Hilsa to the wholesale fish markets in North Bengal as well.” “This has been a good season for the Padma Hilsa in Bangladesh,” Kazi Abdul Manna, director of Seven Star Fish Processing Limited in Bangladesh, told Metro from Pabna. “The government has allowed nine fish merchants to export Hilsa this time against one last year. The size of the fish will vary between 900g and 1.2kg. We hope you enjoy the taste.” Despite a flicker of hope, this year has been somewhat frustrating for fishermen in parts of Patharpratima, Kultali, and Frasergunge in South 24-Parganas and in Digha and Sankarpur in East Midnapore who have been venturing into the seas for their catch of Hilsa. “Fishermen couldn’t venture into the seas like previous years because of inclement weather and the lockdown,” Chandranath Sinha, the state fisheries minister, said. The production of Hilsa in Bengal has dwindled from around 80,000 tonnes in 2001 to close to 15,000 tonnes in 2013 to around 10,000 tonnes in 2017 largely because of excess fishing in the Bay of Bengal. The Bengal government has now banned the catching of Hilsa between April 15 and June 14, the breeding season of the fish. Bangladesh, in comparison, has been able to check the declining Hilsa population by banning fishing during the breeding period and establishing sanctuaries for the fish.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-310
12-09-2020||Calcutta||IIM Calcutta teachers oppose bringing students to the campus||As many as 61 teachers of IIM Calcutta have written to the institute’s board of governors wondering whether it was prudent to call students of the MBA executive programme to the campus amid the Covid pandemic. The 61 teachers — the Joka B-school’s current faculty strength is 82 — have expressed the fear that the students’ journey to and presence on the campus could trigger grave health consequences and alleged that they had not been consulted on the matter. The letter — on behalf of IIM Calcutta Faculty Forum and addressed to the chairman of the institute’s board, Shri-krishna Kulkarni — have cited examples of Covid cases on the campuses of IIM Ahmedabad and IIT Kharagpur. IIM Calcutta had on September 8 announced that it would call 62 students of the one-year residential MBA executive programme to the campus so they could use the Internet network there and attend online classes without disruption. The students have been attending online classes from home since April. The letter to Kulkarni says: “You would be aware that recently IIT Kharagpur had to decide to vacate its hostels due to continuing spread of COVID-19. According to recent news reports, a student of the PGPX programme at IIM Ahmedabad who had been allowed to come into campus has tested positive for COVID-19. News like this has caused considerable anxiety to different stakeholders — campus residents, other faculty and staff who regularly visit campus for official work — who would be impacted by this decision.” Raising questions about the absence of consultations on the matter, the teachers ask: “What steps did our institute take to ensure that stakeholders were consulted before taking this decision with potentially grave consequences for their health and safety?” Metro contacted Kulkarni but he said he could not talk because he was busy at a meeting. He did not respond to text messages. Repeated calls to director Anju Seth went unanswered. She, too, did not respond to text messages from this newspaper. The IIM authorities had said on September 8: “Following the recent central and state government advisories and regulatory guidelines, the students will arrive on the campus in small batches to undertake quarantine in the campus hostel, while still attending classes online.” The Unlock 4 guidelines issued by the home ministry on August 29 said the higher education institutions could reopen for research scholars and postgraduate students of technical and professional programmes requiring laboratory/experimental work. “These will be permitted by the department of higher education in consultation with the ministry, based on the assessment of the situation, and keeping in view of the incidence of Covid-19 in the states/Union Territories,” says the guideline. The IIM teachers have asked whether the decision to call the students to the campus was in accordance with the guidelines.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-310
12-09-2020||Calcutta||First woman OC in Calcutta police dead in road crash||The first woman officer in Calcutta police who became a police station chief in the city died in a road accident on Durgapur Expressway, in Hooghly district, early on Friday. Debasree Chatterjee, 49, who was posted as the commandant, 12th battalion of the state armed police, her guard Tapas Burman and driver Manoj Saha were declared dead at the Hooghly Imambara Sadar Hospital. Chatterjee, whose office was in north Bengal, was returning home to Calcutta when the accident occurred around 6.25am, sources close to her said. The Mahindra Scorpio in which she was travelling rammed into the rear of a stationary truck at Dadpur, around 70km from the heart of Calcutta. Preliminary investigations by the Hooghly Rural Police suggest that the vehicle was travelling at a high speed and a possible reason for the accident was that the driver had dozed off. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee tweeted: “Deeply grieved to hear about the demise of Debasree Chatterjee, CO 12th Bn in an unfortunate road accident on Durgapur Expressway… My condolences to the family of the deceased.” A senior police officer said the cause of the accident could only be ascertained after the vehicle was subjected to mechanical and forensic examinations. The tests will rev- eal whether the vehicle had any snag that led to the accident. The mangled remains of the Scorpio had to be separated from the truck with a Wrecker before the three bodies could be extracted. Chatterjee was sitting in the middle seat, while her guard was sitting next to the driver. Chatterjee, who earlier served as an assistant commissioner and a deputy commissioner (women) in the Calcutta police, was the first woman in the force to have been assigned the responsibility to lead a police station, a job usually handled by men. A graduate in geography, Chatterjee had joined the city police force in 1988. She started her career as a sub-inspector in the women’s grievance cell at Lalbazar. She worked at Park Street, Ekbalpore and Hare Street police stations before joining the cyber wing at Lalbazar. She later became the chief of the immoral trafficking wing of the detective department. In 2010, Chatterjee became the first woman in Calcutta police to be appointed the officer in charge of a police station - North Port. Mother of one, Chatterjee was known for her “never say die” attitude and her efficiency.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-310
12-09-2020||Calcutta||Gym trainer held for threat call to Shiv Sena MP  Sanjay Raut||A man in his early 50s who works as a gym instructor in Tollygunge was arrested by Mumbai police on Thursday night for allegedly making a threat call to Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut using a Dubai-registered SIM card. Palash Bose, a resident of Russa Road, who is said to have identified himself as a fan of Bollywood actress Kangana Ranaut to the MP, has been booked under Section 505 of the Indian Penal Code, which deals with the offence of incitement of any class or community of persons to commit any offence against any other class or community, and the Criminal Law Amendment Act. If convicted, Bose can be imprisoned for up to three years. The arrest comes in the middle of a tussle between Kangana and the Maharashtra administration, during which she has allegedly foul-mouthed Mumbai and the city’s civic body demolished a portion of her bungalow citing “illegal alterations”. According to the details shared with Calcutta police, Bose had allegedly tried to call Raut thrice using a Dubai-registered SIM card between September 2 and 8 but could connect with the MP only once. “Bose had allegedly told the MP to stop poking his nose in the Sushant Singh Rajput matter and stop disturbing Kangana Ranaut. He had also claimed that he was calling on behalf of Dawood Ibrahim,” said an officer of Calcutta police. The city police ran a check and came to know that Bose had worked in Dubai as a gym instructor for 18 years before returning to Calcutta in 2018. Currently, he is working at a gym in Tollygunge. Bose was produced at Alipore court on Friday and Mumbai police were given his transit remand for four days. Anirban Guha Thakurta, one of the two lawyers appearing for Bose, said: “How could Mumbai police conclude (that Bose had made the calls) without any forensic tests and reports on the IP address from where the Internet calls were made?” The police said three SIM cards, including two registered in Dubai, have been seized from Bose.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-310
12-09-2020||Business||HDFC Bank ups card rates||HDFC Bank has raised the interest rates on the revolving balances on credit cards and late payment fees at a time default rates are rising because of Covid-19. The charges on revolving credit on certain cards have been raised to 3.6 per cent per month, or 43.2 per cent annually, from 3.49 per cent per month (41.88 per cent annually) from September 1. Charges will go up for customers holding Regalia, Business Regalia, Regalia First, Business Regalia First, Doctors Regalia, Diners Privilege, Diners ClubMiles, Millennia, Millennia Easy EMI, InterMiles Signature, InterMiles World, Indigo 6E Rewards, Indigo 6E XL, Indian Oil Card, Times Titanium and Times Platinum cards. The late payment charges have been increased to Rs 1,100 for those with a statement balance of Rs 25,000-50,000 and to Rs 1,300 for a balance of over Rs 50,000. Till August 31, the bank was charging a flat fee of Rs 950 on late payments. In April, the late payment fee was Rs 750 — which means that this hike is the second since the outbreak of the crisis. According to Macquarie Research, late payment fees account for around 22 per cent of any card issuer’s total fee income. HDFC Bank is the country’s largest credit card issuer. According to RBI data at the end of June this year, HDFC Bank had over 1.45 crore credit cards in circulation. The number of transactions made by its credit card customers at PoS terminals was over 3.58 crore. Industry circles do not rule out the possibility of its peers following suit. HDFC Bank allows a grace period of three days from the payment due date on credit card accounts where payments are not overdue. The due date as mentioned in the credit card statement is the date by which clear funds must be credited to the credit card. However, three grace days are provided to accommodate the processing time of payments. HDFC Bank has said that it will report a credit card account as “past due” to credit information companies (CICs) and levy a late payment charge when a credit card account remains past due for more than three days. Angshuman Chatterjee, head (consumer credit cards and digital acquisitions) at HDFC Bank, had recently said that the number of customers buying high-value products through instalments stood at an all-time high during the pandemic. Chatterjee further said customers were opting for larger spends by breaking them up into simple EMIs, which is helping consumption.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-291
12-09-2020||Business||Annuity rate shield||The widening gap between returns in the accumulation phase and the return on annuities offered to National Pension System (NPS) subscribers on retirement has prompted the Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority (PFRDA) to “actively” consider an alternative. NPS subscribers can withdraw 60 per cent of their accumulated corpus on retirement and the remaining 40 per cent needs to be invested in annuities offered by empanelled life insurers, including LIC. While the subscribers get an average return of around 9 per cent on their corpus during the accumulation phase, the return on annuities has gone below 6 per cent with  falling interest rates. Moreover, in the case of annuities, the amount is fixed for life and the payouts are taxable. To protect the interest of the pensioners, PFRDA chairman Supratim Bandyopadhyay said a systematic withdrawal plan, similar to what mutual funds offer, is being planned to protect the retirement corpus. He did not give a timeline as the process would need parliamentary approval. “Annuity rates normally track interest rates. As the interest rates are coming down, annuity rates have also come down. We are exploring whether we can manage the withdrawal part within our system and try to give a kind of systematic withdrawal to the retired employee. We cannot give a timeline now. But, we are considering this actively,” Bandyopadhyay said at an event organised by the Indian Chamber of Commerce. A systematic withdrawal plan could offer retired individuals withdrawals at periodic intervals while potentially offering a better management of the funds and higher return. Bandyopadhyay said  public sector undertakings are increasingly shifting from their own superannuation funds to NPS. However, the rate of adoption among corporates is low. He added that the central government employees’ fund over the past 12 years has given a return of around 9.95 per cent with 15 per cent equity exposure.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-291
12-09-2020||Business||July factory output falls at lower rate||Industrial output declined 10.4 per cent in July — contracting for the fifth straight month, though at a milder pace — pulled down by lower output in manufacturing, mining and power generation. Analysts expect industries to take a longer time to recover because of the localised lockdown to contain the pandemic, which is spreading at a rapid pace across the country. “The indices for June 2020 have undergone the first revision and those for April 2020 have undergone the final revision. “The Quick Estimates for July 2020 have been compiled at a weighted response rate of 87 per cent, the first revision for June 2020 at a weighted response rate of 93 per cent and the final revision for April 2020 at a weighted response rate of 94 per cent,” the ministry of statistics and programme implementation said. However, it was silent on the revision of May output numbers. The index for July 2020 stands at 118.1 compared with 54.0 in April, 89.5 in May and 108.9 in  June. The index had contracted 15.7 per cent in June; 33.8 per cent in May and 57.3 per cent in April. In July last year, factory output had expanded by 4.9 per cent. Shilan Shah, senior India economist, Capital Economics said: “With India now on course to becoming the epicentre of the coronavirus, restrictions are likely to remain in place for a long time which will continue to hold back industrial recovery.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-291
12-09-2020||Business||Moody’s sees 11.5% contraction||Moody’s Investors Service on Friday said the economy was likely to see a sharper contraction of 11.5 per cent in the current fiscal compared with a 4 per cent contraction estimated earlier. The agency feels the contraction would be more pronounced because of the lockdown and continued rise in coronavirus cases. The US-based rating agency also projected India’s debt burden to peak at 90 per cent of GDP in the current fiscal and the Centre’s fiscal deficit to be close to 7.5 per cent of gross domestic product. In the previous fiscal, India’s debt burden was 72 per cent of GDP, while fiscal deficit stood at 4.6 per cent. India’s GDP contracted 23.9 per cent year-on-year in the April-June quarter, following the economic impact of the lockdown measures. “The collapse in GDP was one of the sharpest among all major G-20 economies. We now expect real GDP to contract 11.5 per cent in the financial year starting April 2020, much weaker than our previous forecast of a 4 per cent contraction,” Moody’s said. It expects growth to rebound to 10.6 per cent in fiscal 2021, reflecting a strong statistical base effect from the low GDP levels of 2020 as economic activity gradually normalises. The sharp decline in growth will result in materially weaker government revenue. Combined with increased fiscal expenditure in response to the coronavirus outbreak, this will contribute to a wider general government fiscal deficit, which it expects to reach 12 per cent of GDP in this fiscal, Moody’s said. Domestic rating agency CARE Ratings said the economy is likely to shrink 8-8.2 per cent in the current financial year compared with a decline of 6.4 per cent it had projected earlier.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-291
12-09-2020||Business||Lodhas skip Pilani voting||Rajashree Birla will continue on the board of Pilani Investment and Industries Corporation Ltd as a director after two investment firms under the control of Harsh Vardhan Lodha abstained from voting today on a special resolution seeking to give effect to her appointment at the annual general meeting. The special resolution, which must be carried by a three-fourths majority of the members present and voting, became necessary as Rajashree Birla turns 75 on September 15. The Sebi listing rules mandate that shareholders must pass a special resolution for the reappointment of all directors above 75. Rajashree Birla is the mother of Aditya Birla Group chairman Kumar Mangalam Birla. Pilani Investment and Industries Corporation is a premier Birla family investment company set up by patriarch Ghanashyam Das Birla in 1948. The scrutiniser of the voting at the AGM has yet to issue his report and the results will likely come in the next few days. However, sources confirmed that entities belonging to the erstwhile MP Birla group -- and now controlled by Harsh Vardhan Lodha -- chose to abstain from voting. The Lodhas, who have been locked in a spate of cases with the Birlas, hold around 25 per cent in Pilani. Their decision to abstain will pave the way for Rajashree Birla to be reinstated on the board. The Birla family entities as promoters of Pilani Investment hold a 57.55 per cent stake and would have required active or tacit support of the public shareholders, including the Lodha-controlled firms, to carry any special resolution. The Birla family and the Lodhas are enmeshed in bitter legal disputes ever since Late Priyamvada Devi Birla bequeathed the reign of M.P. Birla empire to Rajendra Singh Lodha, Harsh’s father, in 2004 by a will. Angered at the turn of events that an ‘outsider’ would gain control of a slice of Birla family empire, the purported will was challenged by the family, led by Basant Kumar Birla, grandfather of Kumar Mangalam. More than 100 cases have been filed by either side since then. Both B.K. Birla and R.S. Lodha passed away in 2019 and 2008 respectively. The Lodhas' decision to abstain from voting at the Pilani AGM comes at a time when a single judge is hearing the probate of the will sought by Lodha even as the Birla camp has renewed its efforts to dislodge Harsh Lodha from the M.P. Birla group companies. Harsh Lodha sits on the board of all the operating companies of M.P. Birla and acts as their chairman. “Lodha would not have gained control of Pilani by blocking Rajashree on the board and, hence, may have decided not to vote,” said a source. Lodha did not respond to text messages or phone calls. Unsurprisingly, Birla camp had a different take. “If a company (Pilani) is doing well and the investment is safe and giving return, why rock the boat?” they argued to explain Lodha's decision. The reappointment of Rajashree Birla had some dramatic moments in the lead up to the AGM.  On September 5, she informed the board that she would not be seeking re-appointment without assigning any reason. This sparked a piquant prospect where for the first time in 70 years, there might be no one from the Birla clan on the board of the investment company which has stakes in several top Birla companies including Century Textiles, Kesoram, Hindalco, and Ultratech. The company then informed the bourses of the withdrawal of the resolutions pertaining to her appointment. Two days later on September 7, the company again informed the bourses that she had agreed to stay on at the request of the rest of the directors and the special resolution relating to her appointment was back on the table for a vote. The investment company, founded by GD Birla, bears the name of the village from Birla family hails in Rajasthan. Before it was relocated to Calcutta, Pilani was headquartered in Gwalior, a princely state before independence, which attracted many companies due to the benign tax system and easy compliance. Three factions of the Birla family — Ghanshyam Das and his two brothers — had equal shares in them. While the share of M.P. Birla is now under control of Lodha, the rest is now consolidated and owned by Kumar Birla and his grandfather's estate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-291
12-09-2020||Business||Tatas to stymie Cyrus share pledge||The battle between the Tatas and the Shapoorji Pallonji group has erupted once again: this time over the cash-strapped SP group’s plan to raise funds by pledging a tiny sliver of its 18.4 per cent stake in Tata Sons with a bunch of Canadian investors for Rs 3,750 crore. The SP Group signed a definitive agreement for the loan pledge on September 4 -- and the Tatas retaliated on the following day by moving an “urgent application” before the Supreme Court to stop them from doing so. The Shapoorji Pallonji group has been locked in battle with the Tatas ever since Cyrus Mistry was removed from his position as chairman of the Tata group in October 2016 in a boardroom coup. The real estate and construction group has been planning to raise Rs 11,000 crore that it desperately needs to tide over an acute funds crunch precipitated by the pandemic. The group had signed a deal with Brookfield -- a marquee Canadian investment  firm  -- to raise a sum of Rs 3750 crore in the first tranche. The SP group has argued that the pledge of the Tata Sons shares was a legitimate practice in the industry and does not amount to the transfer of ownership. The group said that it needed funds as it had been badly hit by the pandemic that has knocked the bottom out of most of its businesses including real estate and construction. The 18.4 per cent stake held by the SP group is valued at about Rs 1 lakh crore. The Tatas are afraid that the loan pledge is just a ruse to circumvent a proviso in the articles of association of the $111 billion Tata group’s holding company -- which turned into a private company in controversial circumstances in August 2018 -- that grants a right of first refusal to the Tatas before any share sale can go through. Through the petition, the Tatas have sought to prevent the SP Group from creating any direct or indirect pledge of shares. Reacting to the application by Tata Sons which was made on September, the SP Group said the vindictive move amounts to oppression of minority shareholder rights. “The promoters of the SP Group are in the process of raising around Rs 11,000 crore from marquee global investors with Rs 3,750 crore being raised in the first tranche, against the security of shares that their investment companies own in Tata Sons. These funds are intended to mitigate the severe stress caused by Covid pandemic, deleverage the group’s balance sheet, support its financial obligations and protect the livelihoods of its workforce,” a spokesperson for the SP Group said. The spokesperson added that the “vindictive move by Tata Sons is solely aimed to create delays and roadblocks in the fund raise that will jeopardize the future of 60,000 employees and over 1 lakh migrant workers who draw sustenance by working at various SP Group facilities. This calculated move by the Tatas is intended to inflict irreparable damage on the SP Group. These actions are a departure from the values and ethos of the founders of the Tata Group and is an unfortunate reflection of the mindset of the present leadership. We will vigorously contest these frivolous and misguided claims in the Supreme Court”. The SP Group further said the articles of association of Tata Sons only regulate transfer of shares and the Tata Sons board only has a right of first refusal to buy back, at fair market value, the shares of any minority shareholder who is seeking to exit. “There is absolutely no provision in the articles of Tata Sons that restrict the creation of a pledge or encumbrance,” the SP Group said. The spokesperson further said the group “will ask the Supreme Court to dismiss the Tatas’ application at the threshold by highlighting the settled position in law that a mere creation of a pledge on shares would not amount to a transfer of title of the shares”. Questioning the motive and timing of Tata’s application, the SP Group pointed out that it had raised funds against Tata Sons shares in January 2020. “The security documents, which are in public domain, clearly record that lenders would comply with the articles of Tata Sons in the event they seek to enforce the pledge of shares. The Tatas have suppressed this vital information in their application in their desperate bid to mislead the apex court,” the spokesperson added. The group also quoted the opinion of Justice (Retd) Srikrishna, a former judge of the Supreme Court. “The ability of Cyrus Investments and Sterling to pledge their shares in Tata Sons in favour of third party is not in any way controlled by the Articles of Tata Sons. This is so because the pledge of shares does not amount to a transfer of the title to the shares, as the title of the shares would continue with the pledgor,” the retired judge said. In their 152-page supplementary petition against Cyrus Investment submitted to the Supreme Court on September 5, Tata Sons sought to prevent the Mistry group from “creating any charge/pledge/interest/ encumbrance on the shares of Tata Sons in any manner, either directly or indirectly and also to further direct them to forthwith remove any charge/pledge/ interest/ encumbrance created by them”. “It is respectfully submitted that creation of a pledge in this manner, without informing the Tatas and seeking the leave of this SC, is in absolute derogation of the spirit of this court's January 10 order, wherein the Tata voluntarily gave a good faith undertaking to not exercise their rights under Article 75 against Mistrys,” it said. Article 75 gives the Tatas the power, via a special resolution, to squeeze out the Mistry family by buying out their shareholding at fair market value.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-292
12-09-2020||India||Over 15 lakh to appear for NEET on Sunday amid strict curbs||Over 15 lakh candidates are expected to appear in medical entrance exam NEET on Sunday which will be conducted amid strict precautions in view of the COVID1-9 pandemic, according to officials of the National Testing Agency (NTA).  In order to maintain social distancing, the NTA has increased the number of exam centres from originally-planned 2,546 to 3,843, while the number of candidates per room has been reduced from earlier 24 to 12.  The crucial National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET), which is a pen and paper based test unlike the engineering entrance exam JEE, has already been deferred twice in view of the COVID-19 pandemic.  The exam was originally scheduled for May 3, but was pushed to July 26, and then to September 13.  A total of 15.97 lakh candidates have registered for the exam.  "For ensuring social distancing outside examination halls, a staggered entry and exit of candidates has been planned. Adequate arrangements have also been made outside examination centres to enable candidates stand with adequate social distancing while waiting," a senior NTA official said.  "Candidates have also been issued an advisory guiding them about the 'dos and don'ts' for proper social distancing. We have also written to state governments to extend support in local movement of candidates so that they are able to reach their examination centres in time," the official added.  The testing agency has also changed centres for a few candidates this week in compliance with social distancing norms and COVID restrictions. However, the city of the exam centre hasn't been changed for any candidate.  Making hand sanitisers available at the entrance of the examination centre and inside the exam hall at all times, replacing the process of checking the admit cards of candidates with barcode readers, increasing the number of examination centres, alternate seating plans, fewer candidates per room and staggered entry and exit are among the steps the NTA has taken.  "While all candidates will be asked to come to the exam centres with masks and sanitisers, once they enter the centre, they will have to use the masks provided by the examination authority.  "Each candidate will be offered a three-ply mask at the time of entry…He/she is  expected to wear the same during the examination in order to avoid any form of unfair means at the time of examination," the official added.  While the governments of Odisha, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh have assured students that they will provide them transportation, a group of Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) alumni and students have launched a portal to provide transport facilities to exam centres for candidates in need.  The Metro Railway in Calcutta is planning to run special services for NEET candidates on September 13 to help them reach their examination centres.  There has been a growing chorus for postponing the exams amid the rising number of COVID-19 cases.  The Supreme Court had earlier dismissed a plea seeking postponement of the exam amid a spurt in the number of COVID-19 cases, saying a "precious year" of students cannot be wasted and life has to go on.  Several opposition leaders, including Congress' Rahul Gandhi, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, her Odisha counterpart Naveen Patnaik, DMK president M.K. Stalin and Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia had also demanded that this, as well as JEE, be postponed.  When the JEE exams were just a few days away, the issue had escalated into a full blown political battle with ministers from Rajasthan and Punjab (Congress), West Bengal (Trinamool Congress), Jharkhand (Jharkhand Mukti Morcha), Maharashtra (Nationalist Congress Party and Shiv Sena) seeking postponement of the exams "in a manner that achieved the twin objectives of ensuring that the academic year of the students is not wasted and their health and safety is not compromised".  They filed a petition in the apex court to review its order of conducting JEE and NEET UG 2020 during the novel coronavirus crises. However, the plea was dismissed by the Supreme Court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-673
12-09-2020||India||PLA hands over Himachal youths to Indian Army||Five youths who were allegedly abducted by the Peoples Liberation Army (PLA) of China near the McMahon line in Arunachal Pradeshs Upper Subansiri were released on Saturday in Anjaw district, around 1,000 km away. The youths were handed over to the Indian Army by the PLA after completing necessary formalities, Tezpur-based defence spokesperson Lt Col Harsh Warrdhan Pande said. "All five of them will now be placed under quarantine for 14 days as per Covid-19 protocols and thereafter be handed over to their family members," the spokesperson said. The development comes amid a prolonged border face-off between India and China in eastern Ladakh. The youths, who went hunting on September 2, were allegedly whisked away by the Chinese troops from Sera-7, an Army patrol zone located around 12 km further north of Nacho in Upper Subansiri district. "Arunachal Pradesh is known for its rich natural heritage and adventurous people fond of exploring the nature for medicinal herbs and possessing traditional flair for hunting which involves surviving off the land for weeks in jungles and far-flung remote areas. During such adventurous forays, at times youth have inadvertently strayed to the other side of the Line of Actual Control," Pande said. All such individuals were brought back home safely following consistent efforts and coordination by the Indian Army, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-673
12-09-2020||India||Daily cases nearing 1 lakh, more than 9 lakh active cases across country||India's Covid-19 caseload raced past 46 lakh with a record 97,570 infections being reported in a day, while 36,24,196 people have recuperated so far taking the national recovery rate to 77.77 per cent on Saturday, according to Union health ministry data. The total number of coronavirus cases has mounted to 46,59,984, while the death toll climbed to 77,472 with 1,201 people succumbing to the infection in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed. The Covid-19 case fatality rate due to the coronavirus infection has further dropped to 1.66 per cent. There are 9,58,316 active cases of Covid-19 in the country which comprises 20.56 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and it went past 40 lakh on September 5. The country has registered over 95,000 cases for the third consecutive day. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a cumulative total of 5,51,89,226 samples have been tested up to September 11 with 10,91,251 samples being tested on Friday. Of the 1,201 new deaths, 442 were reported from Maharashtra, 130 from Karnataka, 77 each from Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu, 76 from Uttar Pradesh, 63 from Punjab, 57 from Bengal, 30 from Madhya Pradesh, 26 from Chhattisgarh, 25 from Haryana, 21 from Delhi, 16 each from Assam and Gujarat, 15 each from Jharkhand and Rajasthan and 14 each from Kerala and Odisha. Twelve fatalities each have been reported from Bihar and Puducherry, 11 from Uttarakhand, 10 from Telangana, nine each from Jammu and Kashmir and Tripura, eight from Goa, five from Himachal Pradesh, four from Meghalaya, three from Chandigarh, two from Ladakh while Arunachal Pradesh and Sikkim have registered one fatality each. Of the total 77,472 deaths, Maharashtra has reported the highest at 28,724 followed by 8,231 in Tamil Nadu, 7,067 in Karnataka, 4,779 in Andhra Pradesh, 4,687 in Delhi, 4,282 in Uttar Pradesh, 3,828 in West Bengal, 3,180 in Gujarat and 2,212 in Punjab. So far, 1,691 people have died of Covid-19 in Madhya Pradesh, 1,207 in Rajasthan, 950 in Telangana, 932 in Haryana, 854 in Jammu and Kashmir, 797 in Bihar, 605 in Odisha, 532 in Jharkhand, 519 in Chhattisgarh, 430 in Assam, 410 in Kerala and 388 in Uttarakhand. Puducherry has registered 365 fatalities, Goa 276, Tripura 182, Chandigarh 86, Himachal Pradesh 71, Andaman and Nicobar Islands 51, Manipur 44, Ladakh 38, Meghalaya 24, Nagaland and Arunachal Pradesh 10 each, Sikkim eight and Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu two. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-673
12-09-2020||India||Delhi Metro starts trains on regular timings ||Delhi Metro resumed its full services on Saturday with the Airport Express Line reopening after a hiatus of over 170 days due to the Covid-19 pandemic. All corridors of the Metro network are now in operation and the timing of services will follow the pre-Covid-19 schedule of 6 AM to 11 PM. "With the resumption of service on the Airport Express Line, all lines of the Delhi Metro network are now open! Remember to follow the guidelines when travelling. #MetroBackOnTrack," the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) tweeted. On Monday, the Delhi Metro had resumed services with curtailed operation of the Yellow Line and Rapid Metro. The Metro services were shut on March 22 to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus. The Ministry of Home Affairs had recently issued guidelines allowing the Delhi Metro to resume operations in a graded manner, following which the DMRC had said it would be done in three stages from September 7-12. On Friday, the Delhi Metro recorded a total ridership of 1,28,886 (till 7.30pm). The Magenta Line catered to 6,953 passengers and Grey Line to 514 passengers. The ridership on the Yellow Line (Huda City Centre to Samaypur Badli) was 41,689, while it was 38,623 on the Blue Line (Dwarka Sector-21 to Vaishali/Noida Electronic Centre). Pink Line (Majlis Park to Shiv Vihar) got 8,678 passengers and Red line 15,485 passengers. On Sundays, (starting from September 20) the services will commence at 8am from all such sections which had this practice in vogue before the lockdown. Under stage one, Yellow Line or Line 2 and Rapid Metro were made operational with restricted service hours. Stage two kicked in from Friday with extended service hours, and stage three came into effect from Saturday onwards with Metro services going back to pre-Covid-19 time schedule of 6 AM to 11 PM.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-673
12-09-2020||India||Delhi High Court refuses to stay TV show||Delhi High Court on Friday declined to stay the evening telecast of Sudarshan TV’s Bindas Bol programme, whose promo had promised a “big expose on the conspiracy to infiltrate Muslims in government service”. Justice Navin Chawla issued notices to the Centre, Sudarshan News and its editor-in-chief Suresh Chavhanke on a petition filed by former and present students of Jamia Millia Islamia University challenging the clearance given by the ministry of information and broadcasting for the telecast. The petition had sought an urgent hearing seeking a directive prohibiting the broadcast. It said the proposed show is full of hate speech and if the petition is not adjudicated before the broadcast, irreparable harm would be caused and the plea would become infructuous. But the high court granted time to the ministry to file an affidavit in response to the petition, which wanted a directive to the government to reassess the legality of the show and an order to the channel not to broadcast the show till the government takes a decision. The court fixed the next date of hearing on November 18. Advocate Bijender Singh, who was representing the TV channel, said: “There is no stay on the telecast of the programme. The court declined it.” The high court on August 28 had stayed the telecast scheduled the same evening of the programme on the entry of Muslims and Jamia alumni into the civil services. On August 29, the high court directed the ministry to take a decision on the show. The petition said the ministry did not exercise its powers under the Cable TV Act to prohibit the show. Instead it simply said: “…Sudarshan TV channel is hereby directed to ensure that the programme proposed to be telecast does not violate any of the programme codes. If any violation of the programme code is found, action as per law will be taken.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-673
12-09-2020||India||Covid: Maharashtra cases as high as Russia||India’s biggest and richest state, Maharashtra, is set to record its millionth infection of the new coronavirus on Friday, putting it on a par with Russia in the pandemic. The state is on pace to blow past the 1-million mark as infections have been rising some 20,000 a day recently. Maharashtra, if it were a country, would now rival Russia for the world’s fourth-highest caseload. India is likely to hit 5 million cases in coming days, behind only the US. “Maharashtra accounts for approximately 15 per cent of India’s GDP.  Unless Maharashtra gets back on its feet, India’s chances for an economic recovery are bleak,” said Reuben Abraham, head of IDFC Institute, a policy think-tank. Yet Maharashtra’s authorities are unable to ease many restrictions in the state. Public transport, malls and other businesses remain depressed. That is unlikely to change soon for a state that is home to several major industries, including its three most valuable companies — Tata Consultancy Services Ltd, Reliance Industries Ltd and HDFC Bank. While several cities around India have resumed commuter rail, Maharashtra has held off. In Mumbai — where packed trains define the workday — suburban train service has been halted since March for all but essential workers. Resuming public transport in the city this month would lead to a second wave, which would be “difficult to manage”, says a research paper submitted to Mumbai authorities this week. Indeed, Maharashtra’s partial reopening of factories in recent months, local festivals and lockdown fatigue help to explain the state’s Covid-19 surge, local health officials told Reuters. “People have tired after spending months at home and they’re stepping out despite knowing they could get infected,” said Subhash Chavhan, a surgeon in Satara district. “They’re no longer taking coronavirus seriously.” The state’s initial reopening, starting in July, accelerated the spread to previously less-hit rural areas, said Dr Pradip Awate, Maharashtra’s disease surveillance officer. Tiny Rajewadi village did not have a single confirmed coronavirus case until mid-August. Recently, one in every four was testing positive for the virus. Also, contributing to Maharashtra’s infections was the 11-day Ganesh Utsav last month, a festival that sees huge numbers of people travelling to and from their hometowns. “Before the Ganesh festival there were on an average 60 new cases daily in the district. Now we’re recording more than 150,” said an official in the coastal district of Ratnagiri. Covid-19 is also deadlier in Maharashtra, where it has killed 2.85 per cent of people with confirmed infections, well above the national mortality rate of 1.68 per cent. Maharashtra’s death toll, over 28,000, accounts for 37 per cent of India’s total. Rajesh Tope, Maharashtra’s health minister, defended the higher caseload saying the state has been doing more tests than others and is being more transparent, too. “We’ve never tried to hide cases just because they are rising,” said Tope, adding that Maharashtra has slashed the maximum private labs can charge for the more accurate RT-PCR testing to Rs 1,200, barely a quarter of the national cap.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-673
12-09-2020||India||Odisha package for farmers hit by floods||Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Friday announced a special package of Rs 300 crore livelihood support for the farmers affected by recent floods. The incessant rainfall and consequent flood during the last week of August have caused extensive damage to the standing crops in the coastal belt of Odisha. According to the announcement, work under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act  (MGNREGA) will be intensified once flood water subsides. Agriculture input subsidy will be provided to the small and marginal farmers who have sustained crop loss of 33% and above. In order to address the problem of farmers, the government announced to give Rs 6,800 per hectare of land in rain-fed/non irrigated areas,  Rs.13,500 per hectare of land in areas under assured irrigation, and Rs 18,000 per hectare for all types of perennial crops. Perennial crops will include mango, cashew, coconut, kewra, betel vine etc. The assistance will be provided to the actual cultivators. Agricultural input subsidy to any affected farmer will not be less than Rs 2000 for perennial crops and Rs 1000 for other crops. As many as 60,000 acres of demonstration programmes of different crops will be taken up in affected districts in the ensuing rabi season. One lakh farmers will be trained on seed treatment programme with free supply of seed treatment chemicals and bio-pesticides to cover one lakh acres for increasing production in rabi crops. One lakh farmers will be provided with vegetable kits involving seeds of palak, beans, cowpea, tomato, chilli and radish to meet their immediate needs through kitchen garden at the Rs 130 per kit. Similarly, assistance for replacement of animals shall be provided. Financial assistance will be provided to fish farmers and also in the handloom and handicraft sectors. Odisha’s women and child development and mission shakti minister Tukuni Sahu on Friday said that she has tested positive for Covid-19. Sahu became the fifth minister in the state to be infected by coronavirus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-673
12-09-2020||India||Ram Vilas Paswan ups ante in Bihar pre-poll battle||Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan on Friday announced he had been hospitalised and that he would firmly stand by any decision taken by his son Chirag Paswan, who now heads the Lok Janshakti Party. The announcement through a series of tweets comes in the backdrop of the political hardball being played by LJP in the run-up to the Bihar polls. LJP, a constituent of the National Democratic Alliance, has been launching attacks against Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar and has threatened to field candidates against JDU. Paswan said he had been feeling unwell for sometime now and had been hospitalised on the insistence of his son, not disclosing the nature of his illness. “I’m confident that with his youthful thinking, Chirag will take the party and Bihar to new heights,” Paswan said. “I firmly stand with any decision taken by Chirag,” he added without directly referring to the Bihar polls and the alliance troubles. Although the veteran Dalit leader has already passed on the baton to his son by making him the LJP president, the tweets were meant to project Chirag as the new leader of the party and also bargain in the process, party insiders said. The LJP recently authorised Chirag to take a decision over the number of seats the party would contest and take a call over quitting the NDA in Bihar and going it alone if its demands were not meant. The LJP has six MPs from Bihar and based on that the party wants to contest at least 36 seats but believes JDU boss Nitish Kumar is not ready to give them those many seats, party insiders said. “Nitish Kumar is trying to squeeze us. If we don’t get respectable seats to contest, then we will go it alone and teach a lesson on Nitishji,” one LJP leader said. The LJP currently has just two MLAs in Bihar and is not part of the Nitish-led NDA government. The tweets by the senior Paswan, party leaders said, were also meant to gain the sympathy of the Bihar voters to establish his son. Paswan’s tweets underlined what a good son Chirag was and how he was taking care of his ageing and ill father. Paswan said his health had started deteriorating during the corona crisis, but he continued to discharge his responsibilities as the food minister. “When Chirag sensed my deteriorating health, I went to the hospital on his insistence and started treatment,” he said. Paswan is said to be under treatment for cardiac-related issues. “I’m happy that my son Chirag is with me at this time and taking good care. Along with me, he is also ably discharging his responsibilities towards the party,” Paswan added. The LJP led by Chirag, many believe, enjoys the silent backing of the BJP. The BJP, so far, has not spoken anything over attacks by Chirag targeting CM Nitish. If the LJP indeed decides to go it alone and fields candidates in constituencies targeting the JD(U), it would benefit the BJP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-674
12-09-2020||India||Odisha scheme for core sanitation workers||The Odisha government on Friday launched the Garima (dignity) scheme, which is meant to ensure safety and dignity of core sanitation workers. The scheme aims to eliminate inhuman and perilous sanitation practices and to improve socio-economic conditions of core sanitation workers. Nearly 20,000 core sanitation workers and their families, a population of around 1 lakh, will benefit from the scheme. Under the scheme, the government aims to introduce a special category of wages for core sanitation work, introduction of risk and hardship allowance, financial assistance to the families in the event of accident or injury, financial support in the form of house grant and purchase of two wheelers to the extent of 90 per cent of the cost. In addition to this, access to EPF, retirement benefits, post-service benefits and illness allowance will provide further financial security to the core sanitation workers and their families. The Odisha government will also provide welfare benefits like health and life insurance, disability support, periodic health check-ups, housing, educational support, mobility support and mobile support. Launching the scheme, chief minister Naveen Patnaik said, “In spite of the nation making several strides in various sectors competing with the best in the world, these underprivileged people were made to render this invaluable service to the society for generations, deprived of safety, dignity and a decent livelihood, apart from suffering social stigma and exclusion. Our conscience can never be calmed if we don’t take steps to correct this injustice. My government has therefore decided to launch a scheme called ‘Garima’, a scheme to ensure safety and dignity of core sanitation workers.” Minister for housing and urban development Pratap Jena said the scheme is the first of its kind by any state in India to provide a comprehensive package — institutionalising and regulating the core sanitation services, providing service level benefits, social security and financial benefits to core sanitation workers and their families. The scheme aims to identify and register core sanitation workers, mandates registration of sanitation service providers, ensures provision of necessary machines and appropriate PPE (personal protective equipment) to ensure safe working conditions. All core sanitation workers will receive skilling and training to improve their skills. A wild boar was hacked to death by residents of a village in Odisha’s Kendrapara district after it attacked two persons, an official said, reports  PTI. “The animal had entered into cropland and had attacked two persons. They were hospitalised and currently out of danger. The villagers later had beaten it to death,” said Mahakalpda forest range officer, Sahaji Charan Biswal. The villagers were about to take away the animal’s meat when the forest personnel arrived, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-674
12-09-2020||India||Rahul to Modi government: get land back from China||The Congress on Friday said India’s negotiations with China should focus on the restoration of the situation that prevailed before the intrusions in Ladakh, lamenting that the Narendra Modi government had so far failed to protect national interest. “The only ‘talk’ to have with China is about restoration of ‘Status Quo Ante’ as of March 2020. The Prime Minister and Government of India refuse to take responsibility for pushing China out of our land. All other ‘talk’ is worthless,” Rahul Gandhi tweeted. The MP said in another tweet: “The Chinese have taken our land. When exactly is the Government of India planning to get it back? Or is that also going to be left to an ‘Act of God’? Rahul’s comments came in the aftermath of the discussions between the foreign ministers of India and China in Moscow on Thursday. The two countries have agreed that “the border troops of both sides should continue their dialogue, quickly disengage, maintain proper distance and ease tensions”. The joint statement issued by India and China, however, has no mention of restoring “status quo ante”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-674
12-09-2020||India||Clad in fire, not saffron, his last words to me: ‘They will resist’||The last time I heard from Swami Agnivesh was a week ago. He was in hospital, sinking. In the few moments of lucidity he had gained, he had his assistant connect him to me. “I had a great vision early this morning,” he said. I was eager to know. I had been in continual contact with him ever since he had been admitted to the ILBS Hospital in New Delhi two months ago. Deep inside me, the process of disconnecting from this great soul had begun by the time he had called me this time; a pattern I had experienced with every person I loved on the eve of his or her death. He was eager to tell me.... “I saw 140 million people standing together, united,” he struggled to say, his voice rising and falling in cadences of eagerness and breathlessness. “They were saying they would not take it any more. They will resist.” What it was that they would resist, he didn’t say. His voice failed him altogether. His assistant took the phone and informed me that Swamiji could talk no more. I did not feel emotionally overwhelmed that one of the liveliest of souls I had encountered in my lifetime was sinking. Instead, I felt grateful that on the very day he had been hospitalised for a prospective liver transplant, he had called me and said: “Valsonji, can we publish a book capturing the essence of our discussions on the meaning of spirituality and the futility of religion?” Before I could say “yes” or “no”, he had said emphatically: “Religion has become a pestilence. It needs to be eradicated for the sake of humanity.” I agreed to undertake the task to which he had been urging and orienting me for a while. It struck me as his last wish, though his state of health was not a cause for immediate concern then. I embarked on the task right away, being eager that the work be published in his lifetime. I sent each completed chapter to him. Swamiji read it and got back to me with his concerns and comments. The last chapter of the book was finished a week before Swamiji’s health took a turn decisively for the worse. Now, in retrospect, it strikes me as particularly significant that the last word I heard from him was “resist”. And the last request he made to me was to write a book — as his will and testament — that exhorts humanity to outgrow subhuman religiosity. He wanted the book to be titled, Children of the Eternal Spirit, Unite! Surely, it is not fortuitous that the word “unite” echoes in his final vision. Once, in the course of our discussions on religion, I alluded to the anomaly, given the radical nature of his views, of his being a saffron-sporting swami. “I am not in saffron,” he corrected me. “I am clad in fire. I am Agni.” I thought at once of Prometheus, the mythological hero of proto-European spirituality, who “stole” fire from the gods and imparted it to humankind. He inaugurated civilisation, incurring unspeakable agony. Prometheus’s rebellion was not so much against the idea of God, as against the idea of hierarchy in religion. Religious hierarchy of every kind thrives by alienating people from their inner fire. So, religion anchors humankind in existential darkness. Hierarchy is poison to spirituality; whereas it is the backbone of religion. Prometheus’s heroic “theft” addresses this seminal anomaly. Because Prometheus stole fire from the gods in prehistory, a Swami Agnivesh could wear it about him in history. Humankind shares the same destiny. What’s cooked varies; but fire is the same universally. Fire explains the essence of this great man, dying all alone, forgotten and unsung in a hospital ICU. He was murderously attacked a couple of years ago at Pakhur, Jharkhand; an outrage from which he never recovered. He was attacked, a month later, in New Delhi. The circumstances are irrelevant from a cosmic viewpoint. What is relevant is that Prometheus-like, Agnivesh too needed to be tormented, if only to authenticate the eternal pattern. Metaphoric vultures preyed on his liver for the rest of his life. It failed. He was to undergo a liver transplant; but destiny willed otherwise. His time had come. To me, Swamiji was a child. It is an aspect of his personality known to few. He came to his true, playful self when he was with children. The poor, for him, were children of sorts. They were God’s children. So, spirituality made sense to him only as social spirituality: the relentless struggle for securing a modicum of justice to the harijan — the children of God. Yes, he was brave, as very few are today, but his bravery was the bravery of children. He was brave because he knew no danger, as children too don’t. This made the first multi-religious pilgrimage in the history of India possible. When, in 1999, the Australian missionary Graham Staines and his two sons were burnt alive in Manoharpur, Odisha, and his bereaved wife, Gladys Staines, captured the conscience of India by forgiving the assassins, I suggested to Swamiji that we visit the site of the tragedy. He turned that tiny idea into a massive event. A group of 55 leaders from diverse religions visited, first, the leprosarium in Balasore and, thereafter, the church in Manoharpur where, in the two jeeps the missionary and his sons had slept, they were burnt alive at night. We held a meeting in the church. Swamiji spoke. By the time he had finished, there wasn’t an eye that was not wet with tears. He spoke like a child, and the children in us responded in the spontaneity of our sorrows. We wept together over what humanity had come to. By the time we emerged from the church, a crowd of Santhals had gathered outside. “Our father is no more,” they said. They sang for us the songs that Graham had composed in Santhali, set to music, and taught them. They sang zestfully, as if to assert their spirit over a tragedy that was too vast for them to understand. What is it that makes a man renounce all he has and become one with the poor and the downtrodden? Why bear the cross of calumny, personal loss and hardships when a contrary option is readily available? Swamiji had climbed the political ladder. He was the minister of education in Haryana, but lasted only six months in that capacity. He ceased to be a mantri and became a missionary. He was instrumental in releasing and rehabilitating over 200,000 bonded labourers. The quarries and brick kilns became his temples; wiping the tears of the oppressed, his worship; and speaking truth to power, his Gita-parayan. If the impact a man has on others is the yardstick of his greatness, I bear witness today: here was truly a great soul. I changed inside out under his influence. His greatness was mired in the grime of the world with which he did battle. You don’t take on systems and men of might and remain unsullied. Bearing witness to the truth, history tells us, is a lonely journey that winds its stony way up the hill. What awaits at the mountaintop is martyrdom. Swami Agnivesh is not less of a martyr for dying in a hospital bed. Like a true martyr, he held his spirit unbroken till the last. He died with a vision of people becoming one in resistance. Goethe’s last word was “light”. “A little more light!” he muttered feebly as he breathed his last. Swami Agnivesh was not a star of enlightenment. He was agni, fire. Appropriately, his last word was “resist”. That word captures the essence of a life lived in relentless struggles. There are times when the courage to resist expresses love for humankind best. Swami Agnivesh was destined to live in such a time. He had an abiding faith in people, because he loved them to the uttermost. They will, he said, resist. If conformity is the creed of religion, resistance is the essence of spirituality. A close associate of Swami Agnivesh, Valson Thampu is former principal, St. Stephen’s College, Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-674
12-09-2020||India||Covid: states told not to halt medical oxygen supply flow||The Union health ministry on Friday asked states to ensure there are no restrictions on the inter-state movement of medical oxygen, amid rising demand and attempts by states to curb transport of oxygen, a critical component of coronavirus disease treatment. Health secretary Rajesh Bhushan, in a letter sent to all states and Union Territories, has iterated that adequate and uninterrupted supply of medical oxygen is an important pre-requisite for the treatment of moderate and severe Covid-19 patients. “It has been strongly reinforced that it is every state’s responsibility to ensure that every hospitalised Covid-19 patient receives oxygen,” the health ministry said, expressing concern that a few states are trying to curb oxygen movement and mandating manufacturers to restrict supplies to only hospitals within those states. The ministry said medical oxygen was an essential public health commodity and curbs in transport might critically impact the management of patients elsewhere in the country. Major oxygen manufacturers already have supply pacts with hospitals in various states with legal obligations to fulfil them. India’s rising count of Covid-19 patients under medical supervision — more than 943,000 on Friday and approaching the 1-million mark — has meant a steady rise in demand for oxygen. The health ministry has said about 3.7 per cent of Covid-19 patients under medical supervision require oxygen support, but the absolute number of patients who need oxygen has grown week after week. Among the 943,480 patients under medical supervision on Friday, 34,909 were on oxygen support. Health authorities across the country had by early August established over 183,000 oxygen-supported beds in dedicated Covid-19 hospitals or Covid-19 health centres. But they would need steady oxygen supply to manage patients. Critical care medicine specialists have underscored the importance of early initiation of oxygen therapy to Covid-19 patients with moderate to severe disease, as prescribed under standard treatment protocols, as an intervention to prevent further deterioration of the illness. “Non-invasive oxygen therapy combined with inexpensive steroids and medications to reduce the risk of blood clots are in the majority of such patients sufficient for recovery,” said a critical care medicine specialist at a Covid-19 hospital. Public health experts say India could have managed the epidemic with greater efficiency had multiple agencies and organisations across the central and state governments worked together to use data to drive the responses to the epidemic. “What we need is for health authorities to anticipate a surge in new cases in specific locations based on local epidemic trends and plan delivery of critical supplies such as oxygen or corticosteroids there,” said Oommen John, a senior research fellow at The George Institute for Global Health, New Delhi. Such an approach at the state level or, ideally, at the district level, would help ensure efficient flow of supplies where they are needed the most at any given time,” said John, who has been a long-term advocate for the use of data in healthcare delivery. India on Friday recorded 96,551 new Covid-19 cases, another highest-yet single-day increase, raising the total number of infections to over 4.56 million, of whom 3.54 million have recovered, 943,480 patients are under medical supervision, and 76,271 have died.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-674
12-09-2020||India||Congress shuffle without vengeance||Congress president Sonia Gandhi has demonstrated exceptional political maturity by refusing to punish the so-called dissenters and seeking to strike a perfect balance between the old and the young to steer the ship out of turbulence at a time unity of purpose overrides other concerns. On Friday, the Congress set in motion the substantial organisational shuffle awaited since the party suffered a humiliating defeat in the 2019 parliamentary elections. Sonia moved cautiously to avoid any serious eruption of discontent by forcing a generational shift. Although some younger faces have been accommodated, she has taken care not to send out any message of a purge based on age and the erroneous perceptions of disloyalty. This exercise may attract criticism for the failure to give the party a radical facelift but there is another opportunity to make amends when the Congress plenary is held within the next six months. Elections to key organisational posts may take place then. The new party president, who is expected to take over at that time, is bound to pick his or her own team although the Congress is not known for enforcing quick changes. While Ghulam Nabi Azad, who has been pleading with the party leadership to relieve him of organisational assignments after decades of service, ceases to be general secretary, he has been retained in the Congress Working Committee (CWC), the highest decision-making body of the party. Two other members of the “Group of 23” who wrote the letter about the drift in the party — Anand Sharma and Mukul Wasnik  — have also been retained in the CWC. Among the younger leaders who signed the letter, Jitin Prasada has been given charge of Bengal. Wasnik, one of the key figures among the dissenters, has been included in the special committee that will assist the Congress president in her day-to-day work. The appointment shows that Sonia and Rahul Gandhi acted sensibly, not in pique to take revenge. This important committee will include A.K. Antony, Ahmed Patel, Ambika Soni, Wasnik, K.C. Venugopal and Randeep Surjewala. Patel’s continuance in the top echelons of the party indicates Rahul agreed to play safe at this critical juncture instead of running the risk of ejecting the entrenched forces. Sachin Pilot has not been accommodated in any committee. Nor have Kapil Sibal, Shashi Tharoor, Manish Tewari or Veerappa Moily, who had signed the letter, found place in the CWC or anywhere else. Another young leader ignored is Milind Deora. Randeep Surjewala is doubtless a big gainer from the shuffle, although he may not remain the communications chief any more. Surjewala does not only get accommodated in the top committee, he has also been appointed general secretary with charge of the important state of Karnataka. The other big gainer is former Union minister Pawan Bansal, who gets charge of party administration in place of the veteran Motilal Vora, in addition to permanent invitee status in the CWC. While the main CWC hasn’t been overhauled, several talented people have been accommodated as permanent invitee to pack the key committee with more experience and dynamism. The members include, among others, Digvijaya Singh, Salman Khurshid, Jairam Ramesh and Pramod Tewari. P. Chidambaram, who was a special invitee earlier, has now been made a regular member of the CWC. Tariq Anwar, who rejoined the Congress after quitting Sharad Pawar’s NCP, has been made general secretary in charge of Kerala. Former Karnataka minister H.K. Patil has been made general secretary with the charge of Maharashtra. All these appointments show there is no bias against the seniors although several younger leaders have been inducted into the high command structure. While Dinesh Gundu Rao, former working president of the Karnataka unit, has been given charge of Tamil Nadu, Goa and Puducherry, young Manickam Tagore gets Telangana and Delhi’s Devender Yadav, Uttarakhand. Although greenhorns have not been promoted, the organisation now has a fair representation of new leaders who have experience and are supposed to be close to Rahul. They are Ajay Maken, Surjewala, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, Jitendra Singh, Shaktisinh Gohil, Tagore, Rajeev Satav and Venugopal. Rajeev Shukla will now look after Himachal Pradesh while Manish Chatrath gets Arunachal Pradesh and Meghalaya. Mallikarjun Kharge, Luizinho Faleiro and Vora cease to be general secretaries. Gaurav Gogoi, Asha Kumari, Anugrah Narayan Singh and R.C. Khuntia have also been dropped.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-674
12-09-2020||India||India, China arrive at a 5-point consensus to address LAC situation||India and China on Thursday publicly scaled down the blame game for the crisis along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), arrived at a five-point consensus on addressing the current situation and began looking at the need for new confidence-building measures once the tensest chapter in bilateral relations in 45 years is closed. These were the main takeaways from the first meeting between the Indian and Chinese foreign ministers, S. Jaishankar and Wang Yi, in Moscow on Thursday on the sidelines of the SCO meeting, but they do not paper over the differences. This was the second face-to-face engagement between the political leadership of the two countries in less than a week. The last was between the defence ministers in Moscow on September 4, which was followed by another escalatory development along the LAC on September 7. Given that similar interventions during the current crisis have come to naught in subsequent weeks — with two major escalations over the past fortnight — the consensus appears to be to wait and watch. This is also evident from the absence of any effort to talk up the meeting, either in anticipation or in the aftermath. The statements put out by both capitals after the meeting, which went on for two hours and a half, indicate persistent differences in perception. China continues to maintain that the boundary question should not hold up the entire relationship and attributes statements to India that do not bear scrutiny. Tweeting about the five-point consensus, the former Indian ambassador to Iran, K.C. Singh, observed that they are mostly old formulas for LAC management. “But context evolved after India occupied vantage points on Kailash range. Mutual withdrawal must be parity-based.” Retired diplomat Vishnu Prakash tweeted: “India China joint statement on border disengagement somehow doesn’t inspire. Chinese do not seem to have agreed to restore status quo ante. There are no timelines. The understanding on quick disengagement is vague at best. It will be a miracle if these commitments are honoured.” Although the Indian external affairs ministry headlined the official readout on the meeting as a “joint press statement”, it was different from what the Chinese government put out despite the points of convergence regarding the five measures to be adopted to address the crisis at hand. There was the hat-tip to the consensus at the leadership level to develop the bilateral relationship and not allow differences to become disputes. Both foreign ministers, according to the Indian readout, agreed that the current situation in the border areas was not in the interest of either side and, therefore, the border troops should continue their dialogue, quickly disengage, maintain proper distance and ease tensions. The dialogue will continue through the Special Representative mechanism and the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination on India-China border affairs, thereby keeping the lines of communication open at the military, political and diplomatic levels. There is consensus on the need for new confidence-building measures, and the two ministers agreed that both sides would abide by all the existing agreements and protocols on China-India boundary affairs, maintain peace and tranquillity in the border areas and avoid any action that could escalate matters. The Chinese statement also placed on record what Wang said. While he spoke of the need to “stop provocations such as firing and other dangerous actions that violate the commitments made by the two sides”, the staple of previous statements holding India squarely responsible for the escalation was missing. The Indian side, according to sources, highlighted deep concern at the massing of Chinese troops with equipment along the LAC. The presence of such a large concentration of troops, it was pointed out, was not in accordance with the 1993 and 1996 agreements and created flash points along the LAC. Further, it was underlined that the Chinese side had not provided a credible explanation for this deployment. The provocative behaviour of Chinese frontline troops during numerous incidents of friction along the LAC also showed a disregard for bilateral agreements and protocols. “The Indian side clearly conveyed that it expected full adherence to all agreements on management of border areas and would not countenance any attempt to change the status quo unilaterally,” a source said, adding that Indian troops had followed all agreements and protocols. Jaishankar is said to have accepted that the solution to the boundary question needed time and effort while underlining that peace and tranquillity on the border areas was essential for the development of bilateral ties. The Chinese statement attributes some remarks to the Indian side that go completely against India’s stated position – that “India’s policy towards China has not changed” and that the India side does not consider the development of bilateral relations to be dependent on the settlement of the boundary question. China’s official claim that India’s policy towards China has not changed does not bear scrutiny going by the slew of actions New Delhi has taken in recent months – some before the border escalation – regarding trade and investments. Apart from the much talked about ban on many Chinese apps and search engines like TikTok and Baidu, India has barred Chinese participation in road ventures including that through joint ventures, and amended public procurement rules and also the foreign investment regime to facilitate restrictions on bidders and investments from neighbouring countries in a move directed at China.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-674
12-09-2020||India||Covid: Indian vaccine clears monkey hurdle ||A homegrown Indian vaccine candidate has successfully protected rhesus monkeys from the novel coronavirus disease, government and industry scientists have said, describing its immune response and protective efficacy as “remarkable”. The vaccine induced a strong immune response and protected monkeys from the coronavirus infection and associated lung disease, a 45-member research team from the Indian Council of Medical Research, Hyderabad-based vaccine maker Bharat Biotech and collaborating institutions has said. The vaccinated monkeys showed no evidence of pneumonia, the scientists said in the first research paper from India on the outcome of “animal challenge” studies designed to find out whether a vaccine candidate can protect animals from the disease after exposure to the infection. The paper is not peer-reviewed yet but is posted on Research Square, an academic preprint server. The vaccine candidate named BBV152, jointly developed by the ICMR and Bharat Biotech, is based on an inactivated or killed version of SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19. It is currently under clinical trials on healthy volunteers at 12 sites in India for safety and early efficacy assessment. The clinical trials had started in mid-July after preliminary studies on animals had established BBV152 as safe and capable of generating an immune response. But the research community had been waiting for the results of the challenge studies that examine the capacity of the candidate to protect animals. Scientists at the Peking Union Medical College in Beijing, China, had in April this year shown through lab studies that rhesus macaques are “the most suitable” animal model for Covid-19 after assessing three species of monkeys. Since then, other vaccine candidates — the one developed by Oxford University scientists and another from the US-based biotechnology company Moderna — have been assessed on rhesus macaques to study their protective efficacy. In the ICMR-Bharat study, scientists divided 20 macaques into four groups — three males, two females in each group. Monkeys in one group received a placebo, or sham, injection, while monkeys in the other groups received three versions of BBV152 slightly differing in their dose or composition. All monkeys received either two doses of the placebo injection or the vaccine candidate. Two weeks after the second dose, the scientists exposed — challenged — the monkeys with SARS-CoV-2, depositing large amounts of the virus into the animals’ windpipes and both their nostrils. Seven days later, the scientists detected SARS-CoV-2 RNA, or genetic material, in the monkeys in the placebo group but the vaccinated monkeys had no detectable viral RNA. The scientists say this shows the ability of the vaccine to curb viral replication in the upper respiratory tract. Viral genetic material was also absent in fluid samples from the lungs of the vaccinated monkeys, suggesting that the vaccine candidate had hindered virus replication and enabled its clearance from the lower respiratory tract. Subsequent lung examinations revealed moderate to severe disease in three and mild disease in two monkeys in the placebo group. The vaccinated monkeys had “significantly lower” disease burden compared to the placebo group, the scientists said. The study has established that a two-dose vaccination regimen using a 3 microgram dose of the vaccine candidate induces a significant immune response and effective protection in animals challenged with SARS-Cov-2, the researchers said. “The results bolster our confidence in this candidate,” Samiran Panda, the chief of epidemiology division at the ICMR and member of a national task force on Covid-19, told The Telegraph. Bharat Biotech’s managing director and scientist-turned-entrepreneur Krishna Ella said the greater protective effect observed with the 3 microgram dose than with a 6 microgram dose was a surprise. “This tells us that the immune response has to be just right for most effective protection — neither too strong, nor too weak,” Ella said. But scientists caution that the vaccine’s potential to protect humans from the coronavirus will only be assessed through large-scale efficacy or so-called phase 3 studies that will follow the safety and early efficacy studies currently underway. In phase 3 studies, several thousands of healthy volunteers will receive the vaccine candidate. The candidate will be viewed as effective if significantly fewer vaccinated volunteers develop Covid-19 compared with unvaccinated volunteers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-674
12-09-2020||India||Modi backs mother tongue medium in schools||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said the mother tongue should be the sole medium of instruction at schools at least till Class V, pushing his government’s efforts to sell the idea to the schools and school boards. In most schools affiliated to the Central Board of Secondary Education and the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (which conducts the ICSE and ISC exams), English is the medium of instruction right from pre-primary classes. Most of these schools are in urban areas and draw students from various linguistic communities who have different mother tongues. The Kendriya Vidyalayas, many of them situated away from cities, too teach in English from Class I because they cater to children of government employees hailing from different regions. Union education ministry officials said the Centre had asked the Central Institute for Indian Languages (CIIL) to suggest ways in which these schools can teach children in their mother tongue or the regional language. Some CBSE-affiliated schools like the Delhi-based Sardar Patel School do teach in the local language for the first five years. While state government schools largely teach in the dominant regional language, some states like Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka are likely to oppose the Centre’s policy. In these states, government schools are looking to shift to the English medium keeping in mind the views and aspirations of most parents. The National Education Policy (NEP), approved in July, favours the teaching of children in their mother tongue or the regional language till at least Class V. The same suggestion had come from the NEP of 1968 and the National Curriculum Framework, the document that guides textbook preparation, in 2005. But this is the first time the government is itself making such a strong pitch for this policy. This is the second time this week that Modi has advocated the teaching of children in the mother tongue, after doing so at a governors’ conference on Monday. “A lot of discussion is taking place on what the medium of instruction should be,” Modi told a conclave on “School Education in 21st Century” on Friday. “Language is a medium for teaching but language is not all that education stands for. People caught in bookish knowledge forget this difference.” Modi then said that the language the child is comfortable with should be the language of learning. “Otherwise, when children hear something in another language, they first translate it into their own language, then understand it. This creates great confusion in the child’s mind; it is very stressful,” he said. Modi said that Estonia, Ireland, Finland, Japan, South Korea and Poland tended to top the Programme for International Students Assessment, an internationally acclaimed competency test for 15-year-olds in mathematics, reading and science. Primary education is imparted through the mother tongue in these countries, he said. The Prime Minister clarified that there would be no restrictions on learning languages other than the mother tongue in the lower classes. He set 2022 as the target year for the NEP’s overall implementation. “In 2022, when India celebrates the 75th year of its Independence, children should study according to the new curriculum. It’s our collective responsibility,” he said. A government official said that under the plan, “textbooks for subjects like mathematics, environmental studies or social science should be in the mother tongue or the regional language”. He added: “The states may think of shifting to English as the medium of instruction from Class IX or VI.” Some experts questioned the policy. “What is the mother tongue of a child whose father is Telugu and mother a Bengali and the child is fluent in Telugu, Bengali, Hindi and English?” Panchanan Mohanty, who taught at the Centre of Applied Linguistics and Translation Studies at Hyderabad Central University for over three decades, said. Another linguist, who asked not to be quoted, supported the idea of teaching through the mother tongue. He said the CIIL had done a survey of 10 states on the quality of English teaching in schools. “It was seen that the teachers were teaching English through the local language. The situation was same in English-medium schools,” he said, adding that such teaching didn’t help the child. Sudhish Pachauri, a Hindi litterateur, said five years of learning of concepts in the mother tongue would place the child in a position where she can smoothly shift to another medium of instruction. “A child proficient in one language is better placed to learn another language. By learning in a language for five years, the child also gets connected with the language and the culture associated with the language throughout his life,” Pachauri said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-674
12-09-2020||India||Patriot card backfires on Ladakh BJP MP||Ladakh BJP MP Jamyang Tsering Namgyal’s attempt to play the patriotic card amid rising tension on the border and growing fear of demographic changes within has elicited angry reactions, reflecting how Ladakhis dread intrusions from mainland India as much as the Chinese incursions. Namgyal touched a raw nerve when he changed the display of his Facebook account on Wednesday by uploading a picture of himself splashed in the colours of the national flag and silhouettes of soldiers wielding guns with the following writing in bold red: “I am a Ladakhi. I stand with Indian Army.” The leader was immediately accused by many of diverting attention from a resolution passed by the BJP-led Leh Autonomous Hill Development Council in Ladakh last week urging the Centre to grant the fledging “Union Territory of Ladakh… constitutional safeguards for land, environment, employment, business and cultural resources either under 6th schedule, or under Article 371 or domicile act under Constitution of India to protect the tribal rights of the indigenous people of Ladakh”. The MP had played a key role in drafting the resolution. Ladakhis feel the Sixth Schedule alone will protect their exclusive rights over land and jobs, and that implementation of domicile laws would lead to the influx of outsiders, as is happening in Jammu and Kashmir. They feel that attempts to highlight other issues, as Namgyal had done in the Facebook post, were aimed at paving the way for an inflow of outsiders. “Very proud of you sir.… You are the only desh bhakt neta, rest are only raising their genuine demands like 6th schedule all the time and all the Ladakhi people are also supporting them too,” mocked Stanzin Gonpa Saspol, a Netizen. Many other Facebook users raised the demand for the Sixth Schedule. Ladakh’s Buddhists had overwhelmingly supported the scrapping of Article 370, which granted similar privileges to all residents of Jammu and Kashmir, and the bifurcation of the state into two Union Territories last year. Muslim-majority Kargil, which is part of Ladakh, had opposed the changes. However, the mood changed after the Centre this year began issuing domicile certificates to certain categories of outsiders in Jammu and Kashmir, which locals believe is aimed at altering the Muslim-majority character of the region. Ladakhi Buddhists, supported by some Muslim and Christian groups in Leh, are now up in arms against the possible extension of the domicile law to Ladakh, fearing this would lead to the influx of outsiders. “We reject any suggestion of implementing the domicile law in Ladakh on the lines of the one introduced in the UT of J&K,” said a joint statement issued by influential political and religious parties in Leh on Thursday. “First we had an impression that we were being remote-controlled from Srinagar. Now we are increasingly being given a feeling that we continue to be remote-controlled, albeit from New Delhi”. The signatories to the resolution are the Ladakh Buddhist Association, the Ladakh Gompa Association and the local units of the Congress, BJP and the AAP, former MPs and ministers. LBA president P.T. Kunzang said Ladakhis were against the influx of outsiders into the Union Territory as the place had a sparse population of less than three lakh. “Ladakh is a tribal area. We have our own culture, ethnicity and language. We are different…. The main point is if we are not given this protection, there will be an influx of outsiders. They will take all the jobs and spoil the environment. There won’t be any protection for our culture,” Kunzang told The Telegraph. He said the people did not support the resolution passed by the Leh council. “The BJP’s (Leh unit) president and general secretary were at (Thursday’s) media conference. That is the latest development. They have supported sixth schedule,” Kunzang said. The joint statement was issued at the media conference. Namgyal did not respond to calls from this newspaper. The BJP’s Jammu and Kashmir spokesman, Anil Gupta, said the Leh council’s resolution was political motivated. “The move is politically motivated, though it has become an all-party demand. The strengthening of the hill council (in Leh) is ultimate. If all the powers are given to them, it is better than Sixth Schedule,” he said. “They want to keep up pressure on the government. Earlier, they wanted a Union Territory, they got it. Now (since) they don’t have an issue, (they think) the Centre could neglect them,” Gupta said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-674
12-09-2020||India||ED quizzes Kerala minister in gold case||The Enforcement Directorate on Friday questioned a Kerala minister in connection with the gold smuggling case after it emerged that he had contacted one of the key accused over Ramazan gifts that the UAE consulate in Thiruvananthapuram distributed among people through him this year. That the ED had questioned K.T. Jaleel, the higher education and minorities’ welfare, waqf and Haj minister, emerged only late in the evening as the leader had dodged media attention by travelling the last 13km to the agency’s Kochi office in a friend’s car after getting off his official vehicle at Aroor. The ED said Jaleel, a CPM-backed Independent, had been questioned in connection with the Ramazan gifts that the UAE consulate distributed among the poor through him. The consulate is at the centre of a controversy after 30kg of smuggled gold from the UAE and meant for an employee was seized at Thiruvananthapuram international airport. Although the ED did not reveal the specifics, sources said that Jaleel had contacted Swapna Suresh, a key accused in the gold smuggling case, over the distribution of the gifts — food packets and copies of the Quran. The sources also claimed that Jaleel had flouted rules by accepting the items directly — ministers have to route gifts worth over Rs 5,000 through the external affairs ministry and they cannot deal directly with a foreign diplomatic mission. The 1,000 food kits are estimated to cost Rs 5 lakh. Jaleel had earlier said he had distributed the food packets among the needy in the Edappal and Thriprangode panchayat areas of Malappuram. On contacting Swapna, the minister had claimed that the UAE consul-general had put him in touch with her to handle the Ramazan gifts. Swapna is a former employee of the consulate. The gifts, however, were eventually arranged through a government agency and the bill sent to the consulate. The customs department had also said that the air cargo in which the copies of the Quran came had appeared to weigh more than what the number of copies specified would. The Opposition Congress has demanded Jaleel’s resignation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-675
12-09-2020||India||Raghuvansh lists demands in letters to Nitish||Former Union minister Raghuvansh Prasad Singh wrote three letters to Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar, listing three demands and signalling that he is likely to join his Janata Dal United. Raghuvansh’s letters to Nitish demand slight amendments in the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) for better impact, flag hoisting at Vaishaligarh on August 15 and January 26 to mark its importance as the first republic of the world, and bringing back the alms bowl of Lord Buddha from Afghanistan. The socialist leader is undergoing treatment for breathing trouble and post-Covid problems at AIIMS New Delhi. He resigned from the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) on Thursday, but that is yet to be accepted by party chief Lalu Prasad. “The MGNREGA Act provides that work would be done on land belonging to the government and the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes. Please bring an ordinance immediately to add that work could be done on the land of general farmers also under this Act to escape the model code of conduct for the forthcoming elections,” Raghuvansh wrote to Nitish. He said that the government could pay half the wages under this new provision while the farmer concerned will pay the rest. Such a provision would guarantee availability of workers to farmers, provide them labour subsidy, cut down on irregularities in the 100-day rural job guarantee scheme and reduce the burden of expenditure on the government. The number of workers for which a farmer would be eligible would be decided on the basis of his land holding. “I had requested Union minister Virendra Singh about this and he had sent a joint secretary to meet me and understand more about it. A proposal was sent to the Niti Aayog about this but is pending there. Please write a letter to the Prime Minister, get the issue raised by the MPs in Parliament and get an amendment (in MGNREGA) passed,” Raghuvansh said. It was Raghuvansh who as Union rural development minister in the then Manmohan Singh government had conceptualised and implemented the MGNREGA. In another letter, Raghuvansh suggested that the chief minister hoist the national flag in Patna while the governor do the same at Vaishaligarh in Vaishali district on August 15 and vice-versa on January 26, because it is the first known republic of the world. “The flag should be hoisted in the premises of Vaishaligarh (Vaishali fort). You (Nitish) should begin this from January 26, 2021. This will send a message to the world that Vaishali was the first republic. All formalities for this have been completed and a file in this regard is pending in the cabinet secretariat. The no-objection certificate from the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) has also arrived,” he wrote.The suggestion is significant because this means he believes the JDU, with its junior partner BJP, will win the Assembly polls and Nitish will continue as chief minister. Ancient texts and archaeological evidences have revealed that Vaishali was a confederation of clan states in the 7th and 6th century BC and practiced a republican form of government, which was elected through ballots. In his third letter to Nitish, Raghuvansh requested bringing back the alms bowl of Buddha from the Kabul museum. “I had raised this issue in the Lok Sabha and the then external affairs minister S.M. Krishna had said that the ASI would trace the origin of the alms bowl, and bring it back to Vaishali. It was a parting gift by Lord Buddha to the people of Vaishali after spending his last monsoon stay there. However, the red-tape and factionalism prevalent in the ASI made it say that there was not enough evidence about its origin and throw a spanner in the works,” he wrote. “You (Nitish) are getting a stupa worth Rs 300-400 crore constructed in Vaishali after acquiring land worth Rs 432 crore to house the relics of Lord Buddha. This (getting the alms bowl back) will be a very big thing,” Raghuvansh said in the letter. He also wrote a letter to state water resources minister Sanjay Jha requesting him to get three pending flood protection work done in Muzaffarpur. Meanwhile, Bhola Rai, another trusted colleague of Lalu, and two Congress MLAs — Poornima Yadav and Sudarshan — joined the JDU on Friday. Rai was a three-time MLA from 1980 to 1995 from Vaishali’s Raghopur constituency, considered a pocket borough of Lalu and his family members. He left the seat for Lalu in 1995, who went on to win and retain the seat in the 2000 elections as well. Later Lalu’s wife Rabri Devi won from the seat in the 2005 polls. Their son Tejashwi Prasad Yadav is the present MLA from Raghopur. JDU leader and Lok Sabha member Rajiv Ranjan Singh alias Lalan Singh, welcoming Rai to the party, said his resignation from the RJD shows that leaders who “sacrifice for the party are being insulted there”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-675
12-09-2020||West Bengal||Covid positive man contacted by none, nowhere to go, wanders for three days||A 43-year-old man who had tested positive for Covid-19 wandered around the streets of Salt Lake for the past three days before finally settling down under the elevated Metro corridor near Duttabad on EM Bypass. He was too afraid to go home because he shares his tenement in Barasat with his elderly parents. Nor did he receive any calls from the authorities, the man told The Telegraph on Friday afternoon. Unsure what to do, he had decided to spend the nights in the open. A state health department official said that someone from the department ought to have called the man and asked whether he had mild or severe symptoms. Since the 43-year-old former parking attendant has mild symptoms, the caller should have told him about his two options: staying isolated from others at home for 14 days, or shifting to a government-run safe home for the same period. “I was scared after my report came out positive on Tuesday. I didn’t want to go home as it is quite small and I live with my elderly parents. There’s no possibility of self-isolation at home,” he said. He had wanted to go to a hospital but didn’t know the procedure, and was afraid it would cost a lot of money. “I earn little. I had heard that medicines for the coronavirus are expensive,” he said. Duttabad residents who noticed the man sitting in the same spot for hours spoke to him and learnt of his plight before calling fire and emergency services minister Sujit Bose. The minister, who had himself recovered from Covid-19, asked local councillor Nirmal Dutta to arrange for the man’s transport to a safe house. The patient was then transferred to a safe house in Barasat. Tapas Roy, chief medical officer for North 24-Parganas, confirmed the health department should have called the man. “After telling the patient his options, the caller is also expected to ask whether there’s enough space at their home and a separate toilet to stay isolated from the rest of the family. Else, the patient has to be shifted to a safe home (by the state health department),” he said. The man used to be an attendant at one of the paid parking zones near City Centre but had lost his job during the lockdown. He was now working as a civic labourer engaged in clearing weeds from playgrounds and parks in Salt Lake. He had been down with fever since September 5, a Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation official who had spoken to him said. The report of his free Covid-19 test, conducted at a Salt Lake hospital, arrived on September 8. A health department official said that apart from the department, the man should have received a call from the Barasat municipality since he had stated his address at the time of testing. Everyone undergoing a Covid-19 test is asked to furnish address proof. Sunil Mukherjee, chairperson of Barasat municipality’s board of administrators, said: “It seems this person’s address did not reach us. Otherwise our workers would have gone there and found out that he was neither at home nor in hospital.” Anyone who is unsure what to do after testing positive for Covid-19 may call the health department helpline, 1800 313 444 222. There’s also a telemedicine helpline, 033 23576001.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-377
12-09-2020||West Bengal||Inter-state ATM robber arrested in Malda||Police on Thursday arrested a member of an ATM robbery gang that is suspected to be operating across the country. Dharamvir Sharma alias Mahesh alias Panditji — who hails from Mathura district in Uttar Pradesh — was picked up from a hideout at Baharal by Ratua police. He spilled beans on a series of ATMs robberies in different parts of India. His arrest followed a thorough investigation by the Malda police, including the district police chief, Alok Rajoria, and Dipak Sarkar, ASP (rural), who took days to collect information to locate Sharma. During the probe, the duo, with some other officials, had also checked CCTV footage of different locations which in total, were 150 hours long. Police sources said on August 19 this year, the ATM of a nationalised bank in Sujapur under Kaliachak police station had been robbed and around Rs 10 lakh taken away. The loot was carried out barely 24 hours after a similar attempt was made at an ATM in Barasat, North 24 Parganas. Also, during the lockdown, two more ATMs were broken in areas under Englishbazar and Gajole police stations — also in Malda district — and cash was looted. The series of robberies prompted the police to form a special investigation team under Sarkar. Rajoria, the SP, also joined the probe. “While examining CCTV footage of Kaliachak and Barasat exhaustively, we noticed the similarity in the culprit’s shoes. Soon, we found that the gloves worn by the culprits are similar,” said the SP. This made the police here communicate with different police stations across the country to gather information about similar crimes and soon, they came across the CCTV footage of an ATM robbery in Madhya Pradesh. The team continued its investigation and started checking registers in nearby hotels After days of work, the police could finally identify Sharma. They had alerted their sources across the district and soon, the team got a tip-off that Sharma was back in Malda and has taken shelter at a village in Ratua. This made the police team, with Rajoria himself leading in mufti, to conduct a raid in Baharal on Thursday night. “We could nab him. During preliminary interrogation, he has revealed that he and his associates were involved in ATM robberies in a number of states. We need to grill him further to get more information,” said a police officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-377
12-09-2020||West Bengal||UP couple held  in Malda with 10kg tortoise fat||Three persons, including a couple from Sultanpur district of Uttar Pradesh, were arrested with 10kg of tortoise fat by police at Kaliachak in Malda on Friday. The fat that is in dried form was about to be smuggled into Bangladesh through Mahadipur border of the district, said police sources. On Friday morning, Babua Kumar and his spouse Kiran reached Malda from Sultanpur. Officials of Kaliachak police station, who had prior information, had formed a special team to nab them. The duo headed for a locality near the India-Bangladesh border and handed the tortoise fat that was in two bags to Mohammed Motiur Rahaman, a Kaliachak resident. The police team conducted a raid at the spot, and could arrest all three of them. The bags were also seized. “They had a plan to take the consignment to Mahadipur and smuggle it to Bangladesh. But we could arrest them midway,” said Ashish Das, inspector-in-charge, Kaliachak police station. During the primary interrogation, the trio admitted that several tortoises were killed to accumulate the fat. It was then processed and then brought to Malda. “We suspect all three of them are members of a racket that is engaged in smuggling of animal parts to Bangladesh,” a police officer said. Sources said the seized consignment costs around Rs 10 lakh in clandestine market. “In Bangladesh also, tortoises are killed to get the fat. The item has a demand in China and North and South Korea where it is used to make different traditional medicines,” the source added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-377
12-09-2020||West Bengal||Jumbo rage triggers protest near Gorumara National Park||A team of foresters who had been to a village near the Gorumara National Park in Jalpaiguri following an elephant depredation was gheraoed by the residents for three hours on Friday. The team led by Rajkumar Layak, the Khunia forest range officer, was detained, along with some elected representatives of rural bodies. The villagers demanded a specific assurance that a watchtower be erected by the state forest department to monitor the movement of elephant herds. “Wild elephants often intrude into our village and damage crops, plants and houses. Last night, a herd entered the village and damaged around 1,000 betel nut trees, along with some crops which were ready for harvest,” said Bimal Oraon, a resident of Purba Batabari in the Matialli block. “We had time and again demanded that a watchtower be built outside the village and it be manned by forest guards so that they can alert us to elephant movements. As there had been no development, we decided to detain the forest team,” he added. According to Oraon, around 10,000 residents of Purba Batabari and the neighbouring Kharia Bandar regularly lose their crops to the marauding elephants. Hasibur Rehman, the president of the Purba Batabari Joint Forest Management Committee, said though the villagers had started alternative farming — cultivation of agricultural products which elephants usually do not consume, they could not succeed because of frequent depredations. “We need the watchtower and regular patrolling by forest teams in our area so that the herds can be stopped,” he said. The protests, which started at 11am, continued for three hours. The representatives of the local panchayat samiti and foresters assured the agitators that the issue would be discussed at a meeting to be held on Saturday. “The villagers were aggrieved over the issue and confined us. A meeting has been convened to discuss the proposals. Elected representatives of the local panchayat and the panchayat samiti would be present at the meeting with the villagers,” Layak, the range officer, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-377
12-09-2020||West Bengal||Jackal terrorises villages, 30 hurt in Haroa||At least 30 people, including women and children, were injured in jackal attacks over the past three days at several villages of Haroa block in North 24-Parganas, prompting the panchayat authorities to seek the help of the district administration. Local sources said people residing at Piyara, Adampur, Aatghara, Digherhaat, and some other places in the Haroa block had been spending sleepless nights for the past two days fearing attacks by the jackal. The first attack took place over a week ago at Piyara but since Wednesday, there have been 30 incidents of attacks on villagers. At least 15 persons have been admitted to Haroa block hospital with serious injuries. One of the seriously injured villagers has lost a finger in the attack. Those with minor injuries have been released after primary treatment and vaccination. A doctor at Haroa block hospital said: “Most of the victims suffered bite injuries in their feet and arms. Condition of a few elderly women is serious.” Though none of the villagers has seen more than one jackal at a time, they claim that a pack is roaming the area. As help from the forest department is yet to arrive, the panicked villagers have formed groups and are combing the villages armed with bamboo sticks. Trinamul block president, Haroa, Shafiq Ahmed, said: “The administration has been informed but we don’t know why no one from the forest department has turned up so far.” An officer in the state wildlife department, Basirhat Division, told The Telegraph: “There seems to be some communication gap as we do not have any information about the incident. From what we hear from you, it seems a lone jackal is involved in the incidents. Such behaviour is unusual of Asiatic jackals. It is most likely that the jackal is suffering from some disease or has physical ailment. We will soon send a team to the affected areas.” Haroa resident Sheikh Abdullah said: “We are living in panic. Jackals are entering our homes even during the day and attacking villagers. The animals are going for the throat of the victim and when resisted, they are trying to bite off the palm.” Rokeya Biwi, a villager who survived a jackal attack, said: “Today (Friday) I was sitting in the courtyard of my home when a jackal attacked me from behind. It tried to bite off my toe and released its hold on my foot when neighbours rushed in and started beating it with sticks.” A wildlife department official said jackals generally found in the Gangetic or riverine areas belong to the species of Asiatic jackals. They are also known as golden jackals and survive on fish, crabs, and wild birds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-377
12-09-2020||West Bengal||Plea for Sikkim House quota for Limboos and Tamangs||Limboo Tamang Seat Reservation Demand Committee Sikkim on Friday urged the state government and the Centre to table resolutions in the Assembly and the Lok Sabha, respectively, reserving seats for the two tribal communities in the Sikkim House. Neema Theeng Tamang, the chairman of the committee, said Limboos and Tamangs continued to be deprived of their political rights despite being categorised as Scheduled Tribes by the Atal Bihari Vajpayee-led BJP government in 2003. “We would request the state government to table a resolution reserving seats for the Limboos and Tamangs in the Assembly on September 17 and similarly, request the Centre to bring a Bill during the upcoming session of parliament beginning on September 14,” he said. Tamang said the committee had already written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah on the issue, and were hopeful of a positive outcome. “We would also request our Lok Sabha member Indra Hang Subba to raise the issue in Parliament. He should lobby his fellow MPs and get the bill passed in Parliament,” Tamang added. The Limboos and Tamangs were given the ST status in 2003, but are yet to be granted reservation of seats in the Assembly as mandated by Article 332 of the Constitution. An organisation of the two communities had approached the Supreme Court on the issue in January 2019, but the matter is yet to be decided on. Asked if the committee had any formula on seat reservation, Tamang said it was for the state government to come out with one. The ruling Sikkim Krantikari Morcha (SKM), however, is yet to spell out its formula even though it supports reservation of seats for the Limboos and Tamangs. The opposition Sikkim Democratic Front (SDF), on the other hand, wants the strength of the Assembly to be increased from the present 32 to 40, and reserve five seats from the increased pool for the Limboos and Tamangs. At present, 12 seats are reserved for the Bhutias and Lepchas, two for the Scheduled Castes and one for the sangha, which is a body of monks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-377
12-09-2020||West Bengal||Scan on Sikkim draft proposal for tourism revival||A draft proposal prepared by the Sikkim tourism and civil aviation department in consultation with local tourism stakeholders for reopening the state for tourists has prompted at least two associations in east and northeast India to write to the chief minister, saying some of the suggestions will hamper the arrival of visitors. On September 4, a meeting was convened to discuss how the sector could be reopened in the state. At the meeting, a draft was readied wherein proposals were made with regard to movement of tourists, their accommodations and some new norms with regard to the health safety protocols. “There is a proposal that travel houses which are based in Sikkim and registered with the state government can carry out the ground handling of tourists. This means, travel houses based outside Sikkim cannot make direct reservations or arrange for transports for tourists. Also, it has been proposed that vehicles from outside Sikkim will not be allowed to carry tourists into the state. If these proposals are finalised, it would largely affect the stakeholders in north Bengal and in other parts of the country,” said Sandipan Ghosh, general secretary, Eastern Himalaya Travel & Tour Operators’ Association. He has also pointed out that as a tour operator who is not based in Sikkim cannot send tourists directly to the state according to the proposal, it will increase the cost component. In the draft, it has also been mentioned that initially, around 2,500 rooms (around 5,000 tourists) would be allowed to be used in a day and the hotels should use only half of their rooms. “There are several hoteliers who have taken hotels on lease in different locations of Sikkim. They have already suffered huge losses in the past six months and now if they are asked to use only half of their room inventory, it would be tough for them to sustain. Moreover, it is not very clear as till when this first phase of allowing only 5,000-odd tourists will continue,” said a hotelier who is from Siliguri but runs hotels in Sikkim. Like the hoteliers, the transporters are also worried, said Samrat Sanyal, general secretary, Himalayan Hospitality & Tourism Development Network. This is because a considerable section of tourists plan an integrated itinerary of Darjeeling and Sikkim and usually, vehicles are provided for the entire trip. “We sent our vehicles with tourists to Darjeeling and Sikkim. In Sikkim, the sightseeing is being conducted in local vehicles. Now if any restriction is imposed on movement of non-Sikkim vehicles into the state, it would be hard for us to get tourists. We believe the Sikkim government will understand these problems and will draw up appropriate guidelines, keeping in mind the interests of all those who are associated with the tourism industry of Sikkim,” said Sanyal. At the meeting, it has been also proposed that all tourists should carry Covid-19 negative certificates issued not earlier than three days prior to their arrival in Sikkim. This proposal, if implemented, will be another constraint to bring in tourists into the state. An official of the Sikkim tourism department said the proposals were yet to be discussed with the state government. “It is only a draft that has been prepared by our department in consultation with the stakeholders. It is yet to be taken up with the government and only then can the guidelines be finalised.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-378
12-09-2020||West Bengal||Siliguri College teacher faces exam bribe demand slur||A teacher at Siliguri College has been accused of assuring a student of his department that he can help her get more marks in the undergraduate final exams against a payment of Rs 10,000. An audio clip containing the bribe demand has been circulating in social media. The accused teacher, however, denied the allegations. “I am not involved in this incident. Some people with political agenda are trying to frame me,” said the teacher. The North Bengal University, to which the college is affiliated, started a probe and plans to file a police complaint. Sources said vice-chancellor Subires Bhattacharyya had asked registrar Dilip Sarkar to start proceedings against the teacher. “We have started a probe and will file a police complaint,” the registrar said. In the audio clip, the teacher is heard asking the girl to pay him Rs 10,000. “The teacher was heard saying that if she wanted to pass her exam with good marks, she should visit his house and pay him the amount with a copy of her admit card. He also said he had contacts with those people at the varsity who manage marks and everything,” said a faculty member of Siliguri College who heard the clip. On Friday, the student sent a written complaint to the college authorities, confirmed Jayanta Kar, president of the governing body of Siliguri College. “The student has sent an email to the principal and furnished all details of the communication in it. She mentioned that she had spoken to the head of the department of her course and furnished the faculty member’s phone number. It has nothing against the college but it is the name and fame of the varsity as the teacher was heard saying that he had connections with those who are associated with the exams and allocation of marks,” said Kar. Sujit Ghosh, the college principal, said: “It is astounding to hear such an audio where a teacher is asking for money from a student. We are looking into the issue and if found guilty, the teacher concerned will face appropriate steps.” A leader of the Trinamul Chhatra Parishad said the faculty member had even mentioned his residential address to the student during the communication. “We will hit the streets in a day or two, demanding action against the teacher,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-378
12-09-2020||West Bengal||Drug peddling cuffs on three||The Narcotics Control Bureau has arrested three men, including a pharmacy owner, for allegedly peddling drugs across the city and sending consignments abroad. Sources said the NCB had received information that more than 11kg of charas was being couriered to Hong Kong on Wednesday night. “An NCB team arrested Dum Dum residents Ashim Ray and Rajan Mishra and seized the charas that was concealed inside a packet marked as ‘muffins’,” said an NCB officer. The team also seized 100kg of charas and 20 bottles of Phensedyl cough syrup that contains the banned narcotic codeine phosphate from Mishra’s house. After questioning the duo together, the NCB raided the chemist shop of Biswanath Das, a resident of Manikpara, and seized 95 more bottles of cough syrup that contained codeine phosphate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-378
12-09-2020||West Bengal||Price rise scan on potato stocks||The Bengal government has decided to take stock of daily release of potatoes from 460-odd cold storages across the state to keep prices of the crop in check. The price of potatoes has been moving northwards across the state over the past couple of weeks, said a Bengal government official. “The state government is sure that there is an artificial crisis of potato, taking price of the commodity to Rs 30 to Rs 32 a kg from Rs 22 a kg in the markets in the past two weeks. We need to check whether required quantum of potato is being released to the markets from the stores as there is no major dearth of production this year,” a senior government official told The Telegraph. Sources in the agriculture marketing department said the state had produced about 90 lakh lakh tonnes of potato this year, while its annual production was around 110 lakh tonnes. But the less production has little to do with the sudden hike in prices as the state’s annual consumption requirement is about 60 lakh tonnes. About 55 lakh tonnes of potato were stored in the cold stores in March, which was enough to meet the state’s consumption requirement till December when the fresh produce starts arriving in markets, said sources. “Now it has to be seen whether at least 5 lakh tonnes of potato are being released from the cold stores every month as it is the state’s monthly consumption requirement. Primarily, it appears lesser quantum of potato is being released from the cold stores,” said an official. Sources in the government said the district authorities had been asked to deploy block level officials to maintain a record of the quantum of potato released from each of the cold stores everyday. Similarly, police have been asked to maintain a strict vigil on inter-state borders and markets to ensure that the commodity is not being taken away from the state in an unauthorised way. Sources in the agri-marketing department said that they had already visited some cold stores to find out the actual problem and found that majority of the stores were not being able to release potato according to the requirement in the markets. “This is because the cold stores have to engage labourers to take out potato bags from the stores in a way that social distancing norm could be maintained. Some cold store owners said that they could not deploy enough number of labourers since May this year,” said a source. In a bid to get rid of the situation and make potato available at Rs 25 a kg, the Bengal government has asked all the cold stores located in potato producing districts like Hooghly, East Burdwan and Birbhum to file a regular report mentioning daily release of potatoes. “District officials were also asked to note the name of the farmers who are taking potatoes out from the cold storages to track their place of supply,” said a senior state government official. A section of the officials said that there is a trend to hold the crop when price is rising and the middlemen become active to create an artificial crisis by holding back the stock. “A daily monitoring of release of the produce might help the state to some extent, but more importantly the state has to be aggressive to ensure that potato is released according to the consumption requirement,” said a bureaucrat. A strong vigil in the inter-state borders has been initiated as many middlemen were trying to sell the crop in the neighbouring states like Jharkhand, Bihar and Odisha as the price of the crop is higher in those states compared to Bengal. Police already seized around 250 quintals of potato from Jharkhand border in Mohammedbazar which was on the way to sell in Jharkhand on Tuesday evening. “We have already asked all the cold storages to give us details of potatoes released from their stores and names and contact number of the farmers who took the produce out of the stores,” said Moumita Godara Basu, the Birbhum district magistrate. Humayun Biswas, an additional district magistrate in East Burdwan, said: “Our teams are regularly visiting the markets to get the stock of the situation.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-378
12-09-2020||West Bengal||BJP leader’s address brims with Left virtues||Some of the newly-appointed state committee members of the BJP were in for a shock on Thursday evening when Arvind Menon, the co-in charge of the party’s affairs in Bengal, dwelt extensively on the communist virtues and organisational structure of Left outfits. Although the BJP’s battle in Bengal is all about how to defeat the Trinamul Congress, in the ideological sphere, the Left parties are the biggest enemies of the saffron camp. Similarly, the Left leaders also have no love lost for the BJP, a party they often describe as a Fascist force. “Given the mutual hatred for each other, I was really surprised when Menon-ji said our party was more like the CPM and compared our organisational structure with that of communists,” said a BJP source, who heard the articulate leader on Thursday evening. “Menon-ji also spoke on the strict regimentation and the discipline followed in the CPM... It was clear that these virtues of the Left parties were being hailed in his speech,” the source added. Multiple sources this correspondent spoke to said the reference to the CPM in Menon’s speech had indeed come as a surprise to them as most BJP leaders in Bengal had grown up in an ecosystem, wherein they were taught to ridicule anything that had a communist connection. A different background of Menon — a Malayali by birth and then an RSS pracharak in Hindi heartland — may be the reason behind him looking at the Left with a different prism. A senior state BJP leader said on condition of anonymity that one should not try to read much into Menon’s mention of the communists in his address as he was focusing on how different political parties functioned and his main objective was to denounce the “one family rule”-kind of structure in political parties like the Congress and Trinamul. “Menon-ji suggested that in case of Trinamul, it would be Abhishek (Banerjee) after Mamata Banerjee... Then, he said that it’s not the same in case of parties like the BJP or the CPM,” said a source. According to the source, there is more to the commonality as both the organisations are cadre-driven — whole timers in the CPM and pracharaks in the RSS. “If you look at the CPM and the RSS, you will see that the cadres are driven by ideology... And whatever call is taken at the central level percolates down to the last individual without fail,” said the source, who cut his political teeth in the RSS. Reacting to Menon’s comments, CPM politburo member Mohammad Salim said the comparison meant nothing. “There may be some similarities in the organisational structure, but comparing us with the RSS is too much,” said Salim, before asking what the contributions of the saffron camp in the country’s freedom struggle were. “It is a party which thrives on turncoats like Mukul Roy and money from capitalists. They are no match for us in terms of ideologies,” he added. This is not the first time that the communists have found a mention in the address of a saffron camp leader. In 2018, in one of his speeches, RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat had mentioned the names of Left leaders like Ramchandra Sakharam Ruikar — a veteran of the All India Forward Bloc and M.N. Roy, founder of the Mexican Communist Party and the Communist Party of India. Bhagwat had said the first RSS chief, H.B. Hedgewar, and Ruikar had a conversation which had ended with the former concluding that both of them had the same destination.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-378
12-09-2020||West Bengal||Warning to gardens on Darjeeling Tea dilution||The Tea Board of India has warned that it will start civil and criminal action against those gardens in the Darjeeling hills which process and sell tea leaves from outside and sell them as the world famous Darjeeling Tea. Around 10 million kilos of orthodox tea are produced by 87 tea estates in the Darjeeling hills. Most of the produce is exported and fetches excellent prices. Darjeeling Tea is the first product in India to get a GI (Geographical Indication) tag in 2004. Tea that is plucked and processed only in the 87 gardens can be called Darjeeling Tea. In a letter sent to the Darjeeling Tea Association (DTA) On September 10, the board said it will “initiate civil and criminal action against the errant gardens under the Trade Mark Act, 1999, Geographical Indication of Goods (Registration & Protection) Act, 1999, the Copy Right Act, 1957 and Indian Penal Code”. The DTA represents the hill estates which produce the organic orthodox tea. The letter by Rishikesh Rai, the secretary of the Tea Board, said it received complaints at regular intervals that green leaves were sourced from outside the GI area and processed and passed off as Darjeeling Tea. “It is also expected that The Darjeeling Tea Association being the equal partner in the protection of Darjeeling GI should act in a proactive manner and persuade your member gardens to refrain from such activities failing which the Board may also be informed so that visible action can be taken against such manufacturers (sic),” reads the letter. In the letter, Saria said: “The board has also obtained undertaking from each of the 87 gardens certifying that none of the garden shall purchase any green leaf from any garden located beyond the demarcated geographical area of Darjeeling GI.” DTA chairman B.K. Saria said: “ We urge all members to refrain from such activities for the well-being of all members. We will will inform the Tea Board of any such acts.” “The DTA requests all the estates whether they are our members or otherwise, to respect the law.” A planter has said any attempt to mix green leaves of other estates with Darjeeling Tea should be strictly stopped to maintain the reputation the product enjoys across the globe. Veterans in the north Bengal tea industry said the board was playing a proactive role to ensure the authenticity of Indian tea. Earlier, the board had made moves to check illegal sale of imported tea in the domestic market and abroad as Indian tea. The board also directed producers not to mix artificial colours with the brew.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-378
12-09-2020||West Bengal||3,157 cases and 57 deaths in Bengal||Bengal on Friday reported 3,157 new Covid-19 cases, 57 deaths and 3,016 recoveries. The total number of patients in the state are now over 1.96 lakh, of whom 1.69 lakh have recovered and 3,828 died. The recovery rate, which has been on a steady upward climb, is 86.1 now, far ahead of the national rate of 77.85. “We are third on the list of states with the highest recovery rate now, after Bihar (89.7) and Tamil Nadu (88.6),” said a Bengal minister. After 15 days (from August 24 to September 7) of steady fall in the total number of active cases because of more recoveries than new infections, the state recorded spike in the number of patients for four consecutive days. Bengal logged 45,326 tests on Friday, taking the total past 23.75 lakh. The state now has 26,396 tests per million people, which were 12,880 even a month ago. Steady rise in testing, coupled with no discernible rise in cases being found, has improved the positive confirmation rate from a high of 8.9 to 8.26 per cent in about three weeks. Deemed a key indicator in the Covid-19 pandemic, the positive confirmation rate is the percentage of positive cases out of samples tested. A decreasing positive confirmation rate is indicative of reducing levels of Covid-19 spread. Of the 57 deaths reported in 24 hours, 16 were from Calcutta and eight from North 24-Parganas. The two districts have contributed over 60 per cent of all Covid-19 deaths since the first was recorded in Bengal on March 23. Of the total deaths, 3,288 (85.9 per cent) were reported as comorbid by the state government. The overall mortality rate improved to 1.94, while the national rate is 1.66 per cent. The state reported 32.48 per cent occupancy on 12,505 Covid-19 beds at 92 hospitals, besides 15.1 on 11,507 beds at 200 safe homes. Telemedicine services have been provided to over 1.96 lakh people, 4,236 of whom availed themselves of the facility in the past 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-378
12-09-2020||West Bengal||Unions to scale down Vishwakarma Puja celebration||Hundreds of Vishwakarma Puja organisers across Bengal have opted for muted celebrations as they have decided to utilise the festival funds to help workers and their families — living in their areas or associated with their organisations — left jobless because of the pandemic-induced lockdown. Though Vishwakarma Puja has always been the most important event in their annual roster, these organisers, most of whom are trade union outfits, think it is more important to stand by their co-workers than spending money to celebrate the puja, which falls on September 17. The Bus Workers’ Union in East Burdwan’s Kalna has put up a flex at the local bus terminus to inform people about the reason for not organising the festival this year. “We have been giving doles to workers from the Vishwakarma Puja fund and therefore, we have put on hold all programmes related to Vishwakarma Puja this year,” the flex put by the Trinamul Congress-led trade union reads. The organisers said every year, they used to spend Rs 3 lakh to celebrate Vishwakarma Puja. “We had saved Rs 4 lakh for this year’s celebrations. We have used the entire money to support our members during the lockdown and have decided to skip the festival this year,” said a Trinamul leader. “During the lockdown, buses did not operate and now services are back but only partially. So, we dipped into our Puja funds and gave our members Rs 500 every month. We also helped them with groceries,” said Anjan Chatterjee, working president of the INTTUC. Asish Dan, who is a conductor on the Bolpur-Suri route and attached to a bus worker’s union in Suri, said: “We are not having the festivities this year. I support the union’s decision as the Puja funds had been used to help us during lockdown. I got three supplies of essentials from the union in the past five months.” The picture is no different in the districts of Birbhum, West Burdwan and East and West Midnapore. In East Midnapore’s industrial hub Haldia and its adjoining pockets, at least 2,500 organisers used to host Vishwakarma Puja. The festival was celebrated with rich illuminations, huge pandals and mega cultural soirees in Haldia as it is the hub of big and small industries. Shibnath Sarkar, the working president of INTTUC in East Midnapore, said: “This year, the number of Vishwakarma Puja has dropped to 500. Most of the big budget pujas have curtailed their budgets to help workers, while the smaller ones have decided to skip the festivities. We had no option but to help jobless workers with funds kept aside for this year’s festival.” An organiser of a big-budget puja at a leading factory said they had curtailed cultural programmes because of two reasons — avoid mass gathering and help families of workers allied to the industry. A major battery producing unit in Haldia used to spend around Rs 10 lakh every year to celebrate Vishwakarma Puja. This year they have cut down their budget to Rs 4 lakh. “This year all cultural events and gatherings have been called off. The fund will be used to provide free study materials to children of workers who have lost their jobs during the lockdown,” said Sekhar Majumdar, secretary of the Puja committee at the battery unit said. As the festival has gone low-profile this year, those associated with professions linked to the festival are staring at huge losses in income. “The illumination industry of Chandernagore used to get orders worth Rs 2 crore during Vishwakarma Puja every year. This year, it is almost zero as we do not have any big order from industrial hubs like Durgapur or Haldia. Hundreds of our workers look forward to the festival season but this year, the situation is grave for all of us,” said Babu Pal, an illumination artist in Chandernagore and secretary of Chandernagore Lights Owners’ Association. Nandalal Jana, an idol maker in Haldia, echoes Pal. “I used to get orders of at least 100 Vishwakarma idols till last year. This year, I have only 20 order for small-size idols,” said Jana||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-378
12-09-2020||Opinion||Odd change: Kangana Ranaut office demolition||Sir — Matters have come to a head with the Bandra office of the Bollywood actress, Kangana Ranaut, being demolished by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation. Ranaut had already ruffled feathers by likening Mumbai to ‘Pakistan-occupied Kashmir’ and making a series of comments in the case involving the death of the Bollywood actor, Sushant Singh Rajput. It is a pity that Ranaut’s curve in the public eye has gradually become less dignified over the passage of time. It was impossible not to admire her for her fearlessness in calling a spade a spade in a deeply patriarchal and clique-driven film industry like Bollywood. She had no qualms about calling out powerful men and nepotistic film directors for furthering an unhealthy, closed work culture that favoured only the children of the privileged. Aside from this, she also gained accolades for her stellar acting in films such as Queen. She could have easily served as a role model for other young girls and, especially, aspiring actors. However, her increasing tilt towards right-wing extremist views and the growing perception that she is supportive of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s regressive agenda have chipped away at the respect she had garnered among forward-thinking citizens. Her unnecessary involvement in the Rajput case and her unwarranted comments about a matter that is under investigation make one wonder whether she can still be looked upon as a role model. While she is certainly at liberty to express her opinions in a democracy, she must remember that she is a public figure and thousands of young boys and girls will most likely be influenced by her opinions. She should be using her platform to spread progressive ideas. Rasika Seth,Calcutta Sir — It is still not clear why Kangana Ranaut chose to involve herself in the case surrounding the death of Sushant Singh Rajput. It is, after all, being investigated by the Central Bureau of Investigation. Ranaut made it clear that she has no faith in the Mumbai police, and indicated that she is aware of a number of Bollywood celebrities who have dealt in drugs and have been instrumental in destroying the careers of upcoming actors. If that is indeed the case, then ought not Ranaut to hand over the names of such offenders to the CBI instead of making comments in bad taste, such as her likening of the city of Mumbai to Pakistan-occupied Kashmir? It is now widely believed that Ranaut is actively furthering the agenda of the BJP government, which wishes to destabilize the Maharashtra dispensation. Bhagwan Thadani,Mumbai Slowly dying Sir — It was appalling to read that there has been a 68 per cent reduction in the global wildlife population between 1970 and 2016. Moreover, 75 per cent of the planet’s ice-free land surface has already been significantly altered, most of the oceans are polluted, and more than 85 per cent of wetlands have been lost during this period. At the root of such destruction is, invariably, human greed. Most of the loss of biodiversity can be attributed to the conversion of pristine habitats into agricultural systems, while much of the oceans have been overfished. Is the damage reversible? Manisha Ganguly,Calcutta Parting Shot Sir — A study had found that 1.1 billion people around the world smoke cigarettes on a daily basis, even though most are aware that smoking causes debilitating diseases such as cancer. According to the World Health Organization, smoking is the leading cause of millions of deaths and diseases not only in our country but around the world. A non-governmental organization that works towards combating cancer says that it wants the Central government to declare cigarette and bidi butts as ‘toxic waste’. Initiatives have long called for a nationwide comprehensive ban on all menthol tobacco products, but to no avail. One hopes that the Central Pollution Control Board will soon lay down guidelines pertaining to the disposal of cigarettes and bidi butts. Khushbu Ved,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-150
12-09-2020||Opinion||Old word, new sense: NEP & 'maximum flexibility'||Flexibility is a funny word. Its connotation can be positive — a flexible body, for example. On the other hand, being flexible with the truth, something the ruling dispensation in India does habitually, is a mockery of governance. The word gained in enigmatic resonance when the prime minister said that the country should implement the National Education Policy, 2020 with “maximum flexibility”. Apparently, criticism from certain state governments, academics and non-governmental organizations prompted this call against ‘inflexibility’. It could be asked why the ‘stakeholders’ being addressed — being ordered — to be flexible had been left out of the picture when this historic document that is supposed to be taking education in a new direction was being formulated. Such questions are pointless when an elected government decides that principles of democracy and federalism are a bit of a headache and all that is needed is majority in Parliament to ram through its decisions carrying its agenda. Neither Parliament nor the states were included in developing the NEP; that education is on the concurrent list is obviously immaterial. So what the prime minister meant was that his government will remain inflexible, and the objecting states — ‘stakeholders’ — must be flexible. The parallel that he drew — with astounding irrelevance — was with the scope in the NEP for high-school students to choose subjects from different streams: state governments are not pupils, and they are not being asked to choose but being ordered to implement the policy. Language is being pushed beyond the bounds of sense into regions where even the greatest poets would fear to tread. The objections from critics, however, need to be addressed. The questions are just too many. Taking off from the prime minister’s point of pride in the free choice of subjects, for example, it can be asked whether the degree courses will be so integrated with the school system as to be able to offer a similar freedom, and whether there will be consistency in the scope for research or employment. Again, while the NEP is creating a system that matches certain overseas ones in higher education — with attendant benefits of foreign universities investing in campuses here, for instance — it is not clear why vocational training would be offered from Class VI in school. Addressing questions is not something the government is bothered about. It has casually committed states to spending more, whether they can afford it or not, in integrating pre-school and school systems while continuing to maintain the anganwadis, but it is a centralized regulatory agency that will conduct assessments and decide on funding. Excellence in education is as elusive a concept as autonomy, and the NEP is uninterested in opportunities for research in universities. But a golden age awaits India where the NEP, promised the prime minister, will prompt students to become creative and curious, and ask questions. So far, though, asking questions has tended to land students in jail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-150
12-09-2020||Opinion||Momentous day: Labor Day across the US||Labor Day was observed just a few days ago on September 7. It typically falls on the first Monday of September and is regarded as a federal holiday in the United States of America. It marks the end of summer and the beginning of fall, although Covid-19 has blurred the lines between season, work, vacations and staycations. Covid outbreaks have been especially intense during this time on college campuses. There were pictures and videos on social media of large gatherings, with students holding masks in their hands but dancing close together with no social distancing. New York University, Ohio State, Purdue and West Virginia University have all suspended students over violations of rules put in place to curb the virus’s spread on campus. According to data released by the Transportation Security Administration, the number of people screened at airports reached 9,68,673 on September 4, the highest since March 16. During the Friday-through-Monday Labor Day holiday weekend, close to 3.3 million passengers passed through TSA checkpoints. Boston celebrated with a socially distanced outdoor gathering by the Greater Boston Labor Council where the mayor remarked on the importance of essential workers especially during this pandemic. Americans typically celebrate Labor Day with cookouts, barbecues and a trip to the beach. This year the holiday has more meaning given the frontline workers who are truly keeping the country and economy afloat during the pandemic. Strong stand The National Basketball Association launched its season this year at a time when all major sports events have taken a hit. For the first time in history, an entire team — the Milwaukee Bucks — walked out on their scheduled game in August. They were set to appear for their playoff game just 40 miles away from the site of the shooting of Jacob Blake; the latter was shot by the Kenosha police when his back was turned to them. The shooting sparked protests all over the country, and games since then were postponed after other walkouts followed. As part of the agreement between players and the association to restart the games, it was agreed that every team that controls its home arena will work with local election officials in hopes of turning those buildings into polling places for the November 3 election, according to a joint statement from the NBA commissioner and the NBA players’ association. The NBA pact with the players’ union also called for the league to team up with its broadcast partners to include more advertising spots that highlight social justice initiatives and voter turnout efforts. “These commitments follow months of close collaboration around designing a safe and healthy environment to restart the NBA season, providing a platform to promote social justice, as well as creating an NBA Foundation focused on economic empowerment in the black community,” the joint league-union said in a public statement. Before the Kenosha shooting, the league has painted ‘Black Lives Matter’ on the game courts, and is allowing players to wear social justice messages on their jerseys.Remember them Yesterday marked the 19th anniversary of the 9/11 terrorist attacks of 2001. The non-profit organization, Wreaths Across America, encouraged Americans to put up a flag at their house and wave it at four significant times of the day to honour the victims. The first flag wave was at 8.46 am, the same time that American Airlines Flight 11 was hijacked and flown into the World Trade Center’s North Tower in New York City, and lasted for a minute. Then, at 9.03 am, participants waved their flags for another minute, this time to remember the time the hijackers flew United Airlines Flight 175 into the South Tower. A third flag wave happened at 9.37 am to mark the time American Airlines Flight 77 crashed into the Pentagon, and the fourth and final was at 10.03 am, the time United Airlines Flight 93 crashed into a field in Stonycreek Township, Pennsylvania. The September 11 attacks killed 2,977 people across three different sites. In Lower Manhattan, 2,753 people died and 184 people were killed at the Pentagon. An additional 40 people were killed when Flight 93 crashed, according to the 9/11 Memorial & Museum.Game on The presidential election is weeks away and everyone from local shops to celebrities is doing their part to make sure people vote. A small shop called The Monogram in East Hampton has been selling plastic cups and napkins with ‘Trump 2020’ or ‘Biden 2020’ written on them. The shop is not trying to push either candidate, but simply keeps track of which candidate’s merchandise sells the most. As of last month, its Instagram displayed the Biden cups outselling the Trump ones. On National Poll Worker Recruitment Day, the actress, Kerry Washington, posted a picture of herself on a dancing pole to encourage people to vote. It was a cheeky nod to the idea of ‘working the pole’ to encourage people to assist with voting in the election when the country is facing a record shortage of poll workers due to Covid-19. Joe Biden’s team has gone a step ahead and created a virtual campaign that posted Biden signs for the popular Nintendo switch game, Animal Crossing. One sign bears the Biden-Kamala Harris logo; others say ‘Team Joe’ and ‘Joe’ with the ‘E’ rendered in pride colours. The fourth is an image of Biden’s signature aviator sunglasses. This is not the first time the game is being used to send a message. Both PETA and Black Lives Matter have used the game to raise awareness. Footnote Fall is officially here. Americans and visitors alike look forward to the changing colour of foliage and falling leaves. I Love NY, New York State’s official tourism website, is looking for volunteer “leaf peepers”. The job involves giving foliage reports each week with observations and estimations of foliage conditions for the upcoming weekend. This includes noting the location, the percentage of leaves the volunteer expects will change by the coming weekend and the colours visitors might see.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-150
12-09-2020||Opinion||Uncanny parallels||I read a lot of biographies, these often set in other countries than my own. A book I have just finished is Benedetto Croce and Italian Fascism, by the Canadian scholar, Fabio Fernando Rizi. It uses the life of a great philosopher to tell a larger story of the times he passed through. Reading Rizi’s book, I found uncanny parallels between the Italy of the 1920s and the India of the 2020s. The myth of Benito Mussolini, like the myth of Narenda Modi, was crafted by writers and propagandists “eager to sing paeans to the genius of the Duce.” These propagandists had begun to call the leader of fascism “the providential man”, “the man of massive faith”, or simply, “the Man of Providence”. Thus was created “the myth of the Duce, the chief who is always right, the leader who dares where others vacillate.” In December 1925, the Italian State passed a new law, which came down hard on the press and its freedoms. The consequences of this law were that “within a few months, the most important papers came under Fascist control, one by one. Some owners were compelled to sell under economic or political pressure. All the liberal editors had to resign and were replaced by more accommodating men.” In the same year, Benedetto Croce characterized the ideology of the ruling party and of Mussolini as a “bizarre mixture of appeals to authority and to demagoguery, of professed reverence for the laws and of violation of the laws, of ultra-modern concepts and of musty old trash, abhorrence of culture and sterile attempts at producing a new one…” In this regard, the Italian State of the 1920s bears a striking resemblance to Modi’s regime today which speaks respectfully of the Constitution while blatantly violating its spirit and essence, which appeals to ancient wisdom while displaying a contempt for modern science, which claims to exalt ancient culture while manifesting an utter philistinism in practice. While most independent-minded Italian intellectuals were forced into exile, Benedetto Croce stayed on in his homeland, offering an intellectual and moral opposition to fascism. As his biographer puts it, “[w]hereas the regime employed the mass media and the education system to promote the cult of Mussolini and to inculcate submission to authority, demanding from the new generations, in mystical union with the Duce, without asking questions, ‘to believe, to obey, to fight’, Croce, instead, offered a set of liberal values, preached freedom, defended the dignity of man, as a free agent, and urged individual decision and personal responsibility.” Reading further into Rizi’s book, I found this passage: “By the end of 1926, liberal Italy had died. Mussolini had consolidated his power and created the legal instruments for the continuation of his dictatorship. Political parties had been outlawed, and freedom of the press destroyed. The opposition had been disarmed and Parliament reduced to impotence. By 1927 it had become almost impossible to undertake any political action; it was also dangerous to express critical opinions in personal letters or in public places. Civil employees could lose their jobs if they expressed views contrary to government policy. Besides a powerful and revitalized police division in the Ministry of the Interior, under the direct responsibility of the chief of police, a new and efficient secret police organization, ominously and mysteriously called OVRA, was created with the aim of repressing any sign of anti-fascism and controlling any expression of dissent. In a short while, it collected files on more than one hundred thousand people, including Fascist leaders, and built an impressive web of special agents, spies, and informers whose reach extended throughout the country and even abroad.” As I was transcribing these words from Rizi’s book, news came in of the home ministry demanding, from the Finance Commission, a sum of Rs 50,000 crore to fund what it called “real-time surveillance” of citizens. This at a time when the states are being denied the money owed to them by the Centre; and while the home ministry has already dangerously abused its powers through the foisting of fake cases on independent thinkers, activists, and journalists. And here is Rizi’s description of the Italian Parliament, c. 1929: “Parliament had become a rubber stamp of the government’s decisions. Speeches of the few remaining members of the opposition were ignored, or more often shouted down to jeers from the floor and from the public galleries.” Fabio Fernando Rizi’s book focuses on one person in one country, and eschews comparative analysis. However, in passing, the author remarks that “Italian Fascism created an authoritarian regime, ever increasing its reach, but it did not have the time, perhaps did not even possess the strength, to build a totalitarian society.” This must be read as meaning only one thing; however awful Mussolini’s Italy was, it was not nearly as awful as Hitler’s Germany. After reading Rizi’s intellectual biography of Benedetto Croce, I turned to David Gilmour’s magnificent book, The Pursuit of Italy, a wide-ranging and compellingly readable history of that country from the beginnings of time. Thirty of the four hundred pages of this book deal with Mussolini’s years in power. As with Rizi, much of what Gilmour said about Italy in the past chillingly resonated with what I am witnessing in my own country at present. Consider thus these remarks: “In the 1930s the regime’s style became more ostentatious. There were more parades, more uniforms, more censorship, more hectoring, more speeches from the leader, more shouting, gesturing and grimacing from a balcony to vast crowds, which greeted Mussolini’s every reference to patria and gloria with chants of ‘Du-ce! Du-ce! Du-ce!’”. Much the same could be said about Modi’s rule, especially after he won a second term in 2019, his every utterance greeted with ‘Mo-di! Mo-di! Mo-di!’. Why did the Italian demagogue enjoy such great popularity among the masses? Here is Gilmour’s answer: “Mussolini survived so long partly because he incarnated certain strands of italianata; he embodied the hopes, fears and generations that believed Italy had been cheated of its due, both by its liberal politicians and by its wartime allies, who had forced it to accept the ‘mutilated peace.’” By the same token, Modi has successfully appealed to an alleged Golden Age in the distant past where Hindus were supreme in India and abroad, argued that Hindus had slipped from that pedestal owing to Muslim and British conquerors in the past, and pitted himself against conniving and corrupt Congress politicians who would drag Hindus and India down again. Reading these books about Italy in the 1920s in the India of the 2020s, I was depressed by the many parallels; but also consoled by the few departures. Unlike Mussolini’s Italy, in Modi’s India, the Bharatiya Janata Party has had to contend with political opposition from other parties; admittedly an Opposition much attenuated at the Centre, but still fairly robust in half-a-dozen major states of the Union. The press has been tamed, but not entirely crushed. And while Mussolini’s Italy had only Benedetto Croce to call it to account, Modi’s India still has many writers and intellectuals speaking out courageously in defence of the founding principles of the Republic, and in all the languages of the Republic too. In The Pursuit of Italy, after describing how Mussolini consolidated his rule, Gilmour remarks: “Fascism’s appeal was blunted, however, by its failure to provide prosperity. Italians might be deceived into thinking they were well governed but they could not be deceived into thinking they were well off.” Mussolini failed in providing jobs and prosperity; whereas Modi has, in fact, done far worse on the economic front, his ill-thought and quixotic policies annulling much of the progress that the Indian economy had made in the three decades since liberalization. Millions of young men today fanatically follow Narendra Modi. The fate that awaits them, and us, is anticipated in what Benedetto Croce said with regard to the millions of young men who fanatically followed Mussolini. After the Italian dictator had died and his regime had finally fallen, Croce wrote sadly of “the treasury of moral energies that the oppressive regime misguided, exploited and at the end had betrayed.” Benito Mussolini and his fascists thought they would rule Italy forever. Narendra Modi and the BJP think likewise. These fantasies of eternal rule will not come to fruition; but so long as the present regime remains in power, it will continue to extract a horrendous cost — in economic, political, social, and moral terms. Italy took decades to recover from the ravages of Mussolini and his party; India may take even longer to recover from the ravages of Modi and his party. ramachandraguha@yahoo.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-150
12-09-2020||Jharkhand||State may have to shell out more than Rs 130 cr for green norm violations||The Hemant Soren government that has been slapped a fine of Rs 130 crore by the National Green Tribunal for lapses made during the previous BJP government may actually be staring at a much higher payout. According to the petitioner in the case, R. K. Singh, whose complaint led to the tribunal’s action, said the fine for not obtaining environmental clearances could increase if construction work on buildings under the scanner wasn’t halted. “A fine of Rs 56,250 will be added per day to the total compensation amount for government buildings in Ranchi which have not applied for environment clearance,” Singh said. The eastern zonal bench of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) on Wednesday slapped fines on the government for constructing the new high court building and the new state Assembly building without obtaining mandatory environment clearance certificates. Both the impressive structures were constructed at Kute village on the outskirts of Ranchi during the regime of the BJP government led by Raghubar Das. “The additional fine will be added per day if construction continues in the new high court building as well,” Singh clarified, adding that the National Green Tribunal (NGT) had not specified the fine amount that would be slapped on the Jharkhand government, saying that the amount was subject to the assessment by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). “The CPCB has already assessed the two buildings and decided the amount of Rs 130 crore. The fine is Rs 49 crore for the Legislative Assembly and Rs 81 crore for the High Court building,” said Singh. “The fine is likely to further increase if construction continues as the NGT order clearly states that the buildings which do not have EC should stop construction work,” he added. The NGT order says, “It is stated that there are large number of other structures and, as per the information obtained from the State Government under the RTI application, only 20 buildings and construction projects have thus far applied for environmental clearance since the year 2006.” Besides the new high court building and Vidhan Sabha building, Singh said  P&M Hi-Tech City Centre Mall, Jamshedpur, Vijaya Garden Homes and Aastha Twin City were among buildings that had not obtained mandatory clearances. Member secretary of Jharkhand State Pollution Control Board (JSPCB) Rajiv Lochan Bakshi said on Saturday the CPCB had not sent any official communique to the JSPCB specifying the fine amount. “We have not received any order from the CPCB regarding the fine amount for violation of norms during construction of the high court and the Legislative Assembly buildings,” Bakshi said. While issuing the order on the new high court building and the legislative assembly building, the principal bench of the tribunal, comprising Justice SP Wangdi and expert member Nagin Nanda, ordered a ban on all ongoing constructions that do not have clearance. “Environmental compensation shall be assessed in respect of all the structures which have been raised without EC and shall be recovered from the appropriate authorities/persons/ builders/project proponent within a period of three months. Environment compensation with respect of those which have already been assessed shall also be recovered within the said period,” the NGT order said. Chief minister Hemant Soren had said on Thursday that the government was waiting for the official order of the NGT. “We will decide how to go ahead with the issue once we receive a copy of the official order. There are set parameters that should be followed for taking up such projects, and everyone should abide by the rules,” he told reporters. The ruling JMM has blamed the former NDA-led government in Jharkhand led by Raghubar Das for the lapses. The party demanded that the fine should be slapped on the ones responsible for the lapses _ read the BJP-led frmer state government. The construction of the buildings started during a BJP-led government in Jharkhand, and Prime Minister Narendra Modi had inaugurated one of them. BJP spokesperson Pratul Shahdeo said on Saturday that the order can be challenged in Supreme Court and the fine amount may also vary.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-302
12-09-2020||Jharkhand||More than 100 students crack JEE Main in Bokaro||Sarthak, a student of Rainbow Public School, has scored the highest (with 99.982 percentile) in the district at Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) Main. The results were declared on Saturday. Rohit Ranjan, of ARS Public School, scored 99.91 percentile. More than 100 students from various schools in Bokaro proved their mettle, cracking JEE Main organised by the National Testing Agency (NTA). The students make their way to the next advanced-level entrance test. Sarthak is the son of Santosh Kumar, who is an employee of Bokaro Steel Plant (BSL). He is a resident of Sector-3. “I used to study five hours regularly. My ambition is to become a computer engineer and get admission in IIT Bombay,” said an elated Sarthak. JEE Main results announced on Saturday spread happiness among students, teachers and residents of the town. The April session of JEE Main was conducted from September 1 to 6 after being postponed due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The exam was held at two centres in the district following strict Covid-19 guidelines. As in previous years, a good number of students of schools such as Delhi Public School (DPS), Pentecostal School Assembly, Sree Ayyappa Public School and Guru Gobind Singh Public School (GGPS) have shined in the prestigious engineering entrance level test in the district. More than a dozen students of DPS Bokaro secured more than 99 percentile in JEE Main with Utkarsh Aditya scoring the highest at 99.87 percentile while Ashwin Sinha achieved 99.85 percentile. More than three dozen students have got more than 90 percentile while many others scored more than 80 percentile. Principal, DPS Bokaro, A.S. Gangwar said JEE Main is among the top examinations and many DPS students have proved their mettle by performing exemplary well. Twenty-five students of Sree Ayyappa School have cracked the JEE Main. Director of the institution S.S. Mahapatra said: “Shubham Kumar Jaiswal scored the highest (93.75 percentile) followed by Eshika Kumari, who scored 92 percentile.” More than 18 students of GGPS and 12 students of Pentecostal School Assembly (PAS) have qualified in the entrance examination. Aditya Anand of PAS scored 99.7 percentile. Principal of PAS, Dr Karuna Prasad, expressed happiness on the phenomenal achievement of students at JEE Main in the district. Parents claimed that once again, the students of the town have performed well in JEE Main and the result of JEE Advanced will also be remarkable. Many schools, including Chinmaya Vidyalaya and MGM Higher Secondary School, in the district have not announced their number of students who qualified as they are still in the process of confirmation. Those who have announced the number have said that the figure would increase as their compiling process is still on.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-302
12-09-2020||Jharkhand||Covid special leaves Dhanbad station for Ferozepur||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-303
12-09-2020||Jharkhand||Hemant meets Lalu, will fight Bihar polls together||Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren met RJD president Lalu Prasad at  Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) here on Saturday and indicated that they would fight the Bihar elections together. Hemant spent more than an hour with Lalu Prasad at the director's bungalow, where the RJD leader is staying. Coming out of RIMS, Hemant told reporters, "We will fight Bihar elections together." He said the former Bihar chief minister's health was better now. RJD is a partner in the coalition government headed by Hemant in Jharkhand. Besides JMM, the Congress is also part of the government in the state. Asked on how many seats JMM would field its candidates in Bihar where polls are due in October-November, Hemant said, "Wait for some more time to know who will enter the poll fray from where." JMM had recently demanded 12 seats in Bihar under the understanding within the Grand Alliance. But the RJD which heads the Opposition grouping there, had indicated it would spare not more than 2-3 seats to the Jharkhand based regional party. The Mahagathbandhan in Bihar comprises RJD, Congress, RLSP of former Union minister Upendra Kushwaha and VIP of Bollywood set designer Mukesh Sahni. The RJD supremo who is convicted in four cases in the multi crore fodder scam in Bihar is lodged in jail in Ranchi. He was shifted to RIMS on health grounds. Recently, in the wake of his attendants testing positive, Lalu Prasad was moved to the director's bungalow from the private ward of the state-run hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-303
12-09-2020||Jharkhand||Jamshedpur banking on U-17 World Cup girls’ football camp||Jamshedpur Sporting Association (JSA) is looking at the upcoming national preparatory camp for next year’s Fifa U-17 Women’s World Cup as an opportunity to mark its own platinum jubilee year. JSA has already cancelled the annual football league (for men) owing to the Covid-19 pandemic and officials have planned a fixture for girls. Unlike the lengthy event for men, the tournament for girls will be played in knock-out format and can be completed in three days. “We are already disappointed for not being able to conduct the annual football league for men. But we see the upcoming national camp for under-17 women as an opportunity to celebrate our platinum jubilee year,” said JSA secretary Avinash Kumar. According to him, they have plans to conduct an exhibition match between the national campers and footballers from Jamshedpur. “We are highly optimistic that the camp would be organised in Jamshedpur. We are looking to use the opportunity to line-up an exhibition match with the campers,” the JSA secretary said. A former Bihar Ranji captain, Kumar said they would invite national campers to Jamshedpur (for the exhibition match) even if the camp is organised in Ranchi by requesting the concerned authorities. Besides the exhibition match, JSA has also planned to felicitate the national campers. “This way we can celebrate our platinum jubilee year by felicitating players who would be coming from across the country. Our own girls can also rub shoulders with 35-odd probables, including eight from Jharkhand, who would be coming for the camp. We have already discussed the plans and are very positive about it,” a member of the JSA football sub-committee said. According to him, the national camp is an indication that football activity has resumed in Jharkhand. “We would also like to organise a camp for our footballers (for the tournament) and, in between, line up an exhibition match,” he said on condition of anonymity. Jamshedpur has emerged as a likely venue for hosting the national preparatory camp expected to begin on October 1. The camp, which is actually scheduled at Birsa Munda Football Stadium in Ranchi, looks a non-starter as no bidder has shown interest for taking up contracts for accommodation of trainees, catering, and preparing the ground and dressing rooms. A team from the state sports department led by sports director Anil Kumar Singh has already done a recce of JRD Tata Sports Complex and the Flatlet ground in Kadma earlier this month. The team also expressed satisfaction with the existing facilities. Tatas are also willing to make arrangements for the camp at short notice. The sports department has also earmarked Jamshedpur as an alternate venue for the camp.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-303
12-09-2020||Jharkhand||Spot rapid antigen tests on visitors to Sakchi market||A team of district health department on Saturday carried out on-the-spot rapid antigen tests on shoppers at Sakchi, a commercial hub of Jamshedpur, in an effort to track new cases and gauge the extent of the spread of the coronavirus. The team, accompanied by administrative officials and police, zeroed in on two entrances to Sakchi market, one close to Payal Cinema and the other near Sakchi roundabout. The drive which began at 10.30 am continued till late in the afternoon in which shoppers and those coming to the market were stopped and made to undergo the test under the supervision of the new Dhalbum SDO, Nitish Singh, and special officer of Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee (JNAC) Krishna Kumar. "The drive was carried out to detect Covid positive cases. Rapid antigen tests were conducted at different housing societies. We selected Sakchi as the market witnesses a rush," said Kumar. Notably, the East Singhbhum district health department is carrying out rapid antigen tests for detection of Covid-19 both in rural and urban areas for the last couple of days on a large scale. In Jamshedpur, 16 sample collection-cum-test centres have been earmarked for the rapid antigen tests, while 100 similar centres have been set up in the rural areas of the district. About 380 medical personnel, including doctors and technicians, are involved in the drive. Health department sources revealed that a similar on-the-spot rapid antigen test drive would be conducted simultaneously at Bistupur and Golmuri markets on Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-303
12-09-2020||Jharkhand||RIMS guard shows the way, donates plasma to a critical patient||Suraj Kumar (26), a security guard at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS), played good Samaritan and donated plasma to a 50-year-old Covid-19 patient late on Friday night. Ranchi deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan and RIMS officials have hailed Kumar’s gesture, saying he led by example at a time when with the district administration wasn’t getting enough donors despite conducting several awareness programmes. Kumar’s A+ plasma was administered to the patient on Saturday. Kumar, who is a resident of Palamau’s Hussainabad area, tested Covid positive on July 24 while on duty at RIMS. He recovered on August 10. “Last night, while on duty at the cardio thoracic & vascular surgery (CTVS) department, I learnt that doctors were in urgent need of A+ plasma. I volunteered to offer. After mandatory tests, I was able to donate,” he told the media. Kumar added that he felt good after the donation, conceding that he did not remember when he donated blood the last time. He, however, said that he would now donate blood as it was a noble cause. “I realised the importance of plasma and blood donation during the ongoing Covid crisis. I have decided to routinely donate blood in future to help the needy,” he said. The pandemic had impacted his family in several adverse ways, including denting his own earnings, Kumar said. After testing positive for the virus, he had to suffer a salary cut for the days he was off duty for treatment. “We are daily wagers and even a loss of one day’s salary counts for us. I have to run a family of seven, including my wife and mother,” he said. Ranchi district administration on Saturday announced the third round of its special drive to conduct Covid-19 tests from September 16. The drive would be conducted through the district and end on September 18. Deputy commissioner Ranjan said testing would be done using rapid antigen kits at markets, slum areas, hotels and eateries for early tracing of cases. “We are targeting 15,000 samples through this special drive,” he said. As per the state government’s bulletin on Friday night, Ranchi has witnessed 12,562 Covid cases since the outbreak, of which 3,811 were active. Eightyfive patients have died.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-303
12-09-2020||Jharkhand||Deoghar airport will be ready for flights by November, says Union minister ||Flight operations at the upcoming airport in Deoghar is expected to commence from the first week of November, Union civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri said after conducting a review of preparations at the temple town on Saturday. BJP’s MP from Godda Nishikant Dubey along with a battery of officials from Airport Authority of India (AAI), Ranchi airport and Deoghar district administration were present during the review which began after Puri’s arrival at 11.30am. Once ready, Deoghar will be Jharkhand’s second airport after Ranchi’s Birsa Munda international terminal and is expected to boost regional connectivity and promote tourism. Talking to reporters in Deoghar, Puri said, “Covid-19 has slightly delayed the airport development work here (Deoghar) but things are still pretty much on track. We are now planning to commence flight operations from the first week of November.” He said they would be holding a meeting with all stakeholders in Delhi to chalk out the modalities after which a final date for the commencement of air services would be announced. The minister, who conducted a similar review in Bihar earlier in the day, said that operations at Darbhanga airport would begin in November before Chhath Puja. "Bookings for daily flights will start by the end of September from Darbhanga to Delhi, Mumbai and Bengaluru," Puri was quoted as saying in a statement by the civil aviation ministry, PTI reported. The minister said he was satisfied with the progress of the project in Deoghar, Jharkhand, and thanked all those involved for having continued the work despite the ongoing pandemic. He also revealed plans to set up an “aerocity”, a kind of economic zone, in partnership with AAI and the state government to boost local employment around the airport area. “An aerocity plan is being chalked out and it will be set up gradually as a joint venture between GOI, AAI and state government to boost local jobs,” said Puri, adding that once the airport takes off, it would further strengthen Deoghar’s place _ it is home to one of the 12 jyotirlingas _  as a hub of religious tourism. “Currently, rail and road journeys are the only options for thousands who come to Deoghar annually for Lord Shiva’s darshan. Once air services begin, the footfall will multiply not just from within the country from across the globe, which will turnaround the local economy,” he said. The foundation stone of the Rs 401.34-crore Deoghar airport was laid by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on May 25, 2018. It is being developed by the Airports Authority of India in collaboration with the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) and the Jharkhand government. The airport is spread over 653.75 acre and its terminal building is being built over an area of 4,000sqm, while the runway is 2,500 metre long. With an environment-friendly architectural design and state-of-the-art passenger facilities, the terminal building will be a composite structure inspired by the shikhars (rising towers) of the Baba Baidyanath temple. Once ready, the airport will be suitable for operation of Airbus A-320 type of aircraft. An airport official said that more than 90 per cent of the construction work was complete. This includes the terminal building with six check-in counters, ATC tower, fire station, power station, airport station, among others. Currently, work related to drainage systems, power, communication facilities and police posts is underway.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-303
12-09-2020||Jharkhand||Over 1,000 recoveries; 15 deaths in a day||The Covid-19 claimed 15 more lives in Jharkhand on Friday, taking the toll in the state to 532, while nearly 1000 people were found infected across the state, figures with the health department stated. At least four of the 15 Covid casualties were reported from East Singhbhum, the district that accounts for nearly 50 per cent of state's Covid mortalities. As many as 238 of the 532 Covid deaths have occured in East Singhbhum, while three casualties in Ranchi took the toll here to 85 on Friday, the health department stated in its daily Covid bulletin. While the tally jumped to 59040 after Friday's test results, the number of recoveries reached 43328 as 1213 Covid patients recovered from the viral infection and were discharged from hospital, the government data highlighted. East Singhbhum not only reported the highest number of casualties on Friday, but also the highest number of fresh cases of infection. As many as 201 of the 961 Covid cases reported on Friday were from this district. Ranchi, which has the highest number of Covid cases in Jharkhand, reported 197 fresh cases on Friday. However, the count of active cases dropped in the district as 329 Covid patients recovered here, taking the number of active cases of infection to 3679. The tally in Ranchi was 12,562 by the time this report was filed. The government has so far collected swab samples of 13.33 lakh people and tested 13.20 lakh of them. On Friday, health workers tested 14960 people for Covid-19 and 13999 of them tested negative. As per government figures, the Covid recovery rate in Jharkhand was 73.38 per cent against the national average of 77.32 per cent. The Covid mortality rate in the state was 0.90 per cent, while the national mortality rate was 1.72 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-303
12-09-2020||Jharkhand||Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri to review Deoghar airport progress||Union civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri will visit Deoghar on Saturday to review the progress of development work of the airport in the Jharkhand town. Once complete, this will be the second airport after Ranchi in Jharkhand that will be capable of handling flights including large aircraft and is expected to boost regional connectivity and tourism. Puri will visit both Bihar and Jharkhand for the review of Darbhanga and Deoghar airports respectively on Saturday, said a release issued by the civil aviation ministry that was circulated by the Press Information Bureau on Thursday. “The minister will first go to Darbhanga (Bihar) tomorrow (Saturday) and will come here in the second half,” said a senior official of the Deoghar district administration, adding that they were expecting Puri to visit between 2pm and 4pm. “With the operationalisation of these airports, air connectivity of the region will be improved and it will give an impetus to local tourism and will generate employment in the region,” said the release. Deoghar airport is being developed by the Airports Authority of India in collaboration with the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) and the Jharkhand government, the release said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid the foundation stone for the development work of Deoghar airport through a video link from an event in Sindri (Jharkhand) on May 25, 2018. Being developed at a project cost of Rs 401.34 crore, the Deoghar airport is spread over 653.75 acres of land and its terminal building is being built over an area of 4,000sqm, while the runway is 2,500 metres long. “Almost 90 per cent of the work is complete,” said Vinod Sharma, director of Ranchi’s Birsa Munda Airport who will be present in Deoghar during the minister’s visit. He said the rest of the work would soon be complete. “Yes, the airport will be suitable for operation of Airbus A320 type of aircraft,” he said when asked about the long runway. With an environment-friendly architectural design and state-of-the-art passenger facilities, the terminal building will be a composite structure inspired by the shikhars (rising towers) of the Baidyanath temple, the ministry release said. Ranchi airport: The post-lockdown operations at Birsa Munda Airport in Ranchi are gradually returning to normal with the introduction of two more flights from Wednesday. Of the two new flights, one is a morning flight that arrives from Hyderabad and flies back after 40 minutes while the other one lands in the evening that comes from Mumbai and returns the same evening. “With these two, we now have a dozen pair of flights to handle here,” airport director Sharma said when asked. The airport earlier used to handle 30 flights before operations were stalled due to the lockdown in March.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-303
