13-09-2020||Calcutta||Plea for full-time park reopening||The Calcutta Municipal Corporation has sought the Bengal home department’s permission to reopen the city’s parks for their full duration. Firhad Hakim, the chairperson of the corporation’s board of administrators, said on Saturday that the civic body had sought the permission of the state government’s home department for the reopening. The government will reply by Monday or Tuesday, Hakim said, adding that as sporting activities have been allowed in Unlock 4, unimpeded reopening of the parks should be facilitated. The Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) maintains 700 parks, said an official of the civic body. A few other parks such as Rabindra Sarobar at Golpark-Dhakuria and Subhas Sarobar at Kada-para off EM Bypass are maintained by the Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA), which too is helmed by Hakim. If permission is granted, the CMDA-run parks will also reopen. “I have asked the state home department to do something about the parks in our city. Now that sporting activities are being allowed gradually, we have asked for permission to reopen the parks. We cannot reopen them till the home department gives us permission,” Hakim said. “They will take some decision by Monday or Tuesday.” CMC officials said that all parks now remain open only from 6am to 9am every day for morning walkers. Nobody is allowed inside beyond the stipulated hours and no sporting activities are allowed. If the home department grants permission, the parks can remain open for the full duration, welcoming visitors during the afternoon and evening too, the CMC official said. The Unlock 4 guidelines issued by the Union home ministry on August 29 has allowed sporting activities from September 21 but fixed an upper limit of 100 persons at each such gathering. “Social/academic/sports/entertainment/cultural/religious/political functions and other congregations with a ceiling of 100 persons will be permitted with effectfrom 21st September 2020 with mandatory wearing of face masks, social distancing, provision for thermal screening and hand wash or sanitiser,” the guidelines said. The withdrawal of restrictions does not apply to entertainment parks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-308
13-09-2020||Calcutta||6 executive MBA students at IIM today||Students of IIM Calcutta’s executive MBA course who have been called to the campus to use the institute’s Net facility for online classes will start arriving from Sunday, an institute official said. In the first batch, six students will reach the campus in Joka. They will attend online classes while they are in quarantine in the hostels for 14 days. “Of the 62 students, 55 will reach the campus in four batches as part of a staggered entry during the pandemic. The remaining seven are still to decide on reaching the campus,” the official said. On Friday, 61 of the institute’s 82 teachers wrote to the board of governors wondering if it was prudent to call students to the campus during the pandemic. They are worried that the students’ presence on the campus could pose “grave health risks”. They have said the institute hadn’t consulted them on the matter. The institute has prepared a campus entry protocol, including mandatory testing and quarantine, for the safety of students, another official said. According to the protocol shared with the students, they will undergo thermal scanning to measure their body temperature, a health check-up and their luggage would be sanitised. After completing the necessary formalities students will be allowed entry to their rooms. No Family member (parents/ spouse/children) will be allowed with the students on the campus, the official said. During the quarantine period, food will be served on the room’s doorstep by members of the mess operator’s staff. “Students will undergo regular health check-ups by a medical team of the institute. All students have to undergo a mandatory Covid test, in consultation with the team, within seven days of their arrival,” according to the protocol. “In case they have already undergone the test, they have to submit a copy of the report to the medical officer and hostel administration within 15 days.” Students will not be allowed to venture out of their rooms except for using certain utilities and specific essential purpose, including medical requirements. Students will be fined Rs 200 if they are found outside their rooms without a mask. Second-year students of the two-year MBA course have demanded that they be allowed on the campus to use the institute’s Net facility for unhindered online classes. “There are 462 students. If they start arriving in batches on the same ground, this would mean assembly on the campus. Unlike IIM Bangalore, the hostels of the MBA executive and the two-year MBA courses are on the campus at IIM Calcutta,” a teacher said. Metro’s text messages to institute director Anju Seth asking her if students of the two-year MBA course would be allowed on the campus went unanswered. Calls to her phone, too, went unanswered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-308
13-09-2020||Calcutta||Domestic help arrested for theft||Police on Saturday arrested a domestic help, Rakhi Biswas, for stealing ornaments from a house where she worked in Sree Pally, Regent Park. Ornaments — two bangles, two earrings, three gold rings and two chains — worth several lakhs were seized from her, the police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-308
13-09-2020||Calcutta||Vandals storm David Hare college||Vandals scaled the wall of the West Bengal University of Teachers’ Training, Education, Planning and Administration’s David Hare campus on Ballygunge Circular Road on Friday night and damaged the server room, the auditorium and the music room. Several AC units have been destroyed and electrical wires snapped. Those who carried out the destruction had entered the teacher education department head’s room and damaged furniture, police said. People still refer to the institute by its earlier name, David Hare Training College. Cops have started investigating the matter based on a complaint filed by the university officials at Ballygunge police station. The police are scanning CCTV footage to find out if the vandals had entered the four-storey building from the rear or the front. The hostel on the campus is almost empty barring a few people from other states who have not been able to leave, the police said. “It is a disgrace that an institution that bears the name of David Hare has been vandalised,” Sonia Chattopadhyay, a teacher at the institution, said. Some police officers said the trigger could be a campaign that has been gathering momentum on social media protesting the university’s decision to hold fourth semester exams for BEd and MEd at “home centres” during the pandemic. The first exam for BEd students is scheduled for October 1 and for MEd on October 6. On September 8, the university had issued a notice with the schedule for the exams. Amit Kumar Bhattacharjee, the university’s controller of examinations, had said in the notice that exams would be conducted at home centres. Some students felt they would have to physically turn up at colleges for the exams. The next day, the university issued another notice clarifying students could take the exams from their homes, online. The notice said there was no question of holding exams on the campus and termed the allegation that it had not kept in mind the pandemic “completely false”. “We will talk to several students to find out if this was an orchestrated attack,” an officer of Ballygunge police station said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-308
13-09-2020||Calcutta||Rescued, now on oxygen support||A 43-year-old man who had been found wandering in Salt Lake after he tested positive for Covid and was taken to a safe house in Barasat on Friday was put on oxygen support on Saturday, his brother said. “He has high fever and breathlessness. The doctor who checked on him decided to put him on oxygen support. He told us that my brother is extremely weak,” the brother said. The man, who lost his job of a parking attendant during the lockdown, had been without food for the past couple of days. He had survived on a loaf of bread and a laddu he bought from a tea stall near the place where he was found lying under the elevated Metro corridor in Duttabad, his brother said. “The man is quite weak and he had complained of difficulty in breathing. His oxygen levels are below normal and we have put him on oxygen support,” a doctor at the safe house said. The man had wandered in Salt Lake for three days before he was found under the elevated Metro corridor on Friday. He was afraid to go home because of his elderly parents. He has said that he hadn’t received any call or instruction on what to do from the authorities. He was taken to the safe house after some Duttabad residents alerted the fire and emergency services minister, Sujit Bose, and local councillor Nirmal Dutta. They got him transported to the facility in a government ambulance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-308
13-09-2020||Calcutta||Elephant calf drowns in West Midnapore, herd turns back||An elephant calf drowned in a river in West Midnapore in the early hours of Saturday, forest officials said. The calf, less than a month old, was part of a herd that was crossing the Tamal, a river south of Goaltore town in West Midnapore, around 200km from Calcutta. The drowning is being attributed to a surge in the water level in the river because of the monsoon. “We received an alert around 2.30am. The carcass of the calf was found further downstream. Prima facie, it seems the calf was washed away by the strong currents and died of drowning. The body has been sent for post-mortem,” said the divisional forest officer of Rupnarayan division. A local forest official said the incident was “unusual and unfortunate”. “Elephants are expert swimmers and adult females in a herd are very careful with calves. They keep a close eye on the little ones. While crossing a river, the calves lean on the rear of an adult female or her trunk for support. The river in question is hardly 40 metres wide. Even with strong currents, it is unusual that an elephant calf will get washed away,” said the official. A conservation ecologist who has researched on elephants said a calf drowning or being washed away is not new. “Calves get better at swimming as they grow up. In north Bengal, the forest department has in the past rescued calves that were washed away by river currents. One such calf was named Teesta, after the river in which it was lost and found. Teesta is now a full-grown elephant,” said Aritra Kshettry, a research fellow with the Union ministry of science and technology, who is working in north Bengal now. The herd that the calf was a part of has over 20 elephants, said local forest officials. The herd had been camping at Kadamdiha forest in Goaltore range for the past couple of days. The herd split into two groups on Friday. A forest official said the first group started heading north towards the Nayabasat forest in Hoomgarh range on Friday evening. The group crossed the same river without trouble. “The calf was part of the second group which took the same route. But after the calf was washed away, the group did not cross the river and came back to Kadamdiha forest. They stayed there for the rest of the night,” the official added. Herds of elephants from Dalma enter the forests of Jhargram, Purulia, Bankura and West Midnapore in south Bengal every year and spend several months before heading back to Jharkhand. The forests of south Bengal are interspersed with human settlements and farmlands that provide easy sources of food for the pachyderms. Some herds make south Bengal forests their home and do not go back to Jharkhand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-308
13-09-2020||Calcutta||Department in CU set for online invigilation||Final-year postgraduate students of microbiology department of Calcutta University will be monitored through online invigilation by teachers during the fourth semester examinations to be held next month. The students will have to keep the video cameras on in devices like smartphones, laptops or desktops at the time of taking the test, a teacher of the department said. One or two teachers will be on duty on all the examination days who will invigilate the examinees through an online process, the teacher said. The examinations will be conducted using a virtual platform like Zoom or Google Meet and the students will have to log in and out according to the time to be prescribed by the university. A mock test will be held soon to ensure that students get used to the system and they do not face any problem when they take the exams. The final (fourth) semester examinations will be conducted by all the 68 postgraduate departments of the university in October. No other department has taken the decision on invigilating the examinees online till now, an official of the university said. The university had recently announced that the individual departments would send the questions through emails or WhatsApp to the examinees half an hour before the start of the examination. After the exam, the students will have to upload the answers in PDF format through emails or WhatsApp. But the individual postgraduate departments enjoy the autonomy to conduct their examinations using their own system, the official said. The board of studies of the microbiology department of the university has taken the decision on online invigilation not because it does not trust the students, the teacher said. The main intention is to maintain the “sanctity” of the examinations, the teacher explained. “The decision has been taken to ensure that our students do not suffer in future.” The university had no experience of teaching students through the online process when it started doing so after institutions had to be shut because of Covid-19 in March, said Alok Sil, the head of the department of microbiology . “We are conducting the online classes successfully. We are hopeful that we will also be successful in invigilating the students online,” he said. Postgraduate microbiology is taught also by at least two colleges, including Lady Brabourne. Shiuli Sarkar, principal of Lady Brabourne College, said she had received a letter from the microbiology department. “We are expecting detailed guidelines from the university,” Sarkar said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-308
13-09-2020||Calcutta||Phone cheat strikes again||A schoolteacher was coaxed into sharing her and her daughter’s banking details with a person who identified himself on the phone as an official of a nationalised bank’s Triangular Park branch where she has a savings account. The person called on Thursday and apparently said her account would be closed as her KYC documents weren’t updated and that the only way to prevent it before the total lockdown and the weekend was to share with him her debit card details. Once he got hold of the details, he carried out multiple online transactions and told her that he was transferring the money from her account to the bank’s e-wallet service, police said. After transferring close to Rs 40,000, the caller asked for the card details of other family members, complainant Debjani Biswas, 47, said. The resident of Panditiya Road in Ballygunge said the first call came on Thursday morning before the government called off the total lockdown on Saturday. “The caller knew I have an account in the Triangular Park branch; so I did not doubt him. He kept saying my account would be closed and that I would have to pay a penalty of Rs 4,000 as my KYC documents were invalid,” Biswas, who teaches in a Ballygunge school, said. “He said there was no way to update the documents in the next three days because of the two-day total lockdown and Sunday. He told me that he would do the needful if I shared my card details with him.” She told Metro on Saturday that every time the person made an online transaction, she received an OTP on her phone. She had shared the OTPs with the caller in good faith, thinking the money was being transferred to an e-wallet of her own account, she said. When she refused to share card details of other family members, the caller apparently told her that the entire money would be withdrawn from her account. When she still hesitated, the caller hung up only to call again the next morning. “This time, I was standing right near my mother when the call came. He kept insisting we would lose a lot of money if we did not add a nominee to my mother’s account and that he needed my card details to do that,” Biswas’s daughter Tiyasha, 20, said. “My mother had panicked… just to console her, I gave her my card from another bank. But before I could react she had shared my card details, along with the CVV (a 3-digit number printed on the signature panel on the back of the card). The person tried to carry out online transactions from my account, too. But luckily there was little money and the transactions were possibly declined.” The man spoke in Bengali and had full knowledge of Biswas’s account number. Realising the fraud, she and her daughter lodged a complaint with Rabindra Sarobar police station and then with the anti-bank fraud section at Lalbazar. Preliminary investigations showed the money had not been transferred to any e-wallet. It had been used for purchases on various online portals, the police said. Hundreds of people are cheated similarly on the phone every month. In June and July, the city police had received more than 1,700 such complaints, of which close to 1,600 had a connection with Jamtara in Jharkhand. In the case of Biswas, cops are still to ascertain where the call came from, the police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-309
13-09-2020||Calcutta||Two siblings, two organs and new life||A man from Mizoram underwent two simultaneous organ transplants at a hospital in Calcutta, thanks to his two siblings who donated a kidney and liver. Lalrinngheta from Lunglawn, Lunglei, in Mizoram, about 170km from Aizawl, said he could not be thankful enough to his brother Lalrinpuia who donated his kidney and sister Laleinawmni who donated her liver to save his life. Lalrinngheta said he had diabetes for a long time and that he had visited Calcutta in December last year for treatment at RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences at Mukundapur when doctors said he would need a kidney transplant. His brother Lalrinpuia, a schoolteacher, volunteered to donate his kidney. In February, Lalrinngheta was told by doctors his liver, too, was damaged and that he needed a transplant. Lalrinngheta, a government employee, said he had long been suffering from diabetes and that damaged his organs. “We got to know of our brother’s crisis and I decided to donate the kidney. Then when we got to know he needed a liver transplant, we did not know what to do,” Lalrinpuia, who donated a kidney, said on Saturday. “One of our two sisters, Laleinawmni, decided to donate a portion of her liver.” The surgery could not take place because of the lockdown and the brothers and sister and other family members have been staying at a rented apartment off the Bypass since December. On Thursday, Lalrinngheta underwent simultaneous liver and kidney transplants. Doctors said the brothers and the sister were stable. “I was suffering from diabetes for long and after doctors told me I needed kidney and liver transplants I thought I was not going to survive. But my brother and sister came forward and the only thing I can offer them is love,” Lalrinngheta said from his hospital bed on Saturday. “I cannot repay their debts.” “Our brother has two sons, aged seven and nine. He needed our help and we donated our organs,” Lalringpuia, the brother who donated the kidney, said. “We are a close knit family and this was our duty.” Doctors said the surgery was complicated. “When the liver transplant was taking place, it was an almost 12-hour surgery. During that time, the kidneys were not working. After the liver was transplanted into him, the kidney was put in place,” Sanjay Goja, senior consultant and programme director of liver transplant at RN Tagore hospital said. He is out of the ICU, Goja said. “It was an uphill task because the kidneys and the liver were not functioning. But we hope to discharge him in a week,” D.S. Ray, who headed the team that performed the kidney transplant, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-309
13-09-2020||Calcutta||Jadavpur University readies phone-and-link plan for students to overcome digital divide||A Jadavpur University committee has decided that 110-odd students will be given smartphones and free Internet connectivity and around 300 more will be provided data packs to ensure that none misses out on digital education and exams, an official said on Saturday. The committee, having teachers and administrative officials, was formed on September 4 to “help students with digital devices and connectivity”. The members met on Thursday and decided to provide close to 500 students, selected through a survey that considered their economic condition and other hindrances, with phones and Net connectivity. The official, who is a member of the committee, said students have been selected from all three streams — science, arts and engineering. The smartphones are priced between Rs 5,000 and Rs 6,000 each. “Those who will require connectivity support have been asked to share the details of their network service provider. We will have their packs recharged from the university for three months as of now,” said Gour Krishna Pattanayak, the university’s finance officer and a member of the committee. Another JU official said the period of three months had been stipulated as of now because the new semester, scheduled to begin later this month, would be for that duration. If need be, the arrangement will be continued, he added. “Since the third week of August, a corpus of over Rs 16 lakh has been raised. It will not be difficult for us to continue providing support,” the official said. “But if a student does not have a smartphone or is hindered by poor connectivity in the absence of a data pack, they will not be able to take part in the distance digital mode education. That’s why the support is being provided,” said Partha Pratim Roy, the general secretary of the Jadavpur University Teachers’ Association and a member of the committee. Similar support will be provided to students who are to write the end-semester exams in arts and science that are scheduled to be held between October 1 and 10. JU vice-chancellor Suranjan Das had in the third week of August requested teachers and other employees to donate a day’s salary to help students overcome the digital divide. He had also appealed to alumni, guardians and anyone else who wishes to pitch in for the cause. The new semester for arts and science students through “distance digital mode” will start from September 14, while that of engineering from September 25. The official said a section was being created on the JU website where course materials and audios and videos of lectures would be uploaded. Teachers will share with the students the links of the files in Word or PDF format, audio notes and video recordings.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-309
13-09-2020||Calcutta||Traffic snarls return to haunt commuters||Traffic snarls have returned to Calcutta though schools and colleges are shut and many Calcuttans are still working from home. But those whose offices have reopened and who are commuting daily have told Metro how difficult their trips have become. Some of their complaints are: Pramit Sarkar, who travels from Tollygunge to his Poddar Court office daily, said he was getting “unusually late” on SP Mukherjee Road. The maximum congestion is near Hazra crossing between 11am and noon, he said. “At times it feels the traffic signals are not working… the signal seems to be stuck at red.” A professional said he was recently stuck in a traffic snarl on SP Mukherjee Road in the afternoon and by the time he reached the Exide crossing, vehicles were being diverted through the next crossing off Birla Planetarium. “Further ahead, my vehicle was diverted through the Air India crossing. All through I did not see any cop on the road,” he said. Debraj Chatterjee, who has been working from his Behala home, had stepped out earlier this week for an official assignment and could cross Durgapur Bridge to reach Alipore in 40 minutes in the afternoon, a journey that usually takes 15 minutes. Many people said they often got stuck on the Parama flyover no matter what time of the day. Some motorists wondered if the number of cars had gone up because people were reluctant to use public transport. Every time there is a jam, the police blame something or the other: a car that has broken down, a waterlogged pocket, or slow traffic because of rain, they said. Is there a larger problem because traffic jams are so widespread? There have been no reports of any signal malfunctioning, the police said. “The traffic signal cycle had been reduced considerably in the initial days of the lockdown. Now, it has been reversed to the normal timings,” a traffic police officer said. “Maybe commuters have got into the habit of waiting for short periods at traffic signals and now they are taking time to readjust.” Senior officers refuted the allegation that traffic cops were few on the roads during the pandemic. There are close to 3,000 traffic cops. They are assisted by 1,000 home guards and 2,000 civic volunteers, according to officers in Lalbazar. At least 37 traffic cops are in hospital after testing positive for the coronavirus and 15 are in home quarantine as on Thursday. Earlier, 216 traffic cops had tested positive for the virus; but they have recovered and resumed duty, the police said. Cops attributed the bumper-to-bumper jam on the Parama flyover to multiple vehicles breaking down on the flyover every day. Less than a week is left for Mahalaya. Every year during this time, traffic snarls are common as more and more people step out of their homes to shop. Vehicles are parked indiscriminately, pedestrians spill on to roads, there’s intermittent rain and waterlogging. But this year is different because of the pandemic. Buses are few and shoppers or pedestrians are almost negligible. So, motorists and two-wheeler riders are surprised to find traffic snarls. “Waterlogging on a small stretch on Central Avenue cannot be a reason for a 5km-long snarl… the tail of vehicles from MG Road reaching almost the Park Street flyover,” said a professional who was recently caught in a snarl on the Park Street flyover for 45 minutes on her way to office at Esplanade. “Unlike other years, there are no pedestrians who usually slow down the traffic. The volume of vehicles may have increased but that is why we have traffic cops.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-309
13-09-2020||Calcutta||Tricked onto a shaky rick||I cannot remember any more how the idea struck him, but one fine day he said — “You have to take a rickshaw ride when I am in town.” That was it. Thereafter, every once in a while, even in the middle of dead-serious conversations, he would just erupt with excitement and say — You have to... In retrospect I wonder why I didn’t ask that first moment — “Why rickshaw?” Perhaps I understood his thirst for a good spectacle. And in his mind, me on a hand-pulled rickshaw would be one. Yes, he wanted to be witness. It didn’t occur to me to tell him that in the small town where I grew up, a rickshaw was no novelty. Of course, those would be the cycle-rickshaws. I remember believing as a toddler that all one had to do was stand at the gate of my grandmother’s house after a rigorous bath and a generous smattering of talc and wave one’s hand and a rickshaw would appear from somewhere. Many of these cycle-rickshaws would ferry children to school. Some enterprising charioteers would add a wooden bench to the footboard to accommodate extra passengers. I recall a rickshawwala who wore a kanthi around his neck and called every little girl Pushpa and pretend to poke in the ribs. They called him katukutu buro or the tickle man. I found it disconcerting then, and disturbing even in retrospect. I remember the ride from Bandel station and how the rickshaw would clatter and tremble as it sped through the tunnel. As I clutched on to one side, I was sure when it ended I would find my teeth had come loose. I had several teeth missing for a long time and the prospect wasn’t thrilling. In any case, he came, he went, came and went back. I did not remember the rickshaw ride. He too forgot but accused me later. “Next time,” he threatened on FaceTime. I nodded demurely. I understood the feeling. When H was in kindergarten and myself in Class VII, I was possessed by this burning need to teach her indices. One evening, when the parents were away someplace, I made her forfeit her playtime and sit on a high chair with my O.P. Sinhal open in front of her. Did I actually think she who did not even know her numbers could begin to comprehend the rules of algebra? I don’t think so. It was about the moment with all its impossibilities that was so delectable. Did I imagine he would forget the rickshaw ride? No. I didn’t think about it all. My last address in the other city had required me to take a rickshaw ride twice a day for close to 10 years. Come to think of it, another tunnel, dark and skiddy. In the monsoons, water would come up to the footboard. Some months before I left town for good, they inaugurated a parallel smart-tunnel, complete with orange lights and a smart incline that would not allow water to accumulate. I knew then that my time there was up. Of course, there was no way he could know all this; if he did, perhaps he would understand my rickshaw-indifference. The moment arrived quietly, a normal in sheep’s clothing. He was visiting and had a few hours to spare. He proposed to spend them walking around the most crowded part of the city, before lunching at a pice hotel. When he achieved both, I should have known the cosmic forces were with him. With some time on his hands, he decided to walk more, stopped at nearly every bookshop in boi para, made an impromptu stop at Coffee House, darted out when he had had his fill of it and walked some more. It was all at such feverish pace that you would think all this were an illusion and were it not lived immediately and to the fullest it would all disappear in seconds. I was quite happy with my own pace when he suddenly hollered, “Rickshaw.” The merry band echoed, “Rickshaw.” The next thing I knew, a bargain had been struck and I was suddenly being foisted into one of those hand-pulled things I so dreaded for myself and for the carrier. It was not enough, there was also some photography happening on the side. I would have normally made some conversation with the puller, but that day I was much too acutely aware of my spectacle-hood. There he was feet firmly on the ground, pulling away, and there I was, looking above, inert, a mountain of embarrassment. When I disembarked just before we turned the corner at the Tropical School of Medicine, I felt not a little relieved. I could now just hop onto a yellow taxi and reach wherever I had to. I am not sure what made me turn around, but when I did, there was the depleted but still very merry band walking towards me. Without a pause or a breath lost he said, “Now you have to write about it,” and pushed ahead.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-309
13-09-2020||Business||RBI raises intervention in currency market — net buyer of $15.973 billion in July||The Reserve Bank continued to remain a net buyer of the US currency in July after it purchased $15.973 billion on a net basis from the spot market, according to its monthly bulletin. In the month, the central bank bought $16.903 billion and sold $930 million in the spot market, according to the monthly bulletin released by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). In the same month of 2019, the RBI was a net seller of US dollars after it bought $1.592 billion and sold $1.685 billion. In June and May, 2020, the RBI had net bought $9.814 billion and $4.363 billion, respectively. In April, it had sold $1.142 billion on a net basis. In 2019-20, the central bank net purchased $45.097 billion. It had bought $72.205 billion while sold $27.108 billion in the spot market. In the forward dollar market, the outstanding net sales at the end of July were at $379 million, compared to a net purchase of $2.459 billion in June, data showed. The country’s foreign exchange reserves rose by $582 million to reach a lifetime high of $542.013 billion in the week ended September 4, RBI data showed on Friday. In the previous week ended August 28, the reserves had surged by $3.883 billion to $541.431 billion. In the reporting week, the foreign currency assets (FCA), a major component of the overall reserves, increased by $269 million to $498.362 billion, the data showed. Expressed in dollar terms, the foreign currency assets include the effect of appreciation or depreciation of non-US units like the euro, pound and yen held in the foreign exchange reserves.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-291
13-09-2020||Business||Singapore Convention in force||The Singapore Convention on Mediation came into force on Saturday and will provide a more effective way to enforce mediated settlements of corporate disputes involving businesses in India and other countries that are signatories to the Convention. Also known as the United Nations Convention on International Settlement Agreements Resulting from Mediation, this is also the first UN treaty to be named after Singapore. “With the Convention in force, businesses seeking enforcement of a mediated settlement agreement across borders can do so by applying directly to the courts of countries that have signed and ratified the treaty, instead of having to enforce the settlement agreement as a contract in accordance with each country’s domestic process,” an official statement said on Saturday. The harmonised and simplified enforcement framework under the Convention translates to savings in time and legal costs, which is especially important for businesses in times of uncertainty, such as during the current Covid-19 pandemic, the statement issued by Singapore's Ministry of Law said. As on September 1, the Convention has 53 signatories, including India, China and the US. According to the statement, the Convention, which entered into force on Saturday, would boost India’s ‘ease of doing business’ credentials by enabling swift mediated settlements of corporate disputes. “Businesses in India and around the world will now have greater certainty in resolving cross-border disputes through mediation, as the Convention provides a more effective means for mediated outcomes to be enforced,” it said. Singapore had worked with the United Nations Commission on International Trade Law (UNCITRAL) and other UN member states and non-governmental organisations to contribute to the development of the Convention. Singapore’s minister for home affairs and law K. Shanmugam said the Convention’s entry into force is a significant milestone as it further strengthens the international dispute resolution enforcement framework. “This benefits businesses by providing greater certainty in resolving cross-border commercial disputes, ultimately facilitating international trade and commerce,” he added. Secretary of the United Nations Commission on International Trade Law Joubin-Bret said that with the Convention successfully entering into force, “we look forward to it bringing certainty and stability to the international framework on mediation, and contributing to the Sustainable Development Goals.” Over the years, Singapore has set up various institutions to provide a full suite of dispute resolution services for international commercial parties to resolve their disputes in Singapore. These include the Singapore International Arbitration Centre, Singapore International Mediation Centre and Singapore International Commercial Court, the statement said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-291
13-09-2020||Business||More cash comfort for lockdown-hit discoms||The Rs 90,000-crore liquidity package for discoms to help them pay their dues till the month of March would soon be enhanced to Rs 1.2 lakh crore by factoring in these utilities’ outstanding till June, said a senior official. In May, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had announced a Rs 90,000-crore liquidity infusion into cash-strapped discoms for payment of their dues till March 2020. Discoms have been facing a demand slump because of the lockdown to contain Covid-19. Participating in a webinar on “Innovation in Renewable Energy” organised by PHDCCI, power secretary S.N. Sahai said the liquidity package would cover the dues of discoms for the months from April to June also and it would be enhanced to Rs 1.2 lakh crore. While announcing the package, the government had said, “At present, discoms have a total outstanding of Rs 94,000 crore towards power generation firms (gencos).” However, later states demanded that the package be extended to include the dues towards power generation and transmission firms for the months of April and May as well. A source said that an official communication has already been sent to the implementing state-owned non-banking finance firms Power Finance Corporation (PFC) and REC by the power ministry. The source further said the respective boards of REC and PFC will approve the hike in the liquidity package to around Rs 1.2 lakh crore covering dues till June this year by the end of September.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-291
13-09-2020||Business||Gems and jewellery exports up 29.18% in August from July||Gems and jewellery exports showed signs of recovery in August, rising 29.18 per cent to Rs 13,160.24 crore ($1,764.06 million) in August compared with the previous month following a gradual growth in demand in the US, China and Europe, the Gem and Jewellery Export Promotion Council (GJEPC) said on Saturday. The total shipments in July stood at Rs 10,187.04 crore ($1,358.58 million), the GJEPC said in a statement. However, on a year-on-year basis, overall exports of gems and jewellery declined 38.84 per cent in August compared with Rs 21,518.73 crore ($3,018.32 million) in the year-ago month. “All the gems and jewellery export units are working in full swing and the trade is getting back to normal. “We are optimistic that we will be able to have a decent recovery in exports from the current levels and restrict the downside of exports to just over 20-25 per cent at the closure of the financial year,’’ Colin Shah, chairman of GJEPC, said. During the April to August period of this fiscal, gross exports of gems and jewellery at $6,008.57 million (Rs 4,5189.76 crore) is showing a decline of 47.65 per cent (-43.59 per cent in rupee terms) compared with $11,478.14 million (Rs 80,116.55 crore) for the same period of the previous year. Import of gems & jewellery during the same period at $2,342.134 million is showing a decline of 65.64 per cent against $6,816.92 million in the same period of the previous year. During this period, the overall gross exports of cut & polished diamonds at $3936.98 million is a decline of 41.42 per cent compared with $6720.42 million in the previous year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-291
13-09-2020||India||Flyers can take photos, videos in flights but can't use recording gadgets that creates chaos: DGCA||Aviation regulator DGCA "clarified" on Sunday passengers can take photos and videos inside flights but can't use any recording equipment that creates chaos, disrupts flight operations, violates safety norms or is banned by the crew members. On Saturday, the regulator had said that a scheduled flight will be suspended for a period of two weeks if anyone is found taking photographs inside the plane. Two days back, the Directorate General of Civil Aviation had asked IndiGo to take "appropriate action" after it found alleged violation of safety and social-distancing protocols by mediapersons in the airline's Chandigarh-Mumbai flight that had actor Kangana Ranaut as a passenger. According to a video of the incident that took place inside the flight on September 9, reporters and cameramen were jostling and bunching up to get a comment from Ranaut, who was sitting in one of the front rows of the plane. The DGCA order on Sunday "clarified that a bona fide passenger travelling in an aircraft engaged in scheduled air transport services may do still and video photography from inside such an aircraft while in flight; take off and landing" as per its circular dated December 9, 2004. "However, this permission does not include use of any recording equipment which imperils or compromises air safety; violates prevalent norms; creates chaos or disruption during operation of flight or expressly prohibited by crew," the order noted. Action may be initiated against those persons found in violation of above guidelines, the order added. The Sunday order is a clarification on top of the Saturday order that said, "It has been decided that from now on, incase any violation (photography) occurs on any scheduled passenger aircraft - the schedule of flight for that particular route shall be suspended for a period of two weeks from the next day (of the incident)." The Saturday order stated that as per Rule 13 of the Aircraft Rules 1937, no person is allowed to take any photographs inside a flight except when permission is granted by the DGCA or the Civil Aviation Ministry. As per the DGCA rules, an airline can put an "unruly passenger" on its "no-fly list" for a certain period of time after an internal enquiry. About the Chandigarh-Mumbai flight incident, a DGCA official had said on Friday that the prominent issues with the incident were related to "photography on board in violation of Aircraft rules 13, violation of COVID-19 protocols and certain actions falling within the purview of unruly behaviour on board". The Shiv Sena, which heads the alliance government in the state, and Ranaut had engaged in a war of words after she likened Mumbai to Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK) and said she feared Mumbai police more than the alleged movie mafia. On September 9 morning, a team of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) had demolished the alterations allegedly made without the civic body's approval at Ranaut's bungalow in Pali Hill in Mumbai. Ranaut arrived in Mumbai the same day after the demolition through the aforementioned IndiGo flight.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-670
13-09-2020||India||Lok Sabha: Opposition wants discussion on LAC, economic slowdown||Opposition parties have sought a discussion in Lok Sabha on the issues of economic slowdown, unemployment and standoff between Indian and Chinese forces during a meeting of floor leaders of the House on Sunday to discuss the agenda for the Monsoon session, DMK leader TR Baalu said. A day before the session begins, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla chaired the meeting of the business advisory committee (BAC) of the lower house. 'Opposition leaders have sought discussions on the standoff between India and China at the LAC, unemployment and economic slowdown," Baalu said. The DMK leader said he has also sought a discussion on issues such as revising the creamy layer for OBC and non-payment of states' share of revenue collected under GST. Birla told reporters after the meeting that the leaders of all parties have assured their support for the smooth functioning of the House. He expressed the hope that Lok Sabha will transact good business. Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi along with Arjun Ram Meghwal and V Muraleedharan, ministers of state in the same ministry, also attended the meeting. Joshi said the government is ready for discussion on all issues which will be decided in the BAC. He said floor leaders will again meet on Tuesday to deliberate upon the agenda for the parliament session. Asked whether the government is ready for a discussion on the standoff between India and China at the Line of Actual Control (LAC), Joshi said it will be decided while keeping in mind national security and the country's strategic interests. According to sources, Lok Sabha will be adjourned briefly on Monday as a mark of respect to former president Pranab Mukherjee and a sitting MP who died recently. Following this, sources said, the House may discuss two bills which have already been passed by the Rajya Sabha. A discussion on the Covid-19 pandemic can start on Tuesday. Congress leader Jairam Ramesh also said on Sunday that his party wants a discussion in Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha on the situation at the border with China and the state of the economy. He also mentioned closure of businesses and the state of the MSME industry, the handling of the Covid-19 pandemic and other issues like airport privatisation, and the draft EIA notification. "We hope the Opposition would get an opportunity to speak and serious national issues would be discussed. We expect the prime minister to be present in Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha and give a reply to the questions raised by us," he said at a virtual press conference.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-670
13-09-2020||India||On launch-spree, Modi woos Bihar with ‘powerhouse of talent’ speech||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday inaugurated three petroleum sector projects, gave a big thumbs up to chief minister Nitish Kumar, and reached out to voters, calling Bihar a "powerhouse of talent" in the run up to Assembly elections in the state.  Modi's praise of alliance partner Kumar came weeks ahead of the elections that are likely in October-November, as he dedicated three petroleum projects worth nearly Rs 900 crore to the people. These included a gas pipeline that extended from Durgapur in West Bengal to Banka in Bihar.  Banka was also the beneficiary of an LPG bottling plant while another such unit is located at Harsiddhi in East Champaran district.  “I had the opportunity of flagging off the work on extension of the gas pipeline a year-and-half ago. I am delighted to see its completion. The country and Bihar have come out of an era when a project was announced and a generation had to wait for its completion. Nitish ji has played an important role in ushering in this change in the state,” Modi said.  The Prime Minister began his speech with a few sentences in Angika, the dialect spoken in Banka and adjoining districts.  He marvelled at the gas pipeline project which was “no mean feat" as it involved working across a stretch of nearly 200 km of difficult terrain dotted with many rivers, dense forests and hills.  “I would like to use the terms gas-based industry and petro-connectivity, which may sound very technical but actually impact the lives of the common people,” he said, addressing the function virtually from the national capital.  “Just imagine what would have been the situation if people were to keep venturing out in search of wood and other fuel for cooking their meals. The need is no longer there thanks to schemes like the Ujjwala Yojana which has ensured that LPG reaches households of the poorest of the poor," he said while talking about the coronavirus outbreak. The Prime Minister recalled how people would queue up in front of residences of MPs for a cooking gas connection from their quota. "There was a time when having an LPG connection was a luxury not many could afford," he said.  Launching a veiled attack on RJD chief Lalu Prasad, who he did not mention by name, Modi said Bihar has come out of an era when rail, road and internet connectivity were made light of and people used to say of what use roads are for those who walk on their feet.  He said Bihar, like the rest of eastern India, never lacked “samarthya (potential)” and “sansadhan (natural resources)” but suffered for want of political will and faulty priorities.  Being a land-locked state, Bihar was obviously at a disadvantage when it came to availing petroleum projects. All that is going to change. The gas pipeline and the bottling plants will not only make things easier for the consumers, but also open up lots of employment avenues in the state.  Showering praise on the state for its rich art, culture and cuisine, Modi said, “It would not be an exaggeration to call Bihar a powerhouse of talent. Its people can be found in all IITs and centres of excellence. Bright minds from here are serving in important capacities at the Centre.  “We all are indebted to Bihar. And it is our duty to ensure that Bihar gets a government that ensures that good governance it has seen in the last 15 years continues and realises its full potential,” he said.  Turning his attention to the education sector, the Prime Minister blamed the "indifference" of the past governments for the lack of quality institutions in Bihar which compelled the states youth to move out for pursuing higher learning.  "But now things are changing. The state has many new agriculture, engineering and medical colleges. Under Nitish ji, the state has seen a massive rise in the number of polytechnics besides having its own IITs, IIMs, two central universities and top-class institutions offering courses in law and fashion technology,” Modi added.  He also said central schemes like Start Up India and Mudra Yojana were empowering the states young men and women to set up their own businesses while Kaushal Kendras (skill development centres) were making them employable.  “There are more than 8,000 gas-based projects worth Rs six lakh crore. Many of these are new while others that were shelved have been re-started. These hold out a huge promise for the unemployed youth of Bihar," he noted.  The Prime Minister ended his speech with a reference to the COVID-19 pandemic, and repeated his slogan “jab tak dawaai nahin, tab tak dhilai nahin (no laxity until a cure is found)".  “I salute the people of the country, and Bihar in particular, who did not get bogged down on account of the hardships that the pandemic brought. I congratulate my mothers and sisters whose lives will become much easier because of these gas-based projects,” he added.  Among those who attended the function were chief minister Nitish Kumar, Governor Fagu Chauhan, deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi and Union ministers Dharmendra Pradhan and Ashwini Kumar Choubey.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-671
13-09-2020||India||Masks, sanitiser and staggered entry||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-671
13-09-2020||India||Raghuvansh Prasad dies of Covid complications in AIIMS ||Veteran Bihar politician and former RJD leader Raghuvansh Prasad Singh, who parted ways with Lalu Prasad died Sunday morning at AIIMS where he was being treated for post-Covid complications. He was 74. Singh tested positive for COVID-19 in June, after which he was admitted to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in the national capital. On Saturday a close aide of his told PTI that "Singh sahib's condition deteriorated considerably on Friday night. At 11.56 PM, he was put on ventilator. We are praying for his well-being", reported NDTV.com. Singh, a long-time associate of former Bihar chief minister Lalu Prasad Yadav, represented the state's Vaishali constituency and was the Union Minister for Rural Development in the Congress-led UPA-I government. A politician of nearly four decades, Raghuvansh Prasad Singh was widely regarded as an expert in the rural and agricultural landscape of the country and is credited with the conceptualisation and implementation of the NREGA (National Rural Guarantee Employment) Act. On Friday, Singh rattled Lalu Prasad Yadav and the RJD by submitting a handwritten resignation letter. Prime minister Narendra Modi on Sunday paid a moving tribute to former Union minister Raghuvansh Prasad Singh, saying his death has left a deep void in Bihar and national politics.  Modi described Singh, who died at AIIMS, New Delhi, after prolonged illness, as a grassroots leader with deep understanding of poverty and problems of the poor. He also obliquely referred to "churning" that the departed leader faced in his last days, hinting at his disenchantment with his party the RJD and its leader Lalu Prasad.  "An inner 'manthan' (churning) was going on in him during his last days. He remained true to the ideology he believed in..In the recent past, he had been in news.  "He was obviously in a state of inner turmoil since it had no longer remained possible for him to be by the side of his old associates. Finally, he gave expression to his feelings through the letters he wrote from the hospital bed, the prime minister said.  Modi made the remarks before dedicating to the nation three petroleum projects via video conferencing in Bihar. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday paid rich tributes to former union minister Raghuvansh Prasad Singh, saying with his demise a strong voice of the village and farmers has been lost.  The Congress also termed him as the "beloved son of Bihar" who will be remembered for being the advocate of moral values in politics, and said his demise heralds the end of a chapter in the history of revolution. Vice president M Venkiah Naidu and Union home minister Amit Shah also condoled the RJD veteran's death.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-671
13-09-2020||India||Amit Shah admitted to AIIMS for complete medical check up||Union home minister Amit Shah was admitted to Delhi's AIIMS last night, nearly two weeks after he was discharged from the hospital, the NDTV reported. He was earlier admitted to the national capital's top hospital for post Covid-care. In an official statement, the AIIMS this morning said: "Shri Amit Shah, Honourable Home Minister was discharged from AIIMS, New Delhi, after post Covid care on August 30. As per advise given at discharge, he has now been admitted for complete medical checkup before parliament session for 1-2 days." The 55-year-old BJP leader had tested positive for coronavirus, which has affected over 46 lakh people in India so far, on August 2 when he was taken to private hospital Medanta in Gurgaon. On August 14, he had tweeted that he would be in home isolation for a few more days on the advice of his doctors. He was admitted to the AIIMS on August 18 after he complained of "fatigue and body ache". He left the hospital after 13 days on August 31 after the doctors said the Home Minister had "recovered". "Amit Shah, Union Home Minister, is admitted at AIIMS, New Delhi for post-COVID care. He has recovered and is likely to be discharged in a short time," the AIIMS had said in a statement on August 30. Last night, at around 11 PM, he was admitted to the hospital again.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-671
13-09-2020||India||Covid ‘gain’: Houses built faster under govt scheme||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday tom-tommed what he described as a “record”. “Friends, amid corona, despite many hurdles, 18 lakh houses have been built across the country under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana. Of them, Madhya Pradesh alone accounts for 1.75 lakh houses. The pace at which this work was done is in itself a record,” Modi said, addressing beneficiaries in Madhya Pradesh. “Under normal circumstances, its takes 125 days to build a house under the PM Awas Yojana. Now what I am going to share is an extremely positive development for the country as well as our media friends,” the Prime Minister said. “Amid corona, it took only between 45 and 60 days to build each house. This is a great example of turning adversity into opportunity.” Modi continued: “You will think, how was this possible? Friends, our labourer brothers and sisters who returned from the cities have contributed hugely in ensuring this speed. They had the skills as well as the will power and they joined the drive. This is how we got this result. “In this way our friends, extracting all benefits under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Rozgar Abhiyan, looked after their families and also built houses for their impoverished brothers and sisters.” Modi summed up: “In a way, the PM Garib Kalyan Rozgar Abhiyan emerged as a very big support for the village economy.” Modi’s announcement of the world’s harshest lockdown at just four hours’ notice on March 24 had perpetrated an unspeakable migrant crisis, with millions forced to walk hundreds of miles or hitch rides to return home. Many died on the way.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-671
13-09-2020||India||How 8 days equal 1 now||Omkar Rathod was thankful for the company of hundreds of fellow migrant workers as they trudged home to far-flung villages once the lockdown had shut Indian industry. But he didn’t realise he would soon be competing with them for jobs. Back in his village in northern India since March, Rathod is vying for work under the world’s largest job programme: the only option for the millions of migrant workers who face mass job losses in a struggling economy and a raging pandemic. “If there were 15 people for a job earlier, now there are 200. Work for eight days is getting done in one day,” Rathod, 45, said from Nawabganj in Uttar Pradesh. Rathod said over the phone: “This scheme is our only hope for work in our village. I got 15 days of work under the job scheme in May but nothing after that.” More than 82 million of the 98 million people who applied for jobs under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) since April have secured work, a record that tops the number of new jobs created under the programme each year in India. But the scheme still falls far short of what is needed in a country with an estimated 100 million migrant workers. Analysts say the fund -- which has already been topped up -- is once more close to being spent. “This meets the demand up to September. But it is not enough. States should be asked to redraw labour budgets and be assured that adequate funding will be provided,” said Ravi Srivastava, director of the Centre for Employment Studies at the Institute for Human Development, a research organisation. The rural development ministry did not respond to repeated requests for comment, but officials of five states that recorded among the highest number of applicants said they had provided work to almost every job seeker. The scheme was created to provide steady wages and jobs for people, who were in turn creating assets for their villages, be it conserving water or improving roads. It was never envisioned as a bandage in a global pandemic. Vallabhacharya Pandey, a social activist who works with migrant workers in Uttar Pradesh, said the scheme had worked well in the initial weeks of the pandemic, when the only people seeking work were locals. “But the return of migrant workers has overburdened the programme,” he said. India’s estimated 100 million migrant workers were among the worst hit by the strict lockdown, which triggered a mass exodus from city jobs at garment factories, building sites and brick kilns. Migrant labourers took to the roads en masse and walked back to the countless villages that dot the map and offer few opportunities to earn. After months back home, they said some employers were now sending buses or buying air tickets to get workers back, but many were still sitting idle in their rural outposts awaiting any word on work. India’s economy shrank by almost 24 per cent in the second quarter, the worst of all major economies, even as the number of Indians with the virus topped 4.2 million, exceeded only by the US tally of 6.2 million. “The pandemic has come at a time sectors of construction and manufacturing were already ailing. So even if they want to migrate to cities again, where do they go?” asked Raghunath Singh, vice-president of the All India Centre of Indian Trade Unions. Besides, jobs in cities have lost their sheen for many as nearly half of urban workers went without work, pay or financial assistance in the first three months of the lockdown, studies show, with many reluctant to return. Launched more than 15 years ago to offer a secure livelihood to rural India, the scheme guarantees applicants at least 100 days of work for average daily wages of Rs 200. It has been credited with saving families from poverty, and empowering women and the socially marginalised. Around 800,000 households have completed 100 work days this financial year, according to official data. But those figures do not begin to tell the whole story, according to a group of activists, academics and researchers tracking the scheme. “Unmet demand is wider than it appears in the data as even a single day of work gets recorded as job provided,” said M.S. Raunaq, secretary of the collective, called People’s Action of Employment Guarantee (PAEG). Local officials said that “satiating the demand” was a challenge and attributed the shortfall to delays in feeding data, and jobs offered at a time workers were not available. Officials overseeing the programme in five states contacted by the Thomson Reuters Foundation said they were creating jobs that could absorb more workers despite a backdrop of strikes, floods and tight budgets. The jobs include planting trees, building roads and cleaning canals -- useful yet rarely tasks that tap into an applicant’s trade. “Migrant workers are mostly skilled and earned Rs 500 a day, so Rs 220 won’t keep them in rural areas,” said P.C. Kishan, the scheme’s commissioner in Rajasthan, referring to the overarching aim of the programme to slow emergency (distress) migration from India’s web of villages. Omkar Rathod, for one, wants to go back to the town where, pre-virus, he earned Rs 7,000 a month at a car factory. He even got himself tested for the coronavirus, hoping a certificate would help as the pandemic surges in rural India. But the job contractor told him there was no work yet — so he has no choice but to feed the family cows, stay put and nurse his worries. “Half a year is gone already and there is no work, neither outside nor in the village. What will we do?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-671
13-09-2020||India||M. Nageswara Rao describes the death of Swami Agnivesh as 'good riddance' ||Former interim CBI chief and one-time Modi government favourite M. Nageswara Rao has described the death of social activist Swami Agnivesh as “good riddance” in a tweet. On Friday night, just hours after Agnivesh’s death, Rao tweeted: “GOOD RIDDANCE @swamiagnivesh You were an Anti-Hindu donning saffron clothes. You did enormous damage to Hinduism. I am ashamed that you were born as a Telugu Brahmin. Lion in sheep clothes. My grievance against Yamaraj is why did he wait this long!” Twitter removed the post on Saturday afternoon, by when the tweet had drawn condemnation from serving and retired IPS officers and several other social media users. Rao, who retired as director-general of fire services in July this year and hails from Andhra Pradesh, said in a second tweet: “Correction: Read ‘Wolf’ for ‘Lion’ in the above tweet.” In an article for this newspaper’s September 12 edition, the swami’s long-time associate Valson Thampu had quoted Agnivesh (whose name translates as “clothed in fire”), as saying: “I am not in saffron. I am clad in fire. I am Agni.” The Indian Police Foundation, an independent think-tank that serves as a forum for serving and retired police officers, accused Rao of having “desecrated the police uniform”. “Tweeting such hate messages by a retired officer posing as an IPS officer — he has desecrated the police uniform which he wore and embarrassed the government. He demoralises the entire police force in the country, especially the young officers,” a tweet from the organisation said. Historian S. Irfan Habib tweeted, referring to Rao: “You are a disgrace. Can imagine what all you must have done as a police officer? Abusing the dead may be Hindutva but is certainly not Hinduism. Better late than never. Get yourself treated.” The Modi government had chosen Rao, a 1986-batch IPS officer from the Odisha cadre, to head the CBI after the controversial midnight benching of then agency director Alok Verma and his No. 2, Rakesh Asthana, in October 2018. Rao stayed in the post till February 2019. Days before his July retirement, Rao had tweeted about an alleged “Project Abrahamisation of Hindu Civilisation”, accusing past governments of distorting history, whitewashing “bloody Islamic invasions/rule”, and naming roads and public spaces in Delhi after “invaders”. The tweet had triggered the charge that he was trying to please his political masters to gain a cushy post-retirement job. On Saturday, human rights activist and former IAS officer Harsh Mander said he was sad to see a former police officer “flaunting such uncivility and communal bias” towards Swami Agnivesh after his passing. “That he feels he can display his bigotry so brazenly reflects on those who lead the nation,” Mander tweeted. Rakesh Balwal, a serving IPS officer, tweeted: “Is this account hacked or what?? No sane person can ever celebrate death, even if it’s of his worst adversary.” “Insult to human life. Sad,” tweeted another IPS officer, R.K. Vij. Rao remained defiant. “Why do we celebrate as festivals the days savages were dead? Bcoz they’re pests destroying society &their death is a cause for celebration. It was also to warn people not to patronise the bad,” he tweeted in response to the criticism. Swami Agnivesh, a human rights campaigner, had been branded “anti-Hindu” by the Right wing and was assaulted in Jharkhand and Delhi a month apart about two years ago. Referring to Rao, Siddharth Varadarajan, editor of The Wire news portal, said in a tweet: “This disgusting man was made CBI head by @narendramodi in October 2018 and again in Jan 2019 and Justice Arun Mishra refused to interfere with his illegal appointment. “A casteist, communalist bigot, every case he ever looked (into) during his time at the CBI needs to be re-examined.” Lawyer Navdeep Singh said Rao’s post “goes against the very tenets of religion and basic humanity”. “To think that he was serving in the govt and dealing with public with such thoughts at the back of his mind just a few days ago...,” he tweeted. “Looks like Nageswara Rao is still waiting for the elusive Rajya Sabha seat/governor post,” posted Rakesh Verma, a Twitter user.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-671
13-09-2020||India||Debate over ‘border areas’||Some military veterans have questioned the absence of references to the Line of Actual Control or the restoration of status quo ante in Friday’s joint India-China statement, wondering how the promised “disengagement” can be achieved without a mutually accepted position on the alignment of the LAC. The vague phrase “border areas” has replaced the LAC in the “joint” media statement, issued after Thursday’s meeting between foreign ministers S. Jaishankar and Wang Yi in Moscow. The Chinese had issued a statement worded by them. But former foreign secretary Nirupama Menon Rao detailed the background and added that “I do not believe that India has ‘given up’ reference to the LAC and is now content with usage of the term ‘border areas’ as a substitute”. The “joint” statement said the two countries had reached a five-point consensus. The countries agreed that the situation in the “border areas” was not in the interest of either side and that their troops should “continue their dialogue, quickly disengage, maintain proper distance and ease tensions”. General V.P. Malik, the former army chief, on Saturday tweeted: “After Drawing Room 5-Point Understanding with all its diplomatic rhetoric has been made, the ball is back in military field. Wonder how ‘disengagement’ & ‘proper distancing’ possible without common ref pt (reference point) or mutually known LAC alignment. India must insist on delineation of LAC.” Another veteran, Pravin Sawhney, asked why there was no mention in the statement of the LAC, the reference point for any restoration of status quo ante, which India has been demanding since May. “It will now be open-ended in ‘Border Areas’ in future - winner takes it all,” Sawhney tweeted. “Given (the) Chinese threat, India has agreed to call (the) LAC -- which external affairs ministry said in June was known to both sides -- Border Areas: an undefined zone with little left for Indian Military to defend. Our 1,000sqkm that PLA occupies can now be explained as within Border Areas!” He added: “As I had said: No war; quick disengagement; PLA will not give up occupied territories; all mutual agreements since 1993 now applicable on ‘border areas’ instead of LAC since both sides disagree on its definition; de-escalation remains far cry; who won territory without fighting?” After the debate over the absence of any mention of the LAC, the Centre put out a media release on the meeting that detailed references to the LAC. The contents of the release had been shared off the record earlier with some reporters. Former foreign secretary Rao, who had served as ambassador to China, said through a series of tweets during the day: “There is no ‘1993 LAC’. The full title of the 1993 Agreement is ‘Agreement on the Maintenance of Peace and Tranquillity along the Line of Actual Control in the India-China Border Areas’. “The 1993 Agreement contains the proviso that ‘the experts shall advise the Joint Working Group on the resolution of differences between the two sides on the alignment of the line of actual control’. “It follows that there is no mutually defined LAC between India and China in the India-China border areas as in the years since 1993 the above exercise was not completed. “The so-called 1959 LAC of China is a self-defined Chinese ‘line’ in the Chinese imaginary and has never been accepted by India. It should not be confused with India’s definition/ perception of the LAC. “I do not believe that India has ‘given up’ reference to the LAC and is now content with usage of the term ‘border areas’ as a substitute. The LAC -- this is the fact -- exists in the border areas. Not in Delhi or Beijing!” Neither the “joint” statement nor the notes issued by the two foreign ministries specifically called on China to pull back from the multiple friction points -- the Pangong Lake, Hot Springs and the Depsang Plains - where they have dug in inside India-claimed lines since May. But the Indian briefing note that has now been made official does state that the Indian side clearly conveyed that it expected full adherence to all agreements on the management of border areas and would not countenance any attempt to change the status quo unilaterally. A retired lieutenant-general said: “What is missing in the five-point consensus is any commitment by the Chinese troops for restoration of the status quo prior to the standoff. This is a very important point as India has been insisting on it and maintaining that it is a prerequisite for bringing bilateral ties back on track.” Some veterans aired suspicion that India may have resorted to a give-and-take formula to wriggle out of the border dispute. “The dog didn’t bark.... What should concern us most in all the official statements and notes of Sino-Indian talks are the two missing phrases: ‘Line of Actual Control’ and ‘status quo ante’,” veteran Sushant Singh said. India and China have scaled down the blame game and said the dialogue would continue through the Special Representative mechanism and the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination on India-China border affairs, thereby keeping the lines of communication open at the military, political and diplomatic levels. “It’s now over to the military commanders again to ensure disengagement and the easing of tensions. This is what was going on for the past four months but the five rounds of talks have failed to achieve any breakthrough,” a defence ministry official said. General Malik, who was the army chief during the 1999 Kargil conflict, said in another tweet: “Chinese use negotiations to gain time, strengthen positions on the ground & keep adversary guessing about their real intentions.... Troops need to remain fully alert, stand firm & not be lulled by diplomatic talks.” Sources in the security establishment said India should be profoundly suspicious of China’s strategic ambition and designs. “Why have they not made any commitment in the joint statement on restoring status quo ante along the LAC? We have witnessed what happened on June 15 after they had agreed to disengage from the Galwan Valley,” an Intelligence Bureau official said. A violent clash had broken out in the Galwan Valley on June 15, killing 20 Indian soldiers and an unspecified number of Chinese troops. Additional reporting by Anita Joshua||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-671
13-09-2020||India||Bid to blame Delhi riots on Yechury, Jayati…||The names of CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury, economist Jayati Ghosh, Delhi University professor Apoorvanand and Swaraj Abhiyan leader Yogendra Yadav figure in a supplementary chargesheet filed by Delhi police on the February riot cases, allegedly for “provoking and mobilising” anti-citizenship-act protesters. The charges were apparently based on the statements of three arrested students: women’s collective Pinjra Tod members and JNU students Devangana Kalita and Natasha Narwal, and Gulfisha Fathima of the Jamia Millia Islamia university. All three students have been booked under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. Police officers told this newspaper that if a person is named in a chargesheet on the basis of a disclosure by suspects, that need not necessarily make him or her an accused. Legal action is usually pursued only if corroborative evidence is found. Late at night, after controversy erupted over the supplementary chargesheet that was unofficially revealed to select media groups just two days before Parliament reopens, PTI quoted Delhi police sources as saying the police have not filed a chargesheet “against” Yechury and others. The police sources tried to lay stress on the difference between “naming” someone as an accused in a chargesheet and “mentioning” a name because of certain allegations. Yechury accused the Centre, to which the Delhi police report, of “misusing state power to target the Opposition” through the supplementary chargesheet. Yadav said: “I notice that the passing reference to me does not even contain one sentence from my speech. I find it surprising that the Delhi police have made no effort to see the recordings of my speeches, all of which are in the public domain.” The Congress offered support to those whose names have come up now, with senior leader Jairam Ramesh saying: “This is worse than atrocious…. They are greater desh bhakts than the fraudulent ones in power now.” The names of Yechury and the others have been mentioned in connection with the violence in Jafrabad, from where the riots spread to other parts of northeast Delhi, killing 53 people between February 23 and 26. Several eminent citizens and former civil servants have issued multiple statements accusing the police of falsely portraying the riot victims and citizenship protesters — including students and teachers — as the instigators and perpetrators of the violence. They have also questioned why the police have not booked BJP leaders like Kapil Mishra and Parvesh Verma for making incendiary speeches that allegedly provoked the violence. The supplementary chargesheet says Kalita and Narwal have not just admitted to complicity in the riots but also named Ghosh, Apoorvanand and documentary filmmaker Rahul Roy as their mentors, who had allegedly asked them to protest against the Citizenship Amendment Act and go to “any extreme”. Their similarly worded disclosure statements — mentioned in the chargesheet — claim that the two JNU students organised the Daryaganj protest in December and the Jafrabad chakka jam (road block) of February 22 at the behest of Ghosh, Apoorvanand and Roy. Anil Mittal, the Delhi police’s additional PRO, said: “The names are part of the disclosure statement of one of the accused in connection with organising and addressing the anti-CAA protests. The disclosure statement has been truthfully recorded as narrated by the accused person. A person is not arraigned as an accused only on the basis of a disclosure statement.” He added: “It is only on the existence of sufficient corroborative evidence (that) further legal action is taken. The matter is currently sub judice.” Yechury tweeted: “The Delhi Police is under the Centre and the Home Ministry. Its illegitimate, illegal actions are a direct outcome of the politics of BJP’s top leadership. They are scared of legitimate peaceful protests by mainstream political parties & are misusing state power to target the Opposition.” Yechury asked why the “hate speeches” made during the riots were not investigated. “There is a video of poisonous speeches, why are they not being processed? Because the government has ordered that the Opposition be wrapped up, either way. This is the real face, character, tricks and thinking of Modi and BJP. There will be opposition,” he said. Lawyer Prashant Bhushan tweeted: “This proves the malafide nature of Delhi police investigation into the Delhi riots. Nothing could be more absurd than to accuse Sitaram Yechury, Yogendra Yadav, Jayati Ghosh & Prof Apoorvanand for instigating riots. Their speeches are available on video. This while Kapil Mishra & Co are let off.” According to the chargesheet, Kalita and Narwal told the police that Ghosh, Apoorvanand and Roy had coordinated with the Islamist group Popular Front of India and the Jamia Coordination Committee to encourage the Pinjra Tod members to continue their campaign against the CAA. The chargesheet claims that Jamia student Fathima mentioned not just Yechury and Yadav but also Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad “Ravan”, United Against Hate activist Umar Khalid and a few leaders from the Muslim community including former MLA Mateen Ahmed and MLA Amanatullah Khan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-671
13-09-2020||India||Debendra Nath Roy death case: CID says suicide, kin and BJP keen on CBI||The CID filed its chargesheet in the death case of BJP MLA Debendra Nath Roy at a local court here on Friday, concluding it to be a case of suicide and accusing Niloy Singha and Mabud Ali, known to the legislator, of abetment and other charges. “We have filed the chargesheet in less than two months,” said a source in the state investigating agency. According to court sources, the CID charged the duo, both under arrest, with Sections 120 (concealing design to commit offence punishable with imprisonment), 306 (abetment of suicide) and 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) of the IPC. On July 13, the MLA from Hemtabad Assembly segment in North Dinajpur was found hanging in front of a shop in the Baliamore area. The incident, which the police suspected to be suicide, took a political turn as BJP leaders in Raiganj and Calcutta alleged that Roy — who had crossed over from the Trinamul to join the BJP — was murdered and hanged with political intent. BJP leaders launched a series of protests demanding a CBI probe. The state, however, handed over the case to the CID. Soon, Singha and Ali were held from neighbouring Malda. During the probe, it was found that they had links with Roy and had taken money from him, and as the MLA was asking them to repay it, they were intimidating him. The chargesheet’s conclusion that the MLA had committed suicide — as was earlier claimed by senior officials of the state including the home secretary — drew protests from the MLA’s family and party. Chadima Roy, the deceased MLA’s wife, said she was not happy with CID’s probe. “I still suspect that my husband was murdered and had accordingly filed a complaint with the police. I am not satisfied with the investigation carried out by the CID as they have termed it as a suicide. We want the CBI to investigate the case,” she said. District BJP leaders echoed her demand and accused the state investigating agency of acting in haste without a proper investigation. “We all believe that the MLA was killed but the CID has put charges of abetment to suicide. We have demanded a CBI probe of the case and our central leaders are looking into the issue,” said Gopal Majumdar, a district BJP leader and lawyer. The state government also decided to hand over the case of the death of BJP worker in police custody to the CID. On Friday, district police officials here got the instruction. On September 2, Anup Roy, a BJP worker from Itahar block, died soon after he was arrested in connection with cash snatching case. His post mortem revealed he died of cerebral haemorrhage. His kin and the BJP alleged he died of police torture.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-671
13-09-2020||India||Question for Delhi police: True to oath? ||A letter attributed to former DGP Julio Ribeiro has asked Delhi police commissioner S.N. Srivastava to examine whether officers under his command “have been true to their oath”. A group of defence veterans, retired bureaucrats, civil society groups, academics, artistes and activists also issued a statement on Saturday in support of the peaceful anti-citizenship-act protesters whom Delhi police have charged with fanning the February riots. Ribeiro is shown as a signatory to this statement, too. The police have been accused of portraying the riot victims and citizenship protesters — including students and teachers — as the instigators and perpetrators of the communal violence, attracting similar statements from eminent citizens expressing support for those victimised. The letter attributed to Ribeiro, former director-general of the CRPF and Gujarat police as well as of Punjab police during the Khalistan insurgency of the 1980s, questioned the Delhi police’s actions. On Saturday night, Delhi police said in a statement: “An e-mail purportedly sent by Sri Julio Ribeiro has been received today in which he has raised concerns regarding the investigation of NE Riots. Sri Ribeiro is a respected police officer. Since the officer in whose name the email has been received has not been in touch with Delhi Police in the recent times and especially in the past 6 months, we are trying to ascertain the veracity and the genuineness of the mail.” The letter attributed to Ribeiro was circulated by Constitutional Conduct Group, the association of former civil servants that the retired police officer is part of. He has signed the group’s statements in the past. This newspaper could not contact Ribeiro, who is 91, because the Delhi police response came at night. Ribeiro’s letter to the Delhi police chief said: “The Delhi police has taken action against peaceful protesters but deliberately failed to register cognisable offences against those who made hate speeches which triggered the riots in N.E. Delhi. It troubles sane and apolitical persons, like me, why Kapil Mishra, Anurag Thakur and Parvesh Verma have not been arraigned before the courts of law while deeply hurt Muslim women, peacefully protesting against discriminations based on religion, were lodged for months together in jail! “The not-so-subtle attempt by the Delhi police to entangle true patriots, like Harsh Mander (social activist and former IAS officer) and Prof. Apoorvanand, in criminal cases is another matter for concern. We, the police forces in the land, and its leadership drawn from the Indian Police Service, have a duty and obligation to respect the Constitution and the enacted laws impartially without regard to caste, creed and political affiliations. “Kindly revisit the actions of the police under your command in Delhi to determine if they have been true to their oaths taken at the time of their induction into service.” Several students and activists are in jail, awaiting trial on terrorism charges for allegedly inciting through their citizenship protests the riots that killed 53 people. The other statement on Saturday was issued by the Forum for Constitutional Rights and Democratic Freedoms, whose members and constituents include military veterans, Rajasthan’s Mazdoor Kisan Shakti Sangathan that represents organisations of the poor and disadvantaged, the Constitutional Conduct Group of former civil servants, the Indian Cultural Forum and other organisations. The statement voiced support for Harsh Mander, who has been named in a riot chargesheet. After a news conference on September 4, Mander had issued a statement titled “We will not be silenced” condemning the continuing saga of the police harassing activists and attributing criminal motives to WhatsApp chats conducted for the purpose of organising peaceful protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. Among the 443 signatories to Saturday’s statement were Admirals L. Ramdas and Vishnu Bhagwat, Air Vice-Marshal Kapil Kak, Major General S.G. Vombatkere, Brigadier V.H.M. Prasad — all retired — and several other veterans. Several civil servants who had signed similar statements in the past endorsed this one too. “We agree with him (Mander) that the communal riots in Delhi in February 2020 have not been caused by any conspiracy as alleged by the Delhi police. On the contrary, they have been caused by hate speech and provocative statements made by a number of political leaders of the ruling party,” the statement said. “We stand with Harsh Mander... Professor Apoorvanand and their fellow activists. Neither their voices nor ours will be silenced as we speak for truth and freedom.... “We declare here — and hope those holding (the) highest office in the country hear us loud and clear — that the government will never succeed in silencing us, and will never succeed in taking away from us the dream we inherited from our freedom struggle, the dream of together building a country which is just, and equal, and kind.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-672
13-09-2020||India||China-wary India enters Afghan talks||India on Saturday showed greater involvement in the peace talks between the Afghanistan government and the Taliban, shedding its inhibitions because of the process’s links with the insurgent group and Pakistan at a time it is concerned about being elbowed out of Kabul by a growing Chinese footprint. While external affairs minister S. Jaishankar addressed the start of the dialogue virtually, joint secretary (Pakistan-Afghanistan-Iran) J.P. Singh flew to Doha, Qatar, to witness the beginning of the power-sharing talks announced on Thursday after the Afghanistan government released the last batch of six Taliban prisoners. Addressing the inaugural session to which he had been invited by Qatar, Jaishankar said the interests of minorities, women and vulnerable sections of society must be preserved and the issue of violence across Afghanistan and its neighbourhood had to be effectively addressed. He reiterated India’s stated position that any peace process in the country — referred to as the graveyard of empires — has to be Afghan-led, Afghan-owned and Afghan-controlled, has to respect the national sovereignty and territorial integrity of Afghanistan and preserve the progress made in the establishment of a democratic Islamic Republic in Afghanistan. India’s main concern is that with Taliban calling the shots, Afghanistan could slip back to the pre-2001 years when Pakistan’s deep state wielded considerable influence over Kabul. Add to this the need to protect India’s considerable investments in the reconstruction of Afghanistan over the past two decades.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-672
13-09-2020||India||Delhi panel summons Facebook India head||The Delhi Assembly’s committee on peace and harmony has summoned Facebook India’s vice-president and managing director Ajit Mohan in connection with its probe into the February riots in which 53 people were killed. Less than a fortnight ago, Mohan had been questioned  by the parliamentary standing committee for information technology in the light of reports  on how Facebook India had allegedly influenced elections and condoned hateful posts of BJP leaders. Mohan will have to appear before the Delhi Assembly committee on Tuesday. The summons sent to Mohan says: “Significantly, in the wake of serious allegations levelled against Facebook India unit which you have been spearheading since 2019, you, the addressee, as the Vice-President and Managing Director of Facebook India and as a representative of the same, are best suited to deliver insights to the committee with respect to Facebook India’s internal functioning and enforcement of policies, and thus, your special knowledge in this regard would be imperative for the committee while examining the current issue in hand.” After Mohan had faced the parliamentary committee last week, the committee had taken down several accounts on Facebook and Instagram in the name of Telangana BJP MLA T. Raja Singh and banned him from Facebook. The Wall Street Journal had reported last month that Singh had made communal posts that had been allowed to circulate on the social media network’s pages. Facebook India and Mohan did not respond to queries from The Telegraph on the summons.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-672
13-09-2020||India||Congress wages farm fight against Modi govt ordinances||The Congress on Saturday threatened a mass movement against three ordinances the Narendra Modi government had introduced on June 5, vowing to defeat the “conspiracy to hand over the farm sector to crony capitalists”. While the Opposition parties will put up a joint resistance in Parliament from Monday, the Congress has decided to support the agitating farmers and follow it up with a nationwide movement led by Rahul Gandhi if the government doesn’t withdraw the ordinances. The party said the three ordinances would destroy farmers and the millions of others who depend on the agriculture sector. Farmers in Haryana and Punjab have already begun protests. “The reality of the Centre’s draconian move is beginning to sink in. This is not a partisan issue. This is about the livelihood of 60 per cent of India’s population,” Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala said. “We appeal to every sensible Indian to rise against this sinister conspiracy,” he added. A committee Sonia Gandhi had formed to examine the ordinances has concluded that the sole intention behind them is to facilitate the capture of the farm sector by a handful of big corporate houses. The committee included P. Chidambaram, Digvijaya Singh, Jairam Ramesh, Amar Singh and Gaurav Gogoi. The ordinances are: ⚫ The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, which promises barrier-free trade of farmers’ produce outside the markets by replacing the Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) Act. It allows electronic trading and prevents states from levying fees or cess. ⚫ The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Ordinance, 2020. This  provides for a farming agreement prior to the production or rearing of any farm produce, aimed at facilitating  sale of produce to sponsors. ⚫ The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020, which amends the Essential Commodities Act, 1955. This ordinance seeks to liberalise the regulatory system, primarily to remove the stock limit with conditions. Surjewala described all three as “black laws”. “Modi became Prime Minister promising to double the farmers’ income and has now hatched a conspiracy to force a corporate takeover of agriculture,” he said. “He tried this in his first term as well by bringing in an ordinance to kill the Land Acquisition Act. But the Congress, led by Rahul Gandhi, defeated that ploy. We will defeat his latest designs as well. We will not allow the poor farmers to get trapped by the lure of contract farming, which will ultimately lead to (their) destruction.” Surjewala explained: “Scrapping the APMC Act will destroy the procurement system. The farmers will neither be assured of the market price nor (of the) minimum support price (MSP).  Bihar is an example where the mandi system was abolished and now the middlemen exploit farmers to earn enormous profits. “Modiji says farmers will now sell (their) produce anywhere at a higher price. This is a lie. The farmer was free to sell his produce anywhere earlier as well. “The reality is that 86 per cent farmers own less than five acres of land. The average ownership is only two acres. They don’t have the wherewithal to bring their produce anywhere except the nearest mandi. The abolition of the mandi system will make them vulnerable. The millions who work in the mandis will be jobless.” Surjewala continued: “The states will also lose  revenue if they are not allowed to collect the market fee. In the last wheat season, Punjab earned Rs 736 crore from market fee and a similar amount through the rural development fund. Experts believe the government wants to stop procuring farm produce at MSP, which will save around Rs 1 lakh crore.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-672
13-09-2020||India||Prashant Bhusan pleads for right to appeal in SC contempt cases||Lawyer Prashant Bhushan on Saturday urged the Supreme Court to lay down a law that anyone convicted by it of criminal contempt has a mandatory right to appeal the verdict. He cited the “unavoidable conflict of interest involved” in criminal contempt proceedings and argued that such a right would go some way in reducing the “chances of arbitrary, vengeful and high-handed decisions”. Also, withholding such a right amounts to violation of the fundamental rights under Articles 14 (equality), 19 (free speech) and 21 (life and liberty), Bhushan argued in his writ petition, filed through advocate Kamini Jaiswal. The petition is expected to come up for hearing next week. The apex court had last month convicted Bhushan of criminal contempt and fined him a token Re 1 over two tweets relating to Chief Justices of India past and present. The court is hearing another contempt case against Bhushan stemming from a 2009 interview. Since the Supreme Court is the highest court, a person it convicts of any offence has no right of appeal except for filing a review petition – an avenue that has historically had a less than 0.1 per cent success rate. Bhushan has sought an automatic right of appeal in criminal contempt cases. Alternatively, he has pleaded that the review petitions — which are decided inside closed judges’ chambers without the presence of counsel or litigant — be heard in open court in criminal contempt cases so that the advocates can advance their arguments freely. Bhushan’s plea for the right of appeal relates only to contempt cases where the apex court conducts the “original proceedings” rather than hearing appeals, as it does in all other criminal cases. “The petitioner is filing this writ petition in order to bring important procedural safeguards when this Hon’ble Court considers cases of criminal contempt in original proceedings, i.e. those proceedings where this Hon’ble Court does not act as an appellate court,” the petition says. “In such cases, considering the fact that there is inherent unavoidable conflict of interest involved, and the fact that liberty of the alleged contemnor is at stake, it is of utmost importance that certain basic safeguards are designed which would reduce (though not obviate) chances of arbitrary, vengeful and high-handed decisions. “It is extremely important to minimise such decisions since they not only cause great injustice to the alleged contemnor, but also bring disrepute to the court itself and are likely to be harshly judged by legal historians.” Some of the reasons Bhushan has offered in support of his plea: ⚫ The right to appeal against conviction in original criminal cases is a right under Article 21, as affirmed in multiple apex court judgments. ⚫ Under Article 14(5) of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, which India has ratified, the first appeal is a right even when the trial was held by the highest court and a review is not a substitute. ⚫  In contempt proceedings, the injured party (court) acts as prosecutor, witness and judge, raising fears of inherent bias and necessitating a provision for intra-court appeal. ⚫ Contempt proceedings are quasi-criminal, so procedural safeguards similar to those observed during criminal trials must apply. ⚫ The freedom of speech can only be restricted or regulated under Article 19(2) by a procedure that is reasonable and stands the test of Articles 14 and 21. ⚫  Original criminal contempt cases form a unique category. In a concession to extraordinary circumstances, the apex court has in the past framed special rules relating to the death penalty and devised the special remedy of a curative petition against a final judgment on certain limited grounds. ⚫ Section 13(b) of the Contempt of Courts Act, 1971, provides for truth as a defence. It’s possible that a “truth” not accepted by one bench may be accepted by a different or larger bench or a different court when the entire matter is re-examined after a period of time. ⚫ It’s discriminatory that someone convicted of criminal contempt by a high court has the right of appeal but one convicted by the Supreme Court hasn’t. ⚫ Neither the Contempt of Courts Act, 1971, nor the Rules to Regulate the Proceedings for Contempt of the Supreme Court prohibit what the petitioner is seeking.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-672
13-09-2020||India||Suicides spark NEET-ban call||At least three medical studies aspirants in Tamil Nadu have died by suicide on the eve of the NEET, prompting all political parties but the BJP in the state to intensify their demand to exempt the state from the entrance exam. A woman and two men, aged between 19 and 21, have been found hanging in their homes in Madurai, Dharmapuri and Namakkal districts. Tamil Nadu has witnessed a spate of pre-medical exam suicides in the past three years. The NEET is scheduled on Sunday. Opposition parties led by the DMK slammed the BJP-helmed Centre for pressing ahead with the NEET in Tamil Nadu. The ruling AIADMK has also opposed the exam, ruing the deaths of the youngsters. On Saturday, Jothisri Durga and M. Adithya allegedly ended their lives by hanging, police and district officials said in Madurai and Dharmapuri. Motilal, 21, of Tiruchengode in Namakkal district was also found hanging in his house, the police said, adding that he had earlier appeared for the NEET twice. Durga, the daughter of a sub-inspector, has said in a purported suicide note that she was “apprehensive” about the NEET although others had “high hopes” on her, the police said. Adithya had appeared for the NEET last year but could not clear it. He had been preparing since then. Dharmapuri collector S. Malarvizhi said Adithya’s parents had gone to Salem to see the NEET centre when the youth killed himself. Chief minister K. Palaniswami and his deputy O. Panneerselvam of the AIADMK expressed shock over the suicides. DMK president M.K. Stalin said the NEET “is not an exam at all”. Palaniswami tweeted: “It is distressing to see students, the hope for the future, taking such steps.” Panneerselvam tweeted: “Students should learn to face any situation with guts and parents should aid them in this.” School education minister K.A. Sengottaiyan said the Tamil Nadu government was against the NEET and had been urging the Centre to exempt the state from the test. Stalin, the leader of the Opposition in the Tamil Nadu Assembly, tweeted: “We can realise from the deaths… that NEET is severely affecting students. I repeat, suicide is not a solution; NEET is not an exam at all. #BanNeet_SaveTNStudents.” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-672
13-09-2020||India||‘Court’ of elders orders ‘divorce’ in Uttar Pradesh||A “court” of village elders in Uttar Pradesh’s Sonbhadra district has allegedly made a man wash vermilion from the forehead of his wife and pronounced the couple “divorced”. Meena Devi has been living separately from her husband Santosh Giri for two years. The elders at Gotibandh held the “panchayat” on Thursday when Santosh came to the village and demanded that Meena return with their three children, aged 15, 13 and 5. They also made the couple sign a piece of paper saying they were willingly getting “divorced” when Meena insisted that she did not want to go with Santosh. Village sources said Santosh came to Gotibandh on Thursday and appealed to the village elders to organise a panchayat and ask Meena, his wife of 17 years, to return to his home in Dharmdaspur village, 12km away, with the children. “The panchayat was held on the Shiv temple premises for about four hours during which Meena kept insisting that Santosh was an alcoholic and didn’t care about his family. She said he did not deserve a family and so she would never return to his home. The elders ordered Santosh to wash the sindoor from Meena’s forehead,” said a villager. “According to the arrangement, the second child will be staying with the mother while the two others will go with their father. This was done in keeping with the wishes of the children, who will be free to stay wherever they wish to. It is binding on both parents that they will immediately send the children to the other if the little ones so wish,” the villager added. Both Meena and Santosh belong to families of farmers. Pramod Yadav, the local police inspector-in-charge, said: “We have come to know about an unofficial village panchayat where the elders have passed an order on divorce. Both parties have agreed to it and refused to approach the police. Still, we are probing the matter.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-672
13-09-2020||India||Dombivili hospital loses permit over billing||The civic authorities on Saturday  suspended the licence of a hospital and stripped off its Covid-19 tag for alleged lapses and violations in treatment of patients in Dombivili town of Maharashtra’s Thane district, an official said. The Kalyan Dombivili Municipal Corporation had received several complaints about irregularities at Sri Swami Samartha Multi Speciality Hospital, which had allegedly overcharged patients, KDMC public relations office Madhuri Phopale said. The hospital had been given a show-cause notice for the excess billing of over Rs 6 lakh, but it failed to reply to the notice, she said. The KDMC stripped the hospital of the tag as a Covid- 19 treatment facility and suspended its licence till the time it complies with the civic body's orders, the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-672
13-09-2020||India||New Audit Bureau of Circulations (ABC) chairman||Devendra V. Darda, the managing director of the Lokmat Media Group, has been elected chairman of the Audit Bureau of Circulations (ABC) for 2020-2021. Darda’s Lokmat Media Group is one of the largest regional media companies in India and has presence in print, digital, TV and events management. Darda has served on several media industry bodies such as INS and IFRA. He also presides over several educational institutions in Yavatmal, Maharashtra, and is on the managing committee of the Western India Football Association. Karunesh Bajaj of ITC Ltd, representing the advertiser category, was unanimously elected the ABC deputy chairman for 2020-21.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-672
13-09-2020||India||JDU-BJP seat talks begin||BJP president J.P. Nadda paid a visit to chief minister Nitish Kumar at his official residence here on Saturday to hold a discussion on seat-sharing among the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) partners for the Assembly elections. The BJP president is on a two-day visit to Bihar and was accompanied by deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi, national general secretary and state party in-charge Bhupendra Yadav, and state unit president Sanjay Jaiswal to Nitish’s residence at 1, Aney Marg. The meeting between Nadda and Nitish lasted for around 40 minutes and assumes significance in the backdrop of the ongoing tussle between the chief minister’s Janata Dal United (JDU) and the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP). Sources in the BJP said that the party was looking to contest an equal number of seats to the JDU, which will be in tandem with the 2019 Lok Sabha elections when the two parties fought on 17 seats each, leaving six for the LJP. “Several of our party leaders have been demanding since last year that we must contest an equal number of seats to the JDU in the state elections. We allowed the JDU to do so in the last Lok Sabha po-lls and it should now return the favour. It is as simple as that,” a senior BJP leader said on the condition of anonymity. “Of course our party president Nadda will take the final call on seat-sharing, but the negotiations have started. The two parties could contest on 100 seats each, leaving 43 seats to be shared between the LJP and Jitan Ram Manjhi’s Hindustani Awam Morcha Secular (HAMS). This formula will be a win-win one, and will keep everybody happy,” the BJP leader added. However, JDU sources said that Nitish is not comfortable with the idea and wishes to replicate the ratio of seats contested by the two parties in the 2010 Assembly polls in which they fought together because the NDA had swept the polls by winning 206 out of the total 243 seats. Back then, the JDU had fielded candidates on 141 seats while the BJP contested on 102 seats. This pegs the ratio at 1.4 to 1, and Nitish wants the seat sharing to be done in the same manner, while leaving some seats for the LJP and the HAMS. A senior JDU leader said that Nitish is wary of contesting on an equal number of seats because the strike rate of the BJP was better in the 2010 polls. It had won 91 out of 102 seats, a success rate of around 90 per cent, while the JDU clinched 115 seats out of 141 — a strike rate of 82 per cent. “Suppose the two parties contest on an equal number of seats and the BJP wins more. It could cause problems regarding who would be the chief minister. Moreover, the top BJP leaders, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah and Nadda have always asserted that the polls would be fought under the leadership of Nitish, but have refrained from saying even once that he will be the next chief minister,” the JDU leader told The Telegraph. In fact, Nadda, while launching his party’s Atamnirbhar Bihar campaign focusing on economic, social and cultural uplift of the rural people, iterated: “The alliance of BJP, JDU and LJP will contest the polls under the leadership of Nitish Kumar and emerge victorious.” Meanwhile, LJP chief Chirag Paswan told mediapersons on Saturday that his party would stand with “whatever decision the BJP takes”. “I have no differences with the JDU, and raised issues related to development because I am a public representative,” he said. Chirag’s words lend credibility to the thoughts of a section of JDU leaders that there could be a situation after the polls in which he may object to Nitish becoming the chief minister again.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-672
13-09-2020||India||IIT Bhubaneswar students get offers after internship||The first flush of pre-placement offers handed out to IIT Bhubaneswar students point to a very encouraging placement season this year, the institution has said. As many as 160 BTech students received offers, according to officials. Companies make pre-placement offers based on the performance of candidates who have interned with them. Many companies like Microsoft, DeShaw, Goldman Sachs, GEP Solutions, etc, use this route more as it helps them gauge candidates better over longer periods of time and in real work situations, IIT Bhubaneswar said in a release. IIT director Prof. R.V. Raja Kumar said, “The premier institute has seen a surge in PPOs this year with the offers received already equalling last year’s total offers and is sure to surpass. Offers as high as 43 LPA (lakh per annum) CTC have already been made. Majority of them are core industries and are wide ranging indicating a healthy trend.” “The average salary offered is Rs 15.8 lakh per annum, which is a sharp increase of 34 per cent over the last year,” an official said. Around 51 per cent students are getting jobs in core engineering fields. Students have also got offers from the analytics sector (8 per cent), IT sector (32 per cent) and consulting (9 per cent). IIT Bhubaneswar also claimed the placements are even better than some of the senior IITs, which is a testimony to the standards of education at the Odisha institute. “The final-year students are all gearing up for the upcoming placement season at IIT Bhubaneswar which is scheduled to start from October 31 via online mode owing to the Covid-19 restrictions,” an official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-673
13-09-2020||India||Nudge to Naveen on health schemes||Union petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan has urged Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik to implement the National Digital Health Mission (NDHM) and Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana in the state. Earlier, the Odisha government was opposed to Ayushman Bharat and had claimed that the scheme would not serve the people of the state well. In fact, Odisha had introduced its own health scheme, Biju Swasthya Kalyan Yojana, prior to the 2019 general elections. In a letter to the chief minister, Pradhan said, “NDHM leverages the transformative power of e-governance by introducing the concept of a unique healthcare ID for every citizen in India. The UHID (Unique Healthcare ID) will be a repository of all health-related information of a person such as medical tests, previous prescriptions, diagnosis, all historical health records.” Pradhan, who is from Odisha, maintained that the UHID would liberate citizens from the challenges of finding doctors in different locations, seeking appointment, payment of consultation fee, making several visits for prescription, etc, and it will empower them to take informed decisions for availing the best possible healthcare services. In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, the nationwide portability of the UHID will greatly benefit migrant workers who will be able to digitally access all their health records anywhere in the country while seeking medical treatment. “NDHM will not only improve the efficiency, effectiveness and transparency of health delivery service in the country but will also be a major stride towards the achievement of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goal 3.8 of universal health coverage, including financial risk protection,” Pradhan said. Citing that the NDHM will be implemented by National Health Authority, the apex central government agency responsible for the implementation of the Ayushman Bharat scheme, Pradhan said it will offer maximum benefit to states when integrated with the Jan Arogya Yojana. “Ayushman Bharat Yojana is a game changer and an opportunity to serve the poor. The scheme seeks to cover 50 crore beneficiaries in the country, including 60 lakh beneficiaries from Odisha,” Pradhan said. He also urged Patnaik to “extend whole-hearted support” to the implementation of the NDHM, which will provide timely and efficient access to inclusive, affordable, and safe healthcare to the people of Odisha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-673
13-09-2020||India||Odisha allows retail sale of Covid drugs||The Odisha government on Saturday allowed retail sale of drugs being used for the treatment of Covid-19. A detailed notification to this effect was issued by the Directorate of Drugs Control, Odisha. The notification said fevipiravir tablet and remdesivir injectable formulation will be sold under the prescription from medical specialists only. According to the notification, informed consent of the patient or his representative in the prescribed form is mandatory before initiating the treatment. “The drug will be made available to the patient/his representative only through in-house retail chemists attached to hospitals/nursing homes having valid drug licenses,” it said. It added that in no case remdesivir is to be sold directly to any patient or his representative. The retail chemist shop will retain a mandatory photocopy of the prescription, photocopy of the written consent of the patient or his/her representative, residential proof of the purchaser and his/her contact details before the supply of the medicines as a record for verification in addition to fulfilment of other conditions under the Drugs and Cosmetics Rules. “Where there is no in-house retail chemist shop in the hospital/nursing home, the local drugs inspector will identify one or more retail chemist shops through whom the drugs will be made available,” the notification said. The retail chemist will have to furnish details of purchase or sale of the above drugs to the respective range drugs inspector on a weekly basis.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-673
13-09-2020||West Bengal||‘TMC graft’ complaint by Trinamul||Some Trinamul supporters in Rashidabad panchayat under Harishchandrapur I block have lodged a complaint with the BDO accusing the head of the Trinamul-run panchayat and a member of demanding money from them to link their Aadhaar numbers with their bank accounts. This linking is necessary for villagers to avail the benefits of a government housing scheme. Trinamul supporters like Sahanara Parvin, Samsuddin and some others said that the complaint against Pushpa Rabidas, the pradhan, and Ekramul Haque, a member, was necessary to “end corruption of some panchayat members of the party.” “We were told we have to pay Rs 3,000 each to the pradhan and to some others if we want to avail benefits of the housing scheme,” said Sahanara. Rabidas and Haque have denied the charges. “A section of party workers are making deliberate attempts to tarnish the party’s image. We suspect they have wrong intentions,” said Rabidas. Such complaints from the ruling party leaders against their party colleagues have become a regular feature in the district. In Old Malda block, a former head of a Trinamul run Mangalbari panchayat, has accused Suraiya Bibi, the present pradhan of the panchayat, of siphoning off funds meant for government projects. In Kaliachak-II block, Trinamul members of Gangaprasad panchayat have accused the pradhan who is from the same party, for issuing tenders of over 49 lakhs by violating all regulations. “Aminul Islam, the pradhan, even kept elected members of the party in dark before issuing the tenders. Such corrupt practices by him have been quite common,” said a dissident elected member Motiur Rahaman. Such allegations from different parts of the district have left the district leaders  perturbed. “Trinamul never supports such corruption. But none has the right to malign the party as well. If anyone senses some corruption, he should bring it to our leaders so that we can conduct an internal probe. If the corruption is found, the accused would be summarily expelled. But if not, the complainant will have to face necessary steps,” said Dulal Sarkar, a coordinator of Malda district Trinamul.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-376
13-09-2020||West Bengal||Open state-owned libraries for dusting: Bengal government||The Bengal government has ordered all state-owned libraries to open their establishments at least once every fortnight, the decision coming in the wake of reports that rare old books and centuries-old manuscripts on toddy palm leaves were getting damaged without maintenance. All the 2,480 libraries in the state — of which 13 are government-run, 2,460 government-sponsored and seven state-aided — have been closed ever since the Covid-induced lockdown was imposed in March. Several libraries have rare collections like Vaishnav Padabali, Chandimangal and books on ayurveda, philosophy, logic, grammar, poems, verses on epics. “Nabadwip Public Library has 450 manuscripts while Krishnagar Public Library’s count is around 150. Lalgola MN Academy Library, Kandi Ramendra Sunder Tribedi library and Murshidabad District Library have good collections of old manuscripts. These libraries have a rich collection of old books suffering from lack of maintenance,” a senior librarian in Hooghly said. Sanjit Dutta, a retired librarian in Krishnagar, said regular cleaning was a must to reduce insects, abrasion and acid degradation. “Most libraries are on public thoroughfares that lead to rapid accumulation of dust and dirt in books. This requires books to be cleaned with soft cloth. Vacuum cleaners are useful too. Formalin and pesticides need to be sprayed to kill insects,” he said. Krishnagar Public Library, inaugurated in 1856, is a treasure trove of old books and manuscripts that employees say need regular cleaning against dust and insects. “The library has a special archive of about 150 old and invaluable books. These include rare books like the 1815 edition of The History of Rome by Thomas Arnold, Himalayan Journals by Joseph Dalton Hooker (1854), An Indian Journalist by Sambhu C. Mookerjee (1895), History of Brahmo Samaj by Sibnath Sastri (1911), and History of Aurangzib by Jadunath Sarkar (1912),” an employee said, and added that the library was opened on Saturday for cleaning. Libraries, he said, would continue to stay out of bounds for readers because of existing Covid protocols. The order to open libraries to maintain books and old manuscripts was issued earlier this week but many fear the long closure since March might have adversely affected the collections. They rued the delay in the order though a resolution to open libraries for maintenance had been adopted at an internal meeting of the directorate of library services on August 12. A librarian in North 24-Parganas said: “The absence of light and air for long periods causes immense damage to old books and manuscripts. It is pathetic that our officials took about six months to realise the need to dust books.” Mrityunjay Mitra, officer on special duty at the directorate of library services, refused to acknowledge any delay in the order. “We have local managing committees monitoring the condition since long for which no such order is required,” he said, but admitted that “a specific order does help”. Some librarians took special permission from local authorities to clean books before the government order. “Lack of light, air and daily cleaning lead to dust and moisture gathering on books. This can be disastrous for old books. So we persuaded the authorities to let us open the library for cleaning,” said Sachindranath Mandal, a librarian in Murshidabad district. Most libraries waited for the government to issue a formal order on cleaning. , the lack of staff because of lockdown made it difficult for most libraries to carry out cleaning jobs. “The government should have issued this order for fortnightly cleaning much earlier to avoid any damage to books,” retired librarian Sanjit Dutta said. Shamik Roy Burman, a librarian in North 24-Parganas, said: “As the government has finally issued the order, we will open the library on Monday for cleaning. We are keeping our fingers crossed about the condition of the books.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-376
13-09-2020||West Bengal||Binay Tamang sets tidy-up task with cash prize||Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (GJM) chief Binay Tamang on Saturday asked residents of Darjeeling, Kurseong, Kalimpong and Mirik towns to carry out cleanliness drives in their wards and across civic areas as a preparation to welcome tourists to the hills after a six-month gap. Tamang, speaking at a meeting in Tukvar on the outskirts of Darjeeling town, said: “There are indications that tourists will start coming to the hills from next month. Hotels would open up across the hills. Keeping this in view, I request residents of all the civic wards of these four towns to start the cleanliness drive. The drive would continue till September 27, that is, till the World Tourism Day.” Tamang said that his party would hand over cash rewards — of Rs 20,000, Rs 15,000 and Rs 10,000 — to ward committees of the top three wards of each municipality based on their performance in this clean-up drive. “There will be a panel of judges who will confidentially make the assessment,” he said. In the hills, there are 32 wards in Darjeeling, 20 in Kurseong and 23 in Kalimpong civic area. Mirik, upgraded into subdivisional headquarters by the Mamata Banerjee government a few years back, has nine wards. The prod from Tamang to keep the hill towns clean for tourists is seen as a confidence-building measure by those associated with the tourism sector. Earlier efforts by the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA) to invite tourists to the hills didn’t yield desired results as some local people opposed tourist inflow because of the pandemic situation. This made tourist stakeholders from different segments hold extensive talks. Last week the administrations of Darjeeling and Kalimpong issued notifications that hotels could run with proper health safety protocols. “By announcing the cleanliness drive, Binay Tamang seems to have tried to pass the missive to the hill residents that they should welcome tourists and simultaneously try to keep their areas clean. Collective participation of residents of civic areas in the drive will also give a message to those who intend to visit the hills and boost the morale of those associated with travel trade,” said a Darjeeling hotelier. At the meeting, Tamang also said he had taken the initiative to get the statue of the Gorkha soldier re-installed atop the Gorkha Rang Mancha Bhawan in Darjeeling town. In 2014, the statue had been removed from the Bhawan. “I have sent separate letters to the chairman of the BoA and principal secretary of the GTA for re-installing the Gorkha soldier’s statue at Gorkha Rang Manch Bhawan. The statue is the symbol of bravery of our soldiers. I have requested that the re-installation should be done on October 2, the birth anniversary of the Father of the Nation,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-376
13-09-2020||West Bengal||Accused of hooch trade by husband, woman held||A middle-aged “entrepreneur” was arrested from her home in a North 24-Parganas village on Saturday after her husband filed a complaint with the police alleging that she sold illicit country liquor. Police sources said the accused Minati Biswas, 50, was arrested from her home in Khasbalanda Bansbati village of Haroa on Saturday morning after her husband Jagabandhu Biswas, 55, lodged a complaint with the police. The cops also seized 40 litres of country liquor from her. Minati was produced before the ACJM court in Basirhat on Saturday and remanded to five days’ jail custody. Jagabandhu had in his complaint also accused his wife of physically torturing him because he had dared to raise his voice against her illegal liquor trade. Jagabandhu, a farmer by profession, said: “It became unbearable for me. I have been trying to discourage her from continuing the illegal trade for a couple of years now. But, she continued to be desperate and did not hesitate to unleash torture on me (for opposing her). I refused to give in to her torture and enjoy her wrongly earned money. It was a painful decision, but I had no option”. Residents have welcomed the arrest and praised Jagabandhu for his “stern action” — not hesitating to lodge a police complaint against his wife. “The woman had been polluting the social environment in our neighbourhood,” a neighbour of the couple said. “Customers who used to visit the couple’s home for liquor often created a nuisance in our locality. We had on a number of occasions requested the woman to stop selling liquor. But, she did not bother to pay any heed to our requests as well as that of her husband who was always vocal against her business,” the neighbour added. The villagers also alleged police inaction against Minati since she has been in the illegal trade for the past couple of years. “The police were well aware of her business but never bothered to take action. We apprehend she had a close nexus with police and influential people,” another neighbour of the couple alleged. An officer of Basirhat district police praised Jagabandhu’s decision of complaining against his wife. However, the policeman also dismissed the allegations of a nexus between the local police and the accused. “There was no complaint against her on earlier occasions. We acted with alacrity once the complaint was lodged on Saturday,” the officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-376
13-09-2020||West Bengal||North Bengal University bribe-for-marks case ||Authorities of North Bengal University (NBU) on the outskirts of Siliguri have filed a complaint with Matigara police on Saturday against the teacher of Siliguri College who purportedly demanded money from an undergraduate student in exchange of good marks in her final exams. An audio clip — reportedly  the conversation between the accused teacher of political science and the girl student — had surfaced on the Internet a couple of days back. In the conversation, the teacher is apparently heard saying to the girl that she needs to pay him Rs 10,000, and in turn, he would help her in getting good marks in her exams. He allegedly claimed to have connections with some staff of the varsity with whose help he can get the work done. On Friday, the girl had filed a complaint with the college authorities. “We have heard the audio clip. The vice-chancellor (Subires Bhattacharyya) is utterly disappointed...and has instructed us to take appropriate steps. Accordingly, we have filed a complaint with the police on Saturday,” Dilip Sarkar, the registrar of NBU. The registrar added that they wanted the police to find out the authenticity of the audio clip and if so whether anybody else was involved in such alleged malpractices. Along with the complaint, the varsity has also handed over the audio clip and some other documents to the police for investigation. It has also been decided that the accused teacher would be kept away from all activities related to exams conducted by the varsity and the colleges affiliated to it. The teacher, who was one of the observers of the NEET exam to be held on Sunday in Siliguri, has been relieved from duty. “After the accusations, it has been decided that he won’t be put on observer’s duty during NEET. A number of guardians of students who will appear in the exam also urged that the teacher be kept away from the duty,” said a source. On Monday, sources said, the governing body members of Siliguri College will meet to discuss the issue. Ranjan Sarkar, the Darjeeling (plains) district Trinamul president, went to NBU on Saturday and submitted a memo to the registrar, urging him for an internal inquiry. Trinamul Chhatra Parishad held a sit-in demonstration in front of Siliguri College, seeking steps against the teacher.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-377
13-09-2020||West Bengal||Track the truck, run a check on driver, Haldia transporters told||The East Midnapore district administration has mandated GPS tracking systems and driver background checks for all private transporters operating around 6,500 heavy vehicles daily in the industrial town of Haldia. The decision was taken earlier this week following a meeting between the administration, police, and representatives of transporters’ association who acknowledged the need to install GPS tracking systems and run background checks of drivers. Reason: at least 20 cases of hijackings of heavy vehicles — with cargo including cooking and industrial oil — occur every year in Haldia. And now, the pandemic has given rise to a fresh problem. Drivers infected with Covid-19 can easily go traceless minus a background check or GPS tracking. The need for background checks of drivers was felt in June when authorities in Haldia could not contact trace several Covid-19 positive persons who had driven in vehicles from elsewhere. But the major reason for wanting to run background checks of drivers remains the thefts of trucks and tankers. “Last week, a diesel tanker carrying 12,000 litres of oil from Cooch Behar was hijacked by a man posing as a hitchhiker on NH41 near Nandakumar (a town in East Midnapore near Haldia), who later stabbed and ejected the unsuspecting driver,” said a transporters’ association source. “The truck was found in West Midnapore and the load recovered. In most cases, even if vehicles are found, the cargo is stolen.” Sources said tankers plying for cooking and industrial oil companies based in Haldia were most prone to hijacking threat. Roughly 6,500 trucks leave Haldia a day with loads meant for other states and international locations, including Nepal and Bhutan. Police sources said equipping tankers with advanced GPS technology would cost Rs 5,000 per vehicle. “We had a plan to install advanced anti-hijacking technology since mid-2015, when cases of hijackings were on the rise. Measures at that time were not substantial, so we are satisfied with decisions taken at this week’s meeting,” said Haldia SDPO Tanmay Mukherjee. GPS trackers will be fixed to theft-proof locations of vehicles’ undercarriages, he said. “Transporters will be mandated to conduct background checks via Aadhaar,” he added. Asked, Haldia transporters’ association secretary Rangalal Barik said they would look into the measures immediately and agreed on “the need for advanced GPS technology” to track vehicles.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-377
13-09-2020||West Bengal||Trinamul MLA among 3,161 new Covid cases in Bengal||Trinamul’s Pandaveswar MLA Jitendra Tiwari on Saturday tested positive for Covid-19, along with two of his aides, to become part of the 3,161 new cases detected in the 24-hour window till Saturday 9am. On Saturday, Bengal also reported 3,042 recoveries and 59 deaths, of which 12 died in Calcutta and 16 in North 24-Parganas. Tiwari, 46, also the Asansol mayor, had been a part of the 45-minute session in the Assembly on Wednesday, where chief minister Mamata Banerjee was present along with many in her cabinet and hundreds of legislators, staff members and journalists. The MLA is among over 20 sitting members of the Assembly who have so far been infected with Covid-19, half from the ruling party. “He became symptomatic a couple of days ago with fever. He got tested yesterday (Friday). Because he is only mildly symptomatic now, he is on self-isolation,” said a source in the government. “We are carrying out contact-tracing and alerting everyone. Some of those in the party and in the government who came in close contact with him have already gone on self-isolation,” the source added. On Wednesday, Jalangi’s Congress-backed CPM MLA Abdur Razzak Mandal — who defected to Trinamul last year — and a security guard assigned to him had tested positive in the Assembly. The pandemic infected at least four members of the Bengal state cabinet, including ministers Jyotipriya Mullick, Sujit Bose, Swapan Debnath and Soumen Mahapatra. The pathogen also claimed the lives of CPM veteran and former transport minister Shyamal Chakraborty, Trinamul’s Egra MLA Samaresh Das and Falta MLA Tamonash Ghosh. The state’s total case count now is over 1.99 lakh, of which 1.72 lakh are recoveries and 3,887 are deaths. Bengal’s recovery rate now is 86.26, substantially better than the 77.88 per cent national rate. But the state’s mortality rate is 1.94 per cent, worse than the national rate of 1.65 per cent. As of Saturday, the state government reported 3,333 or 85.7 per cent as deaths with comorbidity “present”. The state logged a new high of 47,131 tests on Saturday, which took the total past 24 lakh, to 24,22,740 tests, at 26,919 tests per million people. From early February, Bengal took over three-and-a-half months to conduct 1 lakh tests. Over the next three-and-a-half months, it conducted over 23 lakh tests. “In just 12 days of September so far, we conducted over 5.35 lakh tests. We have, on an average, been conducting a lakh tests every two days now,” said a minister. Steady rise in tests, coupled with relatively lower cases being found, has improved the positive confirmation rate after August 23, from 8.9 to 8.23 per cent. A decreasing positive confirmation rate indicates reducing levels of Covid-19 spread. The state reported 32.98 per cent occupancy of 12,675 Covid-19 beds in 92 hospitals. Telemedicine services have been given to over 2 lakh, 4,213 of them in the past 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-377
13-09-2020||West Bengal||CPM to host examinees in Nadia’s Kalyani||Frontal outfits of the CPM in Nadia’s Kalyani have enlisted 150 homes of party workers to host examinees — and their guardians — arriving from faraway places to the university town for competitive exams, starting with JEE Advanced on September 27. The CPM women’s wing, SFI, DYFI and Citu decided to take up the task after it was discovered that a large number of candidates in Bengal could not take the JEE Main over transport and accommodation problems. The party has taken help of social media platforms to tell people about its initiative to offer accommodation to competitive exam aspirants. “The problems that students faced during the JEE Main led us to conceive the plan. We want to be with the students who would reach Kalyani for JEE Advanced on September 27. Our initiative will address the problem of examinees, particularly those from financially weaker sections. Our initiative will continue till suburban train services resume and hotels are allowed to book guests to capacity,” said a CPM insider. Sumit De, CPM’s Nadia district secretary, said they wanted students to appear in exams “without tension”. CPM’s Kalyani area committee member Dibyendu Bhattacharya said they had identified 150 houses of party activists with extra rooms. “In such houses, candidates and their guardians will be offered accommodation on twin-sharing basis. In case the number of candidates increases, we will enlist more homes. Students who find it difficult to return home immediately after exam will be allowed to stay back for the night,” he said. On Covid protocol, he said thermal scanning and necessary sanitisation steps would be adopted before the students enter the homes. He added food would be provided to the guests by volunteers at a nominal price. Financially weaker students will get free food. “We have formed a team of 50 volunteers consisting of members of the SFI, DYFI, Citu and the CPM women’s wing. They will be taking care of the students and guardians from a day ahead of the exam till the time they leave. A number of examinations will be held in the town in the coming months and if the pandemic continues we will continue with our service,” Bhattacharya, who is also Citu’s district committee member, said. “The party will arrange free transport at many points in the town for examinees.” The Kalyani home of Abanti Goswami, a professor in economics at Surendranath College in Calcutta and a CPM sympathiser, is among the homes that will host students. “This is a much-needed initiative to help students in this pandemic so that they can appear in the tests without mental burden,” Goswami said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-377
13-09-2020||North East||Chinese army hands over Arunachal youths||Chinese troops on Saturday handed over five youths from Arunachal Pradesh’s Upper Subansiri district, who had strayed across the Line of Actual Control, to the Indian Army at Kibithu in Anjaw district, the third such handover this year. Tezpur-based defence PRO Lt Col Harsh Wardhan Pande announced the handover, adding that the five youths will be sent home after 14 days of quarantine according to Covid-19 norms. The youths from Nacho circle, who had “inadvertently strayed” into China on September 2 during a hunting trip, will be quarantined at Kibithu, around 8km from the LAC. Kibithu is a 3-4 days’ journey from Nacho. Pande said the people of the frontier state were fond of exploring the nature for medicinal herbs and possess traditional flair for hunting which involves surviving off the land for weeks in jungles and far-flung remote areas, claiming that this could have led to the youths landing up in the neighbouring country. India is presently engaged in a tense border standoff with China in eastern Ladakh. “During such adventurous forays, at times youth have inadvertently strayed to the other side of the LAC. Indian Army has always been proactive in tracing the lost locals and helping them return home,” Pande said. The youths went missing from the Sera 7 border point near the LAC, about 10-12 days’ trek from Nacho. The 1,080km-long India-China border is porous and disputed. Twelve districts of Arunachal Pradesh share borders with China. Upper Subansiri was one of the districts affected during the1962 India-China war. China claims the frontier state as part of South Tibet. Pande said three incidents of people straying across the LAC took place this year in Upper Subansiri and West Siang districts, including the latest one. “All such individuals were brought back home safely after consistent efforts and coordination by Indian Army in the past,” he said, adding that the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) of China had confirmed on September 8 that the youths were found on their side. Union minister of state Kiren Rijiju and Arunachal Pradesh chief minister Pema Khandu thanked the army for its active role in ensuring the safe return of the youths. Tagin Cultural Society secretary-general Lardik Kare and Prakash Ringling, elder brother of one of the youths, also thanked the state government, local MLA and MP (Rijiju) for their support in securing the release of the boys. They also thanked the Chinese troops for releasing the youths. “I want to thank the army , the Centre, state government and also the Chinese troops for the safe return of our brothers. I thank the Chinese for their gesture,” Ringling said. While the Indian Army said the youths had strayed into the Chinese side, Global Times, a tabloid published by China’s ruling Communist Party’s People’s Daily, tweeted, “Five Indians ‘missing’ in south Tibet region are India’s intelligence personnel disguised as hunters: source.” In a report, Global Times, quoting a source, said the youths recently trespassed the border and entered the Shannan prefecture of Tibet. “The Indian side often sends staff via this means to gather intelligence of China. This is how it encroaches China-controlled areas. The Chinese side has detained, warned and educated the five persons, who will be released soon, the source said,” the report said. Army sources responded to the claim by saying why the youths were released if they were indeed intelligence personnel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-45
13-09-2020||Opinion||Blond on blond||Over the last week, the British government has made it clear that it plans to unilaterally modify the Withdrawal Agreement it signed with the European Union. Briefly, the Northern Ireland Protocol in the agreement specifies that goods shipped from Britain to Northern Ireland are subject to customs checks to ensure they conform to EU regulations. This is important because otherwise there would have to be customs checks along a hard border between Northern Ireland and the Irish Republic. It would undo the achievement of the Good Friday agreement: a borderless island, at peace with itself. Boris Johnson has now tabled a law that would give it the right to waive customs checks and duties without reference to the EU in the event of no deal. His government acknowledges that this would be a breach of international law but argues that it is essential to preserve British sovereignty. How is this local European squabble relevant for the rest of the world? Johnson’s infringement of international law is trivial in itself but revealing in a historical way. Britain and the United States of America designed the norms and institutions of the world order after the Second World War. Much of the pearl-clutching by Johnson’s critics, within the Conservative Party and outside it, has been provoked by the spectacle of Great Britain, the inventor of modern international law, explicitly reneging on its international obligations. They are appalled by the reputational cost of this move, by the practical damage in terms of other trade treaties that Britain hopes to negotiate but most of all by the loss of the moral high ground in international affairs. Britain’s global edge has always been its talent for first writing the letter of the law and then finding the words to stay on the right side of it. Put another way, Britain’s genius for sublimating self-interest into legal, political or economic principle has been the envy of the world for two centuries. This is why Johnson’s cheerful owning of illegality is properly demystifying. From the Opium Wars of the 1840s, through the unequal treaties imposed on subordinated countries, down to the invasion of Iraq, the Anglosphere has successfully spun gunboat diplomacy into international law and illegal invasions into just wars. When I studied modern Chinese history at university in the Seventies, the standard textbooks had titles and chapter headings that set the subordination of China in a modernizing frame. When Britain forced Indian opium upon China, it did so in the name of free trade. ‘Tradition and transformation’ and the ‘opening of China’ told a story in which Western gunships figured as China’s unlikely bridge to modernity. The international order, free trade, the rule of law — the ability to use these mantras to the Anglosphere’s advantage was predicated on political, military and economic hegemony. The rise of Johnson and Trump and their explicitly rule-breaking brand of politics is significant as a symptom of a shift in the global balance of power. The outrage about Johnson’s move suggests that walking away from solemnly signed international agreements is unprecedented. This is unhistorical and untrue. Two years ago, Donald Trump withdrew the US from the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action, otherwise known as the Iran Nuclear Deal. This was a deal, which had the imprimatur of the five permanent members of the United Nations security council, plus Germany and the EU. The monitoring mechanism of the deal certified repeatedly that Iran had complied with its obligations but Trump declared that the deal was ‘horribly’ lopsided and walked away from it. The other signatories made plaintive noises but did nothing to buy Iranian oil or ease the punitive impact of Trump’s harsh sanctions. Having reneged on the agreement, the US insisted that Iran was bound by it and even tried to bully the UN into imposing sanctions. This provoked nothing like the indignation occasioned by Johnson’s nibbling at the Withdrawal Agreement. And if the withdrawal from the JCPOA is justified as it sometimes is on the grounds that it hadn’t been ratified by Congress, it’s worth remembering that the US withdrew from the Senate-ratified ABM treaty because George W. Bush wanted a shiny new missile that its terms forbade. Johnson’s re-writing of the withdrawal treaty provoked outrage for two reasons. First, owning the illegality of the new law was seen as an unforced error by his British critics. In their view, Johnson should have found a form of words, a fig leaf, to deflect the charge of law-breaking. The second reason for outrage was that Great Britain was doing this to a bloc of other European countries; not China or Iran or Mauritius. Boris’s unilateralism, his two fingers at the EU, was outrageous because he was blowing off Western trading partners. Had he done something similar to Turkey or India, there would be some tut-tutting because dispensing with necessary hypocrisy is always deemed unwise, but no one would be talking about a fatal blow to Britain’s standing in the world. We don’t have to speculate about the likely difference in reaction; there are concrete examples available. So long as China didn’t threaten the economic or technological supremacy of the US, the Western world and its public opinion were happy to acquiesce in the rise of China as the world manufactory. The moment China became a real rival and incubated hardware and software behemoths of its own like Huawei and Byte Dance, the rhetoric of free trade and global capitalism was binned and Trump intervened to blunt China’s 5G advantage and to force a distress sale of TikTok so that Microsoft or Oracle could buy it cheap. It is not a coincidence that Britain and the US today are defined by Johnson’s Brexit and Trump’s project to make America great again. Their explicit hostility to international obligations that constrain their populist agendas is a function of decline. Their countries never wholly recovered from the Great Recession and the continuing rise of China over the past dozen years prompted them to disengage from an international order that they no longer dominated. Their shambolic response to Covid-19 and its spread was the coup de grâce. Trump’s withdrawal from the WHO in the wake of the pandemic, accusing it of whitewashing China, and Johnson’s pursuit of a hard, no-deal Brexit are the latest examples of this increasingly disorderly disengagement. It is clarifying that these two men should preside over this time of Western decadence. Johnson is a clown and Trump a huckster, but their narcissism makes dissembling impossible. This is what the Anglosphere looks like when it’s home and not pretending: old, overwhelmingly white people, gathered around blow-dried blond fantasists who promise to turn a fading dominance into go-it-alone glory. mukulkesavan@hotmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-149
13-09-2020||Opinion||Growth pangs: a lot worse than what pundits had anticipated||The Indian economy is in the doghouse — a notion that the Narendra Modi government stubbornly refuses to acknowledge and chooses instead to sit on its hands and wait for a miraculous V-shaped recovery to emerge out of thin air sometime next year. A spate of gloomy growth forecasts in the past week has only amplified concerns over which way the country is headed even as it grapples with an ever-increasing number of coronavirus infections. Analysts at global brokerages and credit rating agencies have scurried to revise their forecasts for real gross domestic product growth this fiscal after the National Statistical Office put out the official estimate on the last day of August that showed a contraction of 23.9 per cent in the first quarter that ended June 30. This was a lot worse than the pundits had anticipated. It should have set the alarm bells ringing in Delhi; sadly, it has not. Goldman Sachs put out the worst forecast for the year when it said the Indian economy would contract by 14.8 per cent this year, sharply down from its earlier projection of 11.8 per cent made in May. The alarming official growth estimate for the first quarter has now forced the Goldman Sachs team to come out with bleak forecasts for the second and third quarters. It now reckons that the economy will shrink by 13.7 per cent in the July-September quarter and by 9.8 per cent in the October-December period against earlier forecasts of -10.7 per cent and -6.7 per cent respectively. Most of the other agencies see a double digit contraction as well: Fitch at -10.5 per cent, Moody’s at -11.5 per cent, and India Ratings and Research at -11.8 per cent. Crisil seems almost charitable with a forecast of -9 per cent this fiscal. These numbers are far worse than the International Monetary Fund’s forecast in June of -4.5 per cent. The IMF will revise India’s growth projections when it releases its next World Economic Outlook in October, which may see its views converge with the rest of the crowd. All the analysts agree on the broad reasons for the mess we are in: a very weak fiscal stimulus, the lingering impact of a severe lockdown, the fragilities in the financial system, a rising virus caseload and the surge in inflation that has throttled the effectiveness of monetary policy responses. Some reports suggest that the government is readying another package of measures that will offer big incentives to companies that move production centres to India. The hope is that this will kick-start private investment and get the wheels of the economy moving again. What we need is a strategy to increase consumption spending immediately through income support at the base of the pyramid. An investment-driven approach is a medium-term strategy that will take many quarters to play out. We need to address the present before we try to take care of the future.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-149
13-09-2020||Opinion||All eyes on Nitish-Sushil jodi as Congress does a balancing act||The senior Bharatiya Janata Party leader and deputy chief minister of Bihar, Sushil Kumar Modi, hailed the “dur-drishti (vision)” of his CM, Nitish Kumar, at an event recently. The prime minister, Narendra Modi, was launching some schemes related to the animal husbandry and fisheries sector, and speaking during the event Sushil Modi lauded Nitish. This did not go down well with a section of leaders in Delhi. Some even repudiated the veteran politician saying, “It was due to a meek leader like Sushil Modi that Nitish succeeded in subjugating the BJP.” It was even pointed out that the event was to showcase the PM’s gifts to poll-bound Bihar and many wondered about the need to shower praise on Nitish. But the CM and his deputy in Bihar share a long association; Sushil Modi has been Nitish’s deputy since 2005, barring a break of a couple of years, when the Janata Dal (United) boss snapped ties with the BJP. Nitish, who used to be firmly against Narendra Modi campaigning in Bihar for his alleged association with the Gujarat riots, would tell reporters that he already has ‘his Modi’ and doesn’t need another one. Much water has flown down Patna’s Ganga and Delhi’s Yamuna since then and some within the BJP feel that the Nitish-Sushil jodi may have to pay for their past deeds sooner or later. Whatever be the general perception about the lack of internal democracy in the Congress, the party leadership has perfected the art of political accommodation over the decades. There was a strong demand from leaders — both old and young — that the 23 members who wrote a letter to Sonia Gandhi about the drift in the party should be punished. However, the top leadership not only refused to act vindictively against them, but it also ensured they are represented in every important organ of the party. The most significant is the inclusion of Arvinder Singh Lovely, one of the signatories to that infamous letter, in the party’s central election committee. This is the body that will conduct internal elections to the post of party president and working committee, and Lovely’s presence will ensure the dissident group is aware of the processes and violations, if any. The six-member committee formed to assist Sonia includes Mukul Wasnik, one of the signatories to the letter, the top policy-making body — working committee — has three members from the group including Wasnik, Ghulam Nabi Azad and Anand Sharma. The communication department has Manish Tewari and Anand Sharma while Jitin Prasada is in the ‘in-charge’ category. Although sections of the media misread the dropping of Azad, he has been requesting Sonia to be relieved of the general-secretary assignment for years. Other ageing veterans like Motilal Vora, Ambika Soni and Mallikarjun Kharge, too, have been relieved from that taxing job. Party insiders believe that Sonia is particular about consensual politics and avoids unnecessarily antagonizing party colleagues. The reshuffle had Sonia’s stamp, although she also partially accommodated Rahul Gandhi’s wishes. The veteran politician, Sharad Pawar, came to the aid of the Shiv Sena at the right time since the demolition of the office of the actress, Kangana Ranaut, would not only have diluted the anger against her among the common people of Maharashtra but also opened a Pandora’s box in terms of illegal constructions which are rampant in Mumbai and other big cities like Pune and Nagpur. Even political parties — be it the Nationalist Congress Party or the Congress, the Shiv Sena or the BJP — would have come under scrutiny had the list of unlawful constructions come out. Although the Sena cadre was livid, Pawar tutored the CM, Uddhav Thackeray, on political warfare which is often fought with a cool mind and off the battlefield. All the three allies — NCP, Sena and Congress — see her as a pawn in the BJP’s hands, but they may now avoid a public spectacle of their animosity. The ruling BJP in Assam is banking on “chemistry” to see them through next year’s assembly polls. The national general-secretary in charge of the Northeast, Ram Madhav, and senior Assamese minister, Himanta Biswa Sarma, suggested as much in their respective speeches at the inaugural meeting of the newly-elected state executive in Guwahati last week. Dismissing the proposed alliance between the Opposition parties that is expected to mobilize the minority votes, Madhav said it is chemistry that works in politics, not arithmetic. And the BJP knows how to gel with its allies, reminding the office-bearers of the BJP’s convincing win in the 2016 polls by stitching up pre-poll alliances to end the 15-year reign of the Congress which ploughed a lonely furrow. In the remote chance that the Rashtriya Janata Dal’s Manoj Jha wins the election for the post of the Rajya Sabha deputy chairman, the Opposition may win a morale boost, but end up losing a powerful voice against the government. Jha has made his mark as a trenchant critic of not just the BJP but the sangh brand of politics. The Karnataka CM, BS Yediyurappa, always had plans for his sons. While BY Raghavendra is a Lok Sabha member, BY Vijayendra was made a vice-president of the BJP in the state last month. The Lingayat strongman who is known as a master strategist couldn’t care less about his party’s rhetoric on dynastic politics when it comes to his own family. And, he is not alone, given the number of such instances within the BJP in other states.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-149
13-09-2020||Opinion||March of time||Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) will one of these days dig up a time capsule buried on campus. The cache, meant for AMU of the future, was buried in 1877 at the time the institution was founded. In its centenary year, another capsule containing the institution’s journey thus far will be buried. A time capsule, no matter what its form and expressed intent, is at its innocent best a desire for the present to shake hands with the future. Other times, it is quite the Trojan horse sent galloping into the future to foreground one or more truths and their importance to future generations. In 1973, on the occasion of India’s Independence and 25 years of Congress rule, the then prime minister, Indira Gandhi, buried a 280-pound time capsule outside the main entrance to the Red Fort. It was meant to be unearthed 5,000 years later and had been named Kaalpatra. S. Krishnaswamy, a professor of history at Madras Christian College, put together the material. In a 1974 paper on the subject published in the journal Social Scientist, V.K. Ramachandran notes that a rough draft of the 10,000-word document was submitted to the Indian Council of Historical Research and it received “a final polish from the Ministry of Education and Social Welfare”. Soon after, a member of the politburo of the CPI(M) released contents of the document to the press. He described the time capsule as "an insult to the Indian people”. Four years later, Kaalpatra was exhumed. In 1977, the Janata Party came to power. The chairman of the Parliamentary Committee for Examination of Time Capsules feared Kaalpatra was a ploy by Mrs Gandhi to tell future generations untruths of glory about herself and her family, instead of the proposed intent. The new government ordered the capsule be dug up and its contents evaluated. The evaluation, if it happened at all, must have been disappointing, because it was never shared with the public. Jump to 2010. There is Gujarat chief minister Narendra Modi burying a time capsule under Mahatma Mandir in Gandhinagar. The Congress made noise enough as to how it was meant to be about the state’s journey but was actually about Modi and his years at the helm. And now there is talk of a time capsule being placed at the Ram Temple construction site in Ayodhya, 2,000 feet into the earth. While there have been reports of denials, Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust member Kameshwar Chaupal did say that a time capsule will enable someone interested in the temple’s history to get "only facts related to the place". Here’s hoping in some future some facts will be closer to the surface.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-149
13-09-2020||Opinion||What passes and what does not||Sometimes there seems nothing to do but look up and behold the sky. Because this earth of ours, at least what we can see of it, has become so unbearable to look at. It groans and it moves not, and it lies wracked, replete in the consequences of its remorseless wrongdoing. This earth of ours, what did we do to it? What did we beget? Who did we beget? Who we did beget has now gotten us. And what we did beget is part of the ugliness. But not all of it. We are too. And what we did to it, this earth of ours is now doing unto us. That, in short, is what this is all about. Call it revenge. Call it reprisal. Call it correction. It has come from what we did not do right. We must understand this, though at the best of times and the worst of times and the times that lie betwixt, we do not understand. Or refuse to. We must understand actions have consequences. Try spitting into the sky and wait for what happens next. Or try spitting into the ground. Oh no, no, please do not. That now is by law forbidden and it has finite financial consequences for you and infinite epidemiological consequences for others. Please don’t spit. It will pass. I promise. Not everything passes. Or promises to. The state of waking does not pass. And then when it lapses upon itself and can remain the state of waking no more, the state of stupor does not pass. One state fuses into another, dying into it, being born of it, but it does not pass. Meantime, other things pass, other things are always passing. You may think they’ve come to stand still, but be not deluded. Other things are passing, and in their passing you are passing too while it may seem, in this delusion of a standstill, that everything is still and nothing is passing. Things are passing, and you are passing too. A candle’s not a flame alone, it is the passing of wick and wax. A river isn’t water alone, it’s silt and stone in the wash. More things pass than just a flame, or just a river. Even though they do not seem to pass. When time passes, it isn’t the ticking in the clock alone; when time passes, it softens wood, and grinds the ramparts of forts. When time passes, it shifts mountains and it alters the colours of leaves. In the beginning of time, it peppered grass with the sound of its passing and you could hear grass grow and then fall silent because it was growing no longer and had fallen upon itself. That was how time passes on what it once gave the sound of singing. But that’s not where we are. All of that passed, and kept on passing, and all of that passing has brought us where we are. Where we are still saying some things pass and some things do not pass at all. And we begin to miss most of what passes and we begin to get agitated and impatient about most things that do not pass. Oh, when will this pass? When you wait upon a passing, it does not tend to pass; when you let it pass, it often does. Like a train upon a platform it was never meant to stop. Or it will come to halt and you’ll ask again, oh when will this one pass? The train you won’t take passes, the train you would does often not arrive because it awaits the passing of other trains. And so it is on platforms, some things pass and some things do not because they haven’t yet arrived. And the waiting between one and another might make you wonder again, what is it that passes and what is it that does not? And why is it that some things pass and some things pass not. Behold the sky, and wonder. The spill of cloud. The flock of geese. The swirls of dust. The trail of jet fuel. And then, forever beyond them, the unpassing vacancy we call blue. Some things pass and some do not.What we thought a cloud It turns out was a shroud And I was a deeper fool That I saw fields of cotton wool.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-149
13-09-2020||Opinion||Toy story||Sir — It could well have been a moment of frustration over Chinese transgressions or perhaps an idea whose time has come that led the prime minister to propose that India could become a toy-manufacturing hub. Few of us have thought of toys as serious business; toy-making is still largely a cottage industry whose consumers are primarily domestic. There was a time when children used their imagination to conjure up magical toys from broken odds and ends lying around the house. But as income levels went up, fancy toys filled the market. The toy market in India was worth over $1.75 billion in 2019, and is expected to grow to $3.3 billion by 2024. But most of these toys are made overseas and imported. Now that toy-making is being taken more seriously we need to focus on two important issues. The first is to create a support grid of financial, marketing and technical assistance for the toy sector. More importantly, children-friendly designs, comprehensive policies to protect children from abuse or exposure to adult content, and rigorous checks to ensure quality control for each and every toy must be put in place. India must remember that we are beginners in this niche market, and consumer safety and satisfaction will be paramount. It is thus heartening that the BIS compliance for toy manufacturers and importers or the Toys (Quality Control) Order, 2020 came into force earlier this month. But much remains to be done if India is to make its mark in the toy-making industry that is dominated by the likes of China, the United States of America and Europe. R. Narayanan Navi Mumbai Sir — At present, China dominates the Indian toy industry with a share of almost 75 per cent products sold in the country. Narendra Modi’s call to change this has brought much cheer to toy companies. But India must not follow the Chinese model blindly. Let us not forget that Chinese toys — even if one were to set aside concerns about their quality — are made overwhelmingly from plastic or other polluting substances. India, on the other hand, has a rich tradition of toys that are environment-friendly. Kaather putul, taal-paatar shipai, maatir phol ar shobji, lattu — these are just a few of the attractions that we looked forward to as children. The rather mela was the destination to procure such novelties. There was also a range of toys like the gulti, gilli danda and lagori that encouraged children to play outdoors, while other games like chaupad or chauka bara enhanced critical thinking. These, and not plastic trinkets, should be the focus of India’s toy-manufacturing initiatives. If we are to go vocal for local, we must also source our ideas and their creators locally. If undertaken seriously, this push for the toy industry could bring a lot of local artisans and craftsmen out of poverty. Currently, such indigenous toys have become collector’s items sold in high-end emporiums to tourists at cut-throat prices. But the people who actually make these toys see very little of the profit. They are cheated by middlemen and on occasion even the State of both earnings and recognition. Developing India as a toy-manufacturing hub has the potential to change this situation. A.K. Sen Calcutta Sir — A survey shows that the pandemic and an extended monsoon are costing Indians dearly. Apparently, 73 per cent households are spending more on essential items but getting less value for money than they did before the pandemic. While part of this is owing to the increased cost of fruits and vegetables owing to floods in many areas, one reason for this is also the enormous amount of food that is wasted in our kitchens every day. If we use every part of the produce we buy — peels and all — we could essentially decrease expenditure by making what we buy last longer and also avoid food shortage. Roshni Sen Calcutta Sir — It was exciting to hear that Bangladesh has lifted the ban on the export of hilsa to India. Perhaps now Bengalis will finally be able to taste the glorious fish without feeling a steep pocket pinch. Nilanjan Majumdar Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-150
13-09-2020||Jharkhand||NEET medical students happy with easy question paper||Aspiring medical students were happy with the NEET exam held on Sunday. Students were also glad that they were allowed to write their exams without masks and gloves. Disposable gloves, sanitizers, temperature check-up machines, jammers, and contactless frisking were arranged for students before they entered the centre. One student was made to sit per bench, with a two metre gap from another. The three-hour exam that began at 2 pm. Students felt the physics paper was a little more difficult than the rest, with Biology being the easiest to crack. Students felt that though the pandemic made it difficult and the exam got delayed so much, not-so-hard question paper provided some relief. A total of 720 marks is equally divided across three subjects - physics, chemistry and biology. About 3119 students appeared across four centres - DAV Public School, Bistupur; Jamshedpur Public School in Baridih; Vidya Bharati Chinmaya Vidyalaya in Telco and NSIBM campus in Pokhari near NH-33. “We were scanned before we entered, and given gloves and masks. But thankfully the authorities allowed us to write without masks and gloves. Or else it would have been really difficult in this humidity. After so much speculation, we were happy to finally appear for the exam and happier to see an easy paper,” said Smriti Keetan, a student who wrote the exam at Vidya Bharati Chinmaya Vidyalaya. Another student, Hansraj Gupta, said, “I felt physics was difficult but the rest of the paper was easy. I think the students were happier because they could answer the exam. Though a section of students were unhappy and had protested, how long can we stay indoors?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-301
13-09-2020||Jharkhand||Myanmarese national escapes from high-security Hazaribagh jail||A Myanmarese national lodged in the high-security Loknayak Jai Prakash Narayan Central Jail in Hazaribagh managed to escape on Sunday by breaking the window rods of the bathroom. The borders of the district have been sealed and police in other districts have been alerted to nab Mohammad Abdulla. Abdulla jumped out from the window and walked out of the campus before an alarm could be sounded. According to jail sources, Abdulla was caught by the railway protection authorities in 2017 while he was travelling with two of his associates, Jahed Hussain and Mohammd Javed, without passport and visa. The three are from Myanmar’s Buthidaung. He was sent to the Hazaribagh jail from Dumka after three years of imprisonment on January 24. On the instructions of inspector-general (prison), a detention centre for illegal migrants declared foreigners by court was set up in January, and Abdulla was lodged there along with his associates and a Bangladeshi national. Jail superintendent Kumar Chandrashekar said Abdulla and the others had completed their court-mandated sentence. He said as Myanmar and Bangladesh had failed to take them back, a detention centre was established on the jail campus after which they were shifted to it. Officials refused to comment on Abdulla’s escape from the facility where hardened criminals and extremists are lodged. Karthik said Abdulla’s photograph had been shared with police stations of the district and efforts were on to arrest him.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-302
13-09-2020||Jharkhand||Angling club members hope to resume activities in October||Jamshedpur Angling Club (JAC) has is planning to release fish fries into Beldih and Bara lakes later this month to revive fish stock in the hope of resuming their activities next month if and when Jubilee park is reopened. Sources within the JAC revealed that fish stock at both Beldih Lake in Dhatkidih and Bara Lake near Sidhgora is fast depleting. “Some fish died at the Beldih lake last month under mysterious circumstances. It is necessary to maintain the fish stock as angling activity was likely to take place next month,” one of the sources said. The fish fries will be procured from Ramsagar in Bankura district of Bengal. Fries of rui, katla and mirgal will be released into the two lakes. JAC secretary Sukumar Ghoshal confirmed that fries will be released into the two water tanks later this month. “It is time we release fries into the two water bodies. Fries weighing about a quintal each will be released into Beldih and Bara lakes,” he added. The club suspended angling activity at Beldih and Bara lakes from July in view of the pandemic. The landmark Jayanti Sarovar in Jubilee Park has been closed for nearly four months now. Ghoshal said they would shortly call a meeting to discuss their future course of action. “Transportation of the consignment of fish fries from Bengal and other related logistics would be discussed threadbare during the meeting,” he added. On when angling activities will resume, the JAC secretary said they were looking at next month but everything depended on the re-opening of Jubilee Park. “Angling would resume only after the park is re-opened. We want the activity to resume at Jayanti Sarovar first. The decision (on re-opening of the park) rests with Tata Steel utilities and Infrastructure Services Ltd (formerly Jusco). We are keeping our fingers closed,” Ghoshal said. The pandemic has already forced JAC to cancel its annual angling competition at Jayanti Sarovar held in July 29 to mark the birth anniversary of Bharat Ratna J.R.D. Tata. Club members want angling to resume at Beldih and Bara lakes at least. “We are waiting for Jubilee Park to re-open. Angling can take place at Beldih and Bara lakes next month by maintaining social distancing. I am addicted to angling and it is difficult to wait any longer. Angling can resume a fortnight after the fries are release,” said Ehtesham Khan, a member.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-302
13-09-2020||Jharkhand||JSCA creates bio-bubble at stadium ahead of T20 league||JSCA’s secretary Sanjay Sahay said the bio-bubble has been created at the stadium in adherence with Covid-19 safety protocols and they will follow strict rules for all players and match officials to minimise chances of transmission. “All officials and players will reside within the premises of the JSCA International Stadium. Only players with a negative Covid-19 test report will be allowed to play. A special committee headed by the president of JSCA has been constituted for enforcing Covid regulations. Players will have to undergo medical check-ups and thermal screening daily and a medical desk is operational round the clock,” he said. The league, which will be on till October 2, is the first one of its kind to be held in the country after the lockdown. It also hopes to set the tone for other sporting activities that have been stalled in Jharkhand since March end in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. The Jharkhand government has allowed reopening of stadiums sans spectators after announcing various unlock measures, sporting activities are yet to begin for want of standard operating procedures from the state sports department. Players for the T20 league started reporting to the stadium from Friday evening. From Saturday, practice sessions have started. The league will have six teams facing each other in 33 matches which will be streamed live on the FANCODE App from 9am-5pm. “As the tournament is played without the presence of spectators, everyone can watch the match live by downloading the FANCODE App from the Google play store for Android phones and the Apple app store for I-phones. The matches can also be seen live streamed on the web through www.fancode.com,” said Sahay, adding that the tournament is strictly for players registered from Jharkhand and there is no franchisee/team owner or prize money involved. A bio-secure environment or bio-bubble is set up to prevent the spread of Covid-19 and minimise the risk of transmission of the virus from one person to another during an ongoing tournament. It was first put to use during the West Indies’ tour of England earlier this year after the outbreak of the global pandemic. The series remained successful with no one testing positive during the event. Ahead of the upcoming Indian Premier League in UAE, the Board of Cricket Control of India will also set up bio-bubble to prevent infection.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-302
13-09-2020||Jharkhand||No sign of monsoon revival for the next three days||The ongoing dry spell is expected to continue in Jharkhand for another 72 hours or so, according to Met department forecasts. "Southwest monsoon activity was weak over Jharkhand for the last few days depriving most of the districts of rain. The situation is likely to remain same as we don't see any hope of revival of monsoon in another 72 hours, " said S.D. Kotal, director of Ranchi Meteorological Centre. The Met office director went on to say that Sunday’s chart analysis and satellite pictures suggested formation of a low-pressure zone over west central Bay of Bengal and Andhra Pradesh coast. "The system is very weak now. It is likely to gain strength after the next 72 hours. The system might help in reviving the monsoon in Jharkhand after the next 72 hours, " he explained. Statistics available from Ranchi Meteorological Centre suggested that only two IMD observatories, Deoghar and Daltonganj, recorded light rain during the past 24 hours while it was primarily dry in rest of the districts. In its sector-wise forecast, IMD's Ranchi Met Centre has issued no warning of rain. The absence of rain for the last few days has resulted in a rise in rain deficit figure in Jharkhand. The deficit witnessed a 5 per cent rise in the last four days. Figures suggest that so far Jharkhand has received rainfall of 812.3 mm against a normal of  937.8 mm, a deficit of 13 per cent. Except for Dumka, East Singhbhum, Latehar, Palamau and Ramgarh, all the other 19 districts figure in the rain deficit list. The prevailing weather also resulted in a rise in day temperatures beyond normal and discomfort index in most of the districts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-302
13-09-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad begins mandatory Covid tests at railway station ||Covid testing began at Dhanbad railway station on Sunday with two of 87 passengers who came here by the New-Delhi Howrah Rajdhani Express testing positive for the coronavirus. A joint team of Dhanbad police, Railway Protection Force and district health officials deputed on platform 1 at the station accompanied all the passengers who arrived here at 6.35 am to the first-class waiting hall of station. There, a team of officials, headed by the nodal officer of the Dedicated Covid Health Centre of Dhanbad, Dr Alok Vishwakarma, conducted tests on all 87 passengers using rapid antigen kits. The two persons who tested positive were sent to the Dedicated Covid Health Centre of Dhanbad at the railway’s zonal training institute at Bhuli in an  ambulance. Talking to The Telegraph Online today, Vishwakarma said, “It took less than 45 minutes to complete the entire process of testing. All passengers cooperated with the process. And since the two passengers had mild symptoms they were admitted to Covid health centre meant for asymptomatic patients.” The nodal officer said that tests would be carried out on passengers everyday from now. “We started with two trains, the Rajdhani and the Jodhpur Howrah Superfast Express. Gradually, we will increase the number of tests on passengers arriving at Dhanbad,” he said. Dhanbad is connected by seven trains now. These are New Delhi-Howrah Rajdhani Express, Jodhpur-Howrah Superfast Express, Secunderabad- Darbhanga Express,  Shipra Express (Indore-Howrah),  Durgiana Express (Amritsar-Howrah), Ganga Sutlej Covid Special (Dhanbad-Ludhiana),  Poorva Express (New Delhi-Howrah). In-charge of the local RPF post Avinash Karosia said, “Sunday’s testing drive was carried out smoothly and after about 45 minutes, the time taken to complete all the tests on passengers, we were back at the RPF post at 7.15 am.” In a bid to break the Covid chain, the district administration has decided to carry out intensive rapid antigen tests across localities in addition to regular tests at the station. At present, there are 400 active Covid cases in the district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-302
13-09-2020||Jharkhand||Mutation Bill 2020 grants immunity to babus, helps land mafia, says BJP||The BJP has criticized the Hemant Soren-led coalition government for trying to enact the Jharkhand Land Mutation Bill 2020, describing it as an attempt to provide immunity to revenue officials from legal consequences and making the state an easy hunting ground for land mafia. Former chief minister Babulal Marandi, addressing mediapersons at the party headquarters here on Sunday, demanded the withdrawal of the bill and threatened a major agitation by against the bill, which according to him, would facilitate land-grabbing and encourage corruption. “Section 22 of the bill clearly states that in case of any fraud in land mutation, revenue and land officials will be provided immunity from charges under civil as well as criminal laws,” said Marandi. “This law will provide protection to corrupt officials and land mafia, and be unfair on common public,” he added. The Jharkhand Cabinet on September 8 okayed the Jharkhand Land Mutation Bill 2020, which is aimed at making “jamabandi” claims online and setting up of competent authorities for settlement of claims at district level. Jamabandi contains entries regarding ownership, cultivation and up-to-date data of various rights on the land. All changes of rights coming to the notice of the revenue agency are reflected in the jamabandi Marandi said that wrongful mutation of gair majurwa land was done in different parts of Jharkhand, and many officials were working hand in glove with land mafia to forge land details and mutation. “I had addressed a letter to the chief minister highlighting the malpractices of land and revenue officials. Instead of bringing stringent rules for officials, the government decided to provide immunity to them from legal consequences,” he said. The senior BJP leader demanded stringent rules for land and revenue officials and provision of imprisonment for officials found guilty of corruption. Prior to the Cabinet decision, there was no act in the state defining mutation and settlement of land. The mutation bill 2020 has three provisions defining the mutation law in the state. As per the first provision, the online mutation of land can be done by the circle officer (CO), the deputy collector land reforms officer (DCLR) and deputy commissioner. Also, as per the provisions in case of illegal land settlement, aggrieved parties can approach additional collectors for making an appeal. The deputy commissioner can hear the appeal, while the revision can be heard by the divisional commissioner. Marandi said that the ruling JMM, Congress and RJD government may try and pass the bill in the Monsoon session of the Assembly, and the BJP would ensure that the government doesn’t succeed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-302
13-09-2020||Jharkhand||State records 75.55 per cent recoveries, 2 points less than national rate||The Covid-19 tally in Jharkhand crossed the 60,000 mark on Saturday after as many as 1,420 people were found infected by the virus in 24 hours, data released by the state health department stated. As per a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) on Saturday night, as many as 1,746 Covid patients recovered from the viral infection on the day, taking the state’s Covid recovery rate closer to the national average. The Covid recovery rate in Jharkhand was 75.55 per cent against the national recovery rate of 77.70 per cent. East Singhbhum reported the highest number of fresh cases of Coronavirus infection in Jharkhand for the second consecutive day, taking the tally in the district above 10,000. While 270 cases of infection surfaced in East Singhbhum on the day, Ranchi reported 231 cases of infection. However, both districts reported higher number of recoveries against fresh cases on Saturday, leading to a fall in their respective active cases. As per the NHM bulletin, at least 265 Covid patients recovered in Ranchi, while 306 patients overcame the virus in East Singhbhum. By Saturday night, there were 3,639 active cases of Covid infection in Ranchi, while the tally here was 12,793. In East Singhbhum, as many as 3,137 patients were battling the virus by the time this report was filed and more than 7,000 patients had recovered. Dhanbad reported 191 fresh cases of infection while 201 people were found infected in Bokaro. The number of active cases drew close to 1,000 in Dhanbad as only 57 patients recovered there. As per government data, the Covid tally crossed the 3,000 mark in Bokaro, a district that also reported two deaths on Saturday. Jharkhand’s Covid mortality rate further dropped to 0.89 per cent on Saturday after six patients, including one from Ranchi, died during treatment. East Singhbhum did not report any Covid casualty for the first time in several weeks on Saturday. The district accounts for nearly 50 per cent of the 542 Covid casualties in Jharkhand. The government on Saturday collected swab samples of 23,152 people and tested 22,238 of them. As per figures with the health department, health workers have so far collected swab samples of 13.67 lakh people and tested 13.52 lakh of them. The state has so far reported 60,460 cases of Covid infection. As per government records, as many as 45,074 Covid patients have recovered from the infection in Jharkhand, but at least 14,844 people are still undergoing treatment for the viral infection.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-302
13-09-2020||Jharkhand||123rd Saragarhi Day observed at Ramgarh Cantt||The Sikh Regimental Centre (SRC) at Ramgarh cantonment observed Saturday as the 123rd Saragarhi Day to pay respects to the 22 martyrs of the 1897 battle of Saragahi with SRC commandant Brig. M. Sri Kumar leading officers and jawans to lay wreaths at the Saragarhi Memorial. The ceremony, held every year on September 12, was followed by a function at Gurudwara Sahib. The Battle of Saragarhi was held on September 12, 1897 between the Sikh soldiers of the British raj and Afghan tribesmen.  That day, close to 24,000 Orakzai and Afridi tribesmen were seen near Gogra, at Samana Suk, and around Saragarhi, cutting off Fort Gulistan from Fort Lockhart. The Afghans attacked the outpost of Saragarhi where thousands of them surrounded the fort, preparing for a major assault. Led by Havildar Ishar Singh, the soldiers in the fort—all Sikhs _ chose to fight to the death, in what is considered by some military historians as one of the greatest last stands history.[ The post was recaptured two days later by another British Indian contingent. The Indian Army’s 4th battalion of the Sikh Regiment commemorates the battle every year on September 12 as Saragarhi Day. So does the British Army. A 40-year-old man’s body was found lying in a pool of blood on Slag Road in the densely-populated Bhuiyandih under Sitaramdera thana area on Saturday. There was no mark of injury on the body. Police recovered the body at about 10 am and sent it to the MGM Medical College Hospital for a Covid-19  test before sending it to the medical college mortuary at Dimna for a post-mortem. The police could not make out whether it is a case of murder or not. "We have seen the body meticulously and found no mark of injury on it.  But at the same time the extent of blood that oozed out from the victim's nose put us in a fix. It may be a case murder or a case of accident or something else, which can be detected only after an autopsy is done," said Sitaramdera thana OC, Anjani Kumar Singh while talking to The Telegraph Online. An official posted at the Sitaramdera thana said even if the man was killed on being assaulted by someone the incident must have taken place around midnight or at the small hours as the road remains completely deserted after midnight. But for getting a clue to the circumstances that caused the man to die, the police have started scanning CCTV cameras installed privately along Slag Road. "We are getting footage of a number of CCTV cameras scanned so that we may at least spot the man in any of the footage, if not able to see the way he died.  If the man fell victim to any criminal gang that will also come to the fore," said the Sitaramdera OC. Significantly, a 35-year-old woman who was a resident of Chhayanagar, an urban slum in Bhuiyandih, was found bludgeoned to death near Water Filtration plant on Sakchi-Mango road under Sitaramdera thana area on August 28 morning. The NDRF team on Saturday conducted a massive search operation over a stretch of 10 kms of Barakar River in Chuglo under Muffasil police station of Giridih to locate the body of a 12-year-old boy, Sujal Kumar,who drowned two days ago, but failed to find it. DC, Giridih, Rahul Kumar Sinha and SP, Amit Renu visited the spot where the child drowned. The boy, a son of a para-teacher, drowned on Thursday evening when he was bathing with his mother and other women who went to Nawataad Ghat to perform rituals on the occasion of Jitia festival. The DC said that local divers earlier attempted but failed to find the boy. Now the team of NDRF 9th Battalion has been called. The child is being searched and they will take up the search operation upto 20 km radius in the river. Every effort is being made to find the child. Altogether 57 Covid patients were discharged from six Health Centres of Dhanbad out of which 22 were dicharged from Nirsa Polytechnic Dhanbad, 13 from Sadar Hospital of Dhanbad, 11 from Regional Hospital of BCCL in Bhuli, nine from Zonal training institute of Railway at Bhuli and one each from Wedlock Greens and PMCH Cath lab. Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner, Uma Shankar Singh said that all discharged patients have been provided medical kits and asked to remain in home quarantine for next for next 1r days. Around 400 patients are undergoing treatment at different Covid Treatment facilities of Dhanbad. Dhanbad Superintendent of Rail Police, Deepak kumar Sinha has been transferred on Saturday and made SP of Jamtara. The transfer took place on Saturday along with 10 other IPS officers in the state. A team of policemen from three police stations namely Bakatha, Gorhar and Chouparan laid a trap chasing a SUV for a kilometer on GT road to nab five highway robbers. Subdivisional police officer of Barhi, Manish Kumar said after a tip off received by superintendent of police Karthik S. Three of the robbers managed to escape and two were caught. Police managed to arrest the three later. Police seized their SUV and recovered a country made pistol, hockey sticks, rods, cricket bats and five mobile phones. Kumar termed this as a big success claiming that in last few months, several such actions had sent highway robbers to jail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-302
