14-09-2020||Calcutta||A solo traveller around the world, on a bicycle||Lipika Biswas’s landing in Europe for the first time in July 2018 was with a thud. She was in Frankfurt where first the immigration officer would not believe that a woman from India was on a two-month cycling tour in Europe, alone. Then Biswas realised that no mechanic was free to help her re-assemble her bicycle, which she was lugging behind her packed in a box. But Biswas is not someone who gives up easily. Getting to Frankfurt had not been easy either. She calls herself a solo traveller. An Eastern Railways employee where she works as a senior clerk, Biswas, who turns 52 on Wednesday, had planned the Europe tour meticulously. She would bike from Germany to Iceland. With loans from friends and a very supportive family, she had managed to put together Rs 4.5 lakh for the trip, and had trained herself relentlessly, but had missed the bit about the re-assembling. In Frankfurt, she lost a day trying to get a mechanic to help her and several Euros, which would always and instantly be converted into rupees in her mind. “I paid Rs 3,500 as taxi fare in Frankfurt just to move to a new accommodation,” says Biswas, a resident of Kasba. The next day she got to work herself, going by instinct, and put together her bike, and set off for Mainz, when she also realised that she did not know how to use GPS. But the roads held her up, as she was borne by the kindness of strangers. Biswas had been a mountaineer from 1994, the year she joined the railways. She wanted to be an adventurer. She had grown up in Palta, on the outskirts of Calcutta, attending school there and college in Naihati. “I was a tomboy. I played daant-guli. No dolls for me,” says Biswas. She joined a local mountaineering club, Nababganj Mountain Lovers, and with them, as with others, “summited” several Himalayan mountain peaks. In 1995 she trekked up to Kalindi Pass, which connects Gangotri and Gastoli. Within a few years, she was a veteran. For two years, 2014 and 2015, she was part of an Everest expedition team, but on both occasions she had to return from the base camp as the expeditions were cancelled. She had always loved cycling. The last few years she has turned to these “magic wheels”. “I still wanted to go far,” she said. To be able to go up mountains that seem to be rising straight up is to conquer fear. “While going up I would think not again. Coming down I would want to return right then.” But she also wanted to go alone. It would help her to confront the final frontiers of fear. A doctor friend, her adviser, told her to try Europe. It would be “safe”. So there she was, on way to Mainz from Frankfurt, on a bicycle assembled by herself for the first time. In Mainz, she was told at a late hour that she would have to cross the Rheine to camp. Biswas would either be hosted by members of Warm Showers, an international free touring cyclists community, or stay at Airbnb places, or camp in her own tent wherever possible, even in someone’s garden, spending as little money as possible on food. But in Mainz, the couple told her she could stay the night at their place. This would be the first of the many homes that would be offered to her by strangers. “One of the best things about cycling is meeting people,” says Biswas. She made many friends in Europe. She did not face a single incident of racism, she feels. She felt appreciated, though she surprised many as an “Indian woman” out on such a tour. She rattles off the names of places she visited: Mainz, Cologne, Duisberg, to Arnhem, Amsterdam, Zalk (a village in the Netherlands), back to Germany, and Fehmarn, from where she entered Denmark. Then she visited Sweden and Norway. From Norway she reached Iceland from Faroe Islands by ferry. Reaching Iceland was an emotional moment. She biked through the country from Seyðisfjörður to Reykjavik, from where she took a flight to Calcutta via Copenhagen and Delhi. “On some days I cycled for 100 to 120km,”says Biswas. “My friend from Calcutta insisted that I go wild camping. So I stayed alone in the forest at Kronsjo the night before I entered Norway from Sweden.” She discovered the pleasure of railway waiting rooms. At Lunden, near Flam in Norway, she decided to spend the night at the tiny railway station just because it was so heart-stoppingly beautiful. She was the only one at the waiting room, surrounded by mountains and an immense solitude. She also made friends out of a few Indian ambassadors at the capitals. “Despite some problems, the tour went off quite well,” says Biswas, who was back in Calcutta after two months. Only to be back in another part of Europe the next year, same time, for two months. She took off from Vienna, biked through Budapest, Belgrade and Sofia to Istanbul, where she had a brainwave. She felt she must visit Greece. She went to the island of Lesbos, the home of Sappho, the greatly admired poet of ancient Greece who also gives her name to the Sapphic tradition. Biswas visited the island, but when she wanted to enter Turkey again, from where she would take the flight home, she realised that she had a one-entry visa. She spent a deeply anxious night with her passport taken away, after which she was finally granted another visa for Turkey. Last year in April, she had also gone on a bike tour of Sri Lanka, but with a friend. “And I will go again,” she says. And looks proudly at her three bikes – a folding bike, a mountain bike and a touring bike — which are all parked happily inside her bedroom at her small Kasba apartment. She wants Calcutta to be more cycle-friendly. The cycle is as good for our personal health as it is for our environment, not to mention women’s empowerment, she points out. During the pandemic many cycles are out in the streets. “But in Calcutta cyclists should also learn to follow traffic signals,” she insists.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-307
14-09-2020||Calcutta||Discharged after surgery, rescuer vows to fight on||Nilanjana Chatterjee, who was knocked down by a Honda City while trying to help a woman crying for help and suffered fractures in her left leg, was discharged from hospital on Sunday. Shortly before her discharge, she vowed to continue to stand up against atrocities on women even if it meant suffering the same fate and added that she had even told her daughter to walk with her backbone straight. “This physical pain will go away soon. But the love and care that I have found for whatever little I did — along with my family — will spur me to stand up and rise in protest if something similar plays out in front of me again,” Nilanjana told Metro before leaving Ruby General Hospital for her parent’s home in Anandapur. “I have even told my daughter the same — shirdnara soja korey cholbey (walk with your spine straight). People who get bullied tend to become a bully and the cycle continues,” she said. Nilanjana was returning home with her husband Deep Satpathi and their daughter around midnight on September 5 when she heard a woman crying for help from inside a speeding Honda City. This was near a deserted stretch of a road near Abhyudoy Housing Complex in Anandapur, off EM Bypass. Nilanjana, and her husband and daughter were returning home after attending a dinner on the occasion of her mother’s birthday. As Deep pulled over and forced the Honda City to come to a halt, a woman was thrown out of the vehicle. Injured in her arms, she was shivering in fear. The man at the wheel of the Honda City, identified as Abhishek Kumar Panda, took a U-turn and fled and mounted the left front wheel over Nilanjana’s left leg. Panda was arrested a few days later. The woman allegedly thrown off the car reportedly told the police that she and Panda were to get married. “Many people have been telling me that the victim had changed her statements before the police. I have realised that women have to bear a lot of pressure, from the family, society and even friends. But just because she was to get married to the man doesn't mean he would assault her," Nilanjana said. Doctors at the hospital said Nilanjana had responded well to the treatment. “She has been advised to try and walk a few steps every day at home. She will have to spare her injured leg for the time being and try putting her weight on the right leg,” said an official of the hospital. Nurses and other employees joined Nilanjana as she was taken out of her cabin. Some sang a Rabindra Sangeet. Nilanjana held up one of her hands with a clenched fist, her face glowing with a smile.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-307
14-09-2020||Calcutta||Young Metro: Debate on digital learning and online prize distribution||Sixteen students debated the pros and cons of digital learning at the 21st L.N. Birla Memorial Debate organised by Birla High School on July 11. The flagship event is held to mark the school’s Founder’s Day. This year’s motion — The Digital World Holds a Key to a Better Education System — had all the participants logged in from their homes as they debated the accessibility of the education system in the times of online classes. Best Speaker Kaushiki Ghosh also clinched the Best Team’s trophy for Shri Shikshayatan School with a resounding argument against the motion. According to her, in a country where most government-aided primary institutions run out of derelict and dingy buildings lacking basic infrastructure, digitisation is a luxury. “Education is not just about facts, figures, statistics and theorems, it is about shaping the personality too. Where do we learn our morals in this online world? Where is the experience-based learning?” said the feisty debater. It was Kaushiki’s first time at an online debate. According to principal Loveleen Saigal of Birla High School, Moira Street, not hosting the debate at all would have been a huge disappointment. “We were worried about technical glitches. We took a week to prepare. But we managed to ultimately host the event, though a truncated version, with maximum social distancing,” she said. Debater and a member of Calcutta Debating Circle S.V. Raman moderated the debate. BDM International School celebrated their annual prize distribution ceremony online. The achievers were felicitated with e-certificates and cash prizes. It included the highest scorers in individual subjects of both Class X and XII board examinations 2019-20. Rendition of the school song by students and lighting the lamp also took place. Every year, the event used to coincide with the school fest, giving it the shape of an annual jamboree. However, the motive behind this event that was to encourage children to push their boundaries so that they could come up with flying colours in future was fulfilled this time as well. “Although we could not celebrate prize distribution in the way we had done it in the past, the biggest gain for me was that we could see the satisfaction on the faces of the parents as well which eluded us before, as only the students came to collect the certificates on stage. Yes, we missed personal touches, but this new normal is not entirely negative as the silver lining of this pandemic is that we are getting acquainted with new technologies,” said principal Vijaya Chaudhuri.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-307
14-09-2020||Calcutta||Helpline for mental health||The Covid-19 pandemic has led to a steep rise in the number of people seeking help for mental health issues, speakers at the launch of the golden jubilee celebrations of Antara, a hospital for mental illnesses, said on Sunday. The hospital in Narendrapur, which started the celebrations through an online programme, launched a helpline to address the needs of the rising number of people with mental illness. An official said the number - 18001205589 - would remain open from 9am to 6pm, from Monday to Saturday. There are plans to run the helpline 24X7 after recruiting more counsellors. People of all age groups are suffering because of the pandemic. Adolescents who had no mental health issues before are showing signs of illness, a consequence of anxiety because of uncertainty over their studies amid the pandemic. Children are suffering because they are unable to meet their friends and do not like being indoors for months, said Indrani Chakraborty, the chief clinical psychologist of Antara. “A six-year-old girl I spoke with asked me why she could not meet her friends. She has become agitated for not being able to go out or meet friends. A five-year-old girl tried to kill herself by skipping ropes. She did not like the fact that she was staying at home with her elder sister while her parents were going out for work,” said Chakraborty. Another common problem, she said, is excessive fear among some people about contracting Covid-19, to the extent that they are not stepping out even to buy groceries. Antara started its journey from a building in Picnic Garden in 1971. Mathew P. John, the honorary general secretary of Antara, said the organisation was set up to treat mental health problems faced by people fleeing the erstwhile East Pakistan during the 1971 war. Mother Teresa had been the inspiration behind the setting up of the organisation. “Antara was set up to address mental health problems among refugees from East Pakistan and people wandering the streets of Calcutta. Gradually its scope expanded and now it is a 200-bed hospital with OPD and emergency treatment facilities,” Mathew told Metro. The hospital also runs a de-addiction facility and an indoor unit. Soumyo Chatterjee, the chief psychiatrist, said at the programme that many of the patients brought to the hospital by police even now were found loitering around. “They are kept here and treated. Some were able to tell us their home addresses after a couple of years. Our personnel went with them to reunite them with their families in Assam and Bangladesh,” he said. The management of Antara said they were open to any form of donation and sponsorship because they wanted to expand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-307
14-09-2020||Calcutta||David Hare campus vandalism suspects held||Two men were arrested on Sunday in connection with the vandalism on the David Hare campus of the West Bengal University of Teachers’ Training, Education, Planning and Administration, on Ballygunge Circular Road, late on Friday. Biswajit Mondal and Meghnad Mondal, who were picked up from a slum behind the campus, have reportedly told the police that they had carried out the vandalism to steal copper wires. A huge amount of copper wires and other items were seized from them. “We are trying to find out whether the two were engaged by anyone. They said they entered the campus by scaling the wall from behind,” an officer of Ballygunge police station said. Some university officials suspect the vandalism was linked to a rumour among students that they would have to turn up in colleges to appear in the fourth-semester BEd and MEd exams. “There could be more to it than what meets the eye. If it were just for copper wires, why was the server room vandalised?” asked a professor.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-307
14-09-2020||Calcutta||IIT Kharagpur campus closure extended till September 18||IIT Kharagpur has extended the closure of the campus till September 18 as Covid-19 cases are still being reported on the campus. A notice signed by the institute's registrar, B.N. Singh, announced the extension of the closure, during which safety measures will be “strictly implemented”. The authorities had earlier announced that the campus would be closed for at least a week. The week since the closure began ended on Sunday, but the authorities decided to extend it as the spread of the coronavirus could not be contained entirely and contact tracing was on. With the closure having been extended, no employee of the institute will be permitted to leave the campus till further orders, except for emergency. Those who stay outside the campus are not allowed to enter. The employees who stay on the campus but are currently outside have been asked to stay where they are and work from there. “After a review of the situation, we felt that there was a need to extend the closure till September 18 as the chain of spread could not be broken entirely. Besides, the task of contact tracing is not over yet,” an official said. The OPD of BC Roy Technology Hospital on the campus, which remained closed till September 13, will operate with limited OPD/medicine renewal services only for campus residents. The hospital also caters to retired employees who stay outside the campus. Retired employees and even the serving ones who stay outside the campus are not allowed to visit the hospital and have been advised to buy medicines locally. If people from outside are let in, there can be a spurt in Covid cases because cases are on the rise around the campus,” said an official. The first positive case on the campus was recorded on August 19. The count shot up close to 30 by September 5, a surge that prompted the institute to take steps to break the chain of spread. Although cases are being reported, the rate of spread of the virus has slowed down. The drop in intensity has convinced the authorities to extend the closure. No domestic help and gardener will be allowed to enter the campus. All offices of the institute will remain closed, according to the notice issued by the registrar. “We need to urgently stop the spread of the virus on the campus because hospitals outside the campus are dealing with a rising number of cases in Kharagpur town and the rest of West Midnapore district and do not have adequate beds,” said an official of the institute. The dean of students affairs at the IIT, Somesh Kumar, had last week told the students that it was becoming increasingly difficult to find a bed for a Covid patient in hospitals in Calcutta. Among those infected, five are students. The IIT had on September 8 requested the 60-odd students still on the campus to leave at the earliest as it was “highly risky’’ to stay in hostels amid the Covid-19 pandemic considering the “stressed and insufficient medical facilities’’ in the town. Around 30 have since left for home.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-307
14-09-2020||Calcutta||Vacant plot selected to relocate shops and houses falling in the path of airport Metro line||A vacant plot in Sector V, behind the Technopolis building, has been selected to relocate more than 70 shops and houses that are in the path of the New Garia-airport Metro line in Mahishbathan, said a member of the committee set up to resolve the land issue. The houses and the shops are creating a hurdle in the construction of the pillars that will support the elevated corridor of the Metro link. The state government has formed a committee to facilitate removal of obstacles so land could be made available for the project. The committee is headed by Bidhannagar MLA Sujit Bose, who is also the state's fire and emergency services minister, and has representatives of Hidco, Nabadiganta Industrial Township Authority (NDITA), Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation, transport department and the Bidhannagar Police Commissionerate as members. Bose said they had identified the buildings that needed to be razed to make room for the Metro corridor. “We are planning to relocate the shopkeepers and residents to a vacant plot in Sector V, behind Technopolis. We have written to the urban development department, which owns the plot,” Bose said. "We have conducted a survey and asked the residents to cooperate. They will be transferred to temporary houses (to be set up on the plot behind Technopolis) till we can relocate them properly." Metro visited the area on Sunday afternoon and saw at least a dozen structures - some of which housing eateries, electrical fittings shops and shacks selling fritters — standing in the way of the proposed alignment. NDITA chairman Debashis Sen said the structures on the plot - in Sector V's AQ block, opposite Positional Astronomy Centre - would be of bricks and would have asbestos roofs. “These will be simple sheds that can be built in a short time. We have to get permission from the urban development department before we start building the sheds,” said Sen. The Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation had in 2018 demolished four buildings under the flyover that connects Sector V with New Town to make way for the Metro project. Construction of the 1.45-km viaduct between Mahishbathan and New Town had been stalled for six years since the project was commissioned because of these buildings. The demolition took place after the North 24-Parganas district administration issued notices saying the buildings would be pulled down and the owners compensated. Two of the razed buildings were private properties. One was Blue Orchid Hotel, identified in the civic records as the “White Building or OYO Hotels”. The other building housed multiple shops and warehouses and was listed in the records as “AS Media Enterprise, Super Glass and New Mohini Sweets”. These buildings had fully or partially occupied government plots.The third structure demolished had housed Mohisgote Free Primary School, which had been shifted a year earlier.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-307
14-09-2020||Calcutta||From construction site to NEET centre||A boy who had quit studies after higher secondary exams and started working on a daily wage to support his family appeared for the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test, the gateway to undergraduate medical courses in the country, on Sunday. Tapan Parua had been eking out a living for himself and his family over the past few years by carrying building materials at construction sites in Mumbai and Bangalore. He decided to leave it all in December 2019 and come back home to Sagar Island, in South 24-Parganas, to study. “I was working on a daily wage and sending money home. But it was not enough because my parents are ailing and they need more money,” Tapan said before entering his exam centre, DPS Ruby Park. “One day it dawned on me that to have a standing in life, I had to study. People rarely respect you if you are not educated.” Tapan arrived in Calcutta on Saturday. Accompanied by his brother-in-law, Tapan walked a kilometre from their village in Hatkhola to Ghoramara island. They then took a boat to Lot number 8 and from there a bus to Behala, where they stayed the night at a relative’s house. At home, preparing for the medical entrance exam did not entail a break from the struggle to keep the family afloat. At times, he had to help his brothers on the field. “That is part of life, I don’t mind it. Such are our circumstances,” Tapan said. The family lives in a house with a tiled roof, which gets flooded during the monsoon. “We shift to a relative’s house in the village and come back after water recedes,” he said. “They earn very little. If they don’t work for a day they won’t get paid,” said Tapan’s brother-in-law, Tapan Naskar, who is a mason. The village where the family lives hardly has any medical facilities. “For any treatment, we have to travel 18km to Kakdwip,” said the examinee. “If I have to give my family and myself a decent life, I have to do some job. Else, we will continue struggling…. I don’t know what is in store for us.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-307
14-09-2020||Calcutta||Parents not ready for in-person classes||Pandemic-wary parents are hesitant to send their wards to school, even those who are in senior classes, conversations the city institutions have had with guardians and pupils have revealed. Teachers and school heads have found out that the parents are mainly concerned about the possibility of their children getting infected, sharing transport or car pool and maintaining safeguards. Many parents are not ready to send their wards to school even for a few hours and only on some days a week. The central government has said schools outside containment zones can reopen from September 21 but only for students of Classes IX to XII and that too only for seeking guidance of teachers. Parents’ written consent is a must. A school head said another “stumbling block” for the institutions was the allocation of teachers if a small section of students agrees to attend classes in person. The schools are also discussing how teachers can take simultaneous online and in-person classes as there will be a section of students who will be at home while another batch will be in school. “We have been speaking to parents and they are sceptical and not very confident about sending their children to school. They are more concerned about travelling from home to school and school to home because in between they will be exposed to contact with others in cars or in any other transport,” said Terence Ireland, the principal of St James’ School. He said the school would be regularly sanitised and teachers would ensure social distancing in class, but the parents are worried about the breaks and what could happen when the students would enter and leave school. Some schools are considering asking students to come a few days a week only to clear doubts and seek guidance from teachers with parental consent, but such a possibility seems unlikely under the circumstances. “We have been speaking to the students’ council and also individually to students and based on their response we have found out that parents are unwilling to send their children to school,” said Anjana Saha, the principal of Mahadevi Birla World Academy. She said the school had gauged that not more than 20 per cent of students were ready to return to school. Mahadevi Birla, however, will send a form to parents to get their feedback. Several schools are also deliberating the logistics, especially if simultaneous online and in-person classes are to be held.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-307
14-09-2020||Calcutta||20 hits a second: rush for Metro e-passes||Over 2,500 e-passes for Monday were booked within an hour of the launch of the URL pathadisha.com/metro at 8pm on Sunday. The developers said the rush was increasing and by a little after 9pm, there were “over 20 hits per second”. In comparison, only about 1,700 passengers travelled by Metro throughout Sunday, when the carrier ran a curtailed service for NEET aspirants. The difference in the rush underscored the challenges awaiting the authorities in enforcing crowd control and social distancing measures from Monday, when the career resumes regular operations after 174 days. Metro tried booking an e-pass from 8.10pm on Sunday but could finally book one at 8.52pm. “Heavy traffic and poor connectivity can hamper bookings. We had not expected such a rush. When the link went live, only one server was operational. But within 30 minutes, we had to press two more into action,” said an official of the agency that has developed the technology. The e-pass is only for entry into a station and a passenger will need a smart card to enter a platform and board a train, said officials. New smart cards can be bought from ticket counters. Tokens have been suspended for now. The low volume of passengers on Sunday meant smooth implementation of crowd control and social distancing protocols. But the real test will start on Monday, said Metro officials. Calcutta Metro’s security is the responsibility of the Railway Protection Force. But the agency will have to depend on local police for crowd control, especially at the station gates. Senior Metro officials told this newspaper multiple times over the past few days that controlling the crowd at the station gates was the key to smooth operations under the “new normal”. The agency has come up with a list of do’s and don’ts for Metro travellers. The developers of the technology said a dynamic algorithm — based on data provided by Metro — is driving the system. The algorithm has put a cap on the number of passengers that will be allowed at every station in a time slot. The passes are being provided accordingly. The day’s bookings have been divided into 12 one-hour slots. Based on that algorithm, around 1,000 passengers are expected to be at Dum Dum station between 9am and 10am on Monday. During the same slot, only 25 are expected at Park Street. An input based on these estimates has been shared with the police. “The idea is to have more deployment at busy stations,” said a Metro official. “Dum Dum and Esplanade are expected to be among the busier stations. Local trains have not resumed yet. Otherwise, managing crowds at Dum Dum would have been more difficult,” said a Metro official. The carrier will run 110 trains from Monday. The first and last trains will leave the terminal stations at 8am and 7pm, respectively. Metro’s operational fleet comprises 23 air-conditioned trains and six non-AC rakes. “For running 110 trips, we need around a dozen rakes. The upkeep of the rakes has to be done in the daytime because there is a staff crunch at night. But we will try to run as many air-conditioned trains as possible,” said another official. The first and only operational phase of East-West Metro, too, will resume service on Monday. But passengers on East-West Metro will not need e-passes because the “crowd is not much”. Only smart cards will be enough. There will be 72 trains every day. The service will remain suspended on Sundays. Some do’s Wear a mask Use specified gates for entry and exit Listen to the announcements carefully Some don’ts People with fever, cough and cold should not travel by Metro Don’t touch handrails of escalators, station pillars More than three people should not use a lift||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-308
14-09-2020||Calcutta||NEET turnout touches 90%||The attendance was 80 to 90 per cent at many of the venues of the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET), through which all medical colleges in India admit students to their undergraduate courses, in the city on Sunday. Examinees said the availability of Metro trains made it easier for them to commute from their homes to their respective venues. Each of the 66 venues in Calcutta was allotted 200 to 900 candidates. “The attendance across most of the centres in Calcutta was about 80 to 90 per cent. The state administration and the police helped maintain social distancing outside the centres and also when the candidates entered and left a venue,” said an official associated with the exam. At a venue off EM Bypass, 717 of the 840 candidates turned up. At a Ballygunge centre, the turnout was 241 out of 300. Of the 780 candidates allotted to a Salt Lake centre, 690 turned up; of the 240 students assigned a centre near Rabindra Sadan, 191 wrote the exam; and of the 540 assigned a venue in central Calcutta, 451 appeared. In contrast, the attendance in the JEE (Main), held earlier this month, varied between 30 and 50 per cent in the city. The exam, also conducted by the National Testing Agency (NTA), was held across six days in only two centres in the city. The NEET candidates had to wear masks provided at the centres. At many venues, they wore gloves, too. “It was a little difficult to fill in the OMR sheets and turn pages wearing gloves,” said Ankan Maity, a Jadavpur resident who wrote the exam in Dum Dum. “Not just the exam, we were also worried about the infection.” According to the NTA guidelines, no more than 12 candidates were to be in each room. “We had followed all the protocols specified by NTA for the safety of the candidates…. We provided PPE kits to the guards at the gate,” said Loveleen Saigal, the principal of Birla High School. Several schools across the city opened their gates to students after a period of almost six months. “It was like a mock drill for us,” said Saigal. “Initially, we were jittery. After a gap of so many months so many people were coming to the school, but it went off well,” said Sanghamitra Mukherjee, the rector of Gokhale Memorial Girls’ School. Srijan Moitra, who lives in Sinthee, took Metro to reach his exam centre in Narendrapur. “Had there been no Metro, I would have had to cover the distance of 25km in a hired car or an app cab. It would have taken more time and been more expensive,” said Srijan. Not all candidates, however, were that fortunate. Basanti Paul had to travel from a village in Bagnan, in Howrah, to write the exam at a centre in Mandirtala, near Shibpur. She started at 8.30am and reached home at 7.30pm.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-308
14-09-2020||Calcutta||Lifeline chugs back to life||Metro trains rolled out with passengers after 173 days on Sunday, ferrying NEET candidates and their guardians. The city’s transport lifeline had suspended service on March 23 as a precaution against the spread of Covid-19. The first day went off smoothly as the number of passengers was just around 1,700. The real test awaits on Monday, the day the regular operations resume. The Metro authorities said they were gearing up for around 100,000 passengers on Monday. On Sunday, the first trains left the terminal stations at 10am. But commuters had started arriving much before that. National Eligibility cum Entrance Test was held from 2pm to 5pm but the reporting time at the centres was staggered for enforcement of Covid-19 protocols. Around 9.30am, there were more than 10 students, accompanied by family members, at Dum Dum station. Only two gates were open. Both were manned by RPF and police. “Please show your admit cards,” an RPF officer was heard telling a student. The students and their guardians had their body temperature checked by thermal scanners at the gates. They were given hand sanitisers before being directed towards ticket counters. They were asked the destination stations and given printed tickets. Smart card holders entered the platforms directly. Yellow lines were marked on the platform and at the ticket counters to maintain social distancing. The platform seats were also marked alternately. A total of 74 trains — 37 in each direction — ran on Sunday. Every alternate seat was cross-marked to maintain distancing protocols. But the low volume of passengers meant that many seats remained vacant. Under the supervision of RPF jawans, passengers stood in a queue before a train was about to enter the platform. “We entered the station around 9.55am. The train arrived after a few minutes,” said Shyamal Sikdar, who boarded a train from Dum Dum to Tollygunge. Sikdar’s son was to write the NEET at a centre near Tollygunge Metro station. “There were very few people in our compartment throughout the journey. It was a smooth ride,” said Sikdar. Aparna Patra and daughter Manisha had boarded a bus from Baguiati around 10am. They were not aware of Metro services. A passenger in the bus told Aparna about the special Metro trains for NEET aspirants. “We got down at Esplanade and took a train till Tollygunge. The Metro ride was quick and hassle free,” said Manisha. Metro staff at the stations were busy in the morning and evening guiding students and their family members. “It was good to be back doing what we are used to,” a station superintendent said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-308
14-09-2020||Business||Microsoft out as TikTok chooses Oracle as US tech partner  ||Satya Nadella-led Microsoft lost a bid to acquire TikTok in the US after the Chinese owner of the video-sharing platform chose Oracle to be its technology partner for its American operations, ahead of President Donald Trump’s  September 20 deadline to ban the popular app if it wasn't sold to an American company. Microsoft said in a statement on Sunday that the Chinese owner of TikTok ByteDance has informed it that they would not be selling TikTok's US operations to Microsoft". “We are confident our proposal would have been good for TikTok's users, while protecting national security interests. To do this, we would have made significant changes to ensure the service met the highest standards for security, privacy, online safety, and combatting disinformation, and we made these principles clear in our August statement. We look forward to seeing how the service evolves in these important areas,” Microsoft said. A report in The New York Times said it was unclear whether TikTok choosing Oracle as a technology partner would mean that the multinational computer technology corporation would also take a majority ownership stake of the social media app. The Wall Street Journal said in a report that Oracle is set to be announced as TikTok's trusted tech partner in the US, and the deal is likely not to be structured as an outright sale. The next step is for the White House and the Committee on Foreign Investment in the US to approve the deal, said one of the people, adding that the participants believe it satisfies the concerns around data security that have been previously raised by the US government, the WSJ report said. In an executive order signed last month, Trump had said that TikTok would be blocked in the US if it did not sell its US operations to an American company by September 20. The Trump administration has said that TikTok and other Chinese apps are national security threats. “But sale talks had been in a holding pattern because China issued new regulations last month that would bar TikTok from transferring its technology to a foreign buyer without explicit permission from the Chinese government. And any resulting deal could still be a geopolitical pinata between the United States and China," the NYT report said. The report added that the Chinese regulations helped scuttle the bid by Microsoft, which had said in August that it would insist on a series of protections that would essentially give it control of the computer code that TikTok uses for the American and many other English-speaking versions of the app. Microsoft said the only way it could protect the privacy of TikTok users in the United States and prevent Beijing from using the app as a venue for disinformation was to take over that computer code, and the algorithms that determine what videos are seen by the 100 million Americans who use it each month, the NYT report said. Oracle has not yet disclosed what it would do with TikTok's underlying technology, written by a Chinese engineering team in Beijing. India was the first country to ban TikTok and WeChat, citing national security concerns. India has banned over 220 Chinese apps, a move welcomed by both the Trump administration and US lawmakers. As tensions between the US and China escalated, TikTok had become the flash point between Washington and Beijing over issues of technology and privacy concerns. The Trump administration had already banned the Chinese telecom giant Huawei from selling 5G networks and equipment in the US, citing the risk of a foreign power controlling the infrastructure on which all internet communications flow. Even if Oracle may try to close a deal, it is unclear whether Beijing would create new obstacles to the process. And election-year politics have hung over the negotiations from the start. "Unlike many other technology companies, Oracle has cultivated close ties with the Trump administration. Its founder, Larry Ellison, hosted a fund-raiser for Mr Trump this year, and its chief executive, Safra Catz, served on the president's transition team and has frequently visited the White House, the NYT report said. Last month, Trump had said he would support Oracle buying TikTok, calling Oracle a great company and said the firm, which specialises in enterprise software, could successfully run TikTok. “I think that Oracle would certainly be somebody that could handle it,” Trump had said. Trump has said that apps such as TikTok, WeChat and equipment maker Huawei pose a national security threat because data collected about users can be shared with the Communist Party-led Chinese government. The Chinese firms have denied this claim. Two of ByteDance's largest backers, Sequoia Capital and General Atlantic, have sought to retain their holdings in its valuable subsidiary while saving TikTok from a ban in the US. Both firms are represented on ByteDance's board of directors. In late August, the firms teamed up with Oracle to bid against Microsoft. Microsoft, meanwhile, had teamed up with Walmart to make its bid. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-290
14-09-2020||Business||Tips to build a robust  financial immunity amid all the uncertainties||All of us have adapted to our own sanitisation routines to protect ourselves and our loved ones, especially in the face of the ongoing pandemic. We are not only realising the importance of physical and mental immunity, but are also learning new lessons in financial immunity. A survey by Swiss Re states that Covid-19 has significantly impacted financial stability with up to one out of three people feeling overwhelmed and anxious about their finances. The survey goes on to state that 68 per cent of the respondents felt that insurance helped to ease their stress and provide financial support during uncertain times, with 78 per cent saying their claims experience matched expectations. Clearly, if you find yourself consumed with the thoughts of rising medical costs and overwhelming financial responsibilities, know that you are not alone. Here are a few financial tips which should help you to alleviate this anxiety and build a robust financial immunity. It is common knowledge that increased levels of stress can lead to lowered physical and mental immunity. The key to maintaining a healthy immune system lies in the right lifestyle choices such as following a healthy diet and regular exercise. Similarly, the key to building financial immunity is by taking the right precautions towards protecting one’s finances and creating a financial cushion to safeguard oneself and the family from monetary stress, led by lifestyle disease or any unforeseen eventuality. Hence, the first step is to take care of oneself, ward off unwanted panic and deliberate on concrete steps to build financial immunity. Families grow stronger and closer when they withstand challenges and adversities together. Therefore, it is important to stay closer to the people you love, who comfort you and who provide you the best advice related to life, finances etc. Spending time with your loved ones keeps anxiety and stress at bay and, thus, keeping physical immunity unaffected in the long run. Spending more time doing fun activities with family and friends gets one into a better frame of mind, leading to a better handling of any situation. Given the reboot of the larger economy, it is wise to revisit our saving patterns and prioritise expenses. The thumb rule for the success of any financial plan is to first safeguard against the uncertainties of life and health as these eventualities could potentially wipe out our savings of a lifetime. Address the shortcoming in your portfolio by diversifying with insurance and investment instruments; this way you can build the much-needed cushion of financial immunity for yourself and your family. While focusing on financial planning, it is imperative to always have a life insurance plan in the portfolio that offers both life cover and critical illnesses cover in a single product to safeguard the insured and the family from worries related to life and health. A dual protection plan will ensure the family tides through the tough time along with a monetary safety net. One can look for hybrid instruments that combine life cover with a critical illness cover as it provides financial assistance as a lump sum amount to take care of the treatment cost as well as loss of pay, if a critical illness is identified. In the current scenario, a dual protection insurance plan is a must in one’s portfolio as it offers a holistic protection cover. It is indispensable to keep the nominee in the loop about the insurance policies that one holds, which needs to be done after the purchase of any insurance policy. By doing so, the family is aware of the policy bought and in the case of an unfortunate event, the nominee can claim the sum assured for which the insured has been making regular premium payments. It has been noticed in several cases that the insured has forgotten to keep the nominee informed, making their policies worth no more than a piece of paper in an exigency. Informing the nominee on the policies purchased helps the deceased family members to not rummage to find the policy information during emergencies. Remember, just like we are taking care of our health immunity, it is imperative that we pay equal attention to build a robust financial immunity to stay protected in uncertain times. The writer is president Zone III, SBI Life Insurance||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-290
14-09-2020||Business||Banks seek risk cushion for start-ups||The banking sector is in favour of a risk cushion in the form of a structured credit guarantee mechanism specifically for start-ups to boost lending to the sector. The RBI has revised the guidelines for priority sector lending, including start-ups, to prompt banks to start lending to the sector. Loans up to Rs 50 crore to start-ups engaged in agriculture and allied services as well as those that meet the definition of MSMEs are now part of priority sector lending. Banks, while welcoming the inclusion of start-ups under the priority sector, have warned of multiple challenges that warrant a careful evaluation of the loan prospects keeping in mind the elevated risk in the current economic scenario. Inadequate collateral, uncertain future cash flow and inexperienced management are among the key risks that banks are wary of. Moreover, there is a lack of clarity whether only recognised start-ups will be eligible to get credit under priority sector lending. According to government data, there are around 4.2 lakh start-ups in the country of which only 36,692 are recognised by the department for promotion of industry and internal trade. “To boost lending to start-ups, it is imperative to set in place an institutional mechanism. For example, start-ups don’t have collateral and performance evaluation mechanism matrix. Hence, it will be interesting to see how the lenders can diversify their risk appetite and lend to start-ups which do not meet the traditional requirements of security/collateral/cash flow. We believe a suitably structured guarantee scheme from the government could be useful in the current scenario to give impetus to lend to start-ups,” said Soumya Kanti Ghosh, group chief economic adviser, State Bank of India. Bankers said that a credit guarantee scheme like the one in place for MSMEs will encourage more banks to convert enquiries into actual borrowings. “With the inclusion of start-ups in priority sector lending, banks will be encouraged to give credit to the sector. A credit guarantee, similar to MSME-CGTMSE will be beneficial,” said Sudhakara Rao KS, general manager, MSME, of Indian Bank. The deteriorating economic condition has also impacted start-ups, especially those lacking marquee investors with industry estimates suggesting 70 per cent of the start-ups in India have less than 3 months of cash available in their banks. “Getting a start-up off the ground is not an easy task for any entrepreneur. Lack of adequate funding when required and high risk perception of the banks towards this segment has most often been the two major reasons why start-ups have found it difficult to even set up shops. The credit guarantee scheme has helped MSMEs so far and the same if applied to start-ups will surely be beneficial for them,” said Parthiv Neotia, director, Ambuja Neotia. “A credit guarantee from start-ups may not potentially be anticipated from the Centre in a market reeling from the coronavirus induced lockdown. The move to assign priority sector status to start-ups may act as a serious boost for smaller entities in terms of funding and seeking credit. This makes available multiple funding options beyond angel investments and PE/VC funding,” said Arindam Sarkar, partner, Khaitan and Co.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-290
14-09-2020||Business||Prospective EV buyers worry over costs||The upfront cost of electric vehicles (EV)s, battery replacement and the distance a vehicle can run on a single charge are the top concerns for people planning to buy EVs, according to a survey by The Energy and Resources Institute (TERI). The potential of EVs to reduce pollution, carbon emissions and oil dependency in India has prompted the government to push for wider adoption of the technology. According to the Society of Manufacturers of Electric Vehicles (SMEV), 3,400 electric cars and 1.52 lakh electric two-wheelers were sold in India in 2019-20. Total sales grew 20 per cent over the previous financial year. Yet the current EV penetration in India is low. “We saw that there is a difference in the expectations of those who own an EV and those who do not. For example, EV owners do not assign much importance to the availability of the used car market and the vehicle’s resale value,” said Parmeet Singh, research associate, TERI. “The difference in perception of the two groups is directly related to the knowledge and experience of EVs. We also found that household income does not affect EV purchase decisions,” said Singh. In the survey, 71 per cent of respondents under the age of 25 asked about the resale value of EVs. “These consumers are likely to procure a vehicle from the used car market because of their income level and the desire to replace an existing vehicle,” said Singh. The survey also found that the ability of EVs to cover a limited distance in comparison to internal combustion engines had an impact on perception and highlighted an important concern.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-290
14-09-2020||Business||SBI Card offers its own recast plan||SBI Card is in the process of enrolling “delinquent” customers, who did not repay after the end of the moratorium, in the RBI restructuring scheme or its own repayment plan to provide them more time for repayments, a top company official has said. A number of customers had not been paying for the first three months of the payment holiday and the company treated them as standard accounts in line with the entire industry. However, since then, as the first moratorium ended, SBI Card made it a customer-led enrolment in the second moratorium in which a lot of customers did not enrol, SBI Card managing director & CEO Ashwini Kumar Tewari said. “Therefore, we had a large chunk of customers who came out of the moratorium. A lot of them paid up but many of them did not pay also. And these became what we call as more delinquent customers. “So with these delinquent customers, we are now working to enrol them either into the RBI restructuring scheme or our own repayment plans so that they get more time and a better interest rate to pay their dues,” Tewari, who took charge over a month ago, said. According to the company, it had Rs 7,083 crore under moratorium in May, which came down to Rs 1,500 crore in June. Those who would be availing the company’s restructuring plan will have a benefit over the RBI scheme as SBI Card will not report such cases to credit scoring agency Cibil. In March, the RBI had allowed the first three-month moratorium on payment of all term loans due between March 1, 2020 and May 31, 2020. Later it was extended for another three months till August 2020. The process of restructuring is going on currently, Tewari said, adding a large number of accounts are to be enrolled and the company needs to make a 10 per cent provisioning on these accounts, according to the RBI guidelines.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-290
14-09-2020||Business||Equity drag on mutual funds||Mutual funds have pulled out Rs 17,600 crore from the stock markets in July-August mainly on account of withdrawals from equity-oriented schemes. The pandemic-related disruptions, a sharp slowdown in economic activity across the globe and a volatility in the equity markets led to the massive withdrawals. Mutual funds had made a net investment of Rs 39,755 crore in the stock markets during January-June 2020, data available with Sebi showed. Foreign portfolio investors (FPI) turned net sellers in the Indian markets by pulling out Rs 2,038 crore so far in September as participants turned cautious in view of rising India-China tensions and weak global cues. According to the depositories data, a net Rs 3,510 crore was withdrawn from equities, while Rs 1,472 crore was pumped into debts by FPIs between September 1 and September 11. FPIs were net buyers for three consecutive months — June to August.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-290
14-09-2020||Business||Gas producers seek pricing formula review ||Domestic gas prices are set to fall significantly from October because of a slump in global prices, raising a question mark on the pricing formula as it challenges the operational viability of oil firms and hurts investment sentiment in the exploration and production sector. Gas producers have sought a review of the pricing formula. The domestic prices are set to fall to about $1.80 per mBtu from October 1 for the next six months, the fourth straight cut, which would significantly hurt domestic producers. The gas price for locally produced fields has been revised from April 1 till September end to $2.39 per mBtu from $3.23 per mBtu, a 26 per cent decrease. The ceiling price for gas to be produced from difficult fields has also fallen to $5.61 per mBtu from $8.43 per mBtu, down 33.5 per cent. Oil industry sources said a further cut in prices would make domestic production unviable. Gas producers have written to the oil ministry offering various suggestions, including a review of the formula that puts domestic producers at a disadvantage over imported LNG. Industry sources said the existing formula is based on the gas surplus market and should not be applicable in India. They said ONGC in a recent communique to the government has stated that the break-even price to produce gas from new discoveries was in the range of $5-9 per mBtu. In previous years, loss from the gas segment was offset by the gain in the oil business. But with the oil business itself coming under severe strain because of a sharp slump in benchmark prices, it has become difficult for the company to meet even the operating expenses, they said. The reduction in natural gas prices would mean lower raw material cost for compressed natural gas (CNG) and piped natural gas to households (PNG) and should translate into a reduction in retail prices. It would also mean lower feedstock cost for power generation and the manufacturing of fertilisers. However, this could impact the revenue of state-owned PSUs such as ONGC and Oil India, which produce 83 per cent of the domestic gas. Other producers such as Reliance Industries, Vedanta and Hindustan Oil Exploration Company would also see their revenues going down.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-290
14-09-2020||Business||Retail inflation will fall, asserts CEA||Chief economic adviser K.V. Subramanian has attributed the rise in inflation to supply-side frictions and exuded confidence that retail inflation will come down in the days ahead with the easing of lockdowns. According to government data, retail inflation rose to 6.93 per cent in July, driven  by rising prices of food items such as vegetables, pulses, meat and fish. However, wholesale price-based inflation declined 0.58 per cent in July, even as food items turned costlier. “If you look at inflation... it’s primarily because of those supply-side frictions, but as local lockdowns are actually being reduced, these frictions should basically go down,” he said. “Overall, the difference between wholesale and retail inflation is primarily because of supply-side factors which should decrease and, therefore, going forward even retail inflation should ease,” Subramanian said. There are fears that retail inflation would remain at an elevated level during the rest of the year, limiting the scope for the RBI to further ease the benchmark interest rate. The six-member Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) headed by the RBI governor has been given the mandate to maintain the annual retail inflation at 4 per cent until March 31, 2021, with an upper tolerance of 6 per cent and a lower tolerance of 2 per cent. Retail inflation so far has been in the tolerance range of MPC except for a breach in July. In June, retail inflation was 6.09 per cent. At the same time, WPI inflation in June was at (-) 1.81 per cent, while for the month of May and April it was (-) 3.37 per cent and (-) 1.57 per cent, respectively. As far as growth is concerned, India’s economy suffered its worst slump on record in April-June, with the gross domestic product contracting 23.9 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-290
14-09-2020||Business||Leeway for multi-cap mutual funds||The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) on Sunday sought to allay the concerns of fund managers of multi-cap mutual funds after it tightened the investment rules for the category on Friday. Sebi had said multi-cap funds must have a minimum corpus of 75 per cent invested in equities against the present requirement of 65 per cent. Moreover, to diversify their investments, it ruled that these funds will have to make a minimum investment of 25 per cent each in equity and equity related instruments of large cap, midcap and smallcap companies. Sebi gave fund houses time till January 2021 to meet this requirement. The move created a flutter in the domestic mutual fund industry as fund houses began examining options to dodge compulsory purchases of small and midcap stocks. In a clarification on Sunday, Sebi said multi-cap schemes had flexibility in terms of allocation to large, mid and small cap stocks, based on the preference of their unit holders. Apart from rebalancing their portfolio, they can facilitate a switch to other schemes by unit holders, merge their multi-cap schemes with the large cap ones or convert their multi-cap schemes to another category, for instance a “large-cum-mid cap scheme” to be “true to label”. The market regulator said it will examine the proposals of the industry, if any, received in this regard. Experts had welcomed Friday’s move, pointing out that it will correct the investment structure of multi-cap funds which are tilted heavily in favour of large cap stocks. However, fund managers expressed concern that the poor liquidity in small and midcap stocks will sharply increase the risk for investors investing in these schemes. The clarification from Sebi could temper the optimism of a rally in small and midcap stocks. Dhiraj Sachdev, managing partner and chief investment officer at Roha Asset Managers, told The Telegraph, “This rectification has to be welcomed. Over the last two to three years, we have seen polarisation towards large caps and this will now get corrected.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-290
14-09-2020||Business||Sri Lanka realty battle heats up||Two strands of a bruising court battle are looming on either side of the Palk Strait as a clutch of top builders from Calcutta mount legal challenges to claw back at a prestigious development in Colombo. Multiple cases are being fought before the company law court in India and the commercial court in Sri Lanka over the fate of the $300-million Altair project which has been declared as a ‘flagship foreign investment project’ in the island nation. The first round in what appears to be a long battle has gone to the challenger Jaideep Halwasiya who was granted a stay by the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) over his ouster from the board of the Indian firm which used to be the main promoter of the Sri Lankan subsidiary which is building Altair. However, Halwasiya may have to toil hard to maintain the early lead as the Commercial High court of Colombo is ready to hear a case filed by the Indian parent to challenge the manner in which it has been reduced to a minority in Altair after the Supreme Court of Sri Lanka paved the way for the hearing on September 8. The Commercial High Court in Colombo could hear the matter as early as Monday or Tuesday while the NCLAT order was delivered on September 4. At the heart of the dispute is a change in ownership of the Sri Lankan company, Indocean Developers Pvt Ltd (IDPL), the promoter of Altair. Calcutta-based AA Infraproperties (AAI) used to own 100 per cent share of IDPL. Its stake is now down to 13.84 per cent after Halwasiya issued fresh shares to entities linked to him. South City Projects (Kolkata) Ltd, which holds 87.5 per cent in AAI — the remaining 12.5 per cent is with Halwasiya — claims that the issuance of shares in IDPL was an act of fraud perpetrated by Halwasiya to wrest control of Altair. SCPL, which is owned by top city builders Sushil Mohta, Pradeep Sureka, Jugal Khetawat, Rajendra Bachhawat and Emami Group, has in turn lost control of Altair — two towers leaning one over another overlooking the sea — which is nearing completion after at least two years of delay. A bench comprising acting chairperson Bansi Lal Bhat overturned an order of NCLT, Calcutta, which declined to grant an interim stay to Halwasiya plea to challenge his removal from AAI via an extraordinary general meeting of January 4 and the induction of three additional directors by an AGM on September 24, 2019. While returning the matter to the lower court, NCLAT observed: “We are of the opinion that the impugned order suffers from (a) grave legal infirmity besides factual frailty. (The) Same cannot be supported. The appeal is allowed and the impugned order is set aside. Appointment of respondents No. 4 to 6 as directors and removal of the appellant as the director is stayed till the decision on the company petition by the tribunal.” AAI had sought to remove Halwasiya from the board after the change in shareholding of IDPL came to light. AAI had moved Commercial High Court in Colombo to challenge the dilution of their equity interest in IDPL. However, it now appears that the court has to first adjudicate on who represents AAI after the NCLAT order. There is only one director representing the interests of South City promoters after the appointment of three directors were stayed. The other director is Halwasiya himself. AAI is challenging the validity of a power of attorney purportedly granted to Halwasiya in 2019 to represent the Indian parent in Sri Lanka.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-291
14-09-2020||India||LS members in RS & VIP galleries, Parliament holds unusual sitting||Parliament met on Monday for the monsoon session under unusual circumstances created by the COVID-19 pandemic with Lok Sabha members spread out in different locations, including the Rajya Sabha chamber, in view of  physical distancing norms put in place to check the spread of the virus. Before the House met at 9am, Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressed confidence that Parliament would unitedly give a message that the country was standing solidly behind the soldiers guarding India's borders. Alluding to the ongoing border row with China in Ladakh, Modi said Indian soldiers were  bravely discharging their duties while standing guard in difficult hilly terrains with snowfall expected in the coming days and weeks. Referring to the COVID-19 pandemic, he said MPs have chosen the path of their duty and added that all precautions would be taken. Modi also enquired about the health of media personnel while noting that they would not get the opportunity to move around freely like before due to the coronavirus guidelines. "You will get every news. It is not a difficult task for you, but please take care of yourself. It is my personal request to all of you," he said. As some Lok Sabha members attended the House proceedings while seated in the Rajya Sabha chamber, Speaker Om Birla said this was perhaps for the first time that such an arrangement had been put in place. Birla also said members did not have to stand while speaking as part of the new procedures put in place to contain the spread of the coronavirus. Members participated in debates while sitting on their numbered seats. For members, who were sitting in galleries meant for visitors and VIPs, special podiums were placed for them to speak as there are no mike facilities there. The Speaker said rules had been eased to allow Lok Sabha members to sit in the Rajya Sabha and similarly Rajya Sabha members could occupy seats in the lower house to ensure distancing during the session of the upper house. In a lighter vein, he also noted that it was a “dream of some RS members” to sit in the Lok Sabha.No protest in the Well The Lok Sabha secretariat said 359 members attended the proceedings of the lower house on Monday. With two vacancies, the current strength of the  Lok Sabha is 541. Unlike in the past, there were no Opposition protests in the Well of the House, which is otherwise a usual occurrence on Day One of the session as soon as the House assembles. A giant TV screen in the Lok Sabha chamber showed very few Lok Sabha members occupying seats in the Rajya Sabha chamber. Benches which usually accommodate six members had a numbered seating plan for only three. Glass-like plastic shields of varied sizes were installed in front of benches as a protection. The shield also covered a portion of the sides. The front seats of the Treasury benches on the right of the Speaker's podium were occupied by Prime Minister Narendra Modi sitting on a seat marked as number 1, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on seat number 2 and Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on seat number 3. The front seats of the Opposition benches were occupied by T.R. Baalu of the DMK and Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury of the Congress. Samajwadi Party patriarch Mulayam Singh Yadav, 80, was helped inside the House on a wheelchair and was seated next to National Conference leader Farooq Abdullah in the second row of Opposition benches.Lockdown a ‘bold decision’ Health Minister Harsh Vardhan made a statement in the House on the novel coronavirus, saying the Central government undertook the COVID-19 challenge with the highest level of political commitment. The nationwide lockdown, which he described as a “bold decision”, was testimony to the fact that India had collectively stood up to manage COVId-19 and successfully blunted the aggressive progression of the infection, he claimed. “It has been estimated that this decision prevented approximately 14-29 lakh cases and 37,000 to 78,000 deaths,” he said.Rs 2.35 lakh crore additional spending During the proceedings, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman sought Parliament's nod for additional spending of Rs 2.35 lakh crore, which includes a cash outgo of Rs 1.66 lakh crore, primarily to meet expenses for combating the COVID-19 pandemic. The government also introduced three bills on the farm sector with Union minister Narendra Singh Tomar asserting that they will help farmers get a remunerative price for their produce as well as private investments and technology. The Centre also introduced The Farmers' Produce Trade And Commerce (Promotion And Facilitation) Bill, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, which will replace ordinances promulgated by the government earlier. MPs’ salaries cut Another bill which seeks to reduce for one year the salaries of MPs by 30 per cent "to meet the exigencies arising out of COVID-19 pandemic" was also introduced. It also seeks to replace an Ordinance. On the lack of the usual hustle-bustle during the Parliament session, N K Premachandran, Lok Sabha member from Kollam, said, "These are hard times and the mood was conciliatory. There was, of course, the fibreglass ... the liveliness of Parliament was missing because of the extraordinary situation". In view of the coronavirus scare, only a few MPs interacted with media persons waiting at Vijay Chowk near Parliament complex.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-668
14-09-2020||India||Parliament must stand behind our brave soldiers, says PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday expressed confidence that Parliament will send out a unanimous and strong message that the country is unitedly standing behind its brave soldiers guarding India's borders, asserting that doing so is the legislature's "crucial responsibility". In his remarks to media before the commencement of Parliament's monsoon session, Modi noted, in an apparent reference to the ongoing border row with China in Ladakh, that brave Indian soldiers are defending the borders with great courage and high spirits in difficult hilly terrains with snowfall expected in some time. Referring to the issue, he said, "This Parliament, particularly in this session, has one more crucial responsibility... Just like the faith with which they (soldiers) are standing, determined to protect the motherland, Parliament and all its members too will send out a message in a unanimous voice, spirit and resolve that the country stands in support of them." "The entire Parliament stands with the brave soldiers of the country with one voice. I believe that Parliament and all its will give out a very strong message," he added. Modi's call for lawmakers to send out a united message over the issue came amid expectations that Parliament may debate the tense border situation, with some opposition leaders, especially from the Congress, sharply criticising the government's handling of the row with China. Noting that Parliament is expected to take up many important discussions and decide on key issues, the prime minister hoped that MPs will do "value addition" to debates. It is our experience that the more deep and diverse debate happens in Parliament, the more benefits it brings to the subject of discussion and the country, he added. With the Covid-19 pandemic continuing to spread across the country, the prime minister observed that the session is taking place under special circumstances and asserted that MPs have chosen the path of duty. "There is a corona pandemic on one hand while our obligation towards fulfilling our duties on the other; and all the MPs have chosen the path of duty. I congratulate and thank all the MPs for this initiative," he said. He referred to the host of changes, including staggered timings of Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha and the decision to run them on weekends too, brought to the running of this session due to the COVID-19 crisis, and said MPs have welcomed them. Everybody has to follow guidelines and precautions about which they have been informed, Modi said, adding, "Ye bhi saaf hai jab tak dawai nahi tab tak koi dhilai nahi" (It is clear that there can be no laxity till a vaccine is found). He expressed hope that a vaccine becomes available soon, and people are helped out of this global crisis. Modi also enquired about the health of media personnel while noting that they will not get the opportunity to move around freely like before due to the coronavirus guidelines. "You will get every news. It is not a difficult task for you, but please take care of yourself. It is my personal request to all of you," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-668
14-09-2020||India||Same sex marriages not recognised by our laws, society, Centre tells HC ||The Centre on Monday told the Delhi High Court that marriage between same sex couples was "not permissible" as it is not recognised by "our laws, legal system, society and our values". The submission was made before a bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan by Solicitor General (SG) Tushar Mehta during hearing of a PIL seeking a declaration that same sex marriages be recognised under the Hindu Marriage Act (HMA) and Special Marriage Act. Mehta opposed the relief sought in the petition saying "our laws, our legal system, our society and our values do not recognise a marriage, which is a sacrament, between same sex couples". He said the plea to grant recognition to or permit registration of such marriages was "not permissible" for two reasons -- firstly, the petition was asking the court to legislate and secondly, any relief granted "would run contrary to various statutory provisions". "Unless court violates other various laws, this cannot be done," he added. Mehta also said that under the HMA, the various provisions regulating marriages or prohibited relationships talk of husband and wife and therefore, who would be assigned these roles where a same sex couple was concerned. The bench observed that the world over things were changing, but it may or may not be applicable to India. It, however, questioned the need for a PIL in the instant case, saying the people who claim to be affected are well educated and can themselves approach the court. "Why should we entertain the PIL," it asked. The counsel for the petitioner stated that the affected people were not coming forward themselves as they feared reprisals and therefore, a PIL was preferred. It asked the lawyer appearing for the petitioner, Abhijit Iyer Mitra, to give details of the persons who were not permitted to register their same sex marriage. With the direction to place these factual aspects before the court, the bench listed the matter for further hearing on October 21. The petition has contended that despite the Supreme Court decriminalizing consensual homosexual acts, marriages between same sex couples was still not possible.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-668
14-09-2020||India||Paying fine does not mean I've accepted SC verdict, says Bhushan||Activist-lawyer Prashant Bhushan said on Monday that paying of the token fine of Re 1 imposed on him by the Supreme Court in a contempt case does not mean that he has accepted the verdict and would file a review petition against the judgement. Bhushan, who deposited the fine with the apex court Registry over his two tweets seen as contempt of court, said that he has received contributions from several corners of the country for paying the fine, and a "truth fund" will be created out of such contributions to provide legal aid to those who are prosecuted for dissenting opinions. "Just because I'm paying the fine does not mean I have accepted the verdict. We are filing a review plea today. We have filed a writ petition that there must be an appeal procedure created for conviction under contempt," Bhushan told the media before submitting the fine. "The State is using all means to silence voices of dissent. The 'truth fund' will be used to protect the personal liberty to those persons who face the State's persecution", said Bhushan who was accompanied by a group of people from Rajasthan. The lawyer also spoke on the arrest of former Jawaharlal Nehru University student Umar Khalid for his alleged role in the Delhi riots and said the government is using all sorts of tactics to shut down criticism. The activist-lawyer had earlier said his tweets were not intended in any way to disrespect the Supreme Court or the judiciary, but they were an expression of his anguish at what he felt was the court's deviation from its sterling record. A bench headed by Justice (retired) Arun Mishra asked Bhushan to deposit the fine by September 15, failing which he would have attracted a jail term of three months and debarment from law practice for three years. Bhushan in his statement had refused to offer an apology to the Supreme Court for the tweets, saying what he had expressed represented his bona fide belief which he continued to hold.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-669
14-09-2020||India||Monsoon session begins amid pandemic caution ||Separated by plastic shields installed in front of their benches, members of Lok Sabha attended the first day of the Monsoon session being held amid the Covid-19 pandemic. While nearly 200 members were present in the Lok Sabha chamber, a little over 30 were seated in the visitors' gallery located above the main chamber. A giant TV screen in the Lok Sabha chamber showed very few Lok Sabha members were occupying seats in the Rajya Sabha chamber, the other venue where LS MPs have been accommodated keeping in mind physical distancing norms. Benches which usually accommodate six members had a numbered sitting plan for only three. Glass-like plastic shields of varied sizes were installed in front of benches to protect members from coronavirus. The shield also covered part of the members' sides. The front seats of the Treasury benches on the right of the Speaker's podium were occupied by Prime Minister Narendra Modi sitting on a seat marked as number one, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on seat number 2 and Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on seat number 3. The front seats of the Opposition benches were occupied by T R Baalu of the DMK and Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury of the Congress. National Conference leader Farooq Abdullah was also present and was seated in the second row of opposition benches. As soon as the prime minister entered the House, he was greeted with claps and "Bharat Mata Ki Jai" slogan. Modi greeted members, including those from the Opposition, with folded hands. All members were wearing masks. Some were also seen wearing face shields, including Trinamool Congress leader Kalyan Banerjee. The House met for neatly 20 minutes in the morning and was adjourned for an hour after paying tributes to former president Pranab Mukherjee, a sitting MP and 13 former members who died in the recent past.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-669
14-09-2020||India||Umar Khalid arrested; academics, activists see ‘witch-hunt’  ||Academics, activists and lawyers have condemned the arrest of Jawaharlal Nehru University alumnus Umar Khalid under a draconian law for his alleged role in the northeast Delhi riots, describing it as a witch-hunt against one of the bravest young voices who spoke for constitutional values. Khalid was arrested under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) by the special cell of the Delhi police after 11 hours of interrogation late on Sunday night. Delhi Police on Monday sought a 10-day custody of Khalid, saying he needed to be confronted with huge amount of data. Khalid was questioned by the Delhi Police Crime Branch for a couple of hours on September 2 in connection with the riots. He was earlier booked under the stringent UAPA in another case related to the riots. He was also quizzed by the Special Cell of the Delhi Police earlier regarding an alleged conspiracy behind the riots. His mobile phone was also seized by the police. As citizens deeply committed to constitutional values, we condemn the arrest of Umar Khalid who has been subjected to a malicious investigation targeting peaceful anti-CAA protestors,” the statement by the group of academics, lawyers and rights activists said, The Wire reported. With deep anguish we have no doubt in saying that this investigation is not about the violence in February 2020 in the national capital, but on the completely peaceful and democratic protests across the country against the unconstitutional CAA,” the statement said. It described Khalid as “one of the hundreds of voices that spoke up in favour of the Constitution across the country during these anti-CAA protests, always foregrounding the need for peaceful, non-violent and democratic means”. The statement also noted that Khalid had emerged as a strong and powerful voice of young Indians in “favour of the Constitution and of democracy.” Among those who signed the statement are Ravi Kiran Jain and V. Suresh of the Peoples Union for Civil Liberties, lawyers Mihir Desai and N.D. Pancholi, academics Satish Deshpande, Mary John, Apoorvanand, Nandini Sundar and Shuddhabrata Sengupta, and rights activists Aakar Patel, Harsh Mander, Farah Naqvi and Biraj Patnaik. Inter-community clashes had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 after violence between supporters of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and those against the legislation spiralled out of control, leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured. In their attempt to prevent violence, 108 police personnel received injuries and two died. The Delhi Police on Sunday said it was investigating the role of all individuals who allegedly took part in the riots and were part of a larger conspiracy in organising violence in the northeast Delhi and inciting communal passion and hatred amongst communities, an official statement, reported by PTI, stated. Delhi Police said they had registered 751 FIRs in connection with the riots that took place in the last week of February this year. As far as the investigation is concerned Delhi Police had carried it out meticulously in the most professional manner, officials said. After collecting and collating all evidence, the investigation has been finalised in most of the important cases and the charge sheets have been submitted in the court for trial, the police also said, adding the riots also caused large-scale damage to both private and public properties. So far, police have arrested 1,575 people in 751 cases. Over 250 chargesheets have been filed in the riots related cases in which 1,153 accused have been charge-sheeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-669
14-09-2020||India||Umar arrested after 11-hour questioning||Rights activist Umar Khalid was arrested after 11 hours of questioning by Delhi police’s special cell, which investigates alleged acts of terrorism. He is accused of inciting communal riots in February in Delhi that killed 53 people here. Khalid, a former student of Jawaharlal Nehru University, is currently facing a 2016 case against him for organising a “cultural evening” in which slogans for Kashmiri independence were allegedly raised. The trial is yet to begin in that case. He is currently charged under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act and has been named in an FIR accusing him of inciting riots in Delhi through his speeches. Khalid had complained to police commissioner S.N. Srivastava earlier this month that his acquaintances were being coerced by the police to falsely implicate him or face arrest. Khalid’s friends said that he returned to Delhi from Rajasthan after a notice from the police and reported to the special cell’s office in Lodhi Colony on Sunday morning.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-669
14-09-2020||India||Disclaimers, identical errors in riot ‘disclosure’ papers||The “disclosure” statements of two arrested students carry the disclaimers “refuse to sign”. The operative parts are almost identical, including the spelling errors. Yet, Delhi police have mentioned the names of academics Jayati Ghosh and Apoorvanand in a supplementary chargesheet dealing with the February Delhi riots in which 53 people were killed. The contents of the chargesheet were leaked to a section of media on Sunday night but a “misinterpretation” by some of the privileged group has landed Delhi police in hot water ahead of Parliament session. Delhi police are now scrambling to hammer home the message that mere mention of names does not amount to charging those named or treating them as accused. But the very action of including the names on the basis of what looks like a shoddy “cut-and-paste job” has posed several questions before the police. Two of the three arrested students had “refused to sign” their alleged “disclosure” statements. The handwritten sentence, “I refuse to sign”, is visible in one statement and “refuse to sign” in the other. The names of CPM leader Sitaram Yechury and Swaraj India leader Yogendra Yadav were mentioned in the supplementary chargesheet on the basis of the alleged statement by the third student, which has been signed. The operative parts of the purported disclosure statements by JNU students Devangana Kalita and Natasha Narwal, translated by Delhi police, are near-identical but for the students’ names and they mention “Jaidi Ghosh” and “Professor Apurva Nand”. That the drafters meant economist and JNU professor Jayati Ghosh was clear when Delhi police issued a clarification saying “it is clarified that Shri Sitaram Yechury, Shri Yogendra Yadav and Smt Jayati Ghosh have not been arraigned as accused in the supplementary chargesheet….”Arraignment stands for formally accusing someone of a crime. That the police meant Apoorvanand, who teaches in Delhi University, was apparent because he had been questioned earlier in connection with the riots case. Supreme Court lawyer Kamini Jaiswal said: “The identical statements of the suspects recorded in police custody with (identical) spelling mistakes and grammatical error clearly shows it's a cut-and-paste job. Police officers dictated and their subordinates typed it and put the same thing in the mouth of the accused persons.” She added: “It is a shocking state of affairs now. We do not have hope from anywhere. It is high time the courts should rise to the occasion and rescue the people.” The lawyer said the so-called disclosure statements cited by the police were meant to harass and intimidate peaceful citizens. “What is the value of such statements when the suspects have refused to sign it? It clearly means they do not agree to it. Such statements are not even worth the paper they are written on,” Jaiswal said. Disclosures made in police custody, she said, are not permissible in court during trial. “Don’t police know the meaning of such statements? Yes, they know it very well but they are doing it to harass, intimidate, humiliate and terrorise peace-loving citizens…. They are doing it at the behest of their political masters.” Trial court lawyer M.S. Khan said Section 25 of the Indian Evidence Act says “no confession made to a police officer shall be proved as against a person accused of any offence”. “Under the Evidence Act, the statements cited by Delhi police to name political leaders/ civil society members are tainted and not admissible in court. It will be admissible if police find corroborative evidence,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-669
14-09-2020||India||Regret not having recognised that the campaign was propped up by the RSS: Prashant Bhushan||Lawyer Prashant Bhushan, one of the leaders of the India Against Corruption movement that vilified and paralysed the Manmohan Singh government and helped bring the BJP to power in 2014, has said he regretted not having recognised at the time that the campaign was propped up by the RSS. “Arvind (Kejriwal) was aware of it and I have very little doubt of that,” Bhushan said in an interview to India Today TV that was aired on Saturday night, referring to the current chief minister of Delhi who catapulted into politics on the back of that campaign. The Congress has said in the past that the RSS was behind the movement that painted the then government as corrupt, stalling decision-making as ministers and bureaucrats feared that even bona fide orders might be used against them. Since the Congress was in power then and had an interest in defusing the anti-graft campaign, the allegation was deliberately glossed over by large sections of the media and failed to gather traction. The BJP built its 2014 election campaign on the issue of corruption and policy paralysis, which had become entwined. The corruption charges over the 2G allocation, the biggest of the alleged scandals, were thrown out in court but by then the government had been voted out. In Saturday’s interview, Bhushan was asked if he had any regrets about being part of the movement that had led to the BJP government — which he has described as “fascist”— coming to power. He replied: “In hindsight there are two things which I do regret. One is not having seen that the movement was to a very large extent supported and propped up by the BJP-RSS for their own political purpose to bring down the Congress government and get themselves in power.” Asked if Anna Hazare, the face of the movement, was aware of this, Bhushan said: “He was also probably not aware of it. Arvind was aware of it and I have very little doubt of that.” Hazare has in the past denied that the campaign was RSS-backed. “The second regret that I have is not having understood Arvind’s character early enough. I understood too late, by which time we had created another Frankenstein monster, so to say,” Bhushan said. Bhushan was a co-founder of the Aam Aadmi Party that Kejriwal heads but the two had a falling out in 2015 over ideological issues, and the lawyer was expelled from the party. “I was very, very — exceedingly — fond of Arvind but I was never very critically looking at him in order to see whether he was unscrupulous in his means or not and so on,” he said. “It became clear immediately after the Lok Sabha elections, one after another things unfolded before my eyes and it became clear that he was not only unscrupulous and dictatorial but he had total contempt for policies of the party because we had formed 34 expert committees to form the policies of the party. After they had given their reports and we had to adopt them et cetera, he said throw them in the wastepaper basket; we will take a stand when it suits us,” Bhushan said. Kejriwal has not responded to the allegations. AAP and Delhi government spokespersons did not respond to queries from this newspaper.On the condition of anonymity, an AAP leader said: “Arvind will not respond as we don’t want to indulge Bhushan.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-669
14-09-2020||India||Educated? So what? Roll up sleeves||A group of six educated men from a north Kerala village have been working for daily wages for the past one month, preferring manual labour in a pandemic-hit economy to sitting idle at home. Their nod to the dignity of labour and their generosity — they have occasionally returned a part of the wages if they thought the work was too light or the employer cash-strapped — have earned them respect in their neighbourhood, team leader Ajith Raj said. Most of them are in their late-teens or early twenties and from well-off families. Raj, a 38-year-old who leads the group, is an NRI who got stranded after arriving on a short visit home to Kodakkad village in Kasaragod district. “I’m part of the Oasis Cricket Club in Dubai and had travelled to Sri Lanka to play a match, after which I visited my family,” the MBA graduate who worked at a recruitment agency for engineers in Dubai said. “But days later, the lockdown was announced.” The never-ending wait to return to Dubai made him restless. “I suggested to my nephew and these young boys that we do manual work just for the fun of it. They immediately agreed,” Raj told The Telegraph on Sunday. “None of our families depended on our daily wages, yet each of them backed us. Since I began manual work, my wife has been waking up early to cook food for me.” Raj was joined by his nephew P.G. Ashwin, 19, a final-year student of a diploma course in civil engineering, Rajulal Paleri, 20, who has a diploma in electronics, P.V. Jishnu, 21, a diploma holder in computer engineering and K.V. Harikrishnan, 19, a hotel management graduate. Shortly afterwards, E. Sreejith, 24, who has a diploma in “diesel mechanism”, joined the group. None of the diploma holders had any job, having cleared their exams just before the lockdown. All six are from the same village and they work together at the same site and for the same employer. “Our first job was to carry laterite stones to the second floor of a house under construction. It was a bit difficult in the beginning but we got used to it,” Raj said. Red laterite stones are widely used in construction in northern Kerala. The group has also tilled land for farmers, and provided seasonal manure to coconut trees by digging trenches around them and filling them with cow dung and leaves. “People accuse the returned migrant workers of taking up all the manual jobs, but there are enough jobs here if you want to work. Very few were willing to work even when the migrants were away at their workplaces,” Raj said. “However, we don’t go around asking for work since we don’t want to come in the way of regular workers who earn their livelihood from manual labour. We receive calls only when the employer fails to find regular workers.” The group has earned Rs 45,000 so far from 15 assignments, which works out to between Rs 500 and Rs 600 per head per day of work, considering that not all six are available to work every day. Raj said his family’s daily expenses came to about Rs 1,000, so the money was a lot of help. The local wage rate is Rs 600 for men for five hours of manual work and Rs 400 for women, who are not hired for heavy labour. The state government’s minimum wage rate for eight hours of work is Rs 850 plus food for those who till the land, and Rs 1,000 with food for stone masons. While being paid less than the government rate, the group has often returned a part of their wages from sympathy or moral scruples. “At one place, we returned Rs 1,000 since the family had financial issues. At two other places we returned Rs 500 since we felt the work was light,” Raj said. In the first instance, a person had paid them Rs 4,000 for tilling his small plot of land and fertilising his coconut trees. In the two other instances, they had been paid Rs 2,000 and Rs 3,000 for tilling land and cleaning a newly built house, respectively. The group shows its consideration for its employers in other ways too. Some employers in Kerala provide tea, snacks and lunch to the workers. “But we carry food from home since we don’t want to burden those who employ us,” Raj said. Many in the neighbourhood see the group as an example and an inspiration. “We feel the respect from the families of our friends whenever we visit them. It shows we are doing the right thing,” Raj said. Some of their teammates from a local football club — of which all six are members — have decided to follow in their footsteps. “Many more educated youths want to join us now. We have even begun receiving work assignments from elsewhere,” Raj said. “For instance, an NRI from Sharjah has called us and offered the job of renovating his villa in Ernakulam.” Sreejith left a few days ago for Ernakulam, 300km away, to check the site out. The rest of the team will catch up with him next week. Raj said the group had found their earnings useful during the recent Onam festival. “The boys could buy new clothes for their parents with their own earnings,” he said. Ashwin, the student, has to sometimes skip work when he has online classes. “Otherwise I work on all days and even have the time and energy to play football in the evening,” the teen said. “Now I earn my own pocket money and even have something to spare. I will continue to do this work even after completing my course until I get a better offer.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-669
14-09-2020||India||Flutter over vaccine pace||The Centre is considering “emergency authorisation” of coronavirus disease vaccination, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan said on Sunday, sparking surprise and speculation whether India is mulling mass inoculation of people without all required scientific assessment. “He (Vardhan) said that the government is considering emergency authorisation of Covid-19 vaccination, especially in the case of senior citizens and people working in high-risk settings,” the Union health ministry said in a statement released through the Press Information Bureau on Sunday. “This shall be done after a consensus has been reached,” the release quoted the minister as saying during an interaction with his social media followers. “To allay fears regarding the safety aspect of the vaccines, he said he will be happy to take the first dosage of vaccine if some people have a trust deficit,” the release added. The minister also told his social media followers that while no date had been fixed for the vaccine launch, it might be ready by the first quarter of 2021. At night, in response to a question after several scientists raised their eyebrows, Vardhan told The Telegraph: “I’ve only said that if there is a need, it (emergency authorisation) can be considered — without compromising on safety and efficacy. If phase 3 trials are going on and thousands of people have already received a vaccine and we know it is safe, we can consider emergency authorisation if there is a consensus.” The minister said he was speaking in general terms and did not point to any specific vaccine. The initial statement of Vardhan, also an ENT surgeon, while interacting with the social media users caught sections of scientists by surprise. They said emergency authorisation can refer to the process under which the country’s drug regulatory authority can, under exceptional circumstances, approve a drug or a vaccine for public use without the full cycle of clinical trials. Medical experts also point out that emergency authorisation of a Covid-19 vaccine would be extremely unusual and would contradict assurances by India’s health research agency earlier this year that the country would not bypass any necessary processes. Virologists and vaccine researchers said one interpretation of Vardhan’s statement could be that India might consider releasing a vaccine for public use, albeit restricted, without the large-scale phase 3 efficacy trials that should ideally follow early-stage safety and efficacy trials. “This would mean limited use approval in most vulnerable groups such as healthcare workers or security personnel,” said Shahid Jameel, a senior virologist and head of the Wellcome Trust DBT India Alliance, a UK-India research partnership. “China and Russia have already done this.” Russian regulators had last month approved a Covid-19 vaccine candidate after early-stage, or phase 1 and phase 2, safety and efficacy trials ahead of phase 3 trials on 40,000 people now underway in Russia. In vaccine development, phase 1 trials assess safety while phase 2 trials examine whether the vaccine candidate generates an immune response. India is currently testing two homegrown vaccine candidates that are both in the early-stage phase 1 and phase 2 studies and the Oxford vaccine candidate that is set to head into phase 3 trials. But the Centre is also examining proposals for clinical trials of the Russian vaccine. “Large scale phase 3 studies are critical — they are the true test of the protective efficacy of a vaccine,” said Shri Prakash Kalantri, professor of medicine at the Mahatma Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences, Wardha. “It is only through phase 3 studies that we will actually know whether a vaccine can protect people from the viral infection.” Vaccine researchers point out that rare adverse effects of a vaccine might be missed during phase 1 or phase 2 trials because of limited number of vaccine recipients. A rare safety event, if any, is more likely to be detected when the vaccine candidate is given to tens of thousands of people. Sudanshu Vrati, a senior virologist and executive director of the Regional Centre for Biotechnology, Faridabad (Haryana), said emergency authorisation of a vaccine candidate that has already been tested for safety in thousands of people in other countries would be justified in India. “If there is no safety issue in the US or Europe, it is unlikely there will be one in India,” Vrati said. However, Kalantri said he would consider emergency authorisation for a vaccine as “extremely unusual” because vaccines are given to healthy persons. “Emergency authorisation for a drug may be justified because it is given to ill persons, but vaccines are given to healthy people — this has to be done only after full assessment of safety and efficacy.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-669
14-09-2020||India||‘Quackery’ elements in post-Covid protocol ||The Union health ministry on Sunday released a “post-coronavirus disease management protocol” that doctors say contains standard precautions for patients recovering from the illness and certain unproven remedies that some say are tantamount to quackery. The ministry said the post-Covid-19 management protocol was intended for “holistic follow-up care and well-being of all post-Covid-19 recovering patients”, some of whom may continue to experience fatigue, body ache, cough, sore throat and breathing difficulty after the acute illness. The recovery period is expected to be longer for patients who suffered from severe Covid-19 and those who have underlying health disorders. The ministry has asserted that the protocol is “not meant to be used as preventive or curative therapy”. The protocol recommends that recovered patients continue to use masks and adopt hand and respiratory hygiene and physical distancing. Patients have asked to report to a medical centre for a follow-up visit within seven days of discharge from hospital. It also urges recovering patients to drink adequate amount of warm water and take “immunity-promoting” traditional medicines from ayurveda, yoga, unani, siddha and homeopathy systems of medicines, prescribed by qualified AYUSH practitioners. Patients have been asked to consider mild or moderate exercise, including “the daily practice of Yogasana, Pranayama and meditation as much as health permits” and a daily morning or evening walk at a comfortable pace. The protocol recommends balanced nutritious diet, adequate sleep and rest, and the use of saline gargles, steam inhalation, and herbs and spices for gargling and steam inhalation for persistent dry cough or sore throat. Medical experts said that while warm concoctions with spices, ginger, turmeric and even tea were widely used home remedies for respiratory illnesses and provide relief from symptoms, there was no evidence yet that such remedies benefit patients with post-Covid-19 complications. There could be substances in traditional medicine systems that influence immunity levels but to ask recovering patients to take “immunity-boosting” AYUSH medications are “tantamount to quackery”, said Shri Prakash Kalantri, professor of medicine at the Mahatma Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences, Wardha. “Which medications? Where is the evidence they help address post-Covid complications?” Oommen John, a physician and senior research fellow at The George Institute for Global Health, New Delhi, said: “We need robust research in India to understand patterns of residual illness in Covid-19 survivors.” John also pointed out that some foreign studies have suggested that post-Covid-19 symptoms in some patients could be due to an autoimmune response to the virus. “Since we do not know who has a tendency for this hyperimmune or autoimmune responses, we need to ask — should we really prescribe immunity boosters?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-669
14-09-2020||India||Minister who brought  MGNREGA passes away||Raghuvansh Prasad Singh, who as Union minister in the Manmohan Singh government had conceptualised and implemented the 100-day rural job scheme MGNREGA, passed away on Sunday. He was 74. A Lalu Prasad loyalist for decades, the former mathematics professor had been associated with the Rashtriya Janata Dal since its formation in 1997 but sent a handwritten resignation letter from his deathbed three days ago. Raghuvansh was undergoing treatment at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in New Delhi for post-Covid complications, including breathing trouble and lung infection. He had tested positive for Covid-19 in June but had recovered. Raghuvansh is survived by his wife, two sons and a daughter. He was one of the rare leaders in Bihar who kept family away from politics. Those who knew Raghuvansh fondly recalled him for his disarming laughter, rustic wit, complete disregard for formal clothes and formalities, the socialist and secular ideals that he stood by throughout his life, empathy for the deprived, understanding of the grassroots, courage to take up causes he believed in and his opposition to anything that he felt was wrong. Raghuvansh had written to Lalu Prasad from his hospital bed, resigning from the party. The second most popular leader in the RJD after Lalu had been feeling sidelined for some time. However, Lalu Prasad wrote back to him, telling him he was not going anywhere and that they would talk once he recovered. The RJD chief, jailed in the fodder scam and himself in hospital undergoing treatment for various ailments, was among the first to condole Raghuvansh’s death. “Dear Raghuvansh Babu! What did you do? Just days before I had said you were not going anywhere, but you went so far away. Am speechless. Am sad. Will miss you a lot,” Lalu tweeted in Hindi. Raghuvansh had joined politics at the call of socialist leader Jayaprakash Narayan in the mid 1970s, was a minister in Karpoori Thakur’s government in Bihar, and represented the Vaishali Lok Sabha seat five times in a row from 1996 to 2014.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-669
14-09-2020||India||Ministry call to hospitals for timely treatment ||India’s health ministry has exhorted the private healthcare sector to “ensure seamless admissions” of patients with coronavirus amid rising demand for hospital beds and concerns that some patients are not referred to hospitals early enough. Health secretary Rajesh Bhushan, in a virtual conclave with senior executives and doctors from private hospitals, iterated the need for medics across the country to comply with national clinical treatment protocols, share their best practices to provide timely treatment to patients. Bhushan, the health ministry said on Saturday, also emphasised the need to ensure that patients are not denied beds and the need to follow evidence-based treatment and reduce “heterogeneity” — another word for diversity — in clinical practices in the management of Covid-19 patients. The ministry’s conclave with private hospitals comes amid a near-steady increase in the need for hospital beds for Covid-19 patients with the rise in the number of “active” patients under medical supervision — from about 831,000 a week ago to 958,316 on Saturday. The average daily increase in patients under medical supervision has been around 20,000 over the past three days. While the vast majority of these new diagnosed patients with no symptoms or mild symptoms would be placed under home isolation and observation, doctors say, the increase would translate into higher hospital bed demand. If five per cent new patients need hospital care, for 20,000 patients, India would need 1,000 hospital beds. The Centre has urged states to ensure that patients at home are properly monitored for any signs of deteriorating disease so that they can be moved to hospitals early but, some doctors say, anecdotal accounts suggest that many patients are avoiding early hospital admissions. “We’re concerned about this,” said Alok Ray, chairperson of the Medica hospital group and head of the health services panel of the Federation of Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry who joined the conclave. “Many patients under home isolation seek consultations from nursing homes or general practitioners and even ask for oxygen at home.” Ray said such practices are contributing to delays in treatment. The treatment protocols developed by experts at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, and other institutions recommend patients under home isolation to be immediately shifted to hospitals if their oxygen levels fall below a threshold level or if they develop breathlessness. In a separate meeting on Saturday, P.K. Mishra, the principal secretary to the Prime Minister, chaired a meeting on India’s Covid-19 response that discussed the need for “district action plans” and a “behaviour change” campaign to ensure that people do not lower guard under the “unlock” conditions. During the meeting, Vinod Paul, member of Niti Aayog, the government’s top think tank, made a detailed presentation on projections of cases based on different models, the health ministry said in a media release. Principal secretary Mishra directed officials to work out detailed action plans for the coming months. The meeting also discussed the need for augmenting human resources, ensuring uninterrupted oxygen and other medical supplies, and getting the right mix of testing for effective case management, contact tracing and isolation. The meeting recommended the need for a concerted behaviour change campaign that needs to be taken up to prevent people from lowering their guard from personal precautions against the infection under the unlock phase. India on Saturday recorded 97,570 new Covid-19 cases, a fresh highest-ever single day rise, increasing the total number of infections to over 4.65 million of whom 3.62 million have recovered, 958,316 patients are under medical supervision and 77,472 have died, including 1,201 deaths over the previous 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-670
14-09-2020||India||NEET turnout  85-90%: Minister||Around 85 to 90 per cent candidates appeared for undergraduate medical entrance exam NEET on Sunday, the education minister announced and held this up as an example of “Aatmanirbhar Bharat”. The turnout had been 92.85 per cent in 2019 and 95.7 per cent in 2018. “NTA (National Testing Agency) informed me that around 85-90% students appeared in #NEET exam today. I sincerely thank all Chief Ministers and @DG_NTA for proper arrangements made to facilitate student participation. #NEET participation reflects the tenacity and grit of young #AtmaNirbharBharat,” education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal tweeted. Students, teachers, politicians and activists had urged the government not to go ahead with the NEET and engineering entrance test JEE Main amid the pandemic and held protests across the country. The government, however, pushed ahead with its plan and the Supreme Court rejected pleas to defer the exams. The move triggered a campaign to “dislike” social media content of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, with a video where he extolled the cause of Aatmanirbhar Bharat bearing the maximum brunt. On Sunday, the NTA conducted the NEET for admission to MBBS and BDS courses at 3,862 centres across the country. Around 15.97 lakh students had registered for the test. There are nearly 80,000 medical seats. The NTA last week conducted the Joint Entrance Examination Main, which witnessed a 74 per cent turnout, much less than the attendance of well over 90 per cent in the previous two editions. According to figures tweeted by Pokhriyal, about 8.58 lakh candidates had applied for the exam but only 6.35 lakh — 74 per cent — turned up. However, unlike in engineering, the NEET is the only entrance exam for undergraduate medical courses and is held once a year. The JEE Main is held twice a year, and there are several other state-level engineering entrance exams as well.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-670
14-09-2020||India||Modi praises Nitish role in ‘new Bihar’||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday credited Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar with a “big role” in achieving a “new India and new Bihar”, appearing to endorse him as the face of the NDA in the poll-bound eastern state. Modi’s pat for Nitish comes as a relief for the Janata Dal United at a time another NDA ally, the Lok Janshakti Party of Ram Vilas Paswan, has been castigating the chief minister and threatening to field candidates against JDU nominees. Nitish’s relations with Modi had historically been fraught, with the JDU leader once “banning” the then Gujarat chief minister from campaigning for the NDA in Bihar and later quitting the alliance when Modi was made its prime ministerial candidate for the 2014 elections. As he inaugurated three petroleum projects in Bihar on Sunday, Modi painted a grim picture of the state’s level of development before Nitish assumed power in late 2005. He, however, did not name Lalu Prasad or the Rashtriya Janata Dal. “There was a time when road connectivity, rail connectivity, Internet were not even discussed (in Bihar). Being a land-locked state, Bihar faced many challenges,” the Prime Minister said from Delhi through videoconferencing. “Nitish Kumar certainly has played a big role in the (movement) towards a new India and new Bihar.” Modi’s thumbs-up to Nitish comes at a time the JDU has been worried not just about the LJP’s attacks but also about a BJP lobby that has been alleging simmering anti-incumbency against the chief minister and suggesting the polls be fought in Modi’s name. The real test will come when the allies work out the seat shares. Many in the JDU fear that as quid pro quo for the endorsement of Nitish as the NDA’s face in Bihar, the BJP might demand a larger seat share. Relations between the JDU and the LJP have soured over Paswan’s criticism of Nitish’s handling of the pandemic and the migrant crisis, and Nitish’s act of joining hands with former chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi, a Dalit rival of Paswan. This is the second time in recent days that Modi has launched development projects in Bihar and sought to connect with its voters. On Sunday, he began his speech with a few lines in Angika, a dialect spoken in the Bhagalpur region. Last week, he had spoken Bhojpuri, another Bihari dialect, while launching a raft of animal husbandry and fishery schemes. Modi said many education institutions had been established in Bihar under the leadership of Nitish, stressing that Bihari youth were earlier forced to migrate to other states for higher studies. He praised the people of Bihar, particularly the youth, saying the intellect and hard work of the state’s migrants had contributed immensely to the development of many states across the country. “It will not be an exaggeration to call the state a powerhouse of talent,” Modi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-670
14-09-2020||India||CPM sees  police pattern in Delhi riots arrests||The CPM on Sunday expressed shock at the brazen manner in which Delhi police, “acting under home minister Amit Shah”, have tried to implicate prominent political leaders including party general secretary Sitaram Yechury, academics, cultural personalities and activists in the February riots in the capital. CPM leaders asserted that they would not be cowed down by such tactics, pointing out that they belong to a party that had participated not only in the freedom struggle and other revolutionary movements but also battled the Emergency. The names of Yechury, economist Jayati Ghosh, Swaraj Abhiyan leader Yogendra Yadav and Delhi University professor Apoorvanand figure in a supplementary chargesheet filed by Delhi police in riots cases, allegedly for “provoking and mobilising” anti-CAA protesters. Kerala finance minister Thomas Isaac summed up the mood in a tweet: “Whom are the BJP leadership trying to intimidate by foisting cases against Com Sitaram and some of the best minds among intellectuals? Want to remind BJP that we belong to the tradition of struggle for freedom and people’s rights. No threat shall waver us from this chosen path.” The CPM politburo urged all like-minded people to jointly protest the attempts to criminalise protests by manufacturing a narrative with a view to silencing all dissent in the country. Calling this an assault on democracy, the politburo said in a statement: “The politburo… is shocked by the brazenness with which the Delhi police, acting under home minister Amit Shah, has tried to implicate prominent political leadership, academics, cultural personalities and activists in connection with the horrific communal violence in Northeast Delhi in February. No condemnation is strong enough for this act of crude partisanship and vengeance.” It added: “In scripting its own narrative of the organised communal violence, it is amply clear that the BJP-RSS has gone about to portray the Delhi riots as a ‘deep-rooted conspiracy’ by anti-Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) protesters.” This, according to the CPM, is in line with the growing pattern of the most blatant abuse of the police and other central agencies such as the CBI, NIA and the ED to frame prominent opponents and demonise them. “The pattern includes slapping of provisions of the draconian NSA, UAPA and Sedition Act to harass and incarcerate those who vigorously oppose such blatant misuse of powers by the government contrary to that as ordained by the Constitution,” the statement said. “The arbitrary conduct of the NIA in the Bhima-Koregaon case and expanding its ambit is telling commentary of this course. Similarly, the dropping of the provisions of the NSA and granting of bail to Dr Kafeel Khan by Allahabad High Court have graphically underlined this. Overall, this outlines a severe onslaught on democracy and the Constitution,” it added. The CPM in Bengal has called for statewide protests. State CPM secretary Surjya Kanta Mishra tweeted in Bengali: “The declaration of the communist party as illegal after the freedom struggle, the arrest of leaders one after another in cases of conspiracy and the murder of thousands of comrades have not been able to finish us. The more the attacks, the more the resistance….” Yechury tweeted the politburo statement. On Saturday evening, reacting to the reports of Delhi police naming him along with several others in the supplementary chargesheet, Yechury had tweeted: “Delhi Police is under the Centre and Home Ministry. Its illegitimate, illegal actions are a direct outcome of the politics of BJP’s top leadership. They are scared of legitimate peaceful protests by mainstream political parties & are misusing state power to target the Opposition.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-670
14-09-2020||India||Congress: PM must explain ‘no-intrusion’ line||The Congress on Sunday made it clear that Prime Minister Narendra Modi would have to explain why he made the “no-intrusion” remark that weakened India’s position vis-a-vis China, setting the stage for a stormy Parliament session from Monday as the government may not concede more than a statement on the border situation. While the Opposition is primarily going to target the government on three vital concerns — China, the economy and the mismanagement of the coronavirus pandemic — a host of other issues such as the farm sector reforms ordinances, banking regulations, the planned privatisation of airports and sale of PSUs, unemployment, the PM CARES Fund, the plan to go ahead with the Central Vista beautification and construction project in the capital despite extreme austerity measures, and the conspiracy to frame critics of the government and anti-CAA protesters in Delhi riots cases have also been lined up for the 18-day session. The government may not want to give enough time to the Opposition to raise so many issues during a session that has been curtailed to four-hour sittings daily due to Covid protocol, and the plan to pass 11 ordinances. The sensitive China issue, however, has the potential to unsettle the entire schedule. A conflict is inevitable as the Prime Minister is unlikely to explain what exactly he meant when he claimed at an all-party meeting on June 19 that none had forcibly entered Indian territory or taken over posts. Congress spokesperson and the party chief whip in the Rajya Sabha, Jairam Ramesh, said on Sunday: “It is the Prime Minister’s statement that weakened India’s position. That was not only contrary to the facts on the ground, but China has also been using it to contest our claims. The Prime Minister does not like to answer questions but these are extraordinary circumstances. We hope he is present in the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha to answer questions.” Asked about the government’s usual reluctance to discuss China citing national security concerns, as had happened during the 2017 Doklam standoff as well, Ramesh said: “In November 1962, when India and China were at war, Parliament had met. Parliament had met from November 11, 1962. During the second phase of the Chinese invasion of India, too, Parliament was in session. The Prime Minister (Jawaharlal Nehru) sat in the Lok Sabha, listening to criticism of his own policies from senior parliamentarians including Atal Bihari Vajpayee. It is ridiculous to say that there should not be any discussion on China, we need a discussion on China.” Ramesh added: “We are responsible political parties; we know what to say and what not to say. The greatest damage to our cause has been done by the Prime Minister’s own statement. He owes an explanation, why did he make that statement, which has single-handedly weakened India’s case and status quo ante on the LAC has not been restored. This is not a debating point, this is a very serious national issue. Parliament is a place for debate, not for running away.” Iterating that the farm sector ordinances would be opposed with all force, Ramesh said the Congress was in touch with other parties and that most non-BJP states felt the new regime would destroy the farmers and facilitate a corporate takeover. The Congress spokesperson said the Opposition didn’t have the numbers in the Lok Sabha but a stiff resistance would be put up in the Rajya Sabha, adding that veteran leaders Ghulam Nabi Azad, Anand Sharma and Ahmed Patel were in touch with like-minded parties to evolve a common strategy. Ramesh declared strong opposition to the Banking Regulation Ordinance as well. Listing objections, he said: “Cooperative banks are part of the structure of cooperatives and ought to be regulated by the state governments, not by the central government. If the ordinance becomes law, all key financial intermediaries will come under the control of the central government, there will be more centralisation. “The Congress stands for decentralisation and for empowering states. An ordinance gives power to the Centre to change the membership structure of a cooperative. A farmer-promoted district cooperative bank could be transferred to the hands of non-farmers, similarly a fisherman-promoted cooperative could be transferred to the hands of fish traders and non-fishermen.” Ramesh alleged that powers were being taken away to change the financial structure of cooperative banks, “enabling the vesting of control in the hands of strangers and predators”. “So, tomorrow, a man who takes over airports can also take over cooperative banks. The RBI is being vested with more regulatory responsibilities. The RBI’s regulating banks have not protected banks from collapsing. There is no justification to make the RBI the regulator of the district cooperative banks and the urban cooperative banks.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-670
14-09-2020||India||Umar Khalid arrested in connection with Delhi riots||Former Jawaharlal Nehru University student leader Umar Khalid was arrested late on Sunday night for his alleged role in the northeast Delhi riots, sources said on Sunday. He was questioned by the Delhi Police Crime Branch for a couple of hours on September 2 in connection with the riots. Khalid was earlier booked under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) in another case related to the riots. He was also quizzed by the Special Cell of the Delhi Police earlier regarding an alleged conspiracy behind the riots. His mobile phone was also seized by the police. Communal clashes had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 after violence between supporters of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and those against the legislation spiralled out of control, leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-670
14-09-2020||India||‘Nothing worked out’. Migrant’s return trip||The Prime Minister has said the millions of migrants who have had to return home during the lockdown had “turned adversity into opportunity”. Bhramara Gauda may beg to differ. When the Surat-bound train chugged out of Berhampur station in Odisha on Sunday, there were tears in Bhramara’s eyes. He was not sure when he would see his family again. Bhramara, 42, had returned to Odisha from Surat in Gujarat, where he worked in a spinning mill, three months ago when the coronavirus-induced lockdown robbed him of his livelihood. But his life became more miserable after reaching his village in Odisha’s Ganjam district. There was no work and he had to spend sleepless nights on an empty stomach. All his savings exhausted, he had to borrow from moneylenders, who were breathing down his neck. The father of two who has a family of six to look after decided to go back. “For me, it is important to do something to ensure that I get two meals a day,” Bhramara said before embarking on the train journey to Surat on the Puri-Okha Express on Sunday. Although the train starts from Puri, most passengers were from Ganjam district and had boarded the train at Berhampur. Bhramara said he had to shell out Rs 4,000 for the bus journey home in May. More hardship was in store. “Nothing worked out for me here. I decided to go back. It’s important to ensure that my two children — a nine-year-old son and a four-year-old daughter — my wife and elderly parents get two meals a day. I could not have stayed back,” Bhramara said. He said his expertise lay in the textile industry and he used to earn Rs 1,000 a day in Surat at the mill. Back home in Odisha, Bhramara had been largely getting employment under the rural job scheme MGNREGA, which mostly entails digging ponds and laying roads, and also agricultural work, earning not more than a meagre Rs 300 a day. Odisha does not have a thriving textile industry like Gujarat, Bhramara said. He said he was desperate to go back as he had exhausted the Rs 25,000 he had brought home from Surat. “I had to take a loan of Rs 60,000 at a very high rate of interest. Moneylenders were pestering me. So I decided to go back,” Bhramara said. He no longer fears the coronavirus. “I have realised that I will have to live with this corona and work.” Saying goodbye was heart-breaking. “ My two kids were crying. They didn’t want me to go back. I don’t know when I will be able to see them again. My wife was silent,” Bhramara said. Similar is the story of 32-year-old Lochan Biswal from Ganjam. “Had I got work here, I would not have returned to Gujarat. Who wants to leave his native place?” said Lochan, another spinning mill worker in the same train to Gujarat. “Although I had managed to get some work back home, the earnings were meagre. Also, the work did not match my skills,” Lochan said, adding that he was not sure when he would be able to return home again. He said it was difficult to maintain physical distancing in the packed train. “As several buses have met with accidents, I decided to go by train. This, too, is risky but then I am taking a risk by going back to Surat anyway,” Lochan said. Surat, Ahmedabad and other cities of Gujarat employ lakhs of Odia labourers. Nearly 10 lakh people from Odisha, a majority of them from Ganjam, work in the textile mills of Surat alone. On Sunday, the train left for Surat with more than 1,000 migrant labourers. On Saturday evening, another train had left for Ahmedabad. Such was the rush that the passengers had to reach the station five hours before the scheduled departure of the trains. The special trains are being run on the request of Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan, who hails from Odisha. He had urged railway minister Piyush Goyal to make arrangements for the return of migrant labourers to their workplaces in Gujarat, Karnataka and Maharashtra. Trains will leave for Gujarat again on September 15, 17, 18, 19 and 22. All seats have been booked. Workers who had returned to Odisha on boats and other modes of transport from places such as Chennai are beginning to make the long journey back. None of them appeared to have created a “record”, as the Prime Minister had said on Saturday while speaking of migrants.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-670
14-09-2020||India||Sikkim reels from rain fury||The ongoing monsoon has caused extensive damage to the road and power facilities in Sikkim, causing losses running into hundreds of crores of rupees and inconveniencing people across the state. The almost continuous rains since the start of the monsoon in early June have triggered landslides at multiple places, sweeping away road formations, damaging pavements, protective structures and electricity towers and lines which, in some cases, would take months to repair. “Most of the roads are strewn with huge boulders, formation have been washed out and the roads have been ripped apart horizontally causing deep gorges in between the road networks in many parts of the state,” said G. T. Dhungel, the advisor to the Sikkim roads and bridges department. Dhungel said temporary measures to open the closed stretches of roads were immediately taken up wherever possible to ensure connectivity, but it would take months for major repairs. “The road sector is the only form of transportation in the state and as such, it is of utmost importance to keep it navigable throughout the year,” he added. The damage caused to the power sector is equally severe with towers and poles being washed away by landslides at different places, forcing many areas to go without electricity for days together. Places like Singtam, Topakhani, Tintek, and Rakdong in East Sikkim, Temi Namphing in South Sikkim and Hee Bermiok in West Sikkim to name just a few have had to go without power for days together. “The excessive rainfall has caused extensive damages. We get daily reports from all corners about damage to power stations and lines and consequent outages. Our field staff is working night and day to restore power, but despite that, services continue to be disrupted,” admitted P.T. Bhutia, the secretary of the state power department. A resident of Singtam, a trading town 28km from Gangtok, said never before had there been power cut for seven-and-a-half days at a stretch. Both the road and power departments were not immediately able to provide an estimate of losses since a comprehensive assessment was yet to be carried out, but officials admitted it would run into hundreds of crores. “It is safe to say the losses to road and power infrastructure will easily be in hundreds of crores. The quantum of damage will be assessed and reports presented to government,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-670
14-09-2020||West Bengal||Trinamul and hill ally on induction spree||The Trinamul Congress and the Binay Tamang faction of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha have been poaching each other’s members with the induction sprees by the allies in the Darjeeling hills coming as a surprise for observers of politics. The ruling Trinamul, which had till now left the political space in the hills vacant for Tamang’s faction of the Morcha, has been regularly organising meetings, which is also a deviation from the past trend. “You can’t call it breaking of the alliance... But the developments are interesting as Trinamul and Tamang’s faction had been complementing each other till now,” said a source. L.B. Rai, the president of Darjeeling (hills) district Trinamul, said there was nothing wrong in inducting supporters of other political parties. “We have a tie-up with the Morcha and we will continue to be allies. But if any Morcha supporter wants to join us to strengthen the hands of Mamata Banerjee and in response to the development works carried out across the state, there is no reason to send away that person. Supporters of other hill parties are also walking into Trinamul,” he said. Rai on Monday inducted into Trinamul members of 21 families which stayed at Khaprail, on the outskirts of Siliguri, and Putung tea estate in the Mirik block. They were handed Trinamul flags at a programme held at the municipality hall in Mirik. They had earlier been with the GNLF or either of the Morcha factions. Rai claimed that around 3,000 supporters from different political parties had switched to Trinamul in the hills in the past one month. N.B. Khawas, the spokesperson for hill Trinamul, said many people with no political background had also joined the ruling party. Trinamul has recently activated its tea trade union in the hills. Leaders of the Tamang camp are not sitting idle either. A few days back, Binay Tamang had himself welcomed Rajen Tamang, a vice-president of hill Trinamul, to the Morcha. Anit Thapa, the second most important leader after Tamang in the party, managed to pull in a number of people from other parties, including Trinamul, at various locations in the hills. “There are people who might have issues with their local leaders and want to shift to another party. That is why one can see such joining. But it is nothing beyond that,” said Keshav Raj Pokhrel, a spokesperson for the Morcha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-375
14-09-2020||West Bengal||Diesel price hits trawl for hilsa||Fishermen’s associations in South 24-Parganas and East Midnapore are citing the hike in diesel prices as the chief cause for a “notably low” hilsa yield this year, the claim coming in the wake of scores of fishermen either ending their catching season early or curtailing expedition duration for “unsustainable fuel rates”. Functionaries of the West Bengal United Fishermen Association said they had written to the offices of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee and several senior ministers at the Centre, requesting them to exempt diesel surcharges for the fishing community but were awaiting a formal reply. “We have written to these offices at least twice since July, requesting them to exempt the surcharge collected by the government on fuel. But no one has heeded our plea yet. As a result, fishermen have reduced their time out at sea and consequently, hilsa yield has turned out low this year,” said Joykrishna Haldar, general secretary of the association. Sources in the fisheries department said fishermen in South 24-Parganas had caught 940 tonnes of the coveted fish since June this year, which is about one tenth of last year’s yield during the same period. “In 2019, a total of 9,112 tonnes of hilsa were caught in South 24-Parganas but this year, it is only 940 tonnes. It goes without saying that the figure of the last year can’t be met in the coming one month,” said Jayanta Pradhan, assistant director (fisheries), South 24-Parganas. Fishermen in both the districts have claimed that the problem of rising fuel costs is not new, rather, the hike this year made the situation untenable. Sources said in August last year, the price of diesel per litre was Rs 61.25, whereas it is around Rs 76 this year. A common complaint among fishermen was that their range of exploration had been curtailed by the “restrictive” fuel prices, a major handicap when it comes to migratory fish like the hilsa. “This year, we had to await positive confirmation of a flock before we could afford to move,” said a Contai-based fisherman. “In the case of the hilsa, fishermen can catch more fish if they roam freely. As the price of diesel rose, our trawlers’ range accordingly depleted. A fisherman who used to pour 1,200 litres of diesel into a trawler now uses 800 litres. As a result, we reduced our time to catch the fish and the production of hilsa is poor,” said Satinath Patra, a secretary of the Sundarban Samudrik Matsyojibi Shramik Union. Fishermen said the knock-on-effect of rising fuel prices was the higher cost of hilsa in the markets, necessitated by the pre-existing lockdown economy conditions. “Because of the Covid-19 pandemic, there is no train service to ship loads of the fish and so, people from other states or north Bengal are buying hilsa in lower quantity,” Patra said. “Neither the Centre nor the state are thinking about our situation at all. We are avoiding unnecessary hunts to reduce our loss from fuel cost,” said Shyamsundar Das, a secretary of the Digha Fishermen and Fish Traders’ Association.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-375
14-09-2020||West Bengal||NBU organic watermelons in Siliguri ||A private company, IXB Agritech, in collaboration with the Centre for Floriculture & Agri-Business Management (COFAM) of North Bengal University has started farming organic watermelons at a village in Phansidewa block of Siliguri subdivision. This is the first time in north Bengal that organic watermelon has been grown, said Amrendra Kumar Pandey, a practical demonstrator at COFAM that is giving technical know-how to the project. Around 2,300 watermelon plants have been farmed on an acre in a farm at Radhajote, some 20km from the city, Pandey said, adding that each plant was likely to produce around 10 kilos of organic watermelon, one fruit weighing around 3 kilos. “We are expecting around 15 tonnes of fruits by this month-end. It is good that north Bengal residents can eat this organic fruit,” he added. “Organic crops are grown without synthetic pesticides and chemicals and are thus healthier, with more antioxidants.” Pandey said COFAM had been promoting organic cultivation for years now. Sources said the watermelon farm developed by Siliguri resident Pradeep Singhal, one of the directors of IXB Agritech, is the first IMO-certified organic farm in north Bengal. IMO India is an independent certification body that carries out audits and provides certification for organic agriculture in the country. Singhal said watermelon harvesting will start by month-end and they planned to deliver the fruit from farm to homes. “We are working on how to make the fruit directly reach homes. In the coming days, we plan to grow organic sweet corn, peas, tomatoes and dragon fruits too,” he said. As of now, he has employed a supervisor and 12 local farmers for the watermelon project in association with COFAM, he said. “Once we increase the scale of production and start growing new organic fruits and vegetables, we intend to engage more people. Organic products fetch a better price in the market and we believe this can help encourage farmers here to go for organic production in their own fields. In due course, we plan to approach farmers and ask them to grow organic vegetables by assuring them that we will buy the produce,” Singhal said. Eventually, Singhal wants to come up with a phone app that people of Siliguri and north Bengal can use to buy organic fruits and vegetables. “But that will take some months,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-375
14-09-2020||West Bengal||How village stays Covid-free||An erstwhile Bangladeshi enclave, which is a part of India since the historic land boundary agreement in 2015, is scripting history again in the time of pandemic. At a time the country’s Covid-19 infection tally has sprinted beyond 4.7 million, village Poaturkuthi has not recorded a single case of infection, at least till Sunday afternoon. The credit for taking precautions to stay safe goes to Poaturkuthi villagers in Dinhata-II block along India-Bangladesh border. But there is near unanimity in the village that they could steer clear of the contagion so far because of Salina Parvin, the only erstwhile Bangladeshi resident (the dwellers are Indian residents now) from among the enclaves to be elected a member of the Bamanhat panchayat. “She kept us safe by constantly counselling how to be safe in this time of pandemic... Most villagers didn’t know much about dos and don’ts. She has saved all of us by creating awareness,” said Rahman Ali, a youth of the village. Since the outbreak of the pandemic, the panchayat member who won as a Trinamul candidate has walked up to each home with her husband Rafikul Islam, also a Trinamul leader, to tell villagers to follow health safety protocols and keep themselves safe. “We visited every home and even now we keep a tab on each household to know if anybody has symptoms,” she said. According to Islam, around 6,000 people reside in the village and in surrounding areas. The village has some 1,800-odd voters. Homes apart, Salina and Rafikul also approached authorities in five local mosques, again to ensure people followed safety protocol. “Every day, announcements are made from all mosques, asking people to follow safety guidelines. Our youths are always on alert to prevent any gathering in the village (that may flout social distancing),” said Islam. The message seems to have percolated to every home. When villagers learnt about Covid cases from nearby villages, they decided to enforce social distancing on their own and stop going out of the village to buy essential items. Ali said they did not have a market, for which people had to go to the Bamanhat market which residents of neighbouring villages also patronised. “So, we identified two local grounds (in the village itself) and invited vegetable vendors, fish-sellers and other traders to set up makeshift stalls. We ensured proper space between stalls. People could buy what they required without moving out of the village,” Ali said. The youths keep watch in these markets every day so that people do not crowd or flout safety norms. As lockdown days wore on, Poaturkuthi faced a new challenge. Over 200 youths — hailing from the village but migrant workers — came back. Instead of rushing to meet the returnees, like in many other places, the families let the youths stay in quarantine. “We ensured all of them got their tests done and stayed in quarantine for the necessary period. We are fortunate that none tested positive. When they reached the village from quarantine centres, they had to carry their test reports and stay at home in isolation for some days,” said Islam. Salina, now in her 40s, has seen the struggle of the enclave dwellers — including her parents and other elders faced — when they lived in a no man’s land between India and Bangladesh. “Till 2015, we were Bangladeshis and there was not a single elected representative for us in the panchayat. As people voted for me, I felt it was necessary to work for them as these are the people who have strived for decades, demanding that our villages should be part of India,” said Salina. She is satisfied with the village’s zero-Covid status, but a fear at the back of her mind refuses to let her relax. “It is true that no positive case has been reported so far. But one never knows if there is an asymptomatic Covid patient among us. That is why we are still going ahead with house-to-house monitoring,” said the tireless panchayat member.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-375
14-09-2020||West Bengal||Child killed in South Dinajpur highway mishap||A seven-year-old girl died on Sunday when a pick-up van rammed into the two-wheeler she was on, on NH512 in Trimohini of South Dinajpur near the India-Bangladesh border. Sources said Kamana Sarkar, along with her daughter Koli, were headed home to Panjul village under Hilli police station on the bike that their relative Sanjoy was riding. On the way back, they stopped beside the highway when a pickup van carrying poultry to Hilli lost control and hit the bike. Kamana and her daughter Koli were critically injured while Sanjoy escaped with cuts and bruises. Residents took the mother-daughter duo to the district hospital in Balurghat where doctors pronounced Koli dead. Kamana was referred to the Malda Medical College & Hospital. As the news spread, residents blocked the road for an hour, alleging lack of police vigil. “Hundreds of trucks bound for Bangladesh are parked along the highway, which narrows it and causes accidents. We want the police to take steps,” said one of the protesters, Jayanta Pramanik. Hilli police station OC Pritam Singh pacified protesters. Police seized the bike and pick-up van, but its driver fled. A three-member team of the West Bengal Commission for Protection of Child Rights (WBCPCR) headed by chairperson Ananya Chakraborti Chatterjee on Sunday visited the home of the two tribal girls, sisters aged 14 and 16 in Rajganj block of Jalpaiguri, who were allegedly abducted and gang-raped earlier this month. The sisters had drunk pesticide after the incident, and the older one died. The WBCPCR team visited the family members and the other sister who is hospitalised in Jalpaiguri. During their visit, a group of BJP workers demonstrated at Rajganj police station, alleging the police were not probing the case properly. So far, five youths have been arrested in connection with the case, police said. Four shops were gutted in a blaze in Maynaguri of Jalpaiguri early on Sunday morning. Fire engines doused the flames. Shop owners claimed goods worth lakhs were damaged. Fire officials started a probe on the cause of the blaze. Additional reporting by our Jalpaiguri correspondent||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-375
14-09-2020||West Bengal||Mirik homestays to reopen tomorrow ||Homestays in the Mirik subdivision of Darjeeling district will reopen on September 15 after a hiatus of almost six months, but tourists will not be taken for sight-seeing or trekking because of Covid-19. The decision to this effect was taken at a meeting of the functionaries of the Mirik Rambhang Valley Homestay Owners’ Association at the hill town on Sunday. The association said around 30 such properties would be thrown open for tourists in the wake of a notification issued by the Darjeeling district magistrate last week regarding the opening of hotels and homestays. “The district administration has allowed opening of hotels and homestays for tourists and it was conveyed to us by the SDO of Mirik. This made us hold a meeting in Mirik (located around 50km from Siliguri) where we decided to reopen our properties for guests from September 15,” said Kalyan Rai, the secretary of the association. The decision has come as good news for tourists as well as those associated with travel trade. This is because in the hills, those owning hotels and homestays had to face a major stumbling block in reopening their properties as there was an apprehension among a section of local people that inflow of tourists could lead to rise in Covid-19 cases. “Recently, some hotels had started reopening in the hill towns but for most homestays, the problem was acute as they are situated in rural areas. The decision by the homestay owners in Mirik is a welcome move as it will encourage owners of such accommodations in other areas to reopen their properties. Also, it would send a positive message to tourists who wish to visit the hills,” said a senior tour operator in Siliguri. Following the Covid-19 outbreak, there is a general perception among the stakeholders of tourism sector that a considerable section of tourists would prefer to stay at homestays, which are standalone properties at isolated locations, instead of checking into hotels at towns. Rai, while elaborating on the association’s decision, said the homestays could not get tourists after March 19. “We believe tourists will turn up during the coming holidays. However, we would ensure that the tourists do not come in contact with the local population. Unlike earlier times when they had the option of joining local social or agricultural activities or would go out sightseeing, bird-watching or trekking, they will have to stay within the property now. We would offer the tourists those options gradually,” he said. The visitors will be asked to carry Covid negative certificates. In total, there are around 120 rooms at the 30-odd properties in and around Mirik. Unlike the homestays of Mirik, the reserve forests of north Bengal will not reopen for visitors on September 16 like other years. This is because officials of the department are yet to decide whether tourists can be allowed to enter the national parks and wildlife sanctuaries of the region. The decision, sources in the department said, is likely to be taken at a meeting to be convened by forest minister Rajib Banerjee in Sukna (on the outskirts of Siliguri) on September 22.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-376
14-09-2020||West Bengal||Fresh breaches in dykes, glare on repairs ||A survey on fresh breaches on embankments in North 24-Parganas recently repaired under the 100 days’ job scheme has prised open an old debate over the quality of assets created under the scheme. A source in the irrigation department said that Amphan caused 550-odd breaches and damages on river embankments in North 24-Parganas following which the irrigation department carried out repairs in 194 places and the panchayat department fixed the problems in 356 places under the 100 days’ job scheme. “But in August, we learnt about 30 fresh breaches on the embankments repaired recently. All the fresh breaches were on the embankments that had been repaired by the panchayat department,” said a senior government official. This finding triggered a debate with a section of irrigation department officers asking if the panchayat department’s decision to get the Amphan damage repaired by employing semi-skilled or low-skilled workers under the 100 days' jobs scheme was right. A senior state government officer said that while questions raised by the irrigation department were valid, the panchayat department’s decision of employing people for embankment repair under the 100 day's job scheme could not be contested at a time lakhs of migrant labourers had returned to the state in the wake of the Covid-19 lockdown and were looking for jobs. Now that the breaches have been noticed, the government has to take a call on how to fix these, a source said. “Will we again take the panchayat department route or hand over (the job) to the irrigation department, which possesses the technical know-how of embankment repair?” asked the officer. According to him, the government needs to take a call after proper deliberation as the expenses under the 100 days’ jobs scheme are already under the Centre’s scanner. “The Centre has expressed doubts about expenses under the 100 days’ jobs scheme in Bengal and that’s why has sent teams to audit expenditures incurred in the last few months... The state government has called it a political move to malign the state, but embankment breaches reveal there is a problem in planning,” said an official. The repeat-repair decision will have political repercussions, said sources. Bengal’s ruling party Trinamul is already smarting in areas where embankments were breached as villagers have started alleging that panchayats did not do repairs properly and there was gross misappropriation of funds. As almost all the gram panchayats in the affected areas are run by the ruling party, this may not bode well ahead of Assembly polls, particularly after allegations of irregularities in distribution of Amphan relief, sources said. The ruling party, sources said, is facing questions in South 24-Parganas also, as some embankments repaired by the panchayat department had developed fresh breaches leaving several villages inundated in August. The best strategy for the time being, a source said, was to allow the irrigation department to repair the embankments and order a detailed survey of the work carried out by the panchayat department. “If it is established beyond doubt that the deployment of unskilled workers was the reason behind fresh breaches, the government should take an in-principle call, that projects that require technical know-how would not be brought under the 100 days’ job scheme or even if they are (brought under the 100 days’ job scheme), the task should be carried out under strict monitoring,” said the officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-376
14-09-2020||West Bengal||BJP worker dead, party cries murder||A BJP worker was found hanging from a tree near his home in Hooghly’s Goghat on Sunday morning, prompting the party to cry murder and accuse “Trinamul goons”. The party put up a roadblock and allegedly attacked a Trinamul party office later. State BJP president Dilip Ghosh claimed that Ganesh Roy, 50, found hanging after he went missing from home on Saturday evening, was a local party president in his village. “The ruling party (Trinamul) appears to have adopted murder as a tool to stop the BJP. Such unfortunate incidents are happening everyday.  Our party will protest against these,” said Ghosh. BJP workers and leaders alleged it was a “clear case of vendetta-driven murder” by “Trinamul goons” as Roy had refused to join Trinamul. “Trinamul leaders were forcing him to leave the BJP and join Trinamul after the Lok Sabha polls last year. He was killed by Trinamul goons. We will lodge a complaint against those behind the murder,” said Biman Ghosh, BJP’s Arambagh president. Police sources said Roy, a farm labourer, left his home on Saturday morning as usual but did not return home. “On Sunday morning, residents told us that the body of my father was hanging from a tree near Goghat station. He was a BJP worker and it was murder,” said son Biswajit. Firhad Hakim, Trinamul general-secretary and state urban development minister, denied the allegations and denounced the BJP for “politicising” Roy’s death. “Every death is unfortunate, but so is the BJP’s attempt to politicise the death. It is sad,” said Hakim. Manas Majumder, Trinamul MLA from Goghat, accused BJP workers of attacking and ransacking the TMC party office in Goghat. “There is no connection between our party and the death but they (the BJP) are inciting violence. We will lodge a police complaint,” said Majumder. In the evening, a Trinamul team led by party’s Hooghly district chief Dilip Yadav met Roy’s family. “We told the family members of Ganesh Roy that party will be with them always. If anyone is behind his death, police would take action,” said Yadav. Tathagatha Basu, Hooghly (rural) police chief, said they were yet to receive any complaint regarding Roy’s death. “We have started a case of unnatural death. The reason of death will be revealed in the post-mortem report.” The BJP also accused Trinamul of beating up Ananta Maiti Jana, a teacher and BJP worker in East Medinipur’s Patashpur on Sunday. Jana has been vocal about misappropriation of Amphan relief funds by Trinamul leaders. Additional reporting by Arkamoy Datta Majumdar and Anshuman Phadikar||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-376
14-09-2020||West Bengal||Bengal government to send specialists for Covid treatment||The Bengal government has decided to make available the best doctors at its disposal for treatment of novel coronavirus patients by tagging tertiary healthcare institutes with the dedicated Covid-19 hospitals nearby. The decision is part of various measures the government has been taking to bring down Covid-19-related death rate to below 1 percent. “Doctors of Covid hospitals have been doing a great job for the past six months. But it was felt that if they could be guided by senior and experienced doctors, the death rate could be brought under control,” said a senior government official. According to the plan, a team of doctors comprising experts in general medicine, chest medicine and anaesthesiology from medical colleges would be deputed to a nearby Covid hospital. They would be responsible for daily rounds, attending calls and managing Covid patients round the clock at the hospitals. In case of the districts without medical colleges, such teams would be composed of the doctors attached to district hospitals or super specialty hospitals. For example, in Calcutta, expert doctors from IPGMER (SSKM hospital) would be deployed at M.R. Bangur Hospital and K.P.C. Medical College and Hospital, which are dedicated to the treatment of Covid patients. Similarly, a team from Calcutta National Medical College and Hospital would be engaged at CNCI, Rajarhat. Specialist doctors from Bankura Sammilani Medical College and Hospital will offer their services at Onda super specialty hospital, which has been converted into a Covid hospital. In the Birbhum district that doesn’t have any medical college, a team of experts from Suri District Hospital would be deputed to local Hospital for Covid treatment. Besides, the state government has also decided to set up a team comprising specialists in nephrology, cardiology and neurology from the SSKM hospital to treat Covid patients admitted to the M.R. Bangur Hospital which recorded a majority of the deaths from the pathogen in Calcutta in the past few months. “The decision to form teams of expert doctors from tertiary hospitals has been taken to ensure that patients get all possible treatments at the Covid hospitals. As more than 80 per cent deaths are because of comorbidities, it is assumed that experienced doctors could offer better treatment and that’s why they have been engaged at Covid hospitals,” said a senior official. A source said the idea of engaging senior most doctors from medical colleges, who are vastly experienced and have specialised degrees, to the Covid hospitals was initiated after it was found that the number of Covid deaths was relatively low at Calcutta Medical College and Hospital, where experts from all departments were managing patients. According to a notification issued by the health department, each team would be deployed at the Covid hospitals for a period of one month. Another team would take over from the on-duty doctors after that period. “This will help manage patients better and a continuity would be maintained,” a health department official said. Officials said that deployment of senior doctors from medical colleges and district hospitals would not affect day-to-day activities of the healthcare establishments to which they are attached as footfall of patients had already gone down by over 50 per cent at such facilities in the past few months. “Existing doctors would be able to handle other patients visiting the hospitals easily as the pressure on the hospitals has decreased significantly over the past six months or so,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-376
14-09-2020||West Bengal||Bista prod to Tea Board for garden reopening ||Darjeeling BJP MP Raju Bista has sought the immediate intervention of the Tea Board of India — the apex agency that controls the sector and functions under the Union commerce ministry — to settle some of the pending issues of the industry that several party leaders had promised to resolve, but didn’t. Bista has flagged these issues at a recent meeting of the board, of which he is a member. “I have asked Tea Board officials to prepare a contour to restore sick and closed tea gardens and reminded the members that according to a report of the United Tea Workers’ Front in 2017, over 1,000 labourers had died from malnutrition and hunger in Bengal between 2002 and 2014 when 23 tea gardens were closed. Also, it had left more than one lakh workers unemployed. A number of tea gardens are also closed in the (Darjeeling) hills, and thousands are in acute economic crisis. This situation needs to change,” said Bista. In recent months, this is the first time that the MP has raised these issues before the Tea Board. BJP leaders like Nirmala Sitharaman had promised ahead of the 2014 Lok Sabha polls that efforts would be made to reopen the closed estates. At the meeting, Bista also demanded that the Tea Board extend all possible help and support to the small tea growers. In India, the small tea sector — comprising thousands of first generation cultivators — has fast emerged as a new avenue for employment in rural pockets of the tea-producing districts. In fact, for the past couple of years, the small tea sector has been contributing around half of the total tea produced in India in a year. “There are many tea gardens in the Darjeeling hills, Terai and the Dooars which have not submitted their share of provident fund with the EPFO. This has left the future of a large number of workers at risk. It is time that the Tea Board takes the right move to improve the situation,” said Bista. On the subsidy provided to tea estates by the board, the MP said the subsidy should be based not on geographical area.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-376
14-09-2020||West Bengal||Covid: Three Bengal MPs test positive||Three Bengal MPs —Shanta Chhetri, a Trinamul Congress Rajya Sabha member, Sukanta Majumdar (Balurghat) and Jayanta Roy (Jalpaiguri), both of the BJP —tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday, the day before the start of the monsoon session of Parliament. The state reported 3,215 novel coronavirus cases during a 24-hour period till 9am on Sunday. While Majumdar and Roy tested positive for Covid in Delhi during examination of legislators’ swab samples ahead of the Parliament session’s beginning, Chhetri was diagnosed with the infection in Darjeeling. All the three have gone into physician-monitored self-isolation as none has major symptoms. Sources in the BJP and Trinamul said thorough contact-tracing was being carried out to alert all those who had come in contact with the MPs. The sources said all the three were part of several meetings held over the past few days, each attended by dozens of others. With the 3,215 new cases, the state’s total count went past 2 lakh — at 2,02,708 now, of which over 1.75 lakh are recoveries and 3,945 are deaths. In 24 hours till 9am, the state logged 3,054 recoveries and 58 deaths. The recovery rate continued to rise and reached 86.4, far ahead of the national rate of 77.92 per cent. Of the 58 fatalities, 12 were in Calcutta and 13 in North 24-Parganas. As of Sunday, the state government reported 3,386 deaths (85.8 per cent) as those with comorbidity “present”. Bengal’s overall mortality rate is now 1.94, still behind the national rate of 1.64 per cent. The state logged a new high of 47,318 tests on Sunday, which took the total past 24.7 lakh, at 27,445 tests per million people. Steady rise in testing, coupled with relatively lower cases being found, has improved the positive confirmation rate after August 23, from 8.9 to 8.21 per cent. A decreasing positive confirmation rate is indicative of reducing levels of Covid-19 spread. The state reported 32.36 per cent occupancy on 12,675 Covid-19 beds at 92 hospitals. Telemedicine services have been provided to over 2.04 lakh people, 4,205 of whom availed themselves of the facility in the past 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-376
14-09-2020||North East||Baghjan well fire doused by diverting gas to pits||Oil India Limited on Sunday managed to douse the blaze at the gas well in Upper Assam that suffered a blowout on May 7 by diverting the flow of natural gas to nearby flare pits. The “successful” diversion, a prelude to the killing of the gas well next week, was carried out at around 8.40am and was holding firm till the time of filing this report. The last attempt to divert the gas to the flare pits lasted about 8 hours because of a “leak”, forcing the experts to call off the operation at the site in Baghjan in Tinsukia district. After the blowout, the well head had caught fire on June 9, affecting about 8,000 people and the local ecology. Locals have been staging protest in front of the Tinsukia deputy commissioner’s office for release of compensation and early capping of the well because it was generating of a lot of sound and also triggering tremors within a radius of 2km. The gas flare-up was also taking a toll on nearby areas. A senior Oil India official told The Telegraph that the successful diversion has resulted in the substantial fall in pressure at the well head from 4,500 PSI (pound per square inch) to about 2,000 PSI. “Today’s operation has been successful. The resultant heat has also come down. The flare-up of gas has also substantially come down. Gas has now been diverted to early production setup (EPS) from where it will be sent to the central gathering station from where it will be sent to our end-users. Less pressure and no heat means killing the well be much easier,” the official said. After three unsuccessful attempts to cap the well, the experts have now shifted to diverting the gas before killing the well.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-45
14-09-2020||North East||BJP MP to raise Chinese ‘incursion’ in House||Arunachal Pradesh BJP MP Tapir Gao will raise the twin issues of alleged Chinese “incursion and occupation drives” in the frontier state in the monsoon session of Parliament which starts on Monday. Gao, who represents Arunachal East, told The Telegraph that incursions by Chinese troops continue in areas such Chagalam in Anjaw district, Andhrela valley in Dibang Valley and Thongda Hara and Ashapila in Upper Subansiri district. The Chinese have also occupied areas in Longzu, Bisa, Maza and Ashapila in Upper Subansiri and Bishing in Upper Siang, claimed Gao, a former state BJP president. Five youths who had strayed into the Chinese side on September 2 from Sera 7 border point were from Nacho circle in Upper Subansiri and were released at Kibithu in Anjaw district by Chinese troops on Saturday. The army has dismissed Gao’s claim but this is not the first time the MP has been raising the issues within and outside Parliament. “I have raised the incursion and occupation issues in the Lok Sabha in November 2019. I will raise it again in the session from Monday either under Rule 377 or during Zero Hour,” Gao said. “I am the only one raising these issues because the future generation will ask us what we did against Chinese expansionist policy in our state. I have said China have encroached upto 60km of our land from the border. I want all should contest the Chinese claim that Arunachal is their territory. We should also continue to build infrastructure along the border so we have something to prove our presence in the area,” the MP said. China claims Arunachal Pradesh as part of South Tibet. Gao also contested the claim that the youths had strayed into China asserting that they were very much in Indian territory. “China cannot disrespect the McMahon Line, the border between Tibet and British India, settled in 1914. China occupied Tibet only in 1950. Our people go on hunting or in search of herbs in our territory, not in Chinese territory,” Gao said. The effective border between India and China is the Line of Actual Control. China had referred to the LAC as the border in 1959 which  was accepted by India in 1993 to maintain peace but border skirmishes continue like the present standoff in Ladakh. Gao blames the incursion and occupation to the Congress’s “blunder” of creating a buffer zone till up to 200-300km from the border following the 1962 Chinese incursion. Congress leader Padi Richo said the BJP should counter China, not his party. “In six years BJP has done everything in Arunachal and we didn’t do anything? How do you react to such claims?” he asked. Gao requested the Centre to focus on and expedite development of basic infrastructure, including an all-weather road upto the border and telecom facilities, to check the migration of people to urban areas, leaving huge swathes empty, making it easy for the Chinese to allegedly occupy the land.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-45
14-09-2020||Opinion||Vindictive agenda: Delhi Police's trumped up charges||Sir — All right-minded people should unreservedly condemn the attempt by the Delhi police to link Sitaram Yechury, Yogendra Yadav, Jayati Ghosh, Apoorvanand and Rahul Roy to the Delhi riots and name them as ‘co-conspirators’. Repressive measures like this prove that we are going through an inglorious chapter in the nation’s history. Implicit in the supplementary charge sheet is an attempt to deny space for democratic protest. Unfortunately, it has also shown that the people who thought that the pandemic and its ravages would drive some sense into the Narendra Modi-led Bharatiya Janata Party government were wrong. A situation where the government can make blatantly communal laws but people cannot protest against them is indicative of anything but a democracy. Any political system refusing to allow dissent becomes a tyranny. The Shaheen Bagh protest was a pivotal stand against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act that attracted the world’s attention and unsettled the ruling dispensation. The charge of instigating riots against erudite and patriotic — in the real sense of the word — members of society is ridiculous; it is an attempt to tamp down all opposition to the government’s unilateral decision-making. No matter what the police do, the truth of the cause that these people raised their voices for remains an unassailable defence for them. That political motivations are behind these accusations is obvious from the fact that the Delhi police did not have the courage to initiate action against Kapil Mishra, Anurag Thakur and Parvesh Verma for their hate speeches. Post-truth politics cannot validate the “fair is foul, and foul is fair” philosophy. The gravest challenge before India right now is detoxifying the poison of religious hatred — everything else can wait. G. David Milton,Maruthancode, Tamil Nadu Sir — Trumped-up charges against those who dare to speak up for the truth no longer come as a surprise in India. The recent slew of accusations by the Delhi police is thus only the latest in a long line of vindictive actions that are likely to continue in the future too. The State does not even pretend to have any qualms about using its agencies against its detractors. One can only be grateful that there are still people willing to speak up against the State. Soham Ghosh,Calcutta  Taste the labour Sir — Sundays are synonymous with mangsho bhaat in many Bengali households; nothing describes the holiday mood better than dipping into a piping hot bowl of curry. But little is said about the hours that need to be spent in a steaming kitchen for that curry to be cooked or the time it takes to scrub clean the pot in which the curry is made. This labour — mostly assigned to women — mars the flavour of the curry somewhat. Deepti Bhattacharjee,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-148
14-09-2020||Opinion||Thought control: Violence and rowdyism in universities||Rowdyism and violence have no place in centres of learning. Indian universities, unfortunately, have been witness to such excesses in campuses, time and again. Political animosities have, more often than not, transformed universities into turfs of violent rivalries. Such contestations, often between the ascendant rightwing groups and their leftist opponents, have been reported from Delhi University, Himachal Pradesh University, Jawaharlal Nehru University, among other institutions, in recent years. So there is some merit to the recent deliberations among premier Central universities on the issue of deviant campus behaviour. Most of the participants — Jamia Millia Islamia, Banaras Hindu University, Aligarh Muslim University, Jamia Hamdard, JNU — reiterated the need to desist from imposing rigid rules. Nonetheless, there were some disquieting views. There was some talk of maintaining ‘files’ on students with differing views. The JNU proctor, astoundingly, called for segregation among learners after complaining that the campus had become the launching pad for political agenda. Even the vice-chancellor of Jamia Millia Islamia, who had been critical of police depredations on the campus, apparently conceded that the responsibility of maintaining peace inside universities was now being jointly shared by the administrators and the police. The presence of police on the campus is not acceptable in any democratic polity. The proposal of maintaining dossiers on students with dissenting views is equally preposterous: it amounts to institutional surveillance on students. Taken together, these remarks amplify concerns that university officials are increasingly using campus violence as an excuse to curb independent thought. Such a suspicion is not unwarranted. The Bharatiya Janata Party’s rise to political dominance has coincided with a brutal campaign that seeks to demonize students and even teachers who resist hegemonic views or speak up for the cause of plurality of opinion. The right to debate as well as the freedom of thought is integral to the idea of the university as an institution. Yet, be it the targeted intrusion into JNU over alleged sedition or the crackdown against students in Jamia Millia Islamia and AMU in the wake of the protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, the record of this government in safeguarding the sanctity of diverse opinion has remained exceedingly shoddy. This makes it difficult to believe that the endeavour to separate ‘students’ interests’ from ‘vested interests’ is as honourable as it is being made out to be.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-149
14-09-2020||Opinion||Many voices: NEP and Hindi imposition||In a multilingual country, languages can be a site of tension and conflict, particularly when regional history, the sense of identity and power are factored into the equation. So the National Education Policy, 2020 is not the only spur to disagreement over languages. In Kashmir, the government has decided to add Kashmiri, Dogri and Hindi, supposedly by popular demand, as official languages to Urdu and English that had had this status for 131 years. That there has been a collective objection from members of non-political society to this Central policy for the first time since the change of Jammu and Kashmir’s status on August 5, 2019 indicates how strongly people feel about languages and the history of their use. Not only would an excess of official languages — inciting a demand for the inclusion of others — trigger division, fear these citizens, it might also create a confusion that would help the imposition of Hindi. A similar fear has prompted the state of Tamil Nadu, both government and Opposition, to reject the three-language formula of the NEP. The state wishes to stick to Tamil and English that have been traditionally taught in schools, a policy born of the anti-Hindi agitation associated with the region’s identity. The belief that Hindi will be imposed originates in distrust of this Union government that proposed, for example, that Hindi be mandatory for members of parliament and Union ministers, and ensured, among other things, that airport announcements or names of schemes, campaigns and programmes are in that language. That leaves citizens with no Hindi and no English helpless. Yet language learning is not necessarily conflictual. Andhra Pradesh is producing a mirror text, with Telugu on one page and its English on the facing page for classes one to six. The state has thus countered the complaint that it was violating the NEP that required that children must be taught in their mother tongue till Class V. Obviously, states are being given very little space to teach as they think fit. What about linguistically displaced children? India is a country of internal migrants at all levels; how are their children to learn the mother tongue? The one-size-fits-all prescription suggests insensitiveness, thoughtlessness or ignorance; decisions about languages cannot be rammed down the throat of a multilingual society with its historically complicated cultures.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-149
14-09-2020||Opinion||Impure ideas to ensure purity||I think I am doing slightly better than some others during the lockdown because I have been trained in a certain way since childhood. I was born into a family of Bengali priests and Sanskrit teachers. My family belonged to the Vaidik community of Brahmins and from early childhood I grew up following a set of household rules. I do not know how these rules were followed in the greater Vaidik community, or elsewhere, but in our family only a strict adherence would do. Otherwise there would be little punishments. All of the rules defined the “pure” against the “impure”, through the different but interconnected bodily activities, such as eating, sleeping at night or using the toilet. For example, early in the morning you would have to change the clothes you had slept in because the fact that you slept within them made them “basi”, one kind of impure. You could not enter the puja room or the kitchen in basi clothes. Similarly, you could not come back into the household proper after visiting the toilet, particularly after defecation — the toilet would be located outside the main house — because perhaps even coming into contact with your own waste was quite unpardonable. It was the second kind of impurity. But the most demanding form of purity and impurity, to me as a child, was defined by the rules of entho, which was transmitted through food and eating. I have never been able to locate the sources of impurity clearly: whether they were an object or substance, like food, or bed or excreta, or the activity of our bodies, such as eating, or sleeping (or sex), or defecating, which was the culprit. Somehow it always made one uncomfortable about one’s body, because it was either the source or the site of the production of impurity. Entho was of three kinds, to my mind: cooked rice was entho, what one had bitten into or tasted was entho and some things, such as maachher jhol (fish curry) or vegetable curry, were inherently entho. But not all cooked food was entho. Malpuas, fried flour cakes in syrup, were not entho. Malpua was innocent. Milk boiled was also innocent. The problem with all these impurities was that they could be transmitted instantly. A person wearing basi clothes would make another impure just by touching him. Both would have to change. Same for toilet-returned clothes and entho. So my cousins and I learnt to avoid the puja room and the kitchen. But meal times were unbearable. We had to sit on the floor, not touch anything while food was being served to us, dropped on our plates from above, so that nothing touched anything, and we could not even drink from our glasses with our clean left hand, because then the entho from our mouths would make the glass entho and it would then transmit to the entire floor. All we could do was pour water into our mouths from the glasses from above. When we became really desperate, we threw tantrums or just refused to eat. I think a mask on our mouths would have been welcome. In any case, our bodies were in lockdown. We were trained to alienate ourselves perfectly from our environments and our bodies as we ate, slept or visited the toilet, from the most fundamental human instincts and activities. The education is coming in handy, now that I have to shut myself from everything around me to protect myself from the virus. It is also helping me to protect myself from a kind of politics that is being transmitted relentlessly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-149
14-09-2020||Opinion||The root of the poison||India has witnessed growing violence against Muslims under the current regime, including mob-lynchings and the recent attempt of exclusion through the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. Much of this is being countered through a critique of growing Islamophobia by the secular-democratic forces. Islamophobia refers to fear of and hatred for Muslims without reason or evidence. It is animosity not just against Muslims but also Islam as a religion. Islamophobia is considered to be xenophobic in nature and has the potential of triggering episodic and organized violence against religious minorities. However, confronting growing religious polarization through the narrative of Islamophobia could be counter-productive. Islamophobia has become all-pervasive and natural. The proponents of Hindutva wish to institutionalize it. What India has is organized communalism and not Islamophobia. The rightwing wishes to convert communalism into Islamophobia. Communalism, as opposed to Islamophobia, is not based on imagined hatred and visceral exclusion of religious minorities. It is linked to issues of history, memory, social location and economic activities. For instance, communalism in India is linked to the ‘Two Nation theory’ and the history of Partition. It is associated with the selective memory of violence perpetrated by Muslims as well as cultural prejudices against religious minorities. There is also, possibly, an element of economic exploitation where Muslims own land and the labour force comprises Dalits and other Hindus from lower castes. These are real-time conflicts of interest and cultural differences between communities that cannot quite be captured through the narrative of Islamophobia that is predicated on an unreasonable and irrational hatred on the part of the majority community. What is intriguing is that Hindutva majoritarianism precisely wishes to move beyond the complexity and selective rendering of history to an irrational hatred of Muslims. Such irrational hatred can finally unlock the majoritarian project and find hegemonic justification for the xenophobic exclusion of religious minorities. It can make hatred natural and universal. Violence would then not have to depend on organized riots but can be perpetrated ‘naturally’ or spontaneously. It does not have to be ‘imported’ like the way it was in the recent riots in Delhi, as the evidence from various fact-finding reports suggests. The discourse of growing Islamophobia concedes that hatred against Muslims in India is rampant and institutionalized. But the reality is what we have in India is ‘contextual communalism’ that is linked to local history and memory of violence between communities in the past and contemporary cultural differences that lead to claims and counter-claims of religious superiority. For instance, in Bengal, the memory of Partition plays a fundamental role. In Telangana, it has to do with the history of the rule by the Nizam and the violence perpetrated by his private militia, the razakars. What is unreasonable is not the claim of violence but its interpretation. In Bengal, both Hindus and Muslims suffered violence. In Telangana, the razakars were supported by Hindu landlords because it was the Nizam who had granted them the right to land and taxation to counter the armed struggle led by communists. What the sangh parivar does is offer a selective rendering of history that can propel the consolidation of a majoritarian Hindu identity. Majoritarianism can be consolidated only when one moves away from identifying the authentic sources of violence. Intriguingly, even the secular forces often fail to make a distinction between communalism and Islamophobia. What exists in India, as I see it, is communalism. What Hindutva wishes to achieve is the conversion of an insidious communalism into rampant Islamophobia. By collapsing the two categories, the secular-democratic forces, willy-nilly, accept that there is rampant, irrational and unfounded hatred towards not just Muslims but Islam as a religion. This is far from the truth. Even the worst among the bigots do not abuse the prophet but merely hate Muslims. They would agree that all religions are paths to truth but that the Muslims betray it. What Hindutva wishes to generate is hatred for Islam as a religion to rule out the possibility of any kind of cohabitation. This vision is inherently violent and expansionist and does not corroborate with the everyday experience of a majority of Hindus. Even those sympathetic to the project of Hindutva often argue that not all Muslims are bad. Many of them would concede that they know Muslims who are good and helpful. But they would also argue that Muslims have been associated with violence in the course of history. This association is what the Hindutva ecosystem depends on as a legitimate entry point to its project. It can be argued that even though the rightwing in India has succeeded in converting communalism into Islamophobia to some extent, it is nowhere close to achieving a complete consensus. Instead of taking recourse to Islamophobia, which, by default, is in denial of history and culture as they exist, secular-democratic forces need to re-focus on the roots of communalism and look for means of burying the memories of violence between religious communities in the past and resist it in the present. The sangh parivar undermines history to distort it. Secular forces cannot undermine it because they find it difficult to negotiate with its complexity and in doing so they might have already conceded the legitimacy of converting communalism into Islamophobia.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-149
14-09-2020||Opinion||Meaningful reliance||While it may be possible to reject the idea of Atmanirbhar Bharat, before doing so, it would be a good idea to examine it as a concept. It may be recalled that, for instance, Rabindranath Tagore took a similar stand concerning Mahatma Gandhi’s dramatic call for the boycott of foreign goods. However, Gandhi saw the call as a motivator for self-reliance, as did many other national leaders of the time. This debate is available in an edited volume titled Truth Called Them Differently: Tagore-Gandhi Controversy. The call by Prime Minister Narendra Modi provides an opportunity to scrutinize the idea of self-reliance — atmanirbharta — by examining it along with similar concepts. Three are available. First is a reverberating call given by Lokamanya Bal Gangadhar Tilak, namely, “Swaraj is my birthright and I will have it.” This content is inserted in the form of a slogan, which in modern India has become as aphoristic as the Upanishadic statement, Aham Brahmasmi Tat Tvam Asi, in classical India. Tilak’s powerful call spread like wildfire across India, infusing energy into enslaved Indians. It sought to ‘turn’ restive Indians into fighters for self-rule. The second concept is found in a talk delivered by a famous philosopher, Krishna Chandra Bhattacharyya, titled Swaraj in Ideas. This talk focused on a particular aspect of colonialism — “slavery of the spirit” — that had the potential to outwear political swaraj. He made a strong plea for ‘Swaraj in ideas’. In addition to a slogan and a talk, the concept of swaraj is also available, this time, in the form of a dialogue in M.K. Gandhi’s book, Hind Swaraj. The dialogue points out how the modernity that was implemented by the British in India was not only bad for India but also equally bad for the British, thus turning the perpetrator of oppression into a co-victim. This profound view is also a smart move against the oppressor as it took the debate to the enemy camp. These three that converge on swaraj can provide a scaffold for the concept of Atmanirbhar Bharat. Instead of taking these as manuals to follow, I want to convert them into symbols — lighthouses — to understand the present context and evaluate the concept of Atmanirbhar Bharat from the points of view of necessity, desirability and feasibility. This academic engagement is required as the recent call is an immediate response to both a public health challenge and a military emergency involving China. This can save it from remaining at an emotional realm and begin to communicate it to those who produce, distribute and consume locally. Capital and technology have created a disproportion between supply and demand, production and consumption, in the developed countries. To solve the problem of overproduction, these countries have arm-twisted the developing nations to participate in what is called globalization. Besides, in the case of India, its participation in this process involved the economic crisis faced by India during the P.V. Narasimha Rao government. Consequently, there is an increase in trade, employment and wealth-generation. The WTO agreements, the formation of the European Union and China’s Belt and Road Initiative are examples of this phenomenon. However, slowly, one has begun to see the fissures developing in this movement — for instance, in the form of Brexit. Reminiscent of the bubonic plague, which originated from Yunnan, China, during the 1890s that swung Tilak into action, it is the pandemic, again from China, that has woken up countries, including India. It has made them realize how much they are dependent for supplies on China and the impending dangers of this dependence. When India was struggling hard to deal with the pandemic, it was threatened by China at the border. These twin problems led to the call for Atmanirbhar Bharat. The prime minister’s call for Atmanirbhar Bharat emphasized ‘resilience’ and the need to incorporate ‘ease of living’ along with ‘ease of doing business’. Here, it is essential to recognize that these ideas, in my understanding, are opposed to each other. And they are positioned not one in place of another but one in conjunction with the other. This conjunction is problematic, as ‘ease of doing business’ will create a dent in ‘ease of living’. Dealing with these is as tricky as squaring a circle as they belong to two opposed ways of life. One needs to put a lot of effort to deal with this problem. You need the talent of a creative genius like Leonardo da Vinci to combine these two as demonstrated by him in his famous drawing, Vitruvian Man, where the navel is correctly at the centre of the circle and genitals at the centre of the square. Similarly, there is a need to study the geometry of the ease of living and identify the exact location of its centre. Likewise, there is a need to determine the centre of the ease of doing business. Interestingly, the straight lines in the square represent progress, whereas the circle symbolizes contentment. And then come up with a vision resembling the Vitruvian Man where the incompatible square and circle are incorporated aesthetically. Work and health can be balanced. At the macro level, the discussion can begin by regarding the idea of dependence on and borrowing from the other. Globalization thrives on removing restrictions on reliance and borrowing. Both of these, it must, however, be admitted are not wrong per se. They can be positively used by reflecting on why depend, whom to depend on, how much to depend on and for how long as well as by asking why borrow, from whom to borrow, how much to borrow and one’s capacity to repay. This reflection will enable borrowers to get a realistic assessment of their condition and make the borrowing meaningful. The return towards ease of living can be made inclusive and egalitarian by sharing resources with the vulnerable sections of our population as well as their upliftment along health lines. This will help us overcome our internal weaknesses and begin to convert them into strengths. This can save the concept of Atmanirbhar Bharat from relapsing into regression or look like a defeat. Instead, it can be seen as transforming the adversary into an enabler. The author teaches philosophy at the Indian Institute of Technology, Tirupati||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-149
14-09-2020||Jharkhand|| Masked men rob Dhanbad fish trader off Rs 2 lakh||Three unidentified bike men snatched Rs 2 lakh worth of cash from a wholesale fish trader in Dumariyatand locality under Dhanbad police station on Monday at 11.30 am. Masked individuals entered the office of Bipin Shaw posing as vehicle owners and enquired about a fish consignment, eventually looting him at gunpoint. They fled the area soon after. The incident follows traders from Wasseypur, associated with gangs, terrorizing some transporters who arrived at Purana Bazar locality from Kharagpur with a consignment of fish. The wasseypur bunch, who had also ordered fish from Bengal, wanted to sell it at a higher rate. But the arrival of a huge consignment  in 11 vehicles dipped the price. The wasseypur folks attacked some of the vehicles with hockey sticks, damaging windscreens, and manhandling and threatening two drivers. Talking to the media, Bipin's nephew Ayush Shaw said “The three criminals enquired the whereabouts of my uncle, saying they were vehicle owners who brought in our fish consignment. They claimed that their payment was due. As soon as my uncle arrived, they took  out pistols and snatched cash from him.” Bipin Shaw said, “The cash was from the sale of the fish consignment, and I couldn't identify any of them as they were wearing masks.” Officer in charge of Dhasar police station, Jayram Prasad, said, “Eyewitnesses at the site informed us that three people who arrived on an Apache motorcycle robbed a trader and  fled. We are investigating on the basis of inputs received from the victims, as well as other witnesses present at the scene. We are looking for the criminals, and have sealed the borders of the district.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-300
14-09-2020||Jharkhand||Covid test camps set up at Assembly for monsoon session||Covid-19 tests have been made mandatory for MLAs, bureaucrats and officials of the Jharkhand Assembly for entering the premises during the five-day monsoon session starting from Friday, September 18. On Monday, Ranchi district administration set up different points for testing at the Assembly premises which will continue till the end of the session. Ranchi’s ADM law and order Akhilesh Sinha said that two testing camps had already been made operational. “A camp on the left side of Gate 2 will be exclusively for MLAs while another set up on the right will be for officials,” said Sinha, who inspected the secretariat on Sunday to take stock of the preparations. Jharkhand Assembly secretary Mahendra Prasad said they were taking all precautions and would try to keep the premises Covid free throughout the proceedings. “It has been decided that all MLAs should get themselves tested at least 72 hours before the session commences. This apart, everyone is mandated to wear masks, gloves, face shields, among other safety gear. These will also be provided at the Assembly premises,” said Prasad, adding that sanitisation of the Assembly premises was also underway. Prasad explained that if any MLA is unable to attend the session due to Covid-19, he/she can appoint another MLA to raise questions on his behalf in the House. “In such cases, the House must be informed 24 hours in advance along with the question,” he said. Entry of visitors to the Assembly will be banned. But journalists covering the session would have to undergo a Covid test and must inform the Assembly office 72 hours in advance to be able to attend. The monsoon session got delayed this year because of the pandemic and was postponed to September. Usually, it is conducted between July and August every year. Since the outbreak of the virus, over a dozen MLAs cutting across party lines have tested positive for Covid-19 so far. Of them many have recovered. Among those who contracted the virus are three cabinet ministers belonging to the Congress—Banna Gupta (health), Mithilesh Thakur (water resources) and Badal Patralekh (agriculture), and MLAs C.P. Singh (BJP), Mathura Prasad Mahto (JMM), Sudesh Mahto (AJSU-P) and  Vinod Singh (CPI-ML).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-300
14-09-2020||Jharkhand||XLRI admission test to be held online on January 3, 2021||The Xavier Aptitude Test (XAT- 2021) for admission to XLRI will be held online on January 3, 2021 the B-school announced on Monday. Registration for XAT started on September 12. The last date for applying is November 30. The test will be held from 9.30am. The duration of the test will be three hours. XAT- 2021 will accept applications for XLRI-Jamshedpur and XLRI's Delhi-NCR campus. A candidate can choose two preferred test cities for the test. Around 90 institutes across the country use the XAT score for their admission process. Director of XLRI Father P. Christie said the B-school has been conducting XAT for over 70 years on an all-India level to select suitable students for management education. "XAT, though one of the oldest competitive examinations in the country, has always kept pace with cutting-edge testing methodology. XATs multi-dimensional testing framework strives to assess the aptitude of candidates for business management education meaningfully. XAT has a multi-pronged examination structure and in-built fairness to evaluate candidates aspiring to be future business leaders, " he said. Candidates who hold a recognised bachelor's degree of minimum three years duration or equivalent in any discipline and those completing their final examination by June 10, 2021 may also apply. XAT- 2021 will be conducted in 185 centres across India.  Among them are Agra, Ahmedabad, Allahabad, Ambala, Amravati, Amritsar, Bengaluru, Berhampur, Bhatinda,  Bhopal, Bhubaneswar, Bokaro Steel City, Chandigarh, Mohali, Chennai, Coimbatore, Cuttack, Dehradun, Delhi-NCR, Dhanbad, Dibrugarh, Durgapur, Asansol, Ernakulam, Gandhinagar, Goa, Gorakhpur, Guwahati, Gwalior, Hooghly, Hyderabad, Indore, Jabalpur, Jaipur, Jammu, Jamshedpur, Kanpur, Calcutta, Kota, Kottayam, Kurnool, Kurukshetra, Lucknow, Ludhiana, Madurai, Mangalore, Mumbai, Mysore, Nagpur, Nashik, Patna, Pune, Raipur, Rourkela, Visakhapatnam and Ranchi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-301
14-09-2020||Jharkhand||Opium seizures in Khunti, Chatra prompt probe into inter-state drug trade||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) and other agencies have seized opium and marijuana worth Rs 60 lakh from various parts of  Jharkhand in the past one month, leading to an investigation into the financial backing of an interstate drug trade that seems to be in operation in Left Wing Extremism (LWE) affected tribal districts of the state, highly placed sources said on Monday. An official overseeing the recoveries in Jharkhand said that various agencies seized opium worth around Rs 21.31 lakh and marijuana worth around Rs 35.56 lakh from different districts of the state in the past one month. While most of the seized opium was cultivated in the LWE-affected red zones of the state, the marijuana was seized from peddlers in transit. “The marijuana that we recovered was cultivated in Odisha and Chhattisgarh and seized in Jharkhand while it was being smuggled to northern states,” the official said, requesting anonymity. The Zonal Director of NCB in Patna, Kumar Manish, refused to comment on the value of the drugs that were seized in Jharkhand, but he admitted that opium grown in LWE-affected clusters in the interiors of the state were being smuggled to Haryana, Punjab and other northern states. “We have initiated a probe into the financial links of the interstate nexus. It cannot be denied that opium was cultivated illegally in LWE hotbeds of Jharkhand,” said Manish, adding that several members of the drug nexus were arrested from northern states as well as Jharkhand in the past year. As per records with the NCB office in Ranchi, over 1000 acres of opium cultivation was destroyed in Jharkhand in 2019-2020. This figure, NCB officials said, was only 20 per cent of the total area of land on which opium is cultivated in Jharkhand. Several LWE groups, including the CPI (Maoist) and the Peoples Liberation Front of India (PLFI), were active in Chatra and Khunti districts of Jharkhand, the hotbed of opium cultivation, officials said. “Illegal opium cultivation is being done in the interiors of Chatra and Khunti districts. The possibility of LWE group’s involvement in it cannot be denied,” said Manish. The Pathalgadi movement, which advocated the idea of having liberated lans in the interiors, also had its epicenter in Khunti district. The former NDA government of the state, which faced the heat during the Pathalgadi movement in 2017, had alleged that the agitation was partly aimed at safeguarding opium cultivations in those areas. In 2017, villagers in parts of Khunti district held Pathalgadi, a practice of demarcating the borders of a village and declaring it as liberated land through writings on stone plaques, and allegedly prohibited entry of the administration in their villages. After coming to power in the end of 2019, chief minister Hemant Soren scrapped all sedition charges against Pathalgadi supporters as a gesture of goodwill. According to the Union home ministry, at least 19 of 24 districts in Jharkhand are LWE-affected. Besides CPI (Maoist), at least 17 splinter outfits were active in various districts of the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-301
14-09-2020||Jharkhand||Key Dhanbad roads have no traffic signals ||All key roads of the dsitrict,  including the recently widened Dhanbad-Barwaddah stretch, the Jharia-Dhanbad Road and the Govindpur- Mahuda Road, do not have traffic lights, leading to perennial snarls. It's not that Dhanbad Municipal Corporation hasn't tried. It has  made several attempts to install traffic signals, the latest one in January last year, but no one responded to its expressions of interest offer. As many as 16 locations had been listed in the offer document. Among them were  Memco More, City Centre, Shramik Chowk, Puja Talkies Chowk, Randhir Verma Chowk, Katras Bazar Chowk, Birsa Chowk (at Bank More), JP Chowk (at Bank More), Karkend More, Katras Thana Chowk; Katras More (at Jharia), Steel Gate, Hirapur Hatia More, Dhansar More, Govindpur More, Indra Chowk (Jharia) etc. Since no firm showed any interest, the project was shelved and never taken up again despite the inconvenience lack of traffic lights leads to. Notably, the  selection of sites for the installation of traffic signals had been carried out in consultation with Dhanbad police. Earlier, three digital traffic signals were installed at Randhir Verma Chowk, Puja Talkies Chowk and Combined Building Chowk at a cumulative cost of Rs 22 lakh in 2011, ahead of the 34th National Games. These traffic lights worked for barely a week due to a host of factors like lack of coordination between traffic police and municipal corporation authorities, lack of battery back-up at traffic signals, malfunctioning timers, besides budgetary issues plaguing DMC. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Monday, former president of Bank More Chamber of Commerce Surendra Arora said, "As all major roads of the district, including the Bank More- Sindri Road (25.71 km), City Center- Barwaddah Road (5.5 Km)  and Govindpur- Mahuda Road,  have been widened to four lanes and vehicles are plying at higher speeds it is imperative to have traffic signals." Arora also appealed to the authorities to maintain street lights as most of the time, these stopped working after they were installed.  "No responsibility has been fixed for maintenance and operation of strete lights," he said. Dhanbad Municipal Commissioner Satyendra Kumar said he would look into the matter at the ealriest.  “I have just taken over and have not been able to go through the files pertaining to the proposal for installation of traffic lights. I will look into it as per need,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-301
14-09-2020||Jharkhand||New Rajya Sabha members, including Shibu Soren, sworn in  ||Jharkhand Mukti Morcha chief Shibu Soren, DMK leader Tiruchi Siva and BJP's Syed Zafar Islam were among the 15 newly-elected members who took oath in Rajya Sabha on Monday. On the opening day of the Monsoon session of Parliament that is being held with several restrictions in view of the COVID-19 pandemic, the MPs walked to the designated spot, took the oath but did not go for the customary handshake with Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu. Naidu welcomed them with folded hands as members came forward for the oath-taking, signed the register, and walked back to their designated seats, without approaching other leaders for greetings. Soren, 76, who had last month tested positive for the coronavirus, spoke feebly as he took oath in Hindi and was assisted by a Rajya Sabha staff member as he walked to his seat. Banker-turned-politician, Islam, who was elected to the Upper House from Uttar Pradesh last month, took oath in the name of God in Hindi. Siva took oath in Tamil as did his party colleagues N R Elango and Anthiyur P Selvarasu. From UP minister Jaiprakash Nishad of BJP also took the oath. Congress leader Phulo Devi Netam, who was elected to the Upper House from Chhattisgarh, took oath in Hindi while NCP's Fauzia Khan took oath in Marathi. While TRS leaders K Keshava Rao took oath in Telugu, his colleague K R Suresh Reddy, who sported a scarf with an image of his party president, took oath in English. TMC leader Dinesh Trivedi and his colleague Arpita Ghosh, M V Shreyams Kumar (LJD), Wanuiroy Kharlukhi (NPP), and Ajit Kumar Bhuyam (Ind) were the other members who took the oath.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-301
14-09-2020||Jharkhand||Hemant govt focus on Dumka with eye on byelections ||Chief minister Hemant Soren will lay the foundation of several projects and hold interactive sessions with the people of Dumka when he begins a three-day tour of Jharkhand’s sub-capital in Santhal Pargana on Monday. Hemant’s trip _ he is scheduled to fly to Dumka in the afternoon _ comes ahead of byelections in Dumka, a seat he vacated after he became MLA from Barhait.  A bypoll will also be held in Bermo as sitting MLA Rajendra Prasad Singh of the Congress died in May. On Monday evening, Hemant will first hold meetings with notables of the district. On Tuesday, he will take part in as many as seven public programmes at various pockets of Dumka constituency to unveil a slew of public and social welfare projects. On Wednesday, Hemant is scheduled to inaugurate three operation theatres and other facilities at the newly constructed Dumka Medical College and Hospital. He will also inaugurate a sewing training centre for women at Haripur panchayat and hand over credit linkage cash transfers to women’s self-help groups. In the coming byelections, dates for which are yet to be announced, JMM is likely to contest Dumka, considered a traditional bastion, while ally Congress is expected to put up a candidate in Bermo. Sources close to Hemant said he was likely to visit Bermo soon. “The mahagatbandhan is gearing up for the twin bypolls which is expected to be held along with Bihar elections likely to be announced later this month,” said a JMM leader. He said the chief minister was keen on visiting both constituencies before the monsoon session of the state Assembly scheduled from September 18-22. “The government is of the view that the Election Commission of India may announce polls soon after the parliament session,” he added. The Congress has also begun mobilising manpower in Bermo. State party president Rameshwar Oraon was on a two-day tour of Bokaro in the Bermo constituency and is scheduled to return to Ranchi on Monday. Congress spokesperson Alok Dubey said, “We have begun preparations in Bermo, which has been our bastion. Our party president held extensive meetings with all block and mandal heads to assign poll related tasks.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-301
14-09-2020||Jharkhand||Coronavirus outbreak: more than 278 containment zones in Bokaro||Bokaro district is witnessing a rise in micro-containment zones. In a bid to contain the spread and rising Covid-19 cases, the administration has set up 278 containment zones, mostly in urban areas. More than 1000 cases have surfaced in the last 12 days of which 559 cases are active in the district. The maximum micro-containment zones are in Bokaro Steel Township and Chas Township areas. The administration has increased Covid testing which. Since August 31, two Covid-19 camps were installed in more than a dozen pockets across the district. “Administration also has a plan to organise a third mega camp on September, 16 at 14 places across the district specially in slums keeping a target to test more than 8000 residents,” said Shashi Prakash Singh, sub-divisional officer (SDO), Chas. More number of testing, leads to more detection of cases and therefore micro-containment zones are rising. More than 1500 residents are tested every day. The patients detected positive according to their health conditions were either sent to a dedicated Covid hospital or put in institutional Covid Care Centres.  At present  more than 180 residents are in home isolation. According to protocol, an administration declares a locality a micro-containment zone when the infected person is a resident of the area. A team from health department does contact tracing exercise and conduct sampling for Covid-19 of the family members and neighbours of the infected persons, said a health department officer. The positive cases in the district are rising. Assessing the situation, deputy commissioner, Rajesh Kumar Singh has appealed to people to take precautionary measures like wearing masks and maintain social-distancing. The number of micro-containment zones keeps varying as infected persons recover and health departments ensure that there are no other positive patients in the locality. Disaster management officer, Shakti Kumar, said at present there are 278 micro-containment zones in the district. In comparison to rural areas, the containment zones are high in urban areas. Bokaro had around 80 micro-containment zones in August, but spurt in cases has increased its number to 278. Health department sources said that the number of containment zones is likely to increase after a mega Covid-19 sampling camp organised for Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-301
14-09-2020||Jharkhand||Father of dead policeman accuses daughter-in-law of murder||Bal Sudha Pandey, father of late assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Tarun Kumar Pandey, has submitted a petition with senior SP M Tamil Vanan alleging his daughter-in-law murdered his son. ASI Tarun Kumar Pandey allegedly shot himself at Golmuri police line over a month ago, following a quarrel with his wife. A resident of Nalanda district in Bihar, Bal Sudha Pandey has accused his daughter-in-law of adultery, and said she would often have telephonic conversations with a young man. He also said that he took her cell phone, and has asked SP Vanan to check her call detail record (CDR). He has also alleged that she might have conspired to murder his son, as she has changed her statement to the police repeatedly. The woman had told the police in one of her statements that her husband was tense, but she was unaware of the cause. ASI Pandey, who was married in July this year, allegedly shot himself on the second floor of a three-storeyed residential flat on August 10. The newly-wed couple had returned from Nalanda after their marriage, a week ago before the incident. They were in quarantine when the incident took place. SP Vanan confirmed receiving a petition from ASI Pandey’s father. "We will get the complaint probed soon. As the incident was registered as suicide,  an unnatural death case has been registered. If we find anything substantial, we will change the section accordingly," he told The Telegraph Online. "We will also obtain the CDR in question from the service provider and scrutinize it," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-301
14-09-2020||Jharkhand||Bag-snatchers caught and beaten up by villagers in Chatra||Villagers in Chatra managed to catch three bag-snatchers who had injured two women and tried to escape with cash. The villagers beat them up before handing them over to police. The incident occurred at Gospur in the Huntergunj police station area. Rinki Kumari and Fatima Khatoon were in the village as representatives of a microfinance company. They spoke to the villagers on applying for loans and collected EMIs from self-help groups. While they were walking towards another village, four men on two motorcycles swooped in and tried to snatch their bags. The women raised an alarm, prompting the bag-snatchers to hit them. They then tried to escape but villagers working in the field chased one of the motorcycles down and beat the riders. The women then called up the manager of the company, who along with another employee managed to stop the other motorcycle and catch one of the riders. The three bag-snatchers were identified as Sumit Kumar, Robin Singh and Abhishek Singh. Last month, a recovery agent of a private company was shot dead at Itkhori in Chatra. The alleged killers had fled with Rs 1 lakh in cash. The police had cracked the case and confirmed the involvement of local youths. Navjeevan Research and Development Society, Dhanbad, in association with Human Empowerment and Development Society, Varanasi, and My Dream Life Foundation, Jamshedpur, organised a National Youth Dialogue webinar on the theme, “Youth in the making of 21st century India”. The webinar was inaugurated on Sunday by Sanjay Paswan, a member of the Bihar legislative council, in presence of special guest Raj Sinha, the Dhanbad MLA. The renowned poet and litterateur, Anuj Lugun, and the social activist from Jamshedpur, Binoy Amber Minj, spoke during the programme, while the vice-chancellor of Binod Bihari Mahto Koyalanchal University, Anjani Kumar Srivastava, presided over the programme. Paswan said the youth must develop the four Cs: critical thinking, communication skills, collaborative behaviour and comprehensive vision. Sinha said that without the active involvement of the youth in politics, it will be difficult to make India an influential country in the 21st century world. Barkagaon MLA Amba Prasad on Sunday was discharged from the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences, Ranchi, after recovering from Covid-19. She reached her home at Hurhuru in Hazaribagh town where she was greeted by local Congress leaders. “I am thankful to doctors, nurses and other staff who looked after me,” she said. The Dhanbad administration plans to conduct rapid antigen tests at 59 vulnerable spots across the district, including 17 sites in Bagharma block and eight sites each in Kaliasol block and Dhanbad on a daily basis from September 15. Dhanbad deputy commissioner Uma Shankar Singh said the vulnerable sites have been identified on the basis of the Covid-19 infection scenario, population density and the people’s socio-economic condition. He added that testing at Dhanbad railway station and two border check posts at Chirkunda and Maithon will also be conducted daily. A college student on Sunday drowned in the Shankdara river at Badal panchayat in Barkagaon block, around 46km from the Hazaribagh district headquarters. Vikas Kumar, also known as Vicky, had gone to the rain-fed river for a bath when he slipped into deep water. Divers were called in but they could not find Kumar. Villagers also tried fishing out his body but without luck. The search for his body will continue on Monday, police said. The district forest department in association with Jharia police on Sunday conducted raids at Bata More, Shiv Mandir Road and Sabji Patti and arrested two persons for caging and selling birds such as parrots, which is prohibited under Schedule IV of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972. An officer said the raids were conducted after a tip-off. The birds will be released in their natural habitat. CPM activists on Sunday protested at Ambedkar Chowk in Jharia’s Lodna against Delhi police for naming party general secretary Sitaram Yechury, Swaraj India leader Yogendra Yadav, economist Jayati Ghosh, Delhi University professor and activist Apoorvanand and documentary filmmaker Rahul Roy as co-conspirators in the riots in the national capital in February. District unit secretary Shiv Balak Paswan said the police had acted on the instructions of the force’s political masters. The Eastern Central Railway Karmachari Union, in response to a call by the All India Railwaymen's Federation, has decided to organise a public awareness programme in support of its various demands from September 14 to September 19. The programme includes a motorcycle rally on Monday from the railways’ Hill Colony to the Dhanbad railway station.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-301
14-09-2020||Jharkhand||Covid ‘information overload’||An online survey conducted by two psychiatrists of Ranchi has found that information overload during the lockdown impacted the mental health of the people of Jharkhand, causing psychological distress that led to significant impairment in their social and daily functioning. The survey was conducted during the period from April 15 to May 3 and the responses of over 500 people were analysed. “We circulated a questionnaire among a large number of people of the state through email, etc, over 600 of whom responded,” said Dr Nishant Goyal, associate professor of Ranchi’s Central Institute of Psychiatry, who along with Dr Ajay Kumar Bakhla, his counterpart in the department of psychiatry at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences, Ranchi, conducted the survey. Goyal said 513 filled-in forms were found to be complete and suitable for analysis. Asked about their major findings, he said: “Sixty-five per cent of the respondents said they felt ‘information overload’, while over 50 per cent reported significant impairment in their social and day to day functioning.” Besides, 45 per cent respondents said they felt significant psychological distress characterised by excessive concern about ill effects of Covid-19 infection, he said. Around 10 per cent of them also feared they would die if infected, he added. “Female respondents in the age group 25-35 years were found to be more affected than their male counterparts,” Goyal said. Asked how they assessed the overload of information, he said they had asked the respondents to specify how often they tried to gather Covid related information, adding that most of them replied “frequently” or “very frequently”. “Though many read newspapers or watched TV, most of them, about 80 to 90 percent, spent considerable time gathering such information through Facebook or WhatsApp groups many of which are not at all reliable or even spread fake news,” said Bakhla. The information which apparently looked like authentic increased insecurity among the people, so much that some even allegedly committed suicide, he said, adding that financial insecurity due to unemployment or fear of losing jobs were also additional factors. “Some of them were scared of getting infected and thought they would die as there was no treatment,” said Goyal. Asked about the changes they have observed among the people at present, Bakhla said, “If that was a case of panic, it’s now that of carelessness.” The saturation of information has now reached such a point that the same people who were panicking earlier and dared not go out are now moving about without even wearing masks, he said, adding that excessive behaviour could be risky and all should behave rationally.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-301
