15-09-2020||Calcutta||Hearse van charge fixed at Rs 5,000||The next of kin of those dying of Covid in Calcutta and Bidhannagar can complain about hearse van operators overcharging at two phone numbers, a Calcutta Municipal Corporation official said on Monday. The numbers — 9830555111 and 9830011041 — belong to Atin Ghosh, a member of the CMC’s board of administrators who is in charge of the civic health department and is an officer on special duty. “There have been reports about hearse van operators overcharging people. People can lodge complaints on the numbers,” the CMC official said. “The civic body has fixed the charge at Rs 5,000.” It is not possible to break down charges based on distance, another CMC official said. “At times, operators have to pick up bodies from New Town or near the airport and take them to Dhapa. If you consider that Rs 5,000 is not unjust.” The CMC has to transport bodies from the Calcutta and Bidhannagar municipal areas. The charge has been fixed at Rs 5,000 because the two personnel in a van need to wear PPEs and the van needs to be sanitised regularly, an official said. “Why will operators provide such service if there is no profit? After a lot of difficulty we managed to convince two hearse van operators to transport Covid bodies.” The CMC’s own hearse vans transport bodies from government hospitals. But there are not enough vans to serve all private hospitals. So, private hospitals have been given the contact details of private hearse van operators. Hospitals are supposed to hand over the numbers to relatives of the dead, the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-305
15-09-2020||Calcutta||Three pedestrians killed in three accidents ||Three pedestrians died in three accidents across the city on Monday. Swagata Saha, 55, a resident of Ranaghat, was waiting near a footpath outside a jewellery store in Ultadanga close to the Hudco crossing when a dumper hit her while trying to take a right turn on Monday evening, police said. Saha was taken to NRS Medical College and Hospital where she was declared dead. Officers of Maniktala police station said the dumper was moving at high speed and was close to the footpath to the left of the road where the woman was standing when the accident took place. At that time, there were several people on the footpath, most of them waiting for public transport, the police said. The dumper has been seized and the driver detained. The driver does not have a licence and he could be aged below 18, according to the preliminary investigation. The dumper will be sent for a mechanical examination to ascertain if it had developed any technical snag, which led to the accident, the police said. The other two accidents took place in the Sealdah area — one of them on the Sealdah flyover in the evening. A man, whose identity could not be ascertained till late at night, was hit by a private bus on the flyover, the police said. “It appears he had got off another vehicle on the flyover and was trying to cross the road near the flank leading to MG Road. He was hit by a bus while he was crossing the road,” an officer of Muchipara police station said. The bus fled the spot after the accident. Cops are scanning footage of CCTV cameras installed on the flyover to ascertain the identity of the vehicle from which he had got off and that of the bus. “No one is allowed to get off or board any vehicle on the flyover. Had the victim followed the rule, he may have been alive today,” an officer said. The third accident happened in the morning on AJC Bose Road in front of NRS Medical College and Hospital. A woman, who lived on the footpath, was trying to cross the road while the traffic signal was green and was hit by a private bus, the police said. The driver has been arrested on charges of causing death by negligence and rash and negligent driving. According to police records, more than half of the people who die in road accidents in Calcutta are pedestrians. A large number of pedestrian deaths are caused because of encroached and over-crowded footpaths, forcing people to walk or stand on the road, risking their lives. Some pedestrian deaths are a result of lawlessness, the police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-306
15-09-2020||Calcutta||Jadavpur University starts classes for new semester||Classes in the new semester for arts and science students at Jadavpur University started on Monday. Compensatory classes to make up for the ones students had missed out on in the previous semester ended on Sunday. Half the classes of the previous semester could not be held because the campus had to be shut down on March 16 as a precaution against Covid-19. An official said the “distance digital mode” was being followed for holding the classes and this entailed making study materials such as notes, soft copies of textbooks, and audio and video demonstrations available to the students through email and WhatsApp. He said teachers could hold live online classes for students with sound Internet connectivity at home. “It is a kind of mixed mode. Live online classes can be arranged for a group sure of Net connectivity. But there has to be a backup plan for those who will miss out on online classes because of connectivity issues. No one should be left out,” the official said. A physics teacher said he held a live online class for 17 students on Monday afternoon. “Two or three students missed five minutes’ lecture because of a snag. For them we uploaded the recorded lectures on a digital platform the university has subscribed to. We will share with them the link to the lecture,” the teacher said. The study materials are also being uploaded on a central repository created on the digital platform. Once the content is uploaded, the addresses of the files — in Word or PDF format, audio notes or video recordings — will be shared with the students. Pro-vice-chancellor Pradip Ghosh said teachers were free to hold a few more compensatory classes. “We have left it to the teachers,’’ he said. The regular classes will continue till the exams in December. The university has raised more than Rs 20 lakh to buy smartphones and high-speed data packs for the 500-odd students who have poor Net connectivity at home.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-306
15-09-2020||Calcutta||Dhakuria flyover plan: repair of approaches ||The two approaches to the Dhakuria flyover have become undulating making it difficult for vehicles to negotiate the gradient, engineers who conducted a load test on the south Calcutta structure recently have concluded. The flyover has otherwise been found to be structurally stable. To make the ride smoother on both approaches to the flyover — built in 1963 — structural experts and advisers to the state government on bridge safety have decided to first reduce the gradient. Once that is done, the undulating surface on the approaches will be repaired. “The structure is quite old and it would be a challenge to achieve our objective to make the ride smoother on the two approaches. But we will have to find a way,” said a member of the expert committee set up by the state government to look into the health of bridges and flyovers maintained by the state’s urban development department. “There will be three clear benefits once we achieve our goal — vehicular emission will be reduced, operating cost of maintaining vehicles will come down, and wear and tear of tyres will be minimised.” Once the two approaches are repaired, the committee may apply the technique to other flyovers that suffer from the same problem. The pier-less, 380m-long bridge was shut down for two days in July because engineers wanted to test it’s load-bearing capacity. The Dhakuria flyover stands on inclining concrete walls filled with sand or earth. Railway tracks run below an 80m-long section of the bridge. Structural engineers have said the technology used to build the flyover had become dated. “There are no piers holding the flyover. It has concrete walls from bottom to top with soil in the middle. The paved road was built above the soil. This technique has become dated,” said an engineer. A few years back an inspection had revealed that rats had burrowed large holes underneath the flyover. In June 2013, a portion of the walkway on the flyover had collapsed and created a 1.5ft gap, wide enough to raise doubts about the stability of the 57-year-old structure. “There is nothing much to worry about the main structure. There are certain needs for maintenance and it will be carried out,” said an engineer of the urban development department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-306
15-09-2020||Calcutta||28km in 3 hours: traffic crawls on BT Road||Barrackpore to Esplanade Distance: 28km Travel time: Over three hours Travelling along BT Road for the tens of thousands of commuters using the road daily has turned from bad to worse in the past few weeks. A repair work on a flyover at Dunlop just when things have been opening up has compounded the problems. Trucks and buses from Dakshineswar in the west had been using the Dunlop flyover to keep the Dunlop crossing clutter-free. Now they can’t do so because of the repair work on the flyover. The result: they are on the road and travel time has gone up. The PWD started structural repairs of the flyover from September, restricting the movement of heavy vehicles on it. Regular commuters listed various problems while speaking to The Telegraph: ⚫Too many vehicles compared to the number of cops on BT Road ⚫Trucks cripple the traffic flow at the Dunlop crossing ⚫Lack of alternatives to BT Road ⚫Diversions in the absence of the Tallah bridge ⚫Slow-moving vehicles, including cycles, in the middle of the road Srirup Mukherjee, a professional headed for office in Esplanade, started from Barrackpore around 9.15am on Monday. A journey that used to take him one-and-a-half hours took him more than three hours. “To avoid the rush on BT Road, I took the Kalyani Expressway. But that turned out to be a big mistake. We were stuck in a kilometre-long snarl at the Sodepur junction and then again at the Nimta crossing,” Mukherjee said. Mukherjee and his friend who were travelling together returned to BT Road through Belghoria hoping for better traffic movement. By then, two hours had passed. He reached his office at 12.45pm. Muktesh Gupta, a trader who was in a hurry to reach his MG Road shop, reached two hours later than the scheduled time of appointment with a client. Now that the festive season sale is about to pick up, such delays can prove costly, Gupta said. “After so many months, I had got a good customer from south Calcutta… he wanted to make a bulk purchase. Unfortunately, I reached two hours late for the meeting.” Gupta had started from his Sodepur home around 10am. Most of his time was spent between the Sodepur and the Dunlop crossing he said. Both Gupta and Mukherjee said cops tried to regulate traffic but the volume of vehicles appeared too large to control. The number of vehicles and commuters on BT Road has almost doubled since local trains were suspended, according to officers in the Barrackpore commissionerate. The road is the only option available at present for people from the northern outskirts to reach the heart of the city. Shops and offices have opened. The Tallah bridge and the Dunlop flyover are shut. And all these have aggravated the problem. Some cops blamed autos that sprang to life with the resumption of Metro services for the Monday madness. “Commuters who would wait for buses will now like to use the Metro. This is exactly what happened today,” an officer said. “There was a surge in the number of autos plying till Tobin Road and Dunlop. Most passengers were headed for the Noapara Metro station.” Congestion at the Dunlop crossing is likely to be the biggest challenge to keep the traffic moving during the festive season, according to some officers. Thousands of trucks turn towards the city from the Dunlop crossing. “The time taken by a heavy goods vehicle to turn is at least three times the time taken by a car or other similar four-wheelers. This means, by the time a truck takes a turn, there will be a queue of at least four smaller vehicles on the road. One can imagine the sort of congestion if thousands of trucks move along the stretch,” an officer said. BT Road is the arterial road connecting the city to the northern outskirts and it becomes exceptionally crowded every year during the festive season, police said. “In the absence of local trains, we expect double the pressure this year,” an officer in the Barrackpore commissionerate said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-306
15-09-2020||Calcutta||Five months on, food on board flights||The flight catering units at Calcutta airport have started preparing meals again after more than five months as airlines have resumed serving food on flights. The Oberoi group’s flight catering unit started loading meals on flights from Sunday, an official of the unit said. Taj Sats Air Catering Ltd, the in-flight catering unit of the Taj group, has started preparing food for passengers again from September 8. On Sunday, Oberoi Flight Services and Oberoi Airport Services loaded more than 200 boxes of sandwiches and close to 150 packets of pre-booked meals on domestic flights of airlines, including IndiGo and SpiceJet. At one point, it used to provide 4,000 to 5,000 meals every day, an official said. The flight catering unit of the Taj group has been providing close to 750 meals since September 8, mainly to Air India flights. On Monday, it provided close to 2,000 meal boxes to Air India flights because the airline operated two big aircraft to Delhi, the catering unit official said. Before the pandemic, the unit had been provided about 6,000 meals every day, he said While the Oberoi unit serves hot meals for lunch and dinner, the Taj unit provides snacks that include kathi rolls, patties, cakes and biscuits. “The bigger meal boxes that contain kathi rolls, along with other items, are for longer flights to cities like Delhi and Mumbai,” the catering unit official said. The flight catering units became non-functional towards the end of March when commercial planes had stopped flying because of the pandemic. Even after domestic flights and international evacuation flights resumed, the civil aviation ministry hadn’t given permission to serve meals on board because of safety reasons. The Telegraph had in June reported that the Oberoi catering unit had written to the Centre, urging it to allow serving meals on board. “Our factory has been closed since March 20 and there is no revenue. The earnings of several operating companies — especially those in hospitality, aviation and non-grocery retail — have been hit because of business restrictions in the country triggered by the pandemic,” A. Imam Malik, unit head/head-corporate affairs, Oberoi Flight Services and Oberoi Airport Services, had written in an email to the ministry on June 15. “You are earnestly requested to kindly withdraw the restriction on in-flight catering facility to passengers on domestic airlines.” The unit has close to 200 employees. Now, more than 100 have returned to work. Recently, the Centre allowed serving meals on board. “Having meals on board is part of the flying experience. Most passengers are having the meals,” an official of Vistara, a full service carrier, said. The airline has been operating four flights, two each to Mumbai and Delhi, thrice a week. About 30 per cent of passengers on Indigo’s flights out of Calcutta are pre-booking meals while booking tickets, an IndiGo official said. If flights from Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Ahmedabad, Pune and Nagpur are allowed to operate daily to Calcutta, the catering units would have more business, according to officials of such units. Now, flights from these cities are allowed thrice a week because the state government has requested the Centre for such an arrangement because of the high number of Covid patients in these cities. On Sunday, 103 flights took off from Calcutta with 16,159 passengers, according to airport officials. These include flights to the six cities. The number of passengers goes down below 10,000 on other days, an official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-306
15-09-2020||Calcutta||20 more students want  to return to IIM campus||At least 20 of IIM Calcutta’s final-year MBA (two-year course) students have requested the institute to allow them to return to the campus and use its Net facility to attend disruption-free online classes, an official said. The requests started pouring in after the institute allowed 62 executive MBA (one-year course) students to return to the campus and use the Net facility to attend online classes without any disruption, the official said. Of the 62, six reached the campus on Sunday. The MBA programme office is in touch with parents of the 20 final-year students to decide how and when they might be allowed on the campus. The two-year MBA course has 462 students. “Initially, one or two students had requested. Since the announcement regarding the MBA executive students, the number of requests from final-year MBA students has gone up,” the official said. “The number is likely to go up further.” Hunar Gandhi, IIM-C student council president, had earlier written to director Anju Seth asking if it would be possible to allow some students who may have Net connectivity problems or other difficulties at home to return to the campus and use the institute infrastructure to attend online classes. In the same letter he had said students were apprehensive about the quality of learning in online classes. The MBA students had attended classes on the campus in the first year. The second-year classes have been online so far because of the pandemic. At least 61 of the institute’s 82 teachers had on Saturday written to its board of governors that the digital infrastructure on the campus was in “poor shape”. The executive MBA students will face Net connectivity problems, they said. “We are, therefore, not sure if this decision to bring them to the campus will improve the quality of online education.” The Telegraph could not get in touch with director Seth for her version on the matter. The institute will take the call on allowing the 20 final-year students depending on the success of the plan involving the 62 executive MBA students.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-306
15-09-2020||Calcutta||Metro commuters complain of recharge glitch||Several Metro passengers alleged glitches in the online smart card recharge system on Monday, the day the carrier resumed services for all after 174 days. The commuters said they had recharged their cards online recently but on Monday, the updated balance was not being reflected on the card-reading machines at the stations. Station officials took down details of such complainants at almost every station. Around 10.05am at Tollygunge station, the register had around 10 names, said a passenger who faced a similar issue. Around 10.40am, a similar register at Chandni Chowk station had over 15 names, said a passenger. “On Friday, I had done an online recharge of Rs 1,000 through the Metro app (Metro Railway Kolkata). I got a message from my bank, confirming that my account had been debited. But on Monday, the card-reading machine at the station did not reflect the balance,” said a man who was headed to Rabindra Sadan from Tollygunge. A Behala resident entered Tollygunge station around 10.05am but could not board a train before 10.35am because of the alleged glitch. “I had opted for a Rs 100-recharge online on September 4 through the Metro app. The transaction history confirmed a top-up of Rs 100. But on Monday, the card-reading machine did not reflect anything, not even the previous balance,” said the passenger. From the ticket counter, he was redirected to the station superintendent’s room where officials told him that there was “a technical problem with the payment gateway”. “Kano je ei sob online koren (why do you do these things online)?” a station employee is said to have told the passenger. He was issued another card and asked to visit the station after a week. The problem will be sorted out by then and he will be given a refund against the updated balance of his previous card, officials said. Around 12.10pm, he received a message saying the September 4 online recharge “was successful”. He was asked to visit any Metro station to update his card balance. A Metro official said the money debited from a passenger’s account went to a bank’s pool before being transferred to the railways’ account. “I cannot comment on individual cases without studying them but similar issues happen when the system does not allow one payment unless the previous one is complete. A system which allows concurrent or parallel payments does not usually suffer from such problems,” said an official of a firm that handles IT solutions for government agencies. Metro general manager Manoj Joshi said he was aware of the problem. “Some passengers have faced the issue. It is a technical problem. Our officials are working on it and the problem will be addressed shortly,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-306
15-09-2020||Calcutta||First load of Bangladeshi Hilsa arrives||The season’s first consignment of the Bangladesh hilsa arrived in Bengal through the Petrapole land port in three trucks on Monday evening as a pre-Puja gift from the neighbour. Bangladesh had last week announced its decision to export 1,450 tonnes of hilsa to India, the largest consignment in recent times, lifting its embargo temporarily. The first consignment of 12 tonnes headed for Calcutta soon after its arrival. “More such consignments will come by October 10,” a member of West Bengal Fish Importers’ Association said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-306
15-09-2020||Calcutta||Keep pandals open, let air flow freely: Mamata||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday said Durga Puja pandals should be kept open on the sides to ensure free flow of air, stressing one of the key precautions against the spread of Covid-19. “Durga Puja is a big challenge and in Bengal, it is a national festival. Let the pandals be kept open so that there is circulation of air,” Mamata said in Nabanna. “Open thakley hawa batash boibe (If it is kept open, air will flow). It is for precaution. To be safe.” The Puja starts on October 22 (Sashthi) and many organisers across Calcutta have started erecting pandals. “We will request the Puja committees to keep the pandals open on the sides. There is no point keeping some provisions for ventilation. Khola howa thakley onek bhalo hobey (It would be better if there is free passage of air),” the chief minister said. Bengal is not unfamiliar with what Mamata has suggested. Till the advent of theme-based pujas, pandals across Calcutta used to be largely open structures.The idols would be placed in a three side-covered area and the main pandal would open into a mandap or a shamiana. Since the time theme-based Pujas became fashionable, pandals would be made in a manner that would require visitors to enter the structures to watch the idols. Mamata said the customary meeting with the puja organisers would be held on September 25, where the precautionary steps needed to be taken would be discussed. “Many visitors turn up at pandals to offer anjali. If the pandal is kept open, it would be easier to breathe. If there are any germs, even those will go away,” Mamata said, explaining why she felt the need for restructuring puja pandals this year. “The (corona)virus is yet to go away. I’m not saying about the area where the deity will be kept. But the remaining space can be kept open.” Mahalaya, which for many marks the beginning of Bengal’s autumn festivity, usually precedes the Puja by a week. But this year the occasion is just two days away and more than a month before the Puja. Around 4,500 community pujas are organised in the city every year. With the Covid-19 pandemic playing havoc, most organisers have cut down their budgets, opting for smaller idols and trimming other expenditures. But themes have remained. With the chief minister suggesting to keep pandals open, several organisers said they would have to sit down with the artists to find a way out so that the themes prevailed and the pandals were kept open. “There is not much time. We will have to sit with our artists and discuss Plan B,” said Sandipan Banerjee, of Behala Notun Dal puja committee. “I think a clear picture will emerge when we get to meet the chief minister.” The chief minister also referred to the global advisory board she had earlier set up for Covid-19 management and said the panel suggested keeping puja pandals open. The advisory board is headed by Nobel laureate economist Abhijit Vinayak Banerjee. “We have accepted their proposal. I will also request the puja committees to do so,” Mamata said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-306
15-09-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta Metro rolls into e-pass age||The Telegraph took a Metro ride from Tollygunge to Chandni Chowk on Monday, when the carrier resumed services for all after 174 days. The service was suspended on March 23 because of the Covid pandemic. Here’s what we saw on Monday A handful of people were huddled near a tea stall outside Tollygunge Metro station around 10.10am on Monday. Asish Kumar Rout was the centre of attraction in the group. His pull — familiarity with the system of booking e-passes. The group included two middle-aged men and a younger man who seemed unable to book passes. Rout could book passes for two of them. When he tried booking an e-pass for the third, he could not. The queue outside the main gate of the station had over 20 people. Cops at the gate were asking each commuter to show the colour-coded e-pass. A thermal gun scanned every wrist for the body temperature before letting people in. Another cop standing beside the metal detector gate directed every entrant to a hand sanitiser dispenser. A couple of passengers preferred taking a sanitiser out of their bags and using it in front of the cop. The next stop was the ticket counter. Two of the five counters were operational. Only a handful of people stood in front of each, for recharge of smart cards. Before the carrier suspended operations, the queue at the counters seemed never ending. Two of the many flap gates were being used for entry into the platform. Yellow lines on the platform — painted to maintain social distancing — outnumbered passengers. An air-conditioned rake arrived within five minutes. An RPF jawan stood at the gate of a coach to keep an eye on the passengers boarding the train. At Tollygunge, the number of people boarding the train was much more than those getting off it. Inside the train, most seats allotted for passengers — every alternate one was cross-marked to maintain distancing — were occupied. Only the last coach had several vacant seats. Seats reserved for senior citizens were mostly vacant. A Metro employee was doing the rounds of the coaches, guiding passengers and occasionally taking pictures. The public address system switched between two announcements — about Covid-19 protocols and an approaching station. The stop time at each station was around 30 seconds. It seemed more than enough because only a few people were boarding or getting off the train. The usual Monday morning rush at Kalighat and Rabindra Sadan meant people jostling for an inch of space and doors refusing to close because of the crowds. On Monday, only a handful of passengers were waiting on the platforms. At some stations, there were none. Metro officials had said they would not allow more than 50 people in a coach. The coach this correspondent boarded had around 20 passengers. At Esplanade, five people boarded the coach — the maximum between Tollygunge and Chandni Chowk.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-306
15-09-2020||Calcutta||People put off by Kolkata Metro e-pass mandate||Around 20,000 people boarded Metro trains on Monday, when the carrier resumed services for all after 174 days. The Metro authorities had geared up for around 100,000 passengers in the run-up to the resumption of commercial services in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. The actual number made their job easier and Day One went off reasonably smoothly. The developer of the technology behind the e-pass — needed for access to Metro stations — had on Sunday told Metro that over 2,500 passes were booked in the first hour since the link’s launch at 8pm. “Around 53,000 passes were booked for Monday. But many people did not turn up. It seems some booked passes to get familiar with the system,” said an official of the agency that has developed the system. The number should go up in the coming days, said Metro officials. Railway officials suggested that the need to book an e-pass put many people off. At Dum Dum, Tollygunge and some other stations, groups of passengers were seen seeking help from Metro personnel, cops and fellow passengers in booking e-passes. The first trains left the terminal stations at 8am on Monday. Dum Dum saw a semblance of rush during the morning and Park Street in the evening. Otherwise, the volume of passengers was low throughout the day. From 9am, the queue at Dum Dum station started getting longer. Around 9.55am, the queue at gate number 4 had over 50 passengers. But around the same time, a train left New Garia station with less than five passengers. Around 6pm, Park Street had scores of passengers on both platforms and a New Garia-bound train was reasonably full when it left the station. “I had to travel in crowded buses to reach my office. A crowded Metro is a better option than a crowded bus,” said Biswajit Sarkar, a Kasba resident who boarded a train from Kalighat. He was in for a surprise after entering the station. The coach he boarded around 11.30am only had four other occupants. The authorities had geared up for a maximum of 400 passengers on each train and 50 in each coach. But barring a few trains that left Dum Dum in the morning, most others did not even ferry half that number. “Around 20,000 passengers took Metro trains in the Noapara-Kavi Subhash (New Garia) corridor till 7pm, when the last trains left the terminal stations,” said Metro spokesperson Indrani Banerjee. Only a couple of gates — one each for entry and exit — were opened for passengers at most stations. Police and RPF personnel guarded the gates, where every passenger was asked to show his or her colour-coded pass. A limited number of ticket counters were open for passengers to recharge smart cards and buy new ones. The interval between two trains was 10 and 15 minutes during different slots of the day. In the East-West corridor, the passenger count was around 80, said the Metro spokesperson.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-307
15-09-2020||Business||Airbus warns of layoffs as air travel fails to recover||Airbus has stepped up warnings of compulsory layoffs as air travel fails to recover as quickly as expected from the coronavirus crisis, putting itself on a potential collision course with unions and the French government. The warning in a letter to its 130,000 staff from Chief Executive Guillaume Faury, seen by Reuters, marks a more pessimistic tone from the planemaker, which had previously said only that it could not rule out compulsory measures. “I owe it to you to be transparent: it’s unlikely that voluntary departures will be enough,” Faury wrote in the letter distributed on Friday evening. Unions and the French government have urged the Toulouse-based planemaker to avoid compulsory layoffs as it sheds up to 15,000 posts to cope with plummeting travel demand. Airbus has repeatedly warned that the outlook is uncertain as the industry’s worst crisis hits aircraft deliveries and severely weakens airline finances. But a disappointing rise in air travel over the summer has cast a fresh pall over the company’s biggest ever restructuring plans. “Unfortunately, the recovery in airline traffic over the summer period has not been at the level the industry was counting on,” Faury wrote. “We must now prepare for a crisis that will probably be even deeper and longer than the previous scenarios suggested”. The group representing most of the world’s airlines, the International Air Transport Association, said last week that air traffic had failed to recover as quickly as expected in July, a key part of the peak season for airline revenues. July traffic was down 80% compared with the same month of 2019, compared with a 94% drop at the low point in April.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-289
15-09-2020||Business||Nvidia buys British chip designer Arm from SoftBank||Nvidia said on Sunday that it would acquire the British chip designer Arm from SoftBank in a deal worth about $40 billion, a move that could reshape the battle over technology that powers smartphones and data centers. Nvidia, best known for supplying chips that render images in video games, said it would pay SoftBank a combination of cash and shares in the transaction. Nvidia’s market capitalisation has skyrocketed to over $300 billion lately, partly owing to recent success in artificial intelligence applications and pandemic-fueled growth in chips used for PC gaming. If completed, the transaction would instantly transform Nvidia into one of the most influential players in smartphone technology, a market that had previously eluded it. Arm, which licenses designs that other companies turn into chips, has long defined the computing technology found in most mobile devices. And Arm designs are starting to play a bigger role in cloud data centers. But the deal is likely to prompt close scrutiny by antitrust authorities around the world. Influential Arm customers potentially affected by the transaction include Apple, Samsung Electronics, Amazon.com, Qualcomm and Huawei. Arm, which was acquired by SoftBank in 2016, is widely perceived as an independent entity that gives equal treatment to all licensees. Industry executives and analysts have pointed to potential conflicts if a company received technical assistance from an Nvidia-owned Arm that could give its own chip business unfair advantages over other licensees. Jensen Huang, Nvidia’s chief executive, pledged to keep operating Arm as it has been. “Arm’s business model is brilliant,” he wrote in a letter to Nvidia employees on Sunday. “We will maintain its open-licensing model and customer neutrality, serving customers in any industry, across the world.” Nvidia also said it would keep operating Arm from Cambridge, England, and honour commitments SoftBank made to keep investing in Britain. Mr. Huang said he and Simon Segars, Arm’s chief executive, had already held initial talks with British officials, who were “delighted” with the company’s expansion plans. New York Times News Service||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-289
15-09-2020||Business||McLeod Russel loss at Rs 90cr in first quarter||Bulk tea producer McLeod Russel India Ltd has suffered a first-quarter loss of Rs 90.52 crore compared with a loss of Rs 11.64 crore a year ago. The June quarter of last fiscal included an exceptional gain of Rs 90.70 crore. Revenues stood at Rs 196.4 crore in the reporting quarter, down from Rs 245.83 crore as the nationwide lockdown disrupted tea plantation in April and partly in May. The crop loss has since created a shortage in the market, leading to tea prices going up and the company is expecting the next two quarters to be better. The company, which is hoping for a resolution to its debt problem, acknowledged  that while operational performance has improved, the financial position continued to be under stress. The inter-corporate deposits worth Rs 2,868.81 crore given to various group companies to provide them funds along with interest are outstanding as on this date. “These have resulted in a mismatch of current resources vis-a-vis its commitments and liquidity constraints, causing hardship in servicing short term and long-term debts and meeting other obligations,” it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-289
15-09-2020||Business||Bengal GST revenue contracts 35.9%||GST revenues of Bengal contracted 35.9 per cent to Rs 11,781 crore between April and August because of the Covid-induced lockdown, while the state is due Rs 7,750 crore in provisional compensation for the fiscal, according to data presented by minister of state for finance Anurag Thakur in the Lok Sabha on Monday. The compensation due to states stands at over Rs 1.51 lakh crore, Thakur said. The provisional GST compensation due to states and Union territories for 2020-21 was highest for Maharashtra at Rs 22,485 crore, followed by Karnataka, Rs 13,763 crore and Uttar Pradesh, Rs 11,742 crore. So far, 15 of the 31 states have opted for one of the two borrowing options proposed by the Centre which could pave the way for the proposal getting voted at the GST Council meeting on October 5. States to have opted for the first option are Assam, Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Gujarat, Haryana, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Meghalaya, Sikkim, Tripura, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Odisha. Manipur is the the sole state to go for second option. States and Union territories that are not in favour of either of the two options are Delhi, Punjab, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh, Tamil Nadu, Jharkhand, Telangana, Pondicherry, Kerala and West Bengal. States have been given two options: either borrow Rs 97,000 crore to meet the shortfall arising due to GST implementation or  borrow Rs 2.35 lakh crore which includes the Rs 1.38 lakh crore that the Centre has refused to pay as this is as attributed to Covid-related factors.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-289
15-09-2020||Business||Infosys acquires Czech-based GuideVision||IT services major Infosys on Monday said it will acquire Czech Republic-based GuideVision for up to 30 million euros (about Rs 260.4 crore). The acquisition is being carried out by Infy Consulting Company Ltd, a step-down subsidiary of Infosys, a regulatory filing said. “GuideVision’s training academy and nearshore capabilities in Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, and presence in Germany and Finland will strengthen Infosys’s ServiceNow capabilities for its clients in Europe,” Infosys said in a statement. GuideVision’s end-to-end offerings, including SnowMirror — a proprietary smart data replication tool for ServiceNow instances — enables over 100 enterprise clients to simplify complex business and IT processes. ServiceNow is an enterprise software firm that develops cloud computing platforms to help companies manage digital workflows. According to the filing, the cost of acquisition is “up to 30 million euros, including earn-out and bonuses”. The acquisition is expected to close during the third quarter of 2020-21, subject to customary closing conditions, it added. “This acquisition is an important milestone in our journey to build capabilities relevant to the digital priorities of Infosys clients. This move reaffirms our commitment to the growing ServiceNow ecosystem and augments Infosys’s portfolio of cloud services,” the filing said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-289
15-09-2020||Business||Retail prices ease in August||The country’s retail inflation slightly eased in August to 6.69 per cent as food prices fell, but remained above the upper limit of the RBI tolerance band of 6 per cent for the fifth straight month. Economists expect the central bank to press for another pause in policy action in the forthcoming policy. Data released by the National Statistics Office on Monday showed food inflation eased in August to 9.05 per cent from 9.27 per cent in the preceding month. Under the food segment, double digit inflation in case of eggs (10.1 per cent), oils and fats (12.4 per cent),  vegetables (11.4 per cent), pulses (14.4 per cent) and spices (12.3 per cent) continue to push food inflation higher. Inflation in case of fuel components rose to a five-month high of 3.1 per cent in August 2020 compared with 2.7 per cent in July 2020 and (-)1.7 per cent in August 2019. A low base effect and a rise in prices of diesel and kerosene has led to the uptick in this component from the previous month’s figures. The government has revised downwards the retail inflation numbers for July to 6.73 per cent from the earlier estimates of 6.93 per cent. “CPI inflation is expected to print sub-4 per cent only in December 2020-February 2021, based on which a continuation of the accommodative stance appears doubtful,” Aditi Nayar, principal economist at Icra said. Madan Sabnavis, chief economist of Care Ratings, said: “MPC will keep this number at back of the mind when evaluating its decision in the next meeting. Inflation is well above 6 per cent while growth has slipped quite sharply. The liquidity situation is comfortable while bank credit growth has been negative. The decision may steer towards another pause in policy action.” Sunil Kumar Sinha, principal economist, India Ratings, said: “Despite first-quarter  GDP contracting 23.9 per cent, we believe policy rates are unlikely to be cut in the forthcoming monetary policy.” Data separately released by the industry department earlier in the day showed India’s wholesale price inflation turned positive in August after a gap of four months. The wholesale price index (WPI) inflation stood at 0.16 per cent in August against a contraction of 0.58 per cent in July as inflation for the manufactured items accelerated to 1.27 per cent from 0.51 per cent during the same period. During August, crude oil prices softened 17.44 per cent from a year ago, while fuel prices eased by 9.7 per cent from their levels a year earlier. The Reserve Bank of India has cut policy rates by 115 basis points so far this year, to 4 per cent. However, rising food inflation has pushed inflation higher than the upper band of the central bank's target range, forcing the RBI to put a pause in its rate cutting cycle.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-289
15-09-2020||Business||Trai says no plan to regulate OTTs||The Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (Trai) on Monday said there is no need to regulate over-the-top (OTT) communication services at the moment. The regulator said that the time is not opportune to recommend a comprehensive regulatory framework for various aspects of OTT services beyond the laws and regulations prescribed currently, and decided against any immediate regulatory intervention. OTT services refer to applications and services that are accessible over the internet and ride on an operator’s network. Skype, Viber, WhatsApp and Hike are some of the popular OTT services. The department of telecommunications had in March 2016 sought the recommendations of Trai on net neutrality and other related aspects such as economic, security and privacy issues, and regulatory framework for OTT services similar to services provided by telecom service providers. Trai had subsequently come out with a discussion paper on regulatory framework for OTT services in November 2018 where it had sought the industry’s views on multiple issues. Releasing its recommendations on the regulatory framework for OTT communication services, Trai said the matter can be looked into afresh when more clarity emerges in international jurisdictions, particularly the study undertaken by the ITU (International Telecommunication Union). It added that no regulatory interventions are needed for privacy and security related issues of OTT services for now. “It is not an opportune moment to recommend a comprehensive regulatory framework for various aspects of services referred to as OTT services, beyond the extant laws and regulations prescribed at present,” Trai said in a statement. The authority added that market forces may be allowed to respond to the situation without prescribing any regulatory intervention. “However, developments shall be monitored and intervention as felt necessary shall be done at appropriate time,’’ it said. Telecom companies in India had long been demanding that OTT players be brought under the ambit of the regulatory framework as they offer similar services without attached licensing obligations, conditions and levies (such as licence fee).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-289
15-09-2020||Business||No plans of excise hike on cigarettes||The government has no plans to increase central excise duty on cigarettes, bidis and smokeless tobacco, Parliament was informed on Monday. “The GST rates on goods, including compensation cess rates are fixed on the basis of the recommendations of the GST Council. As regards central excise duty, there is no proposal to increase duty at present,” Anurag Thakur, minister of state for finance, informed the Lok Sabha in a question. The total tax collected under central excise and cess for Tobacco Products have increased from Rs 1,234 crore in 2018-19 to Rs 1,610 crore in 2019-20.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-289
15-09-2020||Business||Centre to pour funds into PSU banks||The Modi-government on Monday sought Parliament approval for a Rs 20,000 crore bank recapitalisation programme for this fiscal but the out-of-budget proposal may not be enough given looming bad asset concerns and the difficulties faced by PSU banks to raise funds from the markets. The lockdown has forced the government to do a U-turn on recapitalisation: in her budget speech in February, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had ruled out recapitalisation funds for banks as the government had already large sums in them over the past few years. Amid the bad asset fears, the RBI prodded the Centre to go for a recap. In its stability report, RBI governor Shaktikanta Das said recapitalisation had “become necessary” and called for lenders to raise money in advance to “build resilience” in the financial system. “There are certain stress points in the financial system, which would require constant regulatory and policy attention to mitigate the risks. The economic impact of the pandemic may result in higher non-performing assets and capital erosion of banks. A recapitalisation plan for PSBs and private banks (PVBs) has, therefore, become necessary,” Das said. According to the RBI, the gross non-performing asset ratio of PSBs will increase to 15.2 per cent of advances by March 2021 from 11.3 per cent a year back “under the baseline scenario”. Analysts said PSU banks may need capital to the tune of around Rs 60,000 crore in this fiscal alone, much in excess of the Rs 20,000 crore proposed in the budget. Banks will have to set aside more funds to provide for a possible rise in bad loans during the second half, the analysts said. Experts, however, point out that much will depend on the one-time restructuring. The recast mechanism which was announced by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) last month is expected to lower the capital needs of banks on account of lower slippages as banks restructure stressed assets. Last month rating agency Icra had estimated that the capital requirements for the state owned lenders could decline to Rs 20,000-55,500 crore this year. It had earlier projected capital requirements for PSU banks at Rs 46,000-82,600 crore for 2020-21. Rating agency CARE said the recap exercise was more likely to be undertaken through recap bonds rather than any budget expenditure as it does not come under the head of “cash outgo”. The rating egency did not rule out the possibility of the funds being raised through savings by other departments. “We need to see which of these options would hold here; and more likely it would be the first. This was not part of the budget and hence can be interpreted as being expended to cushion PSBs against the pandemic impact,” Madan Sabnavis, chief economist, Care Ratings said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-289
15-09-2020||Business||Government borrowings may leap||The government on Monday sought Parliament approval for an additional gross expenditure of Rs 2.35 lakh crore with a net cash outgo of Rs 1.67 lakh crore. It aimed to shovel another Rs 40,000 crore into the rural jobs guarantee programme. Officials have indicated government borrowing could be revised upwards and the bond market will have to deal with a higher supply of government paper in October-March as both the Centre and states will be strapped for cash — that will raise yields in the market. The borrowing calendar for the second half of the fiscal will be finalised later this month. The supplementary demands for grants said the net cash outgo will be Rs 1.66 lakh crore as the gross additional expenditure “matched by savings of the Ministries or Departments or by enhanced receipts or recoveries aggregates to Rs 68,868.33 crore”. The government has also sought Rs 46,602.43 crore towards providing additional allocation under Post Devolution Revenue Deficit Grant to the states following the recommendations of the Fifteenth Finance Commission. The first batch of Supplementary Demands for Grants for 2020-21 includes 54 Grants and 1 Appropriations. “The expenditures are part of the announcements made by the government as part of Covid relief and hence these demands are formalisation of the process of incurring these expenses,” according to Madan Sabnavis, chief economist of Care Rating. “However, the state deficit grant appears to be outside these announcements and hence become additional expenditure. This amount would be around 0.23 per cent of GDP. “We believe that the others have already been buffered in our calculation of the fiscal deficit which we project now to be at around 8-8.5 per cent of GDP assuming marginal fall in nominal GDP from last year.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-290
15-09-2020||India||China doesn’t recognise current boundary, Rajnath tells Parliament  ||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh told Parliament on Tuesday that the border issue with China was still unresolved as China "does not recognise the current boundary", explaining that this difference in perception had led to the face-off at the Line of Actual Control. India, he said, has been following the customary line that was agreed upon in the 1960s. "But China does not agree to this now and says that both sides have different perspectives of this line," he said in a statement in the Lok Sabha. The minister said that China has "unilaterally violated the bilateral agreements signed in 1993 and 1996," adding that the Indian soldiers stopped these transgressions showing "patience and resolve when required and courage and valour when required". Singh went on to iterate that India was committed to a peaceful resolution of the current border stand-off with China in Ladakh but that any attempt to unilaterally alter the status quo by the neighbouring country was unacceptable. The Indian Army, he said, has inflicted heavy costs, including casualties on the Chinese side during the clash with the PLA at the Galwan valley on June 15. “I met my Chinese counterpart in Moscow recently, and put forward our concerns, but made it absolutely clear that India is very serious about issues of sovereignty,"  Singh told Parliament in what is the first session after more than five months. "I also made it clear that we want to resolve this issue in a peaceful manner and we want the Chinese side to work together with us. At the same time, we also made it clear that we will do our best to protect India's sovereignty and territorial integrity," he added. The defence minister said that since April, India has seen a build-up of troops and armaments by the Chinese side in the border areas adjacent to eastern Ladakh. He said in early May, the Chinese side had taken action to hinder the normal, traditional patrolling pattern of Indian troops in the Galwan Valley area, which resulted in a face-off. Singh said even as this situation was being addressed by ground commanders as per the provisions of the bilateral agreements and protocol, in mid-May, the Chinese side made several attempts to transgress the LAC in other parts of the Western Sector. "This included Kongka La, Gogra and North Bank of Pangong Lake. These attempts were detected early and consequently responded to appropriately by our armed forces. "We made it clear to the Chinese side both through diplomatic and military channels that China was, by such actions, attempting to unilaterally alter the status quo. It was categorically conveyed that this was unacceptable," he said. The government, which has been under Congress pressure to explain what the party called the "real situation" in Ladakh, said there would be no discussion on the matter given the "sensitivity" of the situation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-666
15-09-2020||India||PM lays foundation stone of projects worth Rs 541 cr in poll-bound Bihar||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday inaugurated and laid the foundation stone of seven urban infrastructure projects worth Rs 541 crore in poll-bound Bihar. In his address via video conference, Modi lauded the efforts of the state government, headed by Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, over a host of issues, including girl education, representation of deprived sections of the society in local bodies and development. Without naming anyone, the prime minister also slammed earlier state governments, saying Bihar used to have tall and visionary leaders, but an era came when focus shifted from governance. "Selfish interests" took over governance and "vote-bank politics" suppressed the system, Modi said, in an apparent reference to the 15-year-long rule of Lalu Yadav's RJD and Congress governments that preceded it. The Centre is working overtime in coordination with the state government to boost infrastructure and development works, the prime minister said. Noting that over 20 Bihar towns are situated near Ganga, Modi said more than 50 projects of over Rs 6,000 crore had been approved in the state to keep the holy river clean. Assembly polls in Bihar are likely to be held in October-November.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-666
15-09-2020||India||Congress alleges corruption and demands probe into the privatisation of airports||The Congress on Tuesday demanded a probe into the privatisation of six airports in the country alleging violation of rules and corruption, a charge denied by the BJP which said there is complete transparency under the Modi dispensation. Initiating the debate on 'The Aircraft (Amendment) Bill, 2020', Congress member K C Venugopal alleged that the government was promoting crony capitalism by privatising airports in the name of developing them. "There is a move to monopolise the Indian airports. In future, all Indian airports will be owned by only one company. How can you allow this...There is a clear violation of norms and regulations in giving airports to a single private entity. This is a clear scam of public money," he alleged. "I am asking for an inquiry into all this. This is a clear case of corruption," he said. Venugopal alleged that the government was bypassing norms and guidelines to favour a private entity and has ignored the advice given by its own ministries. The recommendations of the Department of Economic Affairs and Niti Ayog on technical, financial and legal aspects of bidding process were ignored by the government, he said. "There is an international attempt on the government to help crony capitalists. The government is paving red carpet for monopolisation of airports in the country," he alleged, adding till now Adani group has won bids to operate and develop six airports of Ahmedabad, Lucknow, Bengaluru, Jaipur, Guwahati and Thiruvananthapuram. He said even when the Bill was pending in Parliament, the government sought bids to privatise six airports on December 18, 2018 and many players have alleged that the timeline for the bids was extremely short and there were a number of anomalies in the clauses for the bids proposal. The Congress member also said that the concerns of state governments of Rajasthan and Kerala were not taken care of by the government. Both Rajasthan and Kerala have objected to the proposal for privatising Jaipur and Thirivananthapuram airports, for which land was given by the states. The Kerala assembly has also passed a resolution against the privatisation of the Thiruvananthapuram airport, he said. Countering the charge, BJP member GVL Narasimha Rao claimed there was complete transparency in developing airports and alleged that crony capitalism was promoted during the previous Congress-led UPA regime and cited 2G and coal auctions when courts had to intervene. He said the civil aviation sector has undergone transformation under the Modi government and passenger traffic has more than doubled in the last five years and risen by 118 percent, against 54 per cent rise in the previous five years "The real crony capitalism was during the previous regime. There is a transparent regime and a credible and transparent method is being adopted to develop airports in the country," Rao said. The objective of the prime minister is to make air travel safer and accessible for all sections of society and not just for the elite, he said. The BJP member lauded the government's Vande Bharat mission under which 12.4 lakh Indians were evacuated from across the world during the COVID-19 lockdown and Air India ran 2500 of the total 4,000 flights in the "biggest evacuation exercise". Rao said the government has evolved an ambitious plans for the expansion of the aviation sector and was investing Rs 13,000 crore to develop 12 airports in the country and enhance airport network and infrastructure. He said India was ranked third largest in the world in the domestic civil aviation sector and 4th/5th largest in terms of international air traffic. Venugopal earlier highlighted safety concerns in the aviation sector and said there were 47 near miss incidents in 2018. He also highlighted the shortage of flight safety officials and this, he alleged, might have been a cause for rising "near miss" cases. He also demanded a statement from the minister on the Calicut airport incident involving an Air India Express flight. "There is no clarity on what led to the incident. Government has to clarify how permission was given to wider aircraft earlier on the table-top airport in Calicut, where such flights are now not allowed," he said. He also sought to know the real status of grant of compensation to victims of the Calicut airport crash. Dinesh Trivedi (Trinamool Congress) lauded the Vande Bharat mission and asked the government to restructure Air India but not sell it. "If Air India was not there, the private players would not have been there. Air India is a very good airline. You can change its structure, but please don't sell it. Drop plans to sell it," he said, demanding a complete revamp of the Aircraft Act saying it has become outdated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-666
15-09-2020||India|| India's Covid tally breaches 49-lakh mark||India's Covid-19 caseload sprinted past 49 lakh with 83,809 people testing positive in a day, while 38,59,399 people have recuperated so far taking the national recovery rate to 78.28 per cent on Tuesday, according to the Union Health Ministry data. The total coronavirus cases mounted to 49,30,236, while the death toll climbed to 80,776 with 1,054 people succumbing to the disease in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed. The Covid-19 case fatality rate due to the coronavirus infection was recorded at 1.64 per cent. There are 9,90,061 active cases of Covid-19 in the country which comprises 20.08 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and it went past 40 lakh on September 5. According to the ICMR, a cumulative total of 5,83,12,273 samples have been tested up to September 14 with 10,72,845 samples being tested on Monday. India is at the number one position in terms of the number of recovered coronavirus cases followed by Brazil and the US, according to the Johns Hopkins University, which has been compiling Covid-19 data from all over the world. India is the second worst hit nation in terms of Covid-19 cases after the US, while it is at the third spot in terms of fatalities globally after the US and Brazil, according to the JHU data. Of the 1,054 new deaths, 363 are from Maharashtra, 119 from Karnataka, 68 from Punjab, 62 from Uttar Pradesh, 60 from Andhra Pradesh, 58 from West Bengal, 53 from Tamil Nadu, 29 from Madhya Pradesh, 26 from Delhi, 25 from Haryana, 18 from Chhattisgarh, 17 each from Gujarat and Jammu and Kashmir, 15 each from Kerala and Uttarakhand and 14 each from Rajasthan and Goa. Thirteen fatalities have been reported from Assam, 11 from Odisha, 10 from Telangana, nine each from Bihar and Puducherry, seven from Tripura, six from Jharkhand, five each from Chandigarh and Himachal Pradesh, two from Sikkim while Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Arunachal Pradesh, Meghalaya and Ladakh have registered one fatality each. A total of 80,776 deaths have been reported so far in the country includes 29,894 from Maharashtra followed by 8,434 from Tamil Nadu, 7,384 from Karnataka, 4,972 from Andhra Pradesh, 4,770 from Delhi, 4,491 from Uttar Pradesh, 4,003 from West Bengal, 3,227 from Gujarat and 2,424 from Punjab and 1,791 from Madhya Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-666
15-09-2020||India||Odisha minister tests Covid positive||Odisha school and mass education minister Samir Ranjan Dash has become the latest minister of Naveen Patnaik government to test positive for coronavirus. With him the number of Covid-19 positive ministers in the state has gone up to seven. Others ministers to have tested positive for the virus include food supplies and consumer welfare minister Ranendra Pratap Swain, women and child development and Mission Shakti minister Tukuni Sahu, tourism minister Jyoti Prakash Panigrahi, handlooms, textiles & handicrafts minister Padmini Dian, higher education and agriculture & farmers’ empowerment minister Arun Kumar Sahoo and rural development and labour minister Susanta Singh. State BJP president Samir Mohanty, who has been diagnosed with the coronavirus, was on Monday admitted to the AIIMS for treatment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-666
15-09-2020||India||Raghuvansh Prasad Singh letters fake, says RJD||The Rashtriya Janata Dal on Monday described as fake the letters purported to have been written by former Union minister Raghuvansh Prasad Singh three days before his death, asking how he could have written them when he was critically ill. The party accused chief minister Nitish Kumar and his Janata Dal United of hatching a conspiracy for the sake of votes. Raghuvansh’s family cited his resignation and refused to allow his body to be taken to the office of the RJD, the party he had been associated with since its inception in 1997, in Patna and went straight home after arrival from Delhi. Raghuvansh had been the RJD’s second most popular leader, after Lalu Prasad, but had of late been feeling sidelined. “All the letters attributed to Raghuvansh babu are fake. They are a conspiracy hatched by Nitish and his party for garnering votes belonging to the Rajput caste. They got this done by his son by assuring him that he will be made a member of the legislative council,” RJD chief spokesperson Bhai Virendra said. A few Congress leaders made similar allegations and raised doubts about the letters. Congress Rajya Sabha member Akhilesh Prasad Singh, who had previously been in the RJD, said: “I had met Raghuvanshji at AIIMS Delhi recently. He was criticising Nitish and Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s governments and praising Laluji. It can’t be that he goes to the ICU and writes such letters. It seems he was forced to write them.” Raghuvansh passed away at AIIMS, Delhi, on Sunday from post-Covid complications. He had contracted the novel coronavirus in June and had recovered from it. He had resigned from the post of RJD vice-president at that time but remained in the party. He fell ill in early August and was shifted to AIIMS for treatment. On September 10, he purportedly wrote a resignation letter from his hospital bed and sent it to the RJD chief. Replying to the letter, Lalu had said Raghuvansh was not going anywhere and that they would talk once he got well. A day later, Raghuvansh purportedly followed up with three letters to Nitish and one to the state water resources minister raising certain demands. The former Union minister’s handwritten note listing feudalism, nepotism, casteism, selling of seats and improper distribution of party positions as the reasons he left the RJD was released on social media on September 12 before he was put on life support. All the letters and notes were handwritten and bear the date September 10. Raghuvansh is survived by his wife, two sons who are engineers — one in Delhi and another in Hong Kong — and a daughter who is a journalist with a television channel. He had kept his family members away from politics and was seen as a leader who did not use his position for the benefit of his kin. Meanwhile, the ruling alliance has attacked the Opposition for casting doubts on Raghuvansh’s letters. Information and public relations minister and JDU leader Neeraj Kumar said: “The RJD leaders are making shameful comments to save their face. It is a known fact that he was neglected and sidelined in his own party. If he did not write the letters then why did Lalu respond to his resignation? At least give him the due respect after his death.” BJP spokesperson Nikhil Anand said the RJD had proved that it had “no respect for sincere and honest leaders when they are alive and cast aspersion on them after their death. Raghuvansh babu’s curse is going to destroy the party”. Sources said the RJD was upset by Raghuvansh’s note in which he criticised the problems in the party because his words carried a lot of weight. With Assembly elections round the corner, this could increase friction in the party at a time eight of its legislators have joined the JDU. The socialist leader’s words can also lead to an erosion of the influential Rajput votes, a close-knit caste from which he hailed. The Rajputs comprise around 6 per cent of the electorate. The RJD also did not like the way Prime Minister Narendra Modi talked about fulfilling the last wishes of the former Union minister and Nitish’s assurance to do the needful. The comments by the two top leaders, combined with the support of their parties to get the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput investigated, were seen as yet another attempt to consolidate caste votes in their favour.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-666
15-09-2020||India||IAS officers appear for PPE kits probe in Odisha||Two senior IAS officers of the state appeared before the Odisha Lokayukta on Monday in connection with alleged irregularities in the procurement of personal protective equipment (PPE) kits for healthcare workers. Hemant Sharma, principal secretary, industries, and Yamini Sarangi, managingdirector of Odisha State Medical Corporation Limited (OSMCL), submitted their written replies to the Lokayukta on the purchase of PPE kits. As the matter is under adjudication, both the officers refused to divulge the details of what they said in their written statements. Sources revealed that they had refuted the charge of any irregularities in the purchase of PPE kits. Earlier, Sharma was heading the state level purchase committee. However, following an outcry over the irregularities in the purchase of different products, the state government relieved him from the post in the first week of June. The issue of alleged irregularities in the purchase of PPE kits came to light when 20 trucks loaded with PPE, masks and sanitisers were not allowed by the government to unload at the warehouse of the medical corporation on May 24. The trucks remained standing for a week before being allowed to unload the materials. Later the government decided to accept the PPE kits only and returned other products like masks and protective gears for healthcare workers. The issue had triggered a controversy and the Opposition had targeted the government on the alleged corruption in purchase of the materials. The Congress put the government in the dock by asking a number of questions. As the issue snowballed, the Naveen Patnaik government relieved Sharma from his responsibilities as the purchase committee head. A delegation of Congress leaders led by Sudarshan Das on June 17 had met Lokayukta and submitted an eight-point charter of demands. Das told The Telegraph, “It’s good to see that both the IAS officers deposed before the Lokayuka today. Earlier though they had been summoned in August, they did not appear. Transparency is terribly missing in the entire process of purchase of PPE kits. We are yet to get information through an RTI application on the entire procedure of procurement.” A 12-party delegation led by the Congress had also met governor Ganeshil Lal on the issue and demanded that action should be taken against the guilty officials. The BJP had also targeted the ruling BJD on the issue and alleged that the Odisha government was encouraging massive corruption in the purchase of kits. The total number of corona positive cases in the state has reached 1,55,005 with detection of 4,198 new fresh cases in the state on Monday. According to the government press release, Khurda district reported the highest number of 758 cases followed by Cuttack (367), Puri (310), Bolangir (197). So far the virus has claimed 637 lives in the state with 11 more deaths being reported in the last 24 hours. Sisir Kumar Sethi, a police officer attached to the Bhubaneswar police commissionerate, died of coronavirus. Deputy Commissioner of Police, Bhubaneswar, tweeted: “He was an outstanding officer and sacrificed his line in the line of duty. Our prayers are with the bereaved family members which include three minor daughters.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-667
15-09-2020||India||Parliament: Govt meets questions on migrants with evasive answers||Q: Did thousands of migrant labourers die during the lockdown?A: No such data is available. Q: Was any compensation given to the families of migrant workers who had died while returning home during the lockdown?A: Question does not arise because no data of people dying on the way is kept. A cloud of obfuscation, if not nonchalance, hung over Parliament as it reopened on Monday with the government meeting members’ questions with evasive written answers. Such stonewalling is possible in written answers as there is no grilling afterwards. Question Hour, where oral explanations are sought, has been suspended for the session. As expected, the government on Monday got a motion adopted in the Lok Sabha to do away with Question Hour and Private Members’ business during the current monsoon session, citing extraordinary circumstances because of Covid-19. The motion was adopted by a voice vote, rejecting the Opposition demand for a division or vote. A sample of the questions asked and the written “answers” provided: Question: “Whether the government has failed in assessment of problems faced by the migrant labourers during the lockdown imposed by the government during Covid-19 pandemic.” Answer: “India, as a nation, has responded through the central government, state governments, local bodies, self-help groups, resident welfare associations, medical health professionals, sanitation workers as well as a large number of genuine and bona fide non-government organisations in the nation’s fight against the unprecedented human crisis due to the outbreak of Covid-19 and countrywide lockdown.” The question was asked by BJP member Sangeeta Singhdeo and five other MPs from various parties, and the written answer came from labour minister Santosh Gangwar. Whether thousands of migrants had died (paraphrased at the beginning of this report) was the second part of the question while several Opposition members had asked about the compensation. The answers made it clear that no such data were collected when the largest movement of people since the Partition unfolded in several states in the country after the lockdown was announced at short notice in March. Gangwar conceded that the government had kept no records of the job losses among the migrant workers. The government, however, furnished data for the first time saying that over 1.04 crore (10,466,152) migrant workers had returned home during the lockdown period. A question from Assam-based Congress member Pradyut Bordoloi, a former BJP politician, asking whether the economic stimulus of Rs 20 lakh crore was actually pumped into the economy and seeking the details if it had been, was met with waffle. Minister of state for finance Anurag Thakur replied: “The government has announced a special economic and comprehensive package of Rs 20 lakh crore — equivalent to 10 per cent of India's GDP — to combat the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic in India. The package includes, among others, relief measures under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Rojgar Abhiyaan, relief measures for MSMEs and NBFCs, increased allocation under MGNREGS, interest subvention for Mudra loans and revamp of Viability Gap Funding scheme for social infrastructure. The implementation of the package is reviewed and monitored regularly.” The government asserted that it was not running away from questions. Indeed, it answered dozens of questions, although it left the members no wiser on the subjects of their query. Bordoloi also asked: “Whether there has been any tangible improvement in the investment cycle of India due to the sharp reduction of corporate tax rate as announced in September 2019?” Thakur’s answer: “The government, in its endeavour to make India a globally competitive and favoured destination for investment, reduced the corporate tax rate for new companies in the manufacturing sector to 15 per cent and to 22 per cent for existing companies in September, 2019. This has enabled the corporate tax rates in India to be amongst the lowest in the world. Given that investment decisions have a long-term perspective, the impact of this landmark reform would be felt in coming years.” The government clearly doesn’t want to accept that the proposal, criticised widely by the Congress and former finance ministers, has drawn a blank. Asaduddin Owaisi’s question — whether the labour force in the unorganised sector has been hit the worst by the lockdown — received this answer: “In order to mitigate the financial crisis of the migrant workers and protect them against the economic disruptions due to the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic and countrywide lockdown the central government has taken numerous measures to provide them financial assistance, food packages ration and other benefits.” When Trinamul’s Saugata Roy sought the state-wise and sector-wise number of job opportunities lost to Covid-19 in the country, the labour minister’s answer was: “The global spread of the coronavirus followed by lockdowns has affected global economies including India. Government is taking several steps to ensure that the country is well prepared to face the challenges and threats posed by Covid-19. Aatmanirbhar Bharat, which focuses on economy, infrastructure, system, vibrant demography and demand to create jobs for the youth has also been launched.” Members from various parties asked a large number of questions about the migrant workers and their struggles during the lockdown but failed to extract much information from the government. About the measures taken to help the poor and those who lost their jobs, the stock reply was: the government had announced a Rs 1.7-lakh-crore relief package under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana. One of the answers said: “Insurance cover of Rs 50 lakh per health worker fighting Covid-19. Around 80 crore people are being provided additional 5kg wheat or rice and 1kg of preferred pulses, free of cost every month till November, 2020 to all the beneficiaries under provisions of National Food Security Act. 20.65 crore women Jan Dhan account holder has (sic) been given cash assistance of Rs 500 per month per person for three months. Eight crore poor families registered under the scheme of Ujjwala will get one gas cylinder, per family per month free of cost for the next three months.” Additional reporting by Imran Ahmed Siddiqui||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-667
15-09-2020||India||Modi asks MPs to express solidarity with jawans, keeps mum on China, LAC||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday said on Parliament premises that he believed that MPs would “with one voice” express solidarity with the soldiers guarding the borders. Modi mentioned neither China nor the LAC. A little later in the Lok Sabha, Speaker Om Birla refused to allow Congress House leader Adhir Chowdhury to broach the border standoff with China. “No, no,” the Speaker said before Chowdhury’s mic was switched off. In the evening, it became apparent that the “No, no” applies only to the Indian Parliament. Sitting in the Indian capital, Chinese ambassador Sun Weidong used India’s own accounts as evidence of Indian troops “illegally trespassing” the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and iterated that “it is also important to move back all personnel and equipment that have trespassed”. Sun’s comments came in an embassy release that listed his answers to questions (who asked them is not clear). Had a discussion in Parliament been allowed, the Opposition would have latched on to the Prime Minister’s no-incursion remark of June 19 to corner the Centre. Prime Minister Modi set the official tone while delivering his customary speech on Parliament premises before the Lok Sabha session opened at 9am. “Aaj jab hamare sena ke vir jawan seemapar datey hue hain,. durgam pahadiyon me datey hue hain (Today, when our brave soldiers are standing firm on the borders and in inhospitable hilly terrain)...,” Modi said. He did not name even the “hilly terrain” — Ladakh, where Chinese troops have entrenched themselves within India-claimed territory at multiple places and are locked eyeball to eyeball with Indian soldiers. “The faith with which they are standing to protect the motherland, this House too, each of its members, with one voice, one emotion, one feeling, one resolve, will send out the message that the country stands behind its soldiers,” the Prime Minister said. Adhir tried to raise the border issue during Zero Hour, saying: “Sir, through you I want to draw the attention of the government, the defence minister of the country that for some months the people of India are in deep stress because on our border....” That was as far as he got before the Speaker cut him off with the firm “No, no”. Birla said the issue would first be discussed in the business advisory committee, which includes members of different parties and the government and decides the business of the House. Adhir again pleaded his point, underlining that a newspaper had on Monday reported about purported surveillance of Indian leaders by a Chinese company. But the Speaker again restricted him. Defence minister Rajnath Singh was in the House at the time but Modi wasn’t. Because of the strict Covid-19 guidelines, Adhir couldn’t even stand up and protest. During this unusual session, the members have to speak seated and are barred from rushing into the well to protest. Government sources said that if the Opposition continued to press the Centre on the border standoff, Rajnath might make a statement in the House but there would be no discussion. Asked about Modi’s comment, Congress member Shashi Tharoor said: “Of course we are united and standing in support of our soldiers, but the government is accountable to Parliament, to tell us what’s happening. The nation needs to know and Parliament has to be taken into confidence.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-667
15-09-2020||India||Government relief gap shows up in PF advances||Over three-fourths of workers who took advances from their Employees Provident Fund accounts during the Covid-19 crisis were low-paid employees, according to data the government placed in Parliament on Monday. The disclosure appears to corroborate the charge that the available employment opportunities and the government’s relief package have been inadequate for the low-earning workers who have had to dip into their savings. Some 1.04 crore workers applied for advances after the EPF Organisation made an announcement facilitating the process on March 27, two days after the lockdown was enforced, the data provided by labour minister Santosh Gangwar in the Lok Sabha showed. Nearly 82 lakh applicants — over 78 per cent of the total — earned salaries less than Rs 15,000 a month, the data revealed. The EPFO had allowed its members to withdraw three months’ basic salary and dearness allowance, or 75 per cent of the amount in their accounts, whichever was less. The subscribers were allowed to apply and get paid online. “The government’s support (for the workers during the lockdown) was basic in nature. It was inadequate to help the low-paid workers navigate this period,” labour economist Ravi Srivastava said. “Those who had EPF savings took advances. Otherwise these savings are supposed to be withdrawn at the time of retirement.” During the Covid-19 crisis, the Centre provided Rs 500 a month for three months to Jan Dhan account holders, and three months’ old-age pension at one go to the eligible elderly along with an equal amount as ex gratia. Farmers continued to receive an average dole of Rs 500 a month. Srivastava said a family’s average monthly spending is Rs 12,000, according to the Periodic Labour Force Survey, 2018. If the top 20 per cent high-spending class is excluded, the average expenditure still hovers around Rs 10,000 a month. “When the monthly expense is Rs 10,000, a support of Rs 500 or Rs 1,000 is very little. The workers who are not EPFO members have borrowed from relatives or exhausted their savings and assets. Many surveys have found this,” Srivastava said. He said the government needed to provide Rs 7,000 a month per family to about 60 to 70 per cent of the population for six months. Such a relief package could have improved the demand for consumption and helped the economy revive faster. In answer to another question, Gangwar said that subscribers had withdrawn Rs 39,403 crore from their EPFO accounts between March 25 and August 31.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-667
15-09-2020||India||Free speech is curbed: Justice Lokur||Free speech, including by youngsters and students, is being met with an “iron hand” by the State and thousands are being jailed for voicing their opinion against the government, a former judge of the Supreme Court said on Monday. They are being slapped with the charge of sedition that was used against freedom fighters, Justice Madan B. Lokur said. “Many citizens are expressing their views which they think are within the limits of free speech while the State thinks the citizens are transgressing the limits. So what can citizens do? They cannot take to streets or resort to violence. They can only continue to speak,” Justice Lokur said at a webinar on Freedom of Speech and Judiciary. “The State then resorts to measures like charging such citizens with the offence of sedition. Sedition is being used as an iron hand to curb free speech, which is an overreaction to people expressing views. Sedition is a serious offence. It was used against great persons like Bal Gangadhar Tilak and other freedom fighters,” he said. A speech that talks about the unity and integrity of the country is seen as “breaking the country” and the person is put under preventive detention, the former judge said. “There are youngsters, students talking about doing something good to the country, but you say ‘I’m arresting you for unlawful activities and sedition’. There are other people who talk about violence and breaking things and you don’t do anything to them,” Justice Lokur said. Without mentioning names, the former judge referred to the arrest of Dr Kafeel Khan in Uttar Pradesh for alleged sedition and to cases being filed against journalists in Punjab. “Many people are put in jail on the ground that what citizens say is fake news. Another way in which free speech is curbed is by misreading the statements of citizens,” Justice Lokur said. In an allusion to Dr Khan, he said that in a recent case in Uttar Pradesh a speech calling for the unity and integrity of the country was used to keep the speaker in preventive detention on the ground that the speech was against the country’s integrity. However, Allahabad High Court had rightly intervened to direct his release on bail, the judge said. Justice Lokur wondered who would compensate an individual for illegal incarceration. Bringing up the contempt case against lawyer Prashant Bhushan, the former judge said there was no intention to “break the judiciary as citizens are speaking within constitutional limits but the State mostly assumes that they are transgressing the limits”. “Suddenly you have a lot of cases being filed charging people for sedition…. Today we are finding the common man and woman who say something being charged for sedition,” Justice Lokur said, adding that according to his understanding, about 780 sedition cases had so far been filed against citizens across the country this year. “In Punjab there was news that there are no ventilators. A reporter said the Covid situation is not under control, he believes that the chief minister may be changed. That speculation was labelled fake news and they were arrested for sedition,” the former Supreme Court judge said. According to the official website, 3.4 crore cases are pending in the district courts alone, compared with 2 crore-odd cases a year ago. “The judiciary is faced (with) a crisis of a large number of cases; 20-25 per cent vacancies in district courts; 40 per cent vacancies in high courts. The judiciary needs to take action or the justice system will crash. Judicial system needs to be more transparent. They have to tell us what are they doing. Physical hearings were supposed to start and a lot of money was spent on preparing,” Justice Lokur said. Bhushan, who had earlier in the day deposited the Re 1 fine imposed on him for contempt, announced that a “truth fund” was being created to defend people harassed for speaking out. The lawyer slammed the arrest of student leader Umar Khalid, who has been charged for speaking out against the Citizenship Amendment Act. The webinar was jointly organised by the Campaign for Judicial Accountability and Reforms (CJAR) and the NGO Swaraj Abhiyan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-667
15-09-2020||India||Wave of dismay at Umar Khalid’s arrest||The arrest of rights activist Umar Khalid has triggered a wave of condemnation while eminent citizens and retired IPS officers have issued statements censuring the way Delhi police are probing the February riots. Khalid, arrested after more than 10 hours of questioning, is accused of inciting the riots through his speeches that called for protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act during US President Donald Trump’s February visit to India. He has been booked under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act — a stringent anti-terror law under which bail is rare. Additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat on Monday granted the police 10 days’ custody of Khalid on the ground that they need to “confront” him with 11 lakh pages of “technical data”. A source said Khalid was unlikely to apply for bail until he was in judicial custody, after the investigators had finished questioning him. The hashtag #StandWithUmarKhalid was trending on Twitter with almost 3 lakh tweets. Among the tweeters was Congress MP Shashi Tharoor, who wrote: “PM says he welcomes criticism, but forgets to mention the cost of criticism to be paid by those who speak out. In today’s India, payback is only reserved to our own citizens, never against countries who actually question and challenge our sovereignty.” Historian Audrey Truschke tweeted a link to a BBC report on the arrest and said: “Everyone — not only those of us who follow the Indian news — should read about this appalling arrest. It can (and, depending on November) will happen in the United States too.” The CPM politburo condemned the arrest, which came soon after the name of its general secretary Sitaram Yechury was mentioned in a supplementary chargesheet on the riots along with Swaraj India president Yogendra Yadav, academics Jayati Ghosh and Apoorvanand Jha, and filmmaker Rahul Roy. Roy and his wife Saba Dewan were on Monday questioned by the police’s counter-terror unit in the same building where Khalid is being held. The couple had organised several protests under the “Not In My Name” banner against the lynchings of Muslims and other crimes against humanity over the past five years. A former JNU student, Khalid already faces a sedition case for organising a “cultural evening” in 2016 during which slogans for Kashmiri independence were allegedly raised. The trial is yet to begin. Aam Aadmi Party MP Sanjay Singh said: “The Delhi riots were orchestrated by the BJP and its leaders and they should be arrested. There’s enough proof of this. The big question is, how will the BJP’s police do justice?” The riot probe has been called a “witch-hunt” in a statement by several activists, artists and academics including CPM politburo member Brinda Karat, CPIML Liberation politburo member Kavita Krishnan, Gujarat MLA Jignesh Mevani, former Planning Commission member Syeda Hameed, author Arundhati Roy, musician T.M. Krishna, historian Ramachandra Guha, senior advocate Prashant Bhushan and public policy expert Biraj Patnaik. “With deep anguish we have no doubt in saying that this investigation is not about the violence in February 2020 in the national capital, but on the completely peaceful and democratic protests across the country against the unconstitutional CAA,” they said. “The right to life is not just to be allowed to eat, live and breathe; it is to live without fear, with dignity and with freedom of expression, including dissent. The nature of investigation has been mainly to silence democratic voices and instil fear, and this is precisely the objective of this witch-hunt.” Khalid had complained to police commissioner S.N. Srivastava earlier this month that the police were asking his acquaintances to falsely implicate him or face arrest. Nine senior retired IPS officers — Shafi Alam, K. Saleem Ali, Mohinderpal Aulakh, A.S. Dulat, Aloke B. Lal, Amitabh Mathur, Avinash Mohanney, P.G.J. Nampoothiri and A.K. Samanta — have written to Srivastava endorsing what retired “supercop” Julio Ribeiro had told the commissioner last week. Referring to the riot probe, former DGP Ribeiro had asked Srivastava to examine whether officers under his command “have been true to their oath”. The Delhi police have said they are checking the veracity of Ribeiro’s email. Without mentioning the names of the accused in the riots cases, the nine retired cops said: “Mr Julio Ribeiro is a living legend of an IPS officer (as one publication put it).... We would like to endorse the letter he has written to you regarding the flawed investigation into the Delhi riots…. “In addition, we would like to say that it indeed is a sad day in the history of Indian police that investigations and challans submitted in the court by Delhi police in connection with riots of this year are widely believed to be partisan and politically motivated. It pains all those police officers, serving as well as retired, who believe in upholding the rule of law and our Constitution.” They added: “Such investigation will only make people lose faith in democracy, justice, fairness and the Constitution.... We would, therefore, earnestly request you for reinvestigation of all riot cases fairly and without any bias.” Celebrated Malayalam filmmaker Adoor Gopalakrishnan, poets K. Satchidanandan and Manglesh Dabral, artist Vivan Sundaram, dramatist Maya Rao and several others have spoken out against the arrest of Kabir Kala Manch activists in the Elgaar Parishad case. “The state is attempting to silence the radical Bahujan cultural expressions like that of the KKM. This is an attempt to stop those trying to envision a just future for India,” they said in a statement. “We condemn the attempt to stifle the voices of cultural dissent, and stand in solidarity with the arrested KKM activists, and all others who have been incarcerated in the Bhima Koregaon case.” Last week, the National Investigation Agency arrested Marathi folk artistes Sagar Gorkhe, Ramesh Gaichor and Jyoti Jagtap for “propagating Naxal activities and Maoist ideology” along with other people in connection with an alleged Maoist plot to infiltrate an Ambedkarite event in 2017 and incite violence. All three were stage performers for the KKM, a cultural group listed by the home ministry in 2011 as a Maoist front.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-667
15-09-2020||India||China points trespass finger at India||China on Monday used India’s claims of preempting Chinese military activity on the south bank of the Pangong Tso as evidence of Indian troops “illegally trespassing’’ the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and reiterated that “it is also important to move back all personnel and equipment that have trespassed’’. This was stated by the Chinese ambassador to India, Sun Weidong, in response to questions. He was referring to Indian troops pre-empting an attempt by the Chinese troops to change the status quo on the southern bank of the 135km glacial melt lake on the intervening night of August 29 and 30. Asked about the ground situation, the ambassador said: “Recently, the relevant Indian ministries had claimed in statements that Indian troops ‘pre-empted’ Chinese military activity on the south bank of Pangong Tso Lake, which obviously revealed… illegally trespassing the LAC and status quo change in the border areas.” “Some Indian media had quoted government sources to disclose that the Indian army fired shots on two different occasions. For the first time since 1975, the calm in the border areas was broken by gunfire,’’ he said, again publicly blaming India for the escalation after the two foreign ministers, S. Jaishankar and Wang Yi respectively, had avoiding doing so in their initial statements after the meeting in Moscow last Thursday. Further, the Chinese ambassador said: “State councillor and foreign minister Wang Yi reiterated in the meeting with EAM that the imperative is to immediately stop provocations such as firing and other dangerous actions that violate the commitments made by the two sides. It is also important to move back all personnel and equipment that have trespassed. “The frontier troops must quickly disengage so that the situation may deescalate. The Chinese side supports enhanced dialogue between the frontier troops on both sides to solve specific issues, and will stay in touch with the Indian side through diplomatic and military channels.’’ The Chinese ambassador also claimed that the two ministers arrived at a consensus that India and China are partners, not rivals. This has been a recurrent Chinese formulation for pressing ahead with the relationship and not letting it be held up by the boundary issue. India has resisted this time and again but Sun made it sound as if Jaishankar had come on board too at the meeting though the Indian statement makes it clear that “maintenance of peace and tranquillity on the border areas was essential for the forward development of ties’’. In its earlier statement on the talks, the Chinese foreign ministry had also claimed that India’s policy towards China has not changed, and that the Indian side does not consider the development of India-China relations to be dependent on the settlement of the boundary question. Though the two Indian statements on the talks do not indicate that India had taken such a position, the external affairs ministry did not respond to a question on whether New Delhi had taken up the issue of China misrepresenting Jaishankar with the mission here or the foreign ministry in Beijing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-667
15-09-2020||India||Parliament monsoon session: 25 MPs test Covid positive ||Twenty-five MPs are said to have tested Covid-19 positive during the mandatory testing before the monsoon session, which began on Monday with the observance of strict social-distancing norms. Seventeen of the infected members are from the Lok Sabha and eight from the Rajya Sabha. There was, however, no official word on the ground that revealing names would be a breach of privacy. Several MPs such as the BJP’s Meenakshi Lekhi, Parvesh Saheb Singh and Sukanta Majumdar and the Rashtriya Loktantrik Party’s Hanuman Beniwal took to Twitter to announce they had tested positive and caution those who had come in contact with them. “After the routine Parliament test for Covid & genome test it’s confirmed that I have tested positive for the virus. I am currently in good health & spirits. I request everyone who has been recently in contact with me to get tested. Together We will fight & defeat Corona,” Lekhi tweeted on Monday afternoon. Nagaur MP Beniwal said he had come positive in the test conducted on Friday at Parliament House, and negative in another test at the Sawai Man Singh Hospital in Jaipur on Sunday. “Which report is to be considered correct?” he asked in Hindi, tweeting both reports. Both were RT-PCR tests. Majumdar tweeted: “I have tested #Covid19 positive today. I am doing well & taking doctors advice. Requesting all those who have come in close contact with me in the last few days to monitor their health and get tested in case of any symptoms.” Parliament sources said that some 56 people had tested positive after undergoing Covid testing at the facilities set up on the premises in preparation for the session. They included staff members and journalists. Elaborate arrangements have been made for the session. The two Houses met for four hours each on Monday, with the members spread across the two chambers to maintain social distancing. In the Lok Sabha, where the benches are more closely placed than the Rajya Sabha, shields have been placed along all the rows. All the members wore masks, and sometimes the presiding officers had difficulty recognising them, especially since they were not sitting in their regular places. To restrict the points of contact, a mobile app has been developed for the members to mark their attendance. Only packed meals were served. People were discouraged from milling around, and entry into the Parliament complex was even more restricted than usual. Visitors are not being allowed this session to watch the proceedings from the viewing galleries in either chamber. Even the customary greeting of the presiding officer by the new members after they have taken their oath has been dispensed with. The Rajya Sabha had several new members, but they just came up to the reporters’ table to take the oath and returned straightaway without going up to the Chairman to greet him.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-667
15-09-2020||India||Chinese ‘optical fibre cables in Ladakh’ signal long haul||Indian officials said Chinese troops were laying a network of optical fibre cables in Ladakh, suggesting they were digging in for the long haul despite high-level talks aimed at resolving a standoff there. Such cables, which would provide forward troops with secure lines of communication to bases in the rear, have recently been spotted to the south of Pangong Tso, a senior government official said. China’s foreign ministry did not immediately respond to questions on the matter from Reuters, while defence officials could not immediately be reached for comment. Thousands of Indian and Chinese troops backed by tanks and aircraft are locked in an uneasy stalemate along a 70km-long front to the south of the lake. A third Indian official said on Monday that there had been no significant withdrawals or reinforcements on either side since the foreign ministers of the two countries met last week. “It is as tense as earlier,” he said. Above Leh, Ladakh’s main city, Indian fighter planes flew throughout the morning, their engines booming and echoing across the valley surrounded by brown, barren mountains. “Our biggest worry is that they have laid optical fibre cables for high-speed communications,” the first official said, referring to the lake’s southern bank, where Indian and Chinese troops are only a few hundred metres apart at some points. “They have been laying optical fibre cables on the southern bank at breakneck speed,” he said. Indian intelligence agencies noted similar cables to the north of the Pangong Tso  around a month ago, the second government official said. The first Indian government official said the authorities were alerted to such activity after satellite imagery showed unusual lines in the sand of the high-altitude deserts to the south of Pangong Tso. These lines were judged by Indian experts, and corroborated by foreign intelligence agencies, to be communication cables laid in trenches, he said, including near the Spanggur gap, among hilltops where soldiers fired in the air recently for the first time in decades. The Chinese have complained about India building roads and air strips in and around their disputed border, and Beijing says this triggered tensions along the border. A former Indian military intelligence official, who declined to be named because of the sensitivity of the matter, said optical fibre cables offered communications security as well as the ability to send data such as pictures and documents.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-667
15-09-2020||India||Netflix fights ‘Bad Boy’ gag||An Indian court’s decision to stall the release of a Netflix Inc series on four Indian tycoons facing fraud allegations “freezes free speech” and hurts the company financially, the US streaming giant has argued in a court filing seen by Reuters. Bad Boy Billionaires is a documentary series about liquor tycoon Vijay Mallya, Sahara group’s Subrata Roy, Indian IT executive Ramalinga Raju and jeweller Nirav Modi. Netflix put the show on hold this month on the order of a Bihar court where Sahara alleged violation of Roy’s privacy rights. Roy is currently on bail in a case where he was ordered by the court to repay billions of dollars to investors in a scheme, which was found to be illegal. Roy denied wrongdoing in the case and has already repaid investors, his counsel said. Arguing for free speech in an appeal in the high court, Netflix said the docuseries was an assimilation of information available in public domain. The filing has not previously been reported. The pre-publication injunction granted by the court “freezes free speech”, Netflix said in the filing earlier this month, which was reviewed by Reuters. It argued it has a right to free speech “on a matter of public interest”. Some Netflix shows in India have faced court challenges and police complaints for obscenity or for hurting sentiments. The ongoing legal spat is among the most high-profile ones Netflix has faced in India, one of its key growth markets. The court in Bihar that gave the injunction earlier had said the series “would certainly damage the reputation” of Roy. Sahara and Netflix declined to comment. Roy could not be reached for comment. The US streaming giant has argued it had invested large sums and done worldwide publicity on the series. The injunction, Netflix argued, resulted in irreparable monetary loss, as well as affected its goodwill and reputation. Netflix describes Bad Boy Billionaires as an “investigative docuseries (which) explores the greed, fraud and corruption that built up — and ultimately brought down — In-dia’s most infamous tycoons”. Netflix is locked in a legal spat not just with Sahara, but also another businessman Raju whose story was to appear in the series. Raju, accused of a $1-billion accounting fraud more than a decade ago, had secured a separate state court order against the show’s release, but Netflix has challenged it in a higher court, said A. Venkatesh, a lawyer representing Raju.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-667
15-09-2020||India||Centre orders audit after oxygen demand spike||The Centre on Monday ordered oxygen audits and expedited licenses for medical oxygen manufacturers after a near three-fold increase in the demand for oxygen-supported beds for coronavirus disease patients over the past 45 days. The Union health ministry has asked all states and Union territories to plan hospital-by-hospital oxygen inventory management and timely replenishments to prevent any stockouts and conduct oxygen audits to ensure that only patients who need oxygen receive it. Health secretary Rajesh Bhushan, in an online meeting with the industry and pharmaceuticals secretaries and health officials from states and Union Territories, also iterated the need to ensure adequate oxygen supply to hospitals through unrestricted transport. The states have been asked to introduce real-time monitoring of cryogenic tankers that transport oxygen, re-purpose argon and nitrogen tankers to supply oxygen, and coordinate with steel plants as additional sources for the procurement of oxygen. Steel plants can provide 550 metric tonnes of oxygen per day in addition to oxygen manufacturing companies that provide 6,400MT per day, the ministry said. The ministry has also urged the states to expedite the grant of licenses for the production of medical oxygen to companies that are already producing industrial oxygen. The multiple steps to bolster oxygen supply to hospitals across the country comes against the backdrop of a steady increase in the demand for oxygen-supported beds for Covid-19 patients. The proportions and numbers of Covid-19 patients needing oxygen have increased over the past four months — 34,004 patients (3.7 per cent of 919,018 active patients under medical supervision) were on oxygen support on September 11, compared with 12,186 patients (2.32 per cent of 528,242 active cases) on July 31 and 712 patients (1.88 per cent of 37,916 active cases) on May 9. Medical experts expect the demand for oxygen-supported beds to continue rising as long as India’s epidemic continues to grow. India on Monday recorded 92,071 new cases, raising the total number of infections to over 4.84 million, of whom 3.78 million patients have recovered and 79,722 have died. The number of active patients on Monday was 986,598, an overnight rise of 13,423. If 3.7 per cent of active patients need oxygen support, that increase would translate into an overnight demand for 497 extra oxygen-supported beds. Public health specialists are concerned that the number of patients and the demand for oxygen will increase across the country, even in rural areas, as the epidemic spreads. Union health minister Harsh Vardhan on Monday told Parliament that the country’s coronavirus epidemic has moved beyond travel-related cases and local clusters into widespread infections across urban and rural areas. “We have now moved from managing travel-related cases to containing clusters and large outbreaks due to local transmission to wide spread of infection to urban, peri-urban and rural areas,” Vardhan said in a “suo motu statement” on the government’s response to the pandemic. Vardhan said the pandemic would require “concerted efforts” by the government and “people’s participation” to curb large-scale illness and mortality from Covid-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-668
15-09-2020||India||Stillbirths jump during Covid-19 pandemic||Mantasha Bano was 28-weeks pregnant when her cries of sudden, unbearable pain prompted neighbours to call an ambulance in Uttar Pradesh. It never came, and Bano’s baby was stillborn. Medical workers in the northern state have reported a marked increase in stillbirths as the coronavirus pandemic strains hard-pressed rural health services, including maternity care, in one of the countries worst-hit by Covid-19. Bano, 22, said she believed her baby could have survived if the ambulance had arrived quickly. “It was a girl. She was very beautiful. I feel sad, very sad... I had so many dreams and now everything is shattered,” she said. Coronavirus infections are rising faster in India than anywhere else in the world as the country repeatedly reports the highest global daily caseloads, including a record jump in new cases on Friday. The World Health Organisation fears the situation could get worse as the virus spreads into the vast countryside, where 60 per cent of India’s 1.35 billion people live. As the virus stretches manpower and equipment to the limit, state-run health facilities are reserving beds, tests such as ultrasound scans and treatment for critical cases involving Covid-19 or serious accidents, local health workers said. Workers from the government’s Accredited Social Health Activists (Asha) — usually the first point of contact in rural India — have also been deployed to fight the pandemic. The situation has forced many women like Bano, who rely on their husbands’ daily wages, to pay for private healthcare. Renu Singh, an Asha coordinator who has been overseeing 26 villages in Uttar Pradesh, including Atesua where Bano lives, for nearly 15 years, said it was the first time maternal care had been so badly disrupted. Between March and August, when India was under a months-long national lockdown, she said there had been 22 stillbirths in her area —about four times more than last year. “We have never seen such a large number of stillbirths in the villages before,” she said, adding that health facilities that once catered to pregnant women had been converted into Covid-19 centres. She said nutrition units — known as Anganwadi centres — which provide health checkups, medicines, food rations and child and maternal healthcare advice were also shut for months, resuming only irregular operations in July. “All these factors are responsible for the rising cases of stillbirths,” she said. Jay Pratap Singh, Uttar Pradesh’s health minister, said state health facilities were “fully working” again after the strict lockdown initially affected all medical services. He told Reuters his department was trying to plug healthcare gaps with various measures, including the recruitment of more radiologists for prenatal ultrasounds. “The problem (of stillbirths) may be in some areas but not across Uttar Pradesh... Things have smoothened up now,” he said, adding that he did not have up-to-date state-wide birth data. However, some local medics disagree. Dr Anil Kumar Dixit, superintendent at a state-run community health centre in Itaunja town near the state capital Lucknow, said his facility had no qualified personnel to operate its ultrasound scanner. “There are many factors which result in stillbirths and most of them can be prevented easily by getting regular checkups, following doctors’ advice and taking health supplements regularly,” he added. The WHO recommends at least eight prenatal checkups, one ultrasound before 24 weeks of pregnancy and a daily intake of iron and folic acid supplements to prevent maternal anemia, neural tube defects (NTDs) and preterm birth. Sarita Gautam, 22, missed several of those steps during her pregnancy, including regular iron supplements for her anemia. She said she only had two weeks’ supply and struggled to get hold of more as her health clinic was closed to “normal patients”, which also forced her to get an ultrasound privately in June when she was five months pregnant. “The doctors at the (state-run clinic) told me to come and get the ultrasound done in the ninth month of my pregnancy, but I had lost my baby before that,” she said. Kusum Singh, an Asha worker who assisted Sarita, said the local state-run facility was only admitting women who were in the last week of pregnancy and reserving ultrasounds for them, leaving others with no choice but to seek private care. “Many of the families are so poor they cannot afford testing,” Singh said. The Union health ministry did not respond to repeated requests for comment and nationwide stillbirth data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-668
15-09-2020||India||Shot dead after bribe finger at superintendent of police||A stone-crushing plant owner has been shot dead after purportedly uploading a video accusing an IPS officer of extortion and death threats, prompting his family to demand the cop’s arrest and an inquiry by a central agency. Mahoba district superintendent of police Mani Lal Patidar and inspector Devendra Shukla have been suspended and charged with the murder of Indra Kant Tripathi, 50, but not yet arrested. A video circulated on WhatsApp on September 7 showed a man resembling Indra Kant accusing Patidar of demanding money from him every month and threatening to kill him in a police “encounter” if he didn’t pay up. “Mani Lal Patidar is involved in extortion from me. He and police inspector Devendra Shukla will be directly involved if anything happens to me,” the man in the video says. On September 8, Indra Kant was found unconscious in his car on a highway, with two bullets in his spinal cord. He died at a Kanpur hospital on Sunday. Patidar, a 2014-batch IPS officer, and Shukla were suspended on September 10 and 11, respectively. They have been charged with murder, extortion and criminal conspiracy along with the unidentified shooters and Suresh Soni and Brahm Dutt Tiwari — suppliers of explosives to Indra Kant’s quarry who allegedly passed on the death threats to the businessman. “Patidar wanted my brother to give him Rs 6 lakh every month,” Indra Kant’s brother Ravi Kant told reporters in Mahoba on Monday. “My brother not only released several videos but wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister Yogi Adityanath several times. He would have been saved had the government reacted in time.” He added: “Patidar has been suspended but he is an IPS officer and can easily influence the investigation. He should be arrested immediately and the probe should be handed over to a central agency.” Indra Kant had paid Rs 5 lakh to Patidar in June and again in July but couldn’t do so in August, and the officer began threatening him, Ravi Kant said. Indra Kant’s son Krishna said: “The SP can get his men to kill our entire family. Although we have got security from the state government, it won’t be of any use if an IPS officer is behind the conspiracy.” Prem Prakash, an additional director-general of police who is probing the case, said: “The inquiry is proceeding in the right direction. The guilty won’t be spared. The family’s security is our responsibility.” Samajwadi Party president and former chief minister Akhilesh Yadav said Patidar and Shukla should be arrested. “Registering a case is mere eyewash,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-668
15-09-2020||India||Power jitters over Yogi Adityanath government’s Special Security Force||The Yogi Adityanath government has notified the formation of a “Special Security Force” whose full powers remained unclear, prompting speculation among the BJP’s rivals that it might be used against them. While the government only said the SSF would protect courts, installations and small airports and have “special powers to arrest and search”, police sources suggested it would be able to make arrests and searches without a warrant. Currently, the police can make arrests without warrants only for cognisable offences — serious charges like murder, rape, assault or theft — but not for non-cognisable offences like public nuisance or mischief. “For searches, the police need court permission in non-cognisable cases. In case of cognisable offences, the police can enter a house under certain circumstance — for example, when someone is hiding there after killing someone,” Saurabh Tiwari, an advocate, said. He said a state government was empowered to get a law enacted to amend the Code of Criminal Procedure. The Adityanath government did not make Sunday’s notification public. But the chief minister had on June 26 said he wanted to constitute a “Special Security Force” to bring the crime rate down, appearing to imply the force would have special powers. The state cabinet promulgated an ordinance on July 30 for the special force’s formation, and the Assembly recently turned it into law. Awanish Awasthi, additional chief secretary with the state home department who announced the formation of the force, said without elaboration: “While the officers of the new force will have special powers to arrest anybody or conduct a search operation, a guideline to this effect would be chalked out soon.” He went on to call the force “a dream project of the chief minister”. “Besides providing security to district courts, the new force will also be deployed at the upcoming (small) airports in Uttar Pradesh (in Kushinagar, Jewar and elsewhere). Private financial institutions too can hire the force’s services against a payment,” Awasthi said. A police department source said: “An SSF officer can arrest anyone or conduct a search on any premises without a warrant. No court proceedings will be possible against SSF members without the state government’s permission.” He added: “The only apparent check would be that the SSF would need indubitable evidence that the arrest or raid was necessary as the suspect could otherwise have escaped or tampered with evidence.” He continued: “We already have a Special Task Force that deals with sensitive cases. We fear that the SSF is only going to create confusion and chaos.” Dwijendra Tripathi, a senior state Congress leader, said: “It’s clearly a preparation for the 2022 Assembly elections. Adityanath wants to intimidate all his vocal political rivals before the elections.” A home department source said: “The SSF will certainly have more power than the ordinary police but the details have not been finalised. We have sent certain proposals, which are under the state law department’s review. Everything will be clear within a week.” Awasthi said Rs 1,747 crore would be spent initially in forming the new force, to be headed by an additional director-general of police. “There will be 9,919 employees in the five battalions of the SSF. Initially we will take the help of the Provincial Armed Constabulary in constituting the SSF,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-668
15-09-2020||India||Promise of justice to Shopian families||Jammu and Kashmir lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha on Monday broke his silence in the alleged fake gunfight in Shopian, promising justice to the families, amid allegations of a cover-up. Three men were killed in an alleged gunfight by the troops of 62 Rashtriya Rifles on July 18 in Shopian. The army then claimed they were unidentified militants. On August 10, three families in Jammu’s Rajouri claimed the trio were their missing children who had travelled to Kashmir to work as labourers but were killed in a staged encounter and passed off as militants. The army and civil administration have launched separate investigations in the killings but the families and residents claim the authorities were delaying investigations to cover up the alleged crime. “So far as aggrieved families are concerned, army and administration are investigating the issue separately,” Sinha told reporters in Srinagar in response to a query. “I want to make it clear, there will be justice for them.” Sinha’s promise came three days after the families wrote to him regretting that the government was not making DNA reports of the families and three young men killed in Shopian public. The families claim three cousins — Ibrar Ahmad, Imtiyaz Ahmad and Ibrar Ahmad — were gunned down in the alleged encounter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-668
15-09-2020||India||Outgoing Rajya Sabha deputy chairman Harivansh Narayan Singh re-elected||Outgoing Rajya Sabha deputy chairman Harivansh was re-elected to the post on Monday by voice vote after the Opposition decided not to press for a division in what was anyway a certain victory for the NDA candidate from the Janata Dal United. The numbers, according to Trinamul’s Derek O’Brien, were stacked against the Opposition. “We need to choose our battles; then only can we win the war.’’ The Opposition candidate, RJD’s Manoj Jha, said he was informed by the Congress in the afternoon that they would not ask for a division. He received plaudits for agreeing to contest despite the odds essentially to make the point that democracy is about alternatives, and found his letter to all MPs being quoted by more than one member. Congratulating Harivansh, BJD’s Prasanna Acharya referred to Jha’s letter  and quoted: “Constructive political opposition is not just about numbers but it is a critical and moral force in the nation.” In his intervention to congratulate Harivansh, Jha said this was never an issue of two individuals. “This was an election between two different versions of parliamentary democracy,’’ he said, one which sees it only as a numbers game, and the other which prioritises critique, discussion and consensus building.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-668
15-09-2020||India||Farm bill protest in Lok Sabha||The Opposition on Monday registered its protest against the introduction of bills related to farm and banking sectors and even demanded a statement from the government on Chinese intrusion but the restrictions imposed under the Covid-19 protocol prevented them from creating a ruckus in the Lok Sabha. Many Opposition members expressed helplessness as no MP is allowed even to stand up, leave apart running into the well of the House to forcefully make their point. Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury told The Telegraph: “We decided not to go to the well and strictly follow the protocol. But how long can we tolerate the government’s highhandedness? They can’t run Parliament only for government business; people’s concerns can’t be brushed aside.” “We can’t be a mute spectator if the government passes one bill after another without discussion. We wanted an assurance on China but the government ignored (our pleas). We are deeply disturbed by the proposed changes in the farm sector; the government has conspired to help the corporate and hoarders while the farmers will be the loser. They want to usurp states’ powers. We hope the government doesn’t force us to create disturbances by unilaterally pushing their agenda,” Chowdhury added. The Congress and other parties like the Trinamul opposed the introduction of bills intended to reform the agriculture sector but the government rejected their misgivings, saying the perception that the minimum support price (MSP) system will be abolished and this will lead to corporate takeover was completely erroneous. Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said the bills were totally a win-win situation for the farmers as it will expand the marketing opportunities. Chowdhury, however, contested this claim, saying, “The lofty talk is not backed by evidence. They are not making any commitment that the two gains of green revolution — MSP and procurement system — will not be disturbed. They tried to sell even demonetisation as reform. That proved to be a disaster. And how can the Centre usurp states’ powers? They are practising coercive federalism while singing cooperative federalism. This new system will also hurt the consumers as removal of stock limit will allow the hoarders to manipulate prices.” Introducing the three bills to replace the ordinances promulgated in June — The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill — Tomar said, “Misconceptions are being created for political reasons. I appeal to the farmers not to be swayed by false perceptions.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-668
15-09-2020||West Bengal||Tusker dead, live wire suspected ||The carcass of an adult tusker was found in an agricultural field in West Midnapore’s Salboni forest region on Monday morning, marking the second such incident in the district in three days. Villagers and forest officers on Monday morning spotted the carcass on a vegetable field adjacent to Pirakata village under Jhargram forest area’s Lalgarh range. Forest officers said on Monday that they were so far uncertain of the tusker’s cause of death and origins, but speculated the male elephant might have been a part of a larger herd reported to be roaming the area recently. Local sources on Monday suspected, however, that the elephant could have fallen prey to hidden live wires laid by villagers to protect their crops from marauding jumbo herds. “It is a heinous measure and illegal as well, but villagers often take this step to prevent the loss of their livelihood (crops). They set the live wires down (on fields) at night and remove them by morning,” said a villager on condition of anonymity. Residents of adjoining Bnadi village reportedly told police and forest officials early on Monday about the elephant death. Sources said that the forest officials would bury the elephant after post-mortem. Additional district forest officer (Midnapore) Bijoy Chakraborty said: “Prima facie it looks like an electrocution but we will await the post-mortem results.” Police sources said they were awaiting a formal complaint in order to begin a probe into the tusker death. Reports of elephants being electrocuted have come in quick succession from many parts of Bengal in recent months. In July, an adult male elephant was electrocuted at Birpara in Alipurduar district. In June, two incidents were reported in quick succession at Buxa Tiger Reserve forest and Madarihat near Jaldapara National Park. Early on Saturday, an elephant calf had drowned while its herd was crossing the Tamal river near West Midnapore's Goaltore town. Its body later washed up entangled in a fishing net, causing a stir among villagers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-374
15-09-2020||West Bengal||Conned of lakhs in job promise||A resident of Salsalabari in Alipurduar district, also a former member of a panchayat, has filed a police complaint, alleging that four persons swindled her of around Rs 6 lakh by promising a job for her daughter in the state health department. On Sunday, former panchayat member Kanika Barman, in her complaint with Samuktala police, accused couple Niloy and Anita Roy, who are her neighbours, of taking her money. “Few months back, he (Niloy) told me he can arrange a nurse’s job for my daughter at a government hospital and that I needed to pay Rs 6 lakh. Accordingly, I paid the money to him in instalments,” Kanika said. Once she paid the money, Niloy came with an appointment letter in the name of Kanika’s daughter, but it turned out fake, she said. “As I approached him and asked for my money back, he and his family members misbehaved with me,” she added. Kanika then approached some villagers and some two months back, residents convened a “salishi sabha” or kangaroo court to resolve the issue. At the meeting, it was decided that Niloy would hand over four bank cheques to Kanika and she would draw the money. “I deposited the cheques accordingly but to my surprise all four bounced. I had no other option but to file a police complaint against the couple and two other members of the family as Niloy had given me cheques signed in their names too,” Kanika said. Amitabha Maity, the Alipurduar superintendent of police, said they were probing the case. “The accused have fled the village and we are searching for them,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-374
15-09-2020||West Bengal||School prod behind consumer office ||A regional office of the state consumer affairs department is all set to start at Chanchal, a subdivisional town around 75km from Malda district headquarters, this week. The decision has been made by the department in response to the plea of school students actively working to generate consumer rights awareness in Chanchal for years now. Sadhan Pande, state consumer affairs minister, will inaugurate this new office along with five other such offices that are coming up in other districts of Bengal, on Wednesday. Sources said students of Siddheswari Institution, a well-known state-aided Bengali medium higher secondary school, had filed an application with the department some two years back, seeking an office in Chanchal. Students, who had been running a consumer club in the school for 14 years, felt that people residing in the subdivision find it difficult to file a consumer-related complaint and pursue it. Tuski Das, president of the school’s consumer club, said: “The nearest office of the department is at the district headquarters 75km from here (in Malda town). In the course of our campaign, people would tell us that even if they feel dissatisfied with the quality of a product or service or feel cheated, they do not feel like filing complaints as it means going to Malda on a regular basis, for which they would have to spend time and money,” Tuski said. “We felt that setting up an office of the consumer affairs department for residents of the six blocks of Chanchal subdivision can help people file complaints and pursue cases without much inconvenience,” she added. Biplab Sarkar, an assistant director of the department posted in Malda, confirmed about the upcoming office in Chanchal. “A regional office of the department will be opened on the first floor of the regulated market building in Chanchal. The minister will inaugurate it through video-conferencing on September 16.” Siddheswari Institution, a 132-year-old school, is known for its academics and social activities. Its consumer club is mentored by teacher Kamalkrishna Das and has 90 student-members. The club has bagged the award for best performance for seven consecutive years in the district from among 30-odd such clubs. “Students from Classes IX to XII are eligible for club membership. We host seminars, put out posters on consumer rights, pay visits to localities on Saturdays after school hours to generate awareness among people,” said Das. District officials have appreciated the school club’s efforts that led to such a breakthrough. “This (the regional office of the consumer affairs  department) will help thousands of people. We must praise the students’ initiative and their consistency in holding consumer awareness events,” said Arnab Chatterjee, Malda additional district magistrate (development).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-374
15-09-2020||West Bengal||Hike pay now: Tea workers||Employees and workers in the tea estates of north Bengal demonstrated in the gardens on Monday for an immediate hike in their salaries. In all, there are around 10,000 employees — referred to as staff and sub-staff — who serve the tea gardens who have claimed that since 2014 their salaries had not been revised by the tea companies. In the tea industry, sub-staff means those working as gardeners, cooks, drivers, and guards and in others similar capacities. Staff means those working in the tea garden offices but below the managerial levels. “Usually, our salaries are revised once in three years on the basis of negotiations,” said Parth Lahiri, a representative of the Staff and Sub-Staff Joint Committee. “But six years have passed since 2014 and there has been no revision in the salaries. It seems that the tea companies are reluctant to increase our pay. Considering the steady rise in prices of different commodities, we are hardly left with any option but to launch a movement for our pay hike,” Lahiri said. According to him, as salaries have not been revised for six years, each of them is losing a steady amount every month. “Based on calculations from the earlier rate of revision, every sub-staff is earning Rs 3,000 less in a month while staff are receiving at least around Rs 8,000 less in a month. We had earlier informed the Consultative Committee of Plantation Associations (CCPA, the apex body of tea associations) that we would be forced to launch a movement unless our salaries are increased. There has been no positive response so far,” added Lahiri. As of now, a sub-staff earns a monthly salary of anywhere between Rs 5,000 and Rs 7,000. A staff earns anywhere between Rs 17,000 and Rs 25,000 on an average, which could go up in some gardens. After their letter to the CCPA, the planters’ body had asked them in writing to refrain from starting any movement. This is because tea production is at the peak these days and negotiations for this year’s bonus will commence through a virtual meeting on Tuesday. “It was also mentioned that once the bonus issue is dealt with, their matter (pay hike) would be discussed. Any sudden activity in the garden can affect regular work,” said a tea planter. The employees, however, did not buy this assurance. On Monday morning, donning black badges, they walked up to the entrance of almost every garden and demonstrated for an hour. They have a similar plan for Tuesday. “On September 18, we will observe a pen-down strike for three hours in the morning. If the CCPA does not respond by September 21, we will observe a similar demonstration for three hours from September 22 to 24 and will plan our movement ahead,” said a representative of the joint committee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-374
15-09-2020||West Bengal||Farmer dies of shock  as Ganga gulps home||A farmer at Dhusaripara village in Murshidabad’s Samserganj collapsed and died moments after his parental home got washed away in Ganga’s riverbank erosion on Sunday night. Eyewitnesses said Kishori Singh, 60, and his family had rushed out of home, along with some other families, with a few belongings when the latest riverbank erosion hit the village on Sunday night. “We initially did not notice Kishori had collapsed as we were shocked at the sight of our homes being sucked into the Ganga,” said an eyewitness, adding that Kishori was rushed to the Samserganj block hospital by youths on a bike but was declared brought dead at 9pm. On Monday, block medical officer (health) Arif Hossain said no post-mortem had been conducted but termed the circumstances of Kishori’s death “consistent with heart attack”. The episode at Dhusaripara on Sunday night was the third major erosion to hit Samserganj since late August, when a BSF outpost in Dhanghora was wiped out. Most homes in Dhanghora have since been sucked into the river, sources said. The second major erosion took place on September 1 at Hiranandapur village, claiming almost 50 homes. Kishori is survived by his wife Kamala, 52, and their two adult sons, both married, who live in neighbouring Mangalpur village. His relatives and neighbours said the home, which was seven decades old, had been built by Kishori’s father who wanted to live near the village temple. “Its sentimental value was incalculable, because of which Kishori suffered the shock,” said a neighbour, adding that Kishori had added concrete reinforcements to the ancestral home. Trinamul’s Samserganj MLA Amirul Islam said he had spoken to Kishori’s family and they were in shock.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-374
15-09-2020||West Bengal||C’est la vie! Good times run out for clock tower||A 175-year-old French clock tower in the heart of the town is on the verge of dereliction according to a local heritage society that oversaw its maintenance till lockdown-induced financial strain forced it to pull out. The 40-foot-high clock tower, with its clock face measuring 2 feet across, was built in 1845 by a French contractor. Engravings on the clock’s motor refer to a company named Mariotte, a reference to its French origins. A plaque on the tower says the clock was a gift to the city from Frenchman Pal Joseph Daumain. Chandernagore became a French colony in 1673 following permission from Ibrahim Khan, then Nawab of Bengal, to establish a trading post on the right bank of the river Hooghly. It remained under the French till the British took it over on March 23, 1757. According to watchmaker Susanta Datta, 50, the clock requires a daily winding of its 14-foot-long rope mechanism for it to work. “Since March, that stopped because the heritage society could not afford my Rs 500 salary,” said Datta, who had succeeded his father in winding the clock, thus marking a 75-year-long legacy between them: almost half the age of the clock tower. Datta said it was not clear who maintained the clock before his father took over the job 75 years ago. “We call this clock tower the Burdwari colloquially. It is important to our heritage,” added Datta. The two-storey tower is a stone’s throw from the office of the Chandernagore police commissioner. In 1845, the French rulers had made the structure that houses the clock tower along the Strand, on the bank of the Hooghly, for its police unit. Sources at the Chandernagore Heritage, comprising private citizens, said they had to give up maintenance of the iconic clock as their finances were under stress because of the lockdown. “Over the past 10 years our pleas to state and central governments for maintenance funds went unheeded. It makes no sense for us to pay someone to wind the clock when the tower may collapse and injure him any moment,” said Chandernagore Heritage secretary Kalyan Chakrabortty. The clock tower is overgrown with vegetation at various places that has led to seepage. “Over the years, lack of civil maintenance and water flowing in through cracks on the roof have spoilt the wooden beams that support the ceiling. TThe entire structure is vulnerable,” said a member of Chandernagore Heritage. “Water damaged the clock’s motor too.” Chakrabortty said the Chandernagore Municipal Corporation was in charge of maintaining the structure. “If they do their part, then we will certainly do ours,” he said. Commissioner of the Chandernagore Municipal Corporation, Swapan Kundu, said: “I have asked for a thorough report and will then look into the matter,” he said. Sharmistha Shome, a resident of Burdwari, said she felt bad about the clock tower. “If no one maintains this iconic structure soon then it could be lost forever. We hope that does not happen,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-374
15-09-2020||West Bengal||Academy to promote Dalit literature in state||Mamata Banerjee on Monday announced a Dalit Sahitya Academy to publish collected works of Scheduled Caste writers and set up libraries for Dalit literature in Bengal. “We are setting up a Dalit Sahitya Academy with Manoranjan Byapari as the chairman. The academy will focus on the works of Scheduled Castes and other backward classes,” the chief minister said at Nabanna on Monday. The move is the first institutionalised effort to promote Dalit literature, which has a rich history in the context of Bengal but remained unnoticed for years. Though several other states have made efforts to promote Dalit literature, similar initiatives weren’t noticed in the state, said a senior official. “For example, works of Manohar Mouli Biswas, who has been inducted into the academy as a member, are a part of literature textbooks at universities across the country after his short stories and novels were translated into various languages. But his works haven’t got enough recognition in the state so far,” said a senior government official. Similarly, Manoranjan Byapari, the author of Itibritte Chandal Jibon, is also a known writer across the country, but he is known by few in the state, the official added. “The chief minister wants it to be changed … She wants to make the works by Dalit writers popular by making them visible,” said a source. In Bengal, the Dalits have a rich history, both in social and political spheres. Several Dalit leaders in Bengal have often rued that personalities like Jogendranath Mondal, who was one of the central and founding fathers of Pakistan and served as the first minister of law and labour in Pakistan, are not known to people in the state. “There is such fascinating history about Mondal, who had made common cause with the Muslim League in its demand for Pakistan expecting that the Scheduled Castes would be benefited from it. But he migrated to India after a few years of partition citing anti-Hindu bias of Pakistani administration. He died at Bongaon in 1968. Very few people know about him,” said a Dalit leader. The academy, sources in the government said, would try to promote the history of the Dalits and their influence in social and political spheres. Keeping with her administration’s inclusive approach to restore and promote history, Mamata also announced on Monday that the state government would digitise the Sanskrit manuscripts preserved at a museum in Bishnupur in Bankura and upload the same in the digital library of the state government. The move is also considered to be significant as Bishnupur had emerged as the paramount centre for learning Sanskrit and Vaishnab literature in the 16th, 17th and 18th centuries. “There is curiosity on the manuscripts kept in Bishupur worldwide. The state wants to digitise all such manuscripts and upload those on digital library so that whoever has interest can access them,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-374
15-09-2020||West Bengal||CID names BJP MP in TMC MLA murder||The CID slapped murder charges on Jagannath Sarkar, BJP MP from Ranaghat, in its supplementary chargesheet before the additional chief judicial magistrate’s court here on Monday, related to the 2019 murder of Trinamul MLA Satyajit Biswas. An investigating officer of the CID said: “The MP (Sarkar) has been found involved in a conspiracy behind the murder of the MLA. We have also slapped a murder charge against him for his role.” The officer added that the agency had also termed Sarkar the key conspirator in the supplementary chargesheet. Assistant public prosecutor of the Ranaghat ACJM court Pradip Pramanik said: “Necessary legal course of action will be initiated against the MP.” As Trinamul defector to BJP Mukul Roy had also been named in the FIR, there was keen interest in what the CID would say about Roy in its chargesheet. On Monday, the CID sought more time to investigate the role of Roy. The ACJM granted the agency time to do so till December 14. Krishnaganj MLA Biswas was shot dead on February 9 last year while watching a cultural event on Saraswati Puja near his home in Phulbari, Nadia district. Five persons, including Roy, had been named in the FIR lodged by Milan Ghosh, Trinamul activist and close friend of Biswas. The CID took up the case and arrested five persons including prime accused Abhijit Pundari, who allegedly shot the MLA. MP Sarkar’s name had surfaced during the probe. In May last year, CID submitted the chargesheet against three persons. However, they found nothing against Roy and Sarkar. Eventually, the CID dropped their names from the chargesheet which prompted the original complainant to file a revision appeal urging the court for “further investigation” against the duo. The ADSJ Ranaghat allowed the revision application, but restricted the scope of further investigation against the two leaders. Nevertheless, CID continued to probe by violating the court order, alleged lawyers defending the BJP duo. Sarkar alleged state government “conspiracy to arrest us before the Assembly polls”. “The motive of the revision petition was clear which eventually got reflected in today's chargesheet. We will fight the battle in court,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-374
15-09-2020||West Bengal||Monthly dole, home for Hindu priests||Mamata Banerjee on Monday announced a monthly honourarium of Rs 1,000 each for around 8,000 poor Hindu priests, besides homes for those eligible among them. The chief minister said such doles could be rolled out for people from other religions also if they applied for the same. “Poor Hindu priests had met me multiple times so that we considered an honourarium for them. The state government decided to allow a monthly honourarium of Rs 1,000 for nearly 8,000 priests, who had already applied. The government would also build houses for the poor priests, who don’t have homes, under the Banglar Avas Yojana,” said the chief minister at Nabanna on Monday after holding a meeting with top government officials. The move holds significance in the backdrop of the BJP’s attempts to spin a narrative that the Bengal chief minister’s politics revolves around minority appeasement by referring to her decision of giving honourarium to imams and muezzins. “The announcement of honourarium for Hindu priests came just about six months ahead of the 2021 Assembly polls. It is clear that the chief minister is trying to do a balancing act ahead of the polls,” said a senior government official. The fact that she had known in advance that the announcement would be given such a spin was clear when Mamata urged people to treat it in proper spirit. “You should not take it in other way. We give honourarium of Rs 1,000 a month to folk artists as well.... If appeals from other religions come, we will consider those too,” said the chief minister. While Mamata tried to make it clear that she was trying to be inclusive in her approach, Trinamul insiders said the issue was being discussed within the government over the past few weeks. The Trinamul government had announced a monthly honourarium of Rs 2,500 for imams and Rs 1,000 for muezzins in April 2012. But in 2013, Calcutta High Court had stuck down the notification through which the government had allowed this honourarium distribution. The government then transferred a grant of Rs 500 crore to the Board of Wakfs under the Wakf Board Protection, Supervision and Development scheme and a part of the amount was being used to give honourarium to the imams and the muezzins, sources said. “In a balancing act, now, in all likelihood, the Hindu priests would be given honourarium through the information and cultural affairs department,” said a senior government official. The decision, Trinamul sources said, will drill holes into the BJP’s narrative that Mamata is “anti-Hindu” and her politics is about minority appeasement. A Trinamul source said Mamata’s communication on Monday had been well-planned as she had wanted to send out a message that she was inclusive unlike the BJP. The chief minister also announced restructuring of the Hindi Academy by bringing in several new members into the board on a day Hindi Divas was being celebrated across the country. “We had set up a Hindi Academy after we had come to power in 2011. Now, we are restructuring it by bringing in several new members,” said the chief minister. Mamata had earlier announced a series of schemes, including pension for the tribal populace in the state. “It is clear she is trying to reach out to all sections of the society, some of which the BJP has successfully wooed,” said a political analyst.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-374
15-09-2020||West Bengal||CM focus on lowering Covid death rate ||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee asserted that Bengal’s Covid-19 mortality rate at 1.94 per cent would be lowered soon with measures being taken by her government, on a day 58 fresh deaths took the state’s total toll in the pandemic past 4,000. The chief minister underscored that 85.8 per cent or 3,434 of 4,003 of the deaths were because of comorbidities. “Those deaths (of people with comorbidities) are being added to the Covid-19 toll, because those people are more susceptible to the infection,” she said. In Covid-19, comorbidities are underlying health disorders such as high blood pressure, diabetes, cardiovascular or kidney ailments. Most pandemic deaths around the world have occurred when infected persons had comorbidities. “When we said it (about co-morbidities causing most of the Covid-19 deaths) first, many mocked us. Now, all of India has accepted the truth in this,” said Mamata, who also holds Bengal’s health portfolio. In Bengal, hypertension has taken around a fourth of lives of Covid-19 patients, followed by diabetes, which claimed around a fifth, and cardiac ailments, which claimed around one-tenth of the lives. “Our mortality rate, 1.94 now, we brought it down from over 9… we will lower it further. If we have been able to bring it to less than 2 from over 9, we certainly will be able to get it to drop further,” Mamata said. The national mortality rate now is 1.64 per cent. “We have been conducting thorough surveys...to keep monitoring those in need of treatment…. Intervention is underway,” she added. Bengal on Monday reported 3,211 new cases and 3,084 recoveries. Bengal’s cases have gone past 2.05 lakh, including over 1.78 lakh recoveries and the 4,003 deaths. Its recovery rate is 86.55 per cent, far ahead of the national rate of 78.15. Bengal logged a new high in daily testing with 47,537 on Monday, taking the total tests past 25 lakh, at 27,973 tests per million people. Steady rise in tests coupled with relatively lower cases improved positive confirmation rate after August 23, from 8.9 to 8.18 per cent. “Our positive confirmation rate is far less than the national rate (8.5)…. It’s all in the right direction and I cannot thank all our Covid frontliners, especially those in healthcare, enough,” said Mamata. Having begun testing in early February, Bengal took over three-and-a-half months to complete 1 lakh tests. Over the next four months, it conducted over 24 lakh more tests. In 14 days of September so far, Bengal logged 6.3 lakh tests.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-374
15-09-2020||West Bengal||Four district chief cops transferred ||Four district police chiefs were transferred in Bengal on Monday amid buzz that it was done keeping 2021 Assembly elections in mind. District superintendents of police Darjeeling, Hooghly (rural), Cooch Behar and Baruipur were transferred through a notification issued by the state home department. Darjeeling SP Amarnath K. has been transferred as superintendent, special task force, in Bengal police. Nimbalkar Santosh Uttamrao, earlier Cooch Behar police chief, replaced Amarnath in Darjeeling. Mohammad Sana Akhtar, commandant, first battalion of the eastern frontier rifles, has been posted as Cooch Behar SP. Tathagata Basu has become deputy commissioner New Town, Bidhannagar police commissionerate. Amandeep, earlier in Barrackpore police as deputy commissioner, has replaced Basu as Hooghly (rural) SP. Kamnasish Sen, earlier posted in Bidhannagar commissionerate, has been posted as superintendent of Baruipur police district, replacing Rashid Munir Khan. Khan has been posted as deputy commissioner (south suburban division) in Calcutta police. Though the home department dubbed these “routine transfers”, an official said it was apparent that these were done keeping polls in mind. “The government would not want any tension in these districts before or during the elections,” he said. Monday’s transfers came less than a week after some of the senior officers, including director, security — the chief of chief minister's security — holding key positions in the administration were shifted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-375
15-09-2020||West Bengal||Didi: Khalid arrest ‘not correct in democracy’||Mamata Banerjee on Monday attacked the BJP-led Centre and the Delhi Police, albeit without taking their names, over the arrest of Umar Khalid, and the likes of Sitaram Yechury and Yogendra Yadav being named as responsible for the February riots in Delhi, saying it was “not correct” in a democracy. The Bengal chief minister, in a news conference at the state secretariat, was asked regarding the arrest of former Jawaharlal Nehru University student leader Khalid and Opposition figures and academics being named in the riot case, while the likes of BJP’s Kapil Mishra — deemed to have played a pivotal role in triggering the violence in northeast Delhi — roamed free. “This is true, I read about it in the papers. They had even put (CPM general-secretary) Yechury’s name in the charge-sheet…. Even (Swaraj India chief) Yogendra Yadav and others, their names,” said Mamata. “What happened in the Delhi riots, when they happened, everyone knew what was up. Had Covid-19 not taken centre-stage soon after, it would have all come to light…. Against the NRC, NPR, CAA, those who protested, they were targeted for violent turmoil…. It is not correct in a democracy.” The Trinamul Congress chief, who had in the past called the Delhi riots a “planned, state-sponsored genocide” that was deliberately painted in a communal colour later, had said the buck had to stop with Union home minister Amit Shah. On Monday, she said the law and its processes had to be adhered to. “If somebody is wrong, if there is evidence, then there should be action. But if somebody hasn’t done anything wrong…. Whatever is correct according to the law, must be done. Whatever is not correct according to the law, it must not be done. That’s it,” said Mamata. She then went on to bring up the BJP’s alleged activities in Bengal. “See here now, every day, what they do all day, with nothing but fake news? Even going to the extent of saying Covid-19 is over, so conducting political meetings is okay…” “Now they won’t even give Covid-19 priority,” the chief minister said, referring to a recent assertion by BJP state unit chief Dilip Ghosh. “What more will they do? They are a party that only considers itself right and everybody else liars. This is just not correct,” she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-375
15-09-2020||West Bengal||Mobile shop for potato sale||A trade body here has launched a van that will move across the town and sell potatoes at a cheaper rate. The initiative has been taken at a time retail prices of potatoes are on the rise across the state, with Raiganj not being an exception. “Because of Covid-19 pandemic, many people have lost their jobs, while several others’ earnings have come down. In such a situation, the price of a basic food item like potato has increased to Rs 35 and even to Rs 40 per kilo at some places. To ensure that people can buy potatoes at lesser rates, we introduced the mobile van today,” said Atanu Bandhu Lahiri, a secretary of the Raiganj Merchants’ Association. According to him, potatoes would be sold from the van at Rs 25 per kilo. “Initially, a person can buy maximum 2kg potato from the van at a time. In due course, we are planning to increase the number of such vans so that the entire town and the suburbs can be covered,” Lahiri said The association, sources said, is procuring the potato from wholesalers and selling it at a price with a basic margin that can cover the cost. The association is composed of traders who are not into the sale of vegetables. In north Bengal, potato prices went northwards in the past two-three weeks. The rise has prompted officials of the North Dinajpur district administration to visit prominent markets to check whether wholesalers or retailers are hoarding potatoes to create an artificial demand. “We are keeping a close watch over the situation. Along with potatoes, prices of onions are also on the rise. Our officers are regularly collecting information from markets and in case there is a sharp rise in the price, we will act immediately to prevent illegal hoarding of potatoes,” said an official in the district administration. A wholesaler in Raiganj attributed the price rise to less supply. “Prices will come down in a couple of months as the harvesting of potatoes will start from November,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-375
15-09-2020||West Bengal||Mujnai garden to reopen today||The Mujnai tea estate in Alipurduar district will reopen on Tuesday after a gap of 21 months. The decision was taken at a tripartite meeting held in the office of the additional labour commissioner of north Bengal in Siliguri on Monday. “The talks were fruitful. The management agreed to reopen the garden tomorrow (Tuesday). It is good news for the workers. We are doing everything possible to ensure that all other closed tea gardens are reopened in due course,” said Md. Rizwan, the additional labour commissioner (north Bengal). Sources said the management had closed down Mujnai on December 25, 2018, leaving 999 permanent workers jobless. Workers had protested against delay in payments and the management shut the plantation citing alleged lawlessness. At the meeting on Monday, it was decided that none of the permanent workers would be sacked. “Due wages of December 2018 will be paid in two tranches. The first payment will be made on September 18, while the second instalment will be disbursed within the following seven days. The payment of bonus for 2018 was also discussed and a decision would be taken after the industry-wide bonus negotiations ahead of the Durga Puja this year are held,” said Manna Jain, vice-president, Cha Bagan Trinamul Congress Mazdoor Union. In November, another meeting would be held to discuss the payment of other dues to the labourers, he added. The state labour department has served a notice on the management of Longview tea estate located in the foothills of Kurseong subdivision and around 20km from Siliguri. “We have asked the management to send us a specific proposal regarding clearing of the workers’ dues so that we can convene a meeting to resolve the problems. We want the garden to reopen at the earliest,” said Rizwan. The management had announced suspension of work in Longview on August 21, citing alleged lawlessness. Workers, other the other hand, accused the management of not clearing dues and started a relay fast in the garden.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-375
15-09-2020||West Bengal||Siliguri College debars teacher, accused of alleged bribe offer, from all kinds of academic activities||The governing body of Siliguri College on Monday debarred a faculty member from all kinds of academic activities and decided to file a police complaint against him after he had allegedly offered a final-year under-graduate student good marks in return for the payment Rs 10,000. An audio clip of the alleged bribe offer to the girl student had circulated in social media. “The governing body also constituted a seven-member committee to probe the allegation against the teacher. The institution is over 70 years old and the allegation has affected its reputation. The teacher will also be served with a showcause notice to clarify the charge against him,” said Jayanta Kar, the governing body president. According to Kar, the accused teacher will be kept away from all sorts of activities in the college, whether it is admission, examination or student-related issues. “He cannot take online or offline classes and his name and contact number will also be removed from the college’s website. We will also file a police complaint against him in a couple of days and seek legal opinion as to how we should proceed with the case,” said Kar. Sources in the college said the restrictions would be imposed on the teacher until and unless he was proved innocent. The inquiry committee that is headed by Jhinuk Dasgupta, a senior faculty member, has been asked to submit its report to the governing body within a month, said the sources. The student had already filed a complaint with the college against the faculty member. The North Bengal University, to which the college is affiliated, had also lodged a police complaint. Supporters of the Trinamul Chhatra Parishad demonstrated at the varsity on Monday demanding action against the accused teacher. The protesters also burned his effigy. “We hope the university will take action against such inappropriate practice,” said Mithun Baishya, a TMCP leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-375
15-09-2020||North East||Sports awards: Mizoram CM bats for overlooked Jeje Lalpekhlua||Facts Matter. This is the hashtag Mizoram chief minister Zoramthanga used in tweet marked to sports minister Kiren Rijiju over the “pain” his state was experiencing over the former Chennaiyin FC forward Jeje Lalpekhlua missing out on the coveted Arjuna Award yet again this year. The Arjuna Awards were conferred by President Ram Nath Kovind on August 29 to 27 sportspersons across disciplines with Sandesh Jhingan bagging it for football, ahead of Jeje who had been nominated thrice since 2017. Jeje failing to bag the coveted award has snowballed into an  issue in Mizoram where football is the “number one sport” with at least 50 players from the state turning out for various ISL and I-league outfits over the past couple of years. Mizoram Football Association secretary Lalnghinglova Hmar’s September 4 letter to sports minister Rijiju seeking to know the criteria for selection further underscored the “demand for justice” for one of the “most decorated” Indian players hailing from their “tiny” state in the Northeast. Zoramthanga, a former gureilla leader turned politician with an ear to the ground, articulated these feelings through a tweet on Monday: “ Shri @KirenRijijuji, due respect to past & future awardee of the prestigious #arjunaaward; I stand with the people of #Mizoram in their dreams, their contribution towards the upliftment of the #IndianFootball, the pain felt by a sidelined recognition we all yearned #FactsMatter.” Along with the tweet,  Zoramthanga, one of the leading lights of the Mizo movement which culminated in the 1986 peace accord with the Centre, also attached the achievements of Jeje, Gurpreet Singh Sandhu, who won the award in 2019, and Sandesh Jhingan who won it in 2020. The tweet had been by afternoon retweeted 50 times and liked 249 times with most hailing his move and seeking an answer from the Rijiju, who is also from the northeast. Suhas Chakma, rights activist, took a dig at the BJP-led Centre while backing the three-time chief minister, “I wish to believe that it has nothing to do with d fact that Mizoram is not & is unlikely to be ruled by the BJP.” The Zoramthanga-led Mizo National Front is an ally of the NDA and NEDA but it has no truck with BJP in the state. MNF regained power in 2018 under Zoramthanga. MFA secretary Hmar told The Telegraph that they did not approach the chief minister to highlight the Jeje issue. “The honourable chief minister did what he did on his own. We are happy that the CM knew about the situation and supported us in our effort to find out the reason behind Jeje being denied Arjuna Award after three straight nominations. Jeje is not only a hero to the locals here, he is a national football star and his records shows that he deserved Arjuna Award if it is to be given to an Indian footballer. Yes, facts matter.” In his letter to Rijiju, Hmar requested an explanation why Jeje being overlooked despite three separate nominations and his overall achievements. “Jeje has earned 56 caps for India, scoring 23 goals, second only to Sunil Chhetri in the national scoring charts among active players. He is currently ranked 6th on the all time scorers list. Gurpreet Singh Sandhu and Sandesh Jhingan have both earned 38 and 36 caps respectively,” Hmar said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-45
15-09-2020||North East||New regional party named in Assam ||The new regional party backed by the influential All Assam Students’ Union (AASU) and Asom Jatiyatabadi Yuba Chatra Parishad (AJYCP) has been named Assam Jatiya Parishad (AJP) and its slogan will be ghore ghore aami (we will be in every household). The name, the slogan and the agenda of the party, seeking to emerge as a strong, inclusive and permanent regional alternative to the BJP and the Congress by securing the interests of the state in next year’s Assembly polls, was declared here on Monday by its convenors Krishna Gopal Bhattacharya and Basanta Deka in Guwahati. Just as the Asom Gana Parishad (AGP) was the outcome of the six-year-old Assam Movement against illegal foreigners, the Centre’s move to impose the contentious citizenship amendment act, which most see as a threat to Assamese identity and culture, triggered the formation of the AJP. The formation of the AJP will pose a direct challenge to the AGP which the AASU and AJYCP say has lost its regional character. Several AASU and AJYCP leaders are expected to be part of the new party but the two organisations will remain apolitical.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-45
15-09-2020||Opinion||Secure law: The National Security Act||The value of a law depends on its application. The National Security Act, 1980 permits preventive detention — up to a maximum of 12 months — “in certain cases and for matters connected therewith”. These “certain cases” are fleshed out to indicate that a person can be detained, among other reasons, to prevent him from acting in a manner prejudicial to the security of India and the maintenance of public order. This is rather imprecise: public order remains subject to the State’s interpretation, and the security of India could be made to mean the security of the ruling regime and its agenda. Recently, after the release of the doctor, Kafeel Khan, by the Allahabad High Court which reportedly criticized the authorities for booking him under the NSA on a whim, legal experts have spoken up against the indiscriminate use of this law. They feel that states should not use the law without reasonable material to justify its application, and police officers using it wrongfully should be penalized. Although successive governments have misused the NSA from time to time, its application has become almost a daily practice under the present dispensation. From dumping cow carcasses to protesting against the lack of Covid-19 testing at airports, the NSA is slapped for anything that strikes the State’s fancy. Experts feel that the law is being used to punish, not prevent, because people can be locked in jail for 12 months although most cases, like Mr Khan’s, would not pass legal scrutiny. Uttar Pradesh leads in the intimidating and arbitrary use of the NSA. While 13 arrests under it this year have been of anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act protesters — they evidently threaten security, even if not the country’s — 76 of 139 NSA arrests till August 19 were of those accused of cow slaughter. They allegedly threaten public order, because the accusation of killing cows is a ‘sensitive’ matter. This use of the NSA upends all notions of justice and fair process. It is telling that of the thousands of arrests under other laws for cow slaughter in UP, the police have filed closure reports for only 32 on account of the lack of sufficient evidence. But the NSA can enforce a 12-month stay in prison. Deliberately misused, it is a handy tool in the art of creating fear.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-148
15-09-2020||Opinion||Be cautious: Global clamour for Covid vaccine||Sir — The global clamour for a cure for the novel coronavirus has led to the unrealistic expectation that a vaccine is just around the corner. Thus, when AstraZeneca, piloting its vaccine candidate, AZD1222, revealed earlier that it would be voluntarily putting its ongoing clinical trials on hold — one of the participants developed an unexpected illness — the possible dangers of a rushed study came to the fore. Although the pharmaceutical company has since resumed the late-stage trials after receiving green signals from safety watchdogs, this development should be taken as a warning sign. The demand for a speedy solution to the pandemic has also taken a distinctly political dimension. The incumbent president of the United States of America, Donald Trump, has indicated that a vaccine might be available in October, conveniently before the upcoming elections in November. India, too, is guilty of rushing the process with the Indian Council of Medical Research earlier urging Bharat Biotech to make its candidate vaccine, Covaxin, available by August 15. Recently, Russia became the first country to register a Covid-19 vaccine and is gearing up to release the first batch to the public. It must be remembered that developing a vaccine is a complicated process and usually takes years to be ready for public use. With the world rushing to find a cure to the pandemic, this has become a matter of who will get to cross the finish line first. Countries must prioritize a thorough and transparent evaluation of the candidate drugs. Otherwise the lives of billions will be at risk. S.S. Paul,Nadia Sir — As Covid-19 cases continue to mount around the world in unprecedented numbers, it is expected that pharmaceutical companies will rush to roll out a vaccine for the highly communicable disease. However, concerns have been raised over whether there is political pressure on companies to complete the trials as fast as possible in order to boost a country’s prestige in the international arena. China has already approved the emergency usage of Covid-19 vaccines that have been developed by select domestic companies. The American president is pushing for the release of a vaccine before the presidential elections scheduled for November 2020. In the midst of this, it was heartening to learn that nine American firms have signed a pledge not to seek regulatory approval or authorization of their experimental drugs until the shots have been shown to work effectively and safely through late-stage clinical trials. Meanwhile, Sputnik V, jointly developed by the Gamaleya Research Institute of Epidemiology and Microbiology and the Russian defence ministry, has been registered as the first coronavirus vaccine. Although the data published by the medical journal, The Lancet, show promise, they are limited to the early stages of study which has been conducted on only 76 participants, an abysmally small number. A group of researchers have since written an open letter to the editor of the journal alleging discrepancies in the data evaluated. Reports indicate that India is in talks with the Russian government regarding the localization of the production of Sputnik V in India. Considering the glaring gaps in the efficacy of the drug trial, is it a good idea to proceed with the proposition? Rather than delving right into production, India should consider conducting bigger trials in the country and testing further before approving the drug for a mass rollout. The decision by AstraZeneca to temporarily put its clinical trials on hold when a participant developed an adverse reaction shows that the company prioritizes the health of the masses, as it ideally should. All countries should take a cautious approach and not jeopardize the health of the people. Khokan Das,Calcutta Sir — The news that one of the volunteers taking part in the clinical trials jointly conducted by AstraZeneca and Oxford University fell severely ill is not surprising. While it is not unusual for such hiccups to occur in the final stages of vaccine trials, this episode should act as a reminder to governments and pharmaceutical companies that they must thoroughly vet a vaccine before it can be deemed safe for public use. There are no shortcuts to the process. Moreover, imposition of deadlines by governments will only lead to further problems, thus delaying the possibility of a safe and effective cure. At this critical time, the responsibility of the government lies in providing the scientific community with all possible resources and minimizing administrative hurdles that might further impede the process. D.V.G. Sankararao,Nellimarla, Andhra Pradesh Steps forward Sir — In a historic judgment, a court in Saudi Arabia has ruled in favour of a woman writer who was put on trial for living and travelling alone without her father’s permission. The country has witnessed several changes in recent years regarding women’s rights, including the appointment of the first female director-general in the foreign ministry. However, Saudi women still have to abide by a strict dress code and are restricted from freely interacting with men. There is much more that needs to be done. Unless there is a change in the mindset of the people, ordinary women will not be able to access the rights they deserve. Banisree Saha,Bangalore||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-148
15-09-2020||Opinion|| Keep talking: India-China conflict||Consensus is necessary to build confidence. The talks between the foreign ministers of India and China, S. Jaishankar and Wang Yi, respectively, on the sidelines of an international meet in Moscow prioritized the creation of new confidence-building measures between the two neighbours in order to defuse the ongoing tensions on the border. This engagement between the political leaderships must be welcomed because the situation on the Ladakh border areas continues to be grim. What is worrying, however, is that the commitment to bolster confidence on both sides was not matched by a concomitant eagerness to arrive at a consensus to resolve the prickly issues. The statements put out by New Delhi and Beijing bear evidence of their divergent interpretations of ground realities. For instance, China remains adamant about the boundary dispute not holding hostage the entire gamut of Sino-Indian ties. The five-point framework is not very clear on the restoration of status quo ante, a legitimate demand given that India has ceded territory to an aggressive China. But Beijing has not made any concessions on this crucial aspect. Again, no timelines have been set to resolve the crisis. This probably means that the onus of a resolution would now shift to the dialogues that would take place through the Special Representative mechanism as well as the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination on Indo-China border affairs. The success of these deliberations is predicated upon the engagement proceeding on good faith. Unfortunately, the trust deficit is considerable. China stands accused of repeatedly reneging on the pledges made by its senior diplomats and military commanders to disengage. The allegation that a Shenzhen-based firm, patronized by Beijing, had been monitoring Indian citizens — politicians, businessmen and members of the judiciary — is likely to deepen the creases on the bilateral ties. There is, however, another potential avenue of trust deficit that should concern New Delhi. Such a fissure can afflict the bond between the Narendra Modi government and the conscientious citizens of India. Mr Modi and his government are mandated to be transparent on matters of national security. But the prime minister, after issuing an audacious statement that denied Chinese incursions, has been characteristically evasive on the matter. Worse, there are concerns that the administration, always an obedient executor of the will of its political master, is now trying to deflect public attention by penalizing those raising searching questions on several matters. This is pure intimidation. Mr Modi would do well to take the people along as his government battles to douse the fires on the frontier.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-148
15-09-2020||Opinion||Covid healthcare: Find the source of the pain||Last week, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation invited paramedics and doctors to join its Covid care centres. Offer: a short-term contract with good remuneration. Nagpur is not the only district desperately seeking new doctors and paramedics amidst a surging Covid-19 graph; several districts are floating such ads almost daily: doctors and nurses needed. The response, however, seems to be cold. Existing doctors, on the other hand, are breaking. No one wants to go and work in far flung areas, whatever the remuneration. Life isn’t rosy there. Take this: In Yavatmal, western Vidarbha, a private doctor whose hospital is a Covid-centre, shot off a terse letter to the district collector. Relieve me, he wrote, from the pandemic duty, given that his hospital was running thin on financial resources, supporting doctors and paramedics. In Madhya Pradesh, healthcare has collapsed like it has in many other states. Patients from that state are ending up in the hospitals in Nagpur, which are already out of beds, doctors, paramedics. In Bihar, the local medical association in August said that doctors there were dying of Covid-19 at nine times the national average. Nitish Kumar would have us believe how things have been better under the BJP’s and his watch, but if it can’t save the doctors, the less we speak about the masses the better. As the pandemic enters smaller towns and the countryside, the fatally serious battle is now left to the infected individuals’ fate. The shattered economy and public healthcare system are intertwined into one big mess. If you are infected and have serious symptoms, you’ll be lucky to find yourself a bed in the crowded hospitals in small towns. Count days until your infection abates. If you die, you die. This piece is not about jobs. But you’ll be lucky to find one other than in healthcare with high risks. Where you have beds, doctors are in dearth. Shift the focus India’s Covid-focus must shift to small towns, where the infection is fast multiplying. Here on, we have got to put more money in public health and medical education to produce a large number of doctors and nurses. India’s health profile has altered to non-communicable diseases, but we get ripped apart by infectious diseases. The pandemic has bared our crushing shortage of healthcare providers. A World Health Organization study in 2016 said that the lack of a trained workforce was a major constraint when it comes to achieving health delivery in a short period. We have 80 doctors and 61 nurses per one lakh people, their density in urban areas four times higher than in rural places. Moreover, many individuals claiming to be doctors are unqualified quacks. The study found huge variations in doctor-nurse density across states. For instance, in Chandigarh doctors were 10 times the number in Meghalaya; or in Punjab, an upper income state, 2.6 times higher than in Bihar, one of the poorest states. Half the lowest 30 districts ranked by doctor-density were in the Northeast and the remainder in central states like Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Madhya Pradesh. Of the top 30 districts, 18 were state capitals or the national capital (seven in Delhi alone). Seven of the top 30 districts with a high density of trained doctors and nurses were in Kerala. So, the country’s healthcare story is pretty much in 20-30 districts. To reach the Chinese level of doctor density, India needs over 7,00,000 doctors; we produce 30,000 a year. In China, many doctors hold three-year medical diplomas, a possibility opposed strongly by the qualified doctors here. But, to set our healthcare delivery in order and make it equitable, we can’t prolong a radical departure from the past. New viruses — not the peacocks — are at our doorstep.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-148
15-09-2020||Opinion||Tumbling down||The -23.9 per cent shrinkage in the April-June GDP is not a surprise as nearly half the period witnessed a national lockdown. It’s also not surprising that this loss is the world’s steepest for India’s lockdown was the most stringent and the accompanying fiscal policy response the weakest. But the quarter per cent slump did surprise most analysts who have since rushed to savagely cut India’s annual growth forecast; on average, these have doubled down into the -10 per cent range, a possibility this author anticipated two months ago. Growth probably contracted more severely, although early estimates do not fully capture India’s large informal or unorganized segment whose performance is initially based upon the listed companies’; the -36.2 per cent decline in indirect tax revenues indicates a more severe decline. As we are now nearing the end of next quarter end, it’s useful to combine these numbers with newer information to get a grip on the distributive effects and the road ahead. Let’s first examine the April-June performance. Production contracted in near-similar magnitudes (40-50 per cent) as restrictions applied everywhere except agriculture where harvesting and procurement continued and the virus hadn’t then spread; construction and services saw somewhat larger declines. A bolt out of the blue is the -10.3 per cent decline in public GDP (public administration, defence and other services) where positive support was expected from sustained government expenditure. This has trained focus upon ‘other services’ (56 per cent share), which include education, health, recreation and numerous personal services; it is a revelation that the plunge here was too steep for the increase in public spending to counter. The negative income effects are acute. The fall represents a monthly per capita GDP loss of Rs 2,163 in the quarter. The -27 per cent fall in private consumer or household spending in April-June is not just from voluntary and supply-caused restraint but also due to raised unemployment and wage cuts. Corporate performance analyses show that large firms responded to sales and revenue losses in the period through rationalization of costs, including wages; such consolidation could persist ahead until firming demand signals are seen. Damages to households and corporate incomes and balance sheets also vary across sectors and firm sizes. Medium and small firms saw sharper contractions in net sales growth than large ones according to Care Ratings; this trend, too, could maintain as smaller firms are also less financially resilient. A contagious disease like Covid-19 impacts services more severely because being contact-intensive the sector is more susceptible to consumer risk-aversions. Evolutions beyond April-June support this. For example, manufacturing activities are back faster; the purchasing managers’ index crossed the expansion mark (50) to 52 in August. But services’ contraction persists: the PMI-services was 41.8 last month, though higher than the 17.4 average in April-June. India’s a world laggard here, seeing the sharpest slides and weakest rebounds in April-August; this also reflects its modest fiscal policy response compared to other countries, advanced or emerging ones. Eurozone’s evidence also shows services’ recovery falls back with virus re-eruptions. This does not bode well for services as India’s pandemic curve continues to rise. Income and employment losses have devolved majorly upon the low-paid, informal, blue and white collared and younger earners according to disparate evidence and employment intensities. The Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy surveys assess that about 21 million salaried jobs have been lost between April-August; in August, urban unemployment was almost in double digits even as informal jobs returned. Services, which constitute 54 per cent of India’s economy, is likely to bear the brunt of unemployment as a respective 59.7 per cent and 63 per cent of urban male and female workers are engaged in ‘trade, hotel and restaurant’, ‘transport, storage and communication’ and ‘other services’ (2018-19). Activities here are unlikely to be restored fully as long as infection risks and fears persist; many of these services are in-person and cannot be teleworked or remotely provided. Then, MSMEs employ about 111 million; agriculture serves as livelihood for nearly half the population with non-farm income support from construction, which employs the unskilled workers. These negative impulses will keep consumption depressed and below-potential ahead; this also depends critically upon the evolution of infection spread and growth, which show no signs of abatement. A reduced consumption base will also restrain investment that was already stagnant and cannot be easily expected to recover soon from such a shock on top. The worst perhaps is also yet to come as far as people and businesses are concerned because in a stretching pandemic it is not known how many firms will permanently close, how many youth will stay unemployed or for how long would they stay at their parents’ homes, how many disguised unemployed will subsist in agriculture, and how many will slip into poverty. These are permanent destructions that lower potential output or productive base of an economy. Even normal recessions cause permanent losses and this recession is an extraordinary one — caused by a health crisis. Loss magnitudes are thus expected to be large this year as following the April-June GDP shock outturn, 2020-21 growth is commonly predicted to decline in double-digits. Analysts have attempted to divide their anticipated income losses across households, corporate and government sectors. Credit Suisse, which forecasts GDP at -10 per cent (about Rs 2 trillion), assigns 25 per cent to wage earners, about 15 per cent to the informal firms, 10 per cent to corporate firms, and the rest 50 per cent to be borne by government (lower tax revenues). The rating agency, Ind-Ra, projects a -11.8 per cent GDP decline; the total income loss is apportioned as Rs 6.2 trillion towards wage income and Rs 12.2 trillion to corporate profits. A shrinkage of this proportion means that annual per capita GDP could reduce to Rs 95,803 in year from Rs 108,620 last year (2019-20), taking it back to almost the 2016-17 level (Rs 94,751). Monthly per capita GDP in the event would fall to Rs 7,984 from Rs 9,052 last year, barely more than the monthly average four years ago (Rs 7,896). What’s the prospect for recovery? Many, including the chief economic adviser, predict a V-shaped recovery in 2021-22. Technically, any rise from a trough will be that but the question is about the strength of the upturn — a gradual rise up or a steep one? It is also about the peak the economy returns to — former or a new, lower one? Consider that just to get back to the 2019-20 level of income, real GDP would have to grow about 14 per cent next year (in 2021-22, upon -11.8 per cent this year). This seems improbable given the scale of reductions in net worths of households, firms, financial intermediaries and the government; each was struggling much before Covid-19 happened, progressively weakening for three years. More so, the financial system and the government; were the former stronger, and if the government had more capacity to overcome some of the slack caused by the weakened households and firms, a quicker restoration would be enabled. The augurs are thus bleak: the path uphill will be a grind compared to the steep fall into the trough. Then too, incomes will not restore to last year’s level. That may take up to two years. The author is a macroeconomist||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-148
15-09-2020||Jharkhand||Steel city’s apex Puja committee gives go-ahead for dhakis||The organisers of Durga Puja in the steel city will be allowed to bring in dhakis provided they produce a certificate that they don’t have Covid-19 and a government testimony that they don’t pose a health hazard. This was decided during a two-hour-long meeting of the city’s Central Durga Puja Committee on Tuesday. Held at Golmuri, the committee meeting was presided over by general secretary Ram Babu Singh and attended by about a dozen of the 320 committees that organise Durga Puja. Singh said that the Puja will be organised while observing restrictions and any guidelines issued by the administration will be followed. “As many as five committee representatives proposed that dhakis be allowed during the Puja. But keeping in mind the pandemic, we have decided that at most two dhakis will be allowed at each Puja. The dhakis should produce certificates stating that they are Covid-19 negative. Moreover, the dhakis will also have to furnish testimonies from the health department that they will not spread the coronavirus,” Singh told The Telegraph Online. Singh added that the committees will see to it that the dhakis play strictly during rituals and they remain confined to the pandals. Singh pointed out that the decision of the Central Durga Puja Committee is subject to directives from the local administration. He said the members of the Central Durga Puja Committee will meet East Singhbhum deputy commissioner Suraj Kumar seeking his nod. Kumar said permission for dhakis is subject to the guidelines to be issued by the state government. “Neither the Central Durga Puja Committee nor I can give permission for engaging dhakis during the festivities. The administration is giving priority to controlling the pandemic and any permission is subject to guidelines from the state government,” Kumar told this website, adding that he expects such guidelines shortly. Dhakis are traditional drummers who play “dhaks” during Hindu festivals, primarily in Bengal.  Drum beats are an integral part of the five-day-long annual festivities associated with Durga Puja. In the steel city, too, most organisers engage dhakis and tend to bring them mostly from Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-299
15-09-2020||Jharkhand||Bagey Bustee residents block Kadma-Sonari marine drive||Traffic on the Kadma-Sonari marine drive came to a standstill as residents of Bagey Bustee, under Kadma thana area, blocked the road for more than two hours on Tuesday. The residents were protesting police inaction in checking rash driving of heavy vehicles on the thoroughfare. A 22-wheeled speeding trailer rammed into a railing, having deviated from its course on the marine drive along Bagey Bustee at about 1 am on Tuesday. Fortunately no one was injured in the incident. Protesting residents detained the trailer driver, demanding an explanation for his rash driving. They were concerned that the accident could have caused fatal injury to someone, in case they were present on the sidewalk. When officers from Kadma thana arrived at the scene, protesters gheraoed the cops, asking what was the permissible speed limit and the course of action if someone was injured. A police official told them in case such a mishap occurs, Rs 10,000 will be given to the victim’s family and the body will be taken for post-mortem.  This irked the protesters further, and they called local Congress activist Shikha Chaudhury. Led by her, around 50 of them blocked the road, not allowing any vehicle to go through, and demanding the police officer be suspended for his cavalier remarks. The blockade, which began at around 10 am, was cleared by noon, after Kadma thana OC Ranjit Kumar assured the protestors that the policeman who made such irresponsible comments will be investigated. "This was not the first time that a heavy vehicle rammed into the railing here.  Earlier, several fatal road accidents have occured due to rash driving.  Had there been a speed limit, chances of such mishaps taking place would be less.  Instead of doing the needful, the police made irresponsible comments about bustee residents," Shikha Chaudhury told The Telegraph Online. "The driver of the trailer lost balance and hence the vehicle had deviated from its path. We are looking into the grievances presented by the bustee residents," OC Ranjit Kumar said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-299
15-09-2020||Jharkhand||Bokaro General Hospital shuts some specialist OPDs ||Bokaro General Hospital (BGH), the largest heal hub of the region, has suspended its out-patient department in as many as five streams of medicine, including cardiology and nephrology, to direct resources and manpower towards treating Covid patients. BGH, run by Bokaro Steel Plant, a unit of SAIL, has also altered the timings of its general OPD, according to a circular issued by the hospital. The decision to wind up the OPDs _  chest, neurology and gastroenterology are  the others _has come as rude shock to patients suffering from heart, kidney and  neurological ailments. The circular quotes BSL chief of communications Manikant Dhan saying, “Special clinics will remain suspended till further notice”. But sources said these clinics would be resumed at the earliest after assessing the Covid-19 situation. BGH, which is a dedicated Covid hospital, is treating symptomatic cases. It has 90 beds across four wards, apart from an ICU and OT for Covid-19 patients. The Bokaro district administration has asked BGH to increase the number of beds, given the steady rise in the number of cases. Bokaro also has two Covid Care Centres of 100 beds each for asymptomatic patients. Several asymptomatic patients are in home isolation or hotels. BGH has 135 regular doctors, apart from about 70 contractual doctors and those pursuing DNB in BGH. All of them are over-worked because of which the BGH management decided to put senior doctors on Covid duty. However, the OPD’s in orthopaedics, physiotherapy, skin, ENT, psychiatry will continue to function. The timings will be changed till September 19, Dhan indicated. With 910 beds, BGH is the largest hospital of the coal belt region. It performs over 8,000 surgeries and receives 11 lakh outdoor patients who come from neighbouring districts of Dhanbad and Giridih, and even from Purulia in Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-299
15-09-2020||Jharkhand|| Unreasonable fears keep Covid survivors from donating plasma||Covid-19 survivors are refusing to donate blood plasma fearing relapse and other post-infection ailments, doctors manning the plasma bank at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) said on Tuesday, highlighting that less than 1 per cent of eligible donors in the state have come forward to donate plasma for treatment of other patients. As per records with the plasma bank at RIMS, only 80 Covid survivors have donated blood plasma so far. Most of them were either policemen or doctors. According to RIMS plasma bank in-charge Dr Sushma, the hospital contacts at least 25 eligible donors every day for plasma donation and only one or two agree to oblige. “Most of the survivors fear that donating blood plasma will make them weak and susceptible to infections. Some are reluctant to visit the plasma donation centre fearing relapse and other infections which they may contract if they come for plasma donation,” said Dr. Sushma. As per records with the National Health Mission (NHM), as many as 48,112 people have recovered from Covid in Jharkhand, and more than 20 per cent of them were eligible for plasma donation. As a part of the plasma therapy, blood plasma of a Covid survivor is injected into the body of an infected patient. It is believed that the person who survived the virus has developed antibodies in response to the Covid-19 antigen, and the survivor’s blood plasma may help the infected patient beat the virus, doctors said. Any Covid survivor, who has recovered from the infection at least 28 days ago, is eligible to donate plasma. However, the Covid survivors who have recovered more than four months ago cannot donate plasma, health officials said. The donor should fall in the age bracket of 18 to 60 years and should not have cardiac ailments, diabetes or thyroid malfunctions. Chief minister Hemant Soren inaugurated Jharkhand’s first plasma bank at RIMS on July 28. Since the inauguration, finding donors has been a challenge, doctors spearheading the plasma therapy initiative said. Later, the government also started a plasma donation facility at Jamshedpur Blood Bank, but the response there was as poor as in Ranchi, health officials said. According to sources in the health department, around 25 Covid survivors have donated plasma in Jamshedpur so far. The Ranchi district administration has also launched a mobile app to facilitate plasma donation by helping Covid patients contact eligible donors in their locality.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-299
15-09-2020||Jharkhand||Former cyclist dedicates life to train special athletes||Avtar Singh is anxiously waiting for the Covid-19 situation to improve before he catches up with the intellectually impaired athletes. For this, the 70-year-old is pedaling 10 km daily to keep himself in fine fettle. “I am trying to keep myself fit by pedalling on the Marine Drive. I am waiting for Covid-related situation to ease before I resume training my wards (read intellecually impaired). It is high time I’ve caught up with them,” Singh said. The septuagenarian captained the India cycling team in the 1982 Asian Games in New Delhi and has been adjudged fastest cyclist of the country several times. He is also a seven-time national champion. After retiring from the sport, Singh dedicated his life for the cause of special athletes. He is training and channelising the lives of the special athletes  for over three decades now. He has produced 10 athletes  who have won medals in international competitions organised under the banner of Special Olympics International (SOI). “Well, I don’t think it’s a big feat. I feel immensely satisfied when my wards do well. Smile on their faces makes me a happy man. It’s as simple as that,” Singh said with modesty. The list of international medal winners trained by him include Achal Gaurav (cycling and  floor hockey), Jehangir Gandhy (cycling), Sanjeev Sharma (floor hockey), Raju Pati (football), Harpal Singh (handball), Rajesh Kumar Singh (handball), Alpana Kumari (floor hockey), Nandita (badminton), Tejinder Singh (athletics) and N Sai Krishna (athletics). “I have identified some special athletes who can be groomed for international competitions. I have my eyes on them but I cannot train them now owing to the prevailing situation,” Singh, a resident of Sonari who has coaching diplomas from National Institute of Sports (Patiala), Germany and Malaysia, added. Singh runs Jeevika, an NGO involved in promotion of the mentally challenged, with his wife Sukhdeep who had done a course on mental retardation from Deepshikha in Ranchi. “We use the NGO to bring our students to social mainstream. Some of our students have got married and leading a happy life. Besides sports and fitness drills, we train them on how to make Diwali diyas, paper bags and rakhis. We have also taught them the importance of social distancing, greet people with namaste  and to regularly wash their hands,” he informed. Singh is the only trainer from Asia invited as a technical official for three Special Olympics World Summer Games in Shanghai (2007), Los Angeles (2015) and Abu Dhabi (2019) by the Special Olympic Games organising committee. Singh has progressed from community, state, national and a regional trainer of Asia Pacific countries. He was recently honoured with the  Eunice Kennedy Shriver Award in lifetime category by Samarpan and Bihar Disabled Sports Academy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-299
15-09-2020||Jharkhand||Vishwakarma puja sans idols in Adityapur industrial area  ||This year, Vishwakarma Puja at Adityapur industrial area, Jharkhand’s largest manufacturing hub, hub will be sans the usual revelry due to the Covid pandemic and hence there’ll be no lunch, no sweet packets and no idols. Adityapur Small Industries Association (ASIA) has imposed certain restrictions on holding Vishwakarma Puja which is on September 17, Thursday, coinciding with Mahalaya. "Most small medium and largescale industries in Adityapur would perform rituals. But there won't be any idols. Priests would perform rituals in front of a photo," said Inder Agarwal, president of ASIA. He explained that restrictions have been imposed on idols to do away with immersion, which leads to crowding. An industrialist, who owns a forging plant, said, "Last year I had arranged lunch for 1,800 workers along with their families at my plant on the day of Vishwakarma Puja. But this year, we can’t organise a feast. The priest will perform rituals in presence of a restricted number of people. Social distancing and other Covid norms will be followed during the Puja." Another industrialist Santosh Khetan said this year's Vishwakarma Puja would be symbolic. "We pray to God that the situation improves. We will have a grand celebration next year," he said. Idol makers have, therefore, bee left high and dry. “Every year, I used to get orders to make anything between 100 to 150 Vishwakarma idols. But this year I have got orders for only 20 idols, that too only small ones of two to three feet which costs much less," said Ajit Paul, an artisan at Sakchi. He said small idols cost between Rs 600 and Rs 700, while the bigger idols of 6 feet and above fetch them more than Rs 7,000. This year because of the pandemic the size of Vishwakarma idols have been restricted to a maximum of 3 feet. Hence, here was no question of artisans making bigger idols.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-300
15-09-2020||Jharkhand||Allow us to stage shows, musicians, band operators cry out ||Over 50 out-of-work performing artistes, including band operators, singers, musicians and drummers, took out a silent march here on Tuesday to draw the attention of the authorities to their plight after the lockdown killed their livelihood. Walking from Rangatand to Randhir Verma Chowk, the protesters were carrying banners appealing to the state government to come to their help. “Apne halaton ko kaise kah payenge-jiteji sunlo sarkar ab ham to mar hi jayenge; Ehsan nahi ehsash karo, ab hamari pida ka Abhas Karo;” read some of the banners. The artistes demanded that the government grant them permission to start staging programmes so that they could start earning a living. Harish Kajaria, a Bhajan singer of Jharia, said, “My family of six, including my wife, two children and elderly parents, are dependent on my income of around Rs 40,000 per month. The last programme I did was at Barharwa in Bhagalpur in February. Since then, I have not earned a single paisa due to the lockdown,” he told The Telegraph Online on Tuesday. Kajaria, who does PR for Kalakar Sangh, an association of artists, said all his savings had been exhausted in the last six months. “We will be compelled to beg for alms if permission is not granted to us to organise programmes, which are our sole source of sustenance,” he said. Abhishek Singh, a sound system operator of Mugma area of Nirsa block, agreed with Kajaria. “Our income is dependent on religious programmes like Bhagvati Jagran held in temples, besides orchestra shows and marriages. But since none of these programmes, except marriages, is being allowed we have had zero income in the last six months,” he said. Raju Anuragi, president of Kalakar Sangh, Dhanbad, said, “If the government is giving permission to all activities gradually then there should be no harm in allowing artists to hold public programmes. We are committed to follow all the SOPs related to social distancing,” said Anuragi, a folk and devotional singer. Sangh general secretary Pankaj Modi claimed permissions had been granted to organise such programmes in states like Rajasthan and Bihar provided all Covid safety norms were adhered to. “We had written to the state authorities here but did not receive a response. This prompted us to hit the streets,” said Modi, also a devotional singer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-300
15-09-2020||Jharkhand||Plea to increase limit of social gatherings to 300 in Dhanbad||The Covid lockdown has spelt doom for all whose livelihood depends on social programmes. The bar on holding religious, political and other programmes beside delayed restricted permission for marriage functions has had a impact of such severity that more than 400 decorators, tent house owners and caterers of Dhanbad today decided to make a human chain near the district headquarters on Randhir Verma Chowk on September 23 seeking permission for participation of at least 300 persons during marriage functions. The chain, of more than1500 persons, was done keeping all the social-distancing norms in place. The decision to organize agitation, which began with a Dharna demonstration, was taken during a meeting of executive committee of, Dhanabd Zila decorator association held under the chairmanship of it’s president, Pradeep Singh. Talking to The Telegraph Online after the meeting, Singh, said “All the participants of Dharna representing decorator associations from across the district including decorators besides, videographers, band party members, light mechanics etc besides the generator operators will be wearing, gloves, masks etc and stand in the circles made on the surface during  the human chain formation” “We are facing one of the worst period of our life and if the situation continues like this, we will be compelled to sell our equipments like generators, utensils for cooking food during the marriages, tents etc to sustain our life as we have lost all our savings during the last six months,” he said, adding that they will also put their assets like generators, musical instruments etc as exhibits on the street corner to express their protest. “Despite lack of income we are compelled to pay godown rent for keeping products like generators, curtain, tents, bamboos, utensils, chairs, tables etc” said Singh and added that upcoming marriage season beginning from November is the last opportunity for them during the year and  if the restriction of participation of only 50 persons during marriages continues then they will be deprived of any income and will have no option other than to start begging alms. “The life of  more than 1 lakh persons working as generator operators; caterer staff, band party members, electricians, florists, videographers, photographer, etc had been badly hit due to restricted permission for participation in marriage function and also lack of permission of other public religious and political functions” said Singh . "With the lack of fund collection for over 250 puja committees the puja is also likely to be very low-key and our income is also likely to minimal during  the Durga puja and in that condition if the restriction continues on marriage function it will be difficult for us to make both ends meet." he said||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-300
15-09-2020||Jharkhand||Covid recoveries outnumber fresh cases for the fifth consecutive day||Jharkhand on Monday reported higher number of Covid-19 recoveries than fresh cases for the fifth consecutive day, taking the Covid recovery rate in the state further up to 76.68 per cent, figures released by the health department on Monday late night highlighted. As per figures with the health department, as many as 1263 people were found to be infected by the virus across Jharkhand on Monday, while 1529 Covid patients recovered from the infection and were subsequently discharged from hospital on the day. The Covid tally in the state, however, jumped to 62,737 on Monday, while the number of active cases dropped to 14,064, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) said. As per the bulletin, at least 48,112 Covid patients have overcome the virus in Jharkhand since the lethal virus made its way to the state in March. As many as 263 people were found to be infected in Ranchi and 151 in East Singhbhum in the past 24 hours. However, higher number of Covid patients recovered from the infection in both the districts. Ranchi reported 332 Covid recoveries, while East Singhbhum saw 419 patients defeat the virus. While the count of active cases reduced with several patients surviving the infection, the virus claimed three lives on Monday. All the three Covid victims, as per government data, were from East Singhbhum, a district that has reported nearly 50 per cent of Covid casualties in Jharkhand so far. Out of the 561 Covid deaths in state, at least 247 were from East Singhbhum, the NHM bulletin stated. Data compiled by the NHM highlights that at least 413 of the 516 Covid victims in Jharkhand were older than 50 years. As many as 277 of Covid victims were in the age bracket of 51 to 70 years, while 136 victims were older than 70 years. As many as 119 Covid-infected people, in the age bracket of 31 to 50 years could not survive, while 23 died in the age bracket of 11 to 30 years, the NHM data states. The government on Monday tested swab samples of 22,479 people and 21,216 of them came negative. Health workers across Jharkhand have collected swab samples of 14.21 lakh people so far and tested 14.07 lakh of them. While the Covid recovery rate in state was close to the national average, the mortality rate was much lower than the national average of 1.70 per cent. Jharkhand’s Covid mortality rate by Monday night was 0.89 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-300
15-09-2020||Jharkhand||Bypoll dates awaited but parties in poll mode||The Election Commission is yet to announce the dates for bypoll in two vacant Assembly seats of Jharkhand — Dumka and Bermo — but the political parties appear to have already come in election mode. The Dumka seat fell vacant after chief minister Hemant Soren who won two seats retained Barhait and vacated Dumka while the death of Congress MLA Rajendra Prasad Singh warranted bypoll in Bermo. Chief minister Soren reached Dumka on Monday afternoon and will return on Wednesday while Congress state president and finance minister Rameshwar Oraon returned to Ranchi after spending two days in Bermo mobilising party workers for byelection. BJP state president and Rajya Sabha member Deepak Prakash and leader of its legislature party Babulal Marandi have already toured Dumka recently. Both Soren and Singh had wrested these two seats from the BJP in the last Assembly election in December 2019. Though Soren had won the Dumka seat in 2009, BJP’s Louise Marandi won it in 2014. Similarly, Rajendra Singh who had won the Bermo seat six times since 1985, lost twice, including 2014 to Yogeshwar Mahto of the BJP. So both the JMM and the Congress will try their best to retain their respective seats while the BJP will also fight hard to restore those. Minister Oraon, who held a booth level workers’ meeting at Bermo on Sunday, asked the party members and workers to start working seriously as the byelection would be announced soon. He also listed the works that the present UPA government did or was doing in the state such as waiving of farmers’ loan up to Rs 2 lakh, free electricity to those who consume up to 200 units per month and issuing 15 more ration cards to the needy. “Oraonji addressed party members at booth, panchayat and block level meetings and created enthusiasm among them,” said party spokesperson Alok Dubey. Soren, on the other hand, began his Dumka tour with a meeting with local prominent citizens on Monday evening but has tight schedule for both Tuesday and Wednesday. He will attend various programmes at villages like Dhobna Harinbahal, Sanpchala, Mohanpur, Parsimala and Rajbandh under Masalia and Dumka blocks during those two days and also interact with members of women self-help groups and distribute funds under credit linkage scheme among them. The chief minister will also inaugurate or lay foundation stones for several projects there, besides inaugurating three operation theatres, ultrasonography facility and Covid testing lab at Dumka Medical College Hospital. “If you ask about the upcoming bypoll, we are ready even if it’s held tomorrow,” JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya said when asked if Soren’s tour was aimed at mobilising voters’ support, adding he has to do all these as a people’s representative and a chief minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-300
15-09-2020||Jharkhand||‘Maoist-turned-tormentor’ lynched in Gumla||A former Maoist cadre was allegedly beaten to death with sticks by a mob of over 80 people at a village in Jharkhand’s Gumla district on Monday morning The incident took place at Tesera village under Sadar police station of Gumla district, around 100km southwest of state capital Ranchi. According to police sources, Sandeep Tirkey, 32, was associated with the People’s Liberation Front of India (PLFI) — a splinter group of CPI Maoist — and had been to jail in this connection a few years ago and was released on bail a year back. They said Tirkey had as many as four murder cases in his name. “After his release from jail, he left the PLFI and joined hands with a local criminal Basant Gope and used to extort local businessmen and also harass villagers for money. “The police had been searching for him but during a raid at his house in Tesera he escaped. Villagers who were fed up with his harassment had been keeping an eye on him. Yesterday (Sunday) evening when he came to his house, the villagers held a meeting at night and decided to eliminate him,” said a constable at the local police station preferring anonymity. Gumla superintendent of police Hrudeep P. Janardhanan confirmed the lynching incident. “It is difficult to identify the villagers who had taken part in the lynching as almost the entire village was involved. We have also heard about a meeting held by villagers. Had the meeting been held at the panchayat level, then we would have got a tip-off and prevented this incident. “It might have been a spontaneous meeting by the villagers as they had been harassed for long by Tirkey who had as many as seven criminal cases against him, including four murders. There have been several complaints of him harassing villagers with firearms,” the officer said. He, however, said the police have been asked to trace out the villagers involved in the crime by lodging an FIR against unidentified persons. “He (Tirkey) had been associated with the PLFI but after release from jail had joined hands with local criminals and used to threaten villagers causing resentment among them. However, there have no complaints of eve-teasing or molestation against the deceased,” Janardhanan said. Tesera residents, however, claimed that on Sunday evening Tirkey reportedly went to neighbouring village Baragaon and assaulted a youth. The villagers then decided to teach him a lesson and gheraod his house on Monday morning but could not find him. However, they found him at a roadside shop at a distance and after a chase in a field caught him and lynched him with sticks. According to data available with Jharkhand Janadhikar Mahasabha, a human rights front, 24 people have been allegedly lynched by mobs in the state between March 2016 and June 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-300
15-09-2020||Jharkhand||2000 saplings planted on Dhanbad road ||The Dhanbad forest department has planted 2000 saplings in lieu of 417 trees uprooted during the construction of the 5.5 km Barwaddah Sindri road. Land search is on for carrying out plantation work for trees uprooted during the broadening of the 25.71 km Bank More Sindri road and Govindpur Mahuda road. “The plantation work for the City Center Barwaddah road has been carried out near apki road area, Jagjivan Nagar, police line area etc,” said Dhanbad forest officer Bimal Lakra to The Telegraph Online. The plantation work is generally carried out by the agency involved in the construction work. However, as the agencies concerned like the State Highway Authority of India and Road Construction Department lacked the expertise, the responsibility was given to the forest department. The number of trees to be planted is decided by a committee of the high court. “Finding vacant space within the town for carrying out plantation is a difficult job as sometimes there is no space left for carrying out plantation besides the roads,” Lakra said. At present, the department is grappling with lack of space in connection with plantation for Jharia Dhanbad and Govindpur Mahto roads. “As the cost of plantation work to be carried out by the concerned road construction agency is also to be borne by the same agency so we initially faced problems in fund transfer for carrying out the plantation as we have to also submit a report of fund transaction to Account General office but later a solution was found out and as a PL account was created for fund transfer and we  are using the fund deposited in PL account” explained Lakra. At present, plantation work is being carried out for the trees uprooted during the construction of the 19 km Kakomath road.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-300
15-09-2020||Jharkhand||NDRF team discovers college student's body||A 15-member NDRF team on Monday located the body of a college student who drowned in Shankdara river at Badal panchayat, Barkagaon block. The team was called after local divers failed to find the body of Vicky who went to take a bath in the river but drowned. Led by inspector Mohammad Kalamuddin, the NDRF team started the search operation at around 7am on Monday. At around 10:30am the body was discovered. Barkagaon police sent the body for postmortem to Hazaribagh medical college and hospital. Members of Indian National Trade Union Congress on Monday staged demonstration in different collieries of BCCL in Dhanbad by beating utensils to protest against the commercial mining and alleged attempt by central government  to bring changes in labour laws. National vice president of INTUC, Ak Jha said," more than 90000 workers of Coal India will have to suffer  due to wrong policies of the central government. " Traders of under the Federation of Dhanbad Zila Chamber of Commerce and Industry had a meeting with district administration led by Sub Divisional Officer Surendra Prasad during which they discussed a host of issues including the negative impact on trade due to strict implementation of 14 days of quarantine for business related visitors. The traders led by the president of Federation of Dhanbad Zila Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Chetan Goenka also discussed other issues including the participation of shop keepers in the Rapid Antigen Test for Covid 19 conducted by the district administration. Talking to media after the meeting, Goenka said, “As we are facing difficulty in transport of goods from other states due to the 14 days of quarantine rule for the outsiders in state including  the business visitors we demanded the district the district administration to exempt such visitors from quarantine rule who return to the respective place within three days of their arrival in Jharkhand and SDO assured to discuss the issue with the Deputy Commissioner, Uma Shankar Singh to find out a solution” President of Bank More Chamber of Commerce Prabhat Surolia who was also present during the occasion, said, “many traders of Dhanbad regularly visit Ranigang and Asansol as some of them have shops and commercial establishments there and if they are compelled to go on quarantine for 14 days after return of each visit of Bengal they will be not able to carry out trade and thus we raise the issue witht he SDO who assured to look into our demand for relaxation of rules for regular visitors” said Surolia and added that the 14 days of quarantine rule is also negatively impacting the hotel industry in Dhanbad as  the no visitor from the  outside the district is preferring to visit Dhanbad. “The SDO assured us that no shopkeepers will be forced for Covid testing but sought our cooperation for special Rapid Antigen Test which is quite crucial for breaking the Covid chain in the district” said Surolia and the added that he SDO also instructed the shop keepers not to indulge in any encroachment of Dhanbad Municipal Corporation shop failing which strict action would be taken against the violators. Ducks are a great source of recreation to the 134 battalion of the CRPF here in Daltonganj. The water fowls serve as a great stress buster to the jawans and officials. Commandant of the 134 battalion of the CRPF A.D. Sharma said the ducks are like family members. "Our jawans who have been incapacitated in our fight against the rebels look after the ducks" said the Commandant. Leftovers of our mess become the feed of our ducks he added. The water body in this CRPF base camp never goes dry even in the harshest of the summer said sources. The ducks spend their night in a fortified shed protected with wire mesh to keep cats and dogs at bay.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-300
