16-09-2020||Calcutta||Cabbie makes lewd gesture at Mimi, arrested||Actor-turned-MP Mimi Chakraborty was allegedly stalked and subjected to lewd gestures by a taxi driver near Ballygunge Phari while she was returning home in her car on Monday afternoon. Mimi, who did not have her guards with her, ensured that her vehicle blocked the taxi’s way before she stepped out and held the accused by his collar. The driver was allowed to go as the blocked thoroughfare was causing traffic snarls. But the vehicle was identified and the driver arrested later at night. The driver, identified as Deba Yadav, 32, was arrested from his Panchannagram home. Yadav has been booked under the charges of outrage of modesty of a woman, stalking and outrage of a woman through words and gestures. If convicted, he could be jailed for five years. Yadav has been remanded in police custody till September 20. The actor was on her way home to Kasba around 1.30pm when she noticed the driver of a yellow taxi staring at her. “Then I saw him winking at me. I thought it was a tic and ignored it. The taxi then overtook my car and the driver started making lewd gestures at me. Although I was alone (without security), I had to stop the taxi. My car (she had a driver) came to a stop in front of that taxi,” Mimi told Metro on Tuesday. “It was raining heavily… I came out of my car and confronted him (the taxi driver). I shook him by the collar and taught him a good lesson. A crowd started to gather… traffic was coming to a halt… so I had to let him go and he sped away. I had the belief that the administration would catch hold of him and that is what has happened. By night he was caught,” she said. Despite the rain and the Covid pandemic, Mimi stepped out of the car and confronted the man. She could have noted the number and gave it to the police. Why did she get out of the car? “That was my responsibility as a citizen and that is what I did. I just knew if I didn’t put a stop to this, he might mistreat another woman the next day. He was drinking and driving. He is a taxi driver… women get into his cab with the belief that he will ferry them home safely. How safe will they feel? So I had to take that step,” said Mimi, who lodged an FIR. “It is very important that a woman raises her voice and protests. There are hundreds of such cases that go unreported because many women cannot muster the courage to protest,” said an officer in Lalbazar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-304
16-09-2020||Calcutta||Patchwork to cover potholes before Durga Puja||Damaged roads in the city will get a coat of patchwork before Durga Puja and the Calcutta Municipal Corporation has asked all agencies to complete the work by October 15, a civic official said. Repairs before Durga Puja are an annual affair — one of the two times in a year when battered roads get somewhat healed. This year, though, this will be the first repair for many roads. No repair could be carried out before the monsoon because of the lockdown, the official said. The patchwork will provide a temporary cover to craters and potholes on roads. Such repairs do not last beyond a few months, according to civic engineers. It is even less if it rains. “All agencies who maintain roads in Calcutta were present at a meeting on Tuesday where it was decided to carry out the repairs. They have been asked to complete the repairs by October 15,” a CMC official who was present at the meeting said. “Besides the CMC, officials from the public works department, the Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority, the irrigation department and the Calcutta Port Trust were present at the meeting.” People have WhatsApped pictures of various potholed roads to Firhad Hakim (8335988888), the chairman of the CMC’s board of administrators. Police, too, have sent a list of roads where repairs are necessary and one more list is awaited. The traffic guards are preparing one more such list that will be given to the CMC, a police officer said. A 150m stretch of the Garia-bound flank from Calcutta International School to the Ruby crossing is in poor state, Chandan Banerjee, a New Garia resident, said. Banerjee takes the Bypass every day to reach his office near Esplanade. There are multiple craters and cars often brake suddenly to avoid a crater, raising the chance of the vehicle behind to crash into it, he said. “It is all the more difficult for two-wheelers and things worsen if it rains. Visibility drops during heavy rain and trying to negotiate a crater is risky.” At Tuesday’s meeting, an embargo was imposed on any project that will lead to digging roads from October 1 till Kali Puja, a CMC official said. All agencies will have a lot to do because many roads were not repaired before the monsoon, a CMC engineer said. The period between March and May is used to repair roads as this is a dry phase. But skilled hands were unavailable and moving material was difficult because of the lockdown. As a result, little work could be done, the engineer said. “There will be more work this year than previous years. There is already a backlog of roads that could not be repaired… the rain has further worsened their condition. So, carrying out repairs will be more difficult,” he said. Also, patchwork has its own disadvantages. It doesn’t stay for long. The friction caused by the movement of vehicles wears away the repairs within a few months. If it rains, the life of a patchwork gets further shortened, the engineer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-304
16-09-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta Metro pass relief for senior citizens||Metro trains ferried a little over 27,000 people on the Noapara-Kavi Subhash (New Garia) route on Tuesday, a jump of 7,000 over the previous day when the carrier had resumed commercial service for all following the Covid-induced suspension. On Tuesday, Metro announced that “senior citizens” (60 years and above) would be able to enter stations without e-passes from 11.30am to 4.30pm. The first and last trains leave the terminal stations at 8am and 7pm, respectively. Senior citizens have to bring an identity proof — PAN card, Aadhaar card, driving licence, passport or voter card — to enter the station and will need a smart card to board a train. The tech barrier had prevented many aged people from availing themselves of the service and most of the seats reserved for senior citizens on trains were vacant on Monday and Tuesday. “Many senior citizens might have problems in getting familiar with the technology of booking e-passes. They can now enter Metro stations by showing an identity proof,” Metro spokesperson Indrani Banerjee said on Tuesday. Metro officials said 27,100 passengers travelled by Metro on Tuesday, compared with 20,000 the day before. Around 57,000 passes were booked on Tuesday, compared with the 53,000-odd on Monday, said the developer of the e-pass technology. An e-pass is needed for entry into a Metro station and a smart card for boarding a train. “The gap between bookings and actual trips will come down gradually,” said a Metro official. Like the previous day, the morning and evening office hours saw queues at some stations, most notably Dum Dum and Tollygunge, on Tuesday. From 9am to noon, the queue at Tollygunge kept getting longer every time a new slot was approaching. The 8am to 8pm operations have been divided into 12 one-hour slots. Around 9.55am, there were over 50 people in the queue. Around 10.40am, Metro tried booking a pass for the 11am-noon slot but none was available. Several passengers were yet to get familiar with the system of booking passes. Across stations, there were people seeking help from Railway Protection Force and police personnel for booking a pass. Around 10.15am at Tollygunge, a civic volunteer who seemed well versed with the system was surrounded by at least 10 passengers who sought her help. One of them was Durgacharan Dutta, who sells card-swiping machines for a private bank. The Bansdroni resident saw the civic volunteer helping others in booking passes and approached her for help. Dutta, however, could not find a pass for the 10am-noon slot and booked one for the next slot. “It’s okay. The system is new and people will take time to adjust. But Metro resumption is a big help. Riding a scooter from Tollygunge to Dalhousie takes over 40 minutes. An air-conditioned Metro ride takes half the time,” he said. In the evening, scores of passengers were seen trying to book passes outside Dum Dum, Esplanade, Park Street and Tollygunge stations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-304
16-09-2020||Calcutta||Covid shadow on cooking gas demand||Domestic LPG consumption in and around Calcutta has dipped over the past few months because of Covid-19, a number distributors of Indian Oil Corporation (IOC) said. Many distributors said the demand for refilled domestic LPG cylinders had gone down by more a thousand a month in their respective zones. A message from the IOC with a request to drive up sales reached distributors through WhatsApp this week. “Dear All Distributors: Industry growth in the month is 2 percent whereas growth of North 24-Pgs (-)10.5 percent, Kolkata (-)3 percent, South Kolkata (-) 2.23 percent. Pls come up. Check last 3 months’ refill data. Put your showroom staff and delivery man on the job for booking and delivery to these customers,” said one message. “Above negative growth in these three districts are of IOCL, ie of Kolkata AO (area office) ...,” the second message read. A senior IOC official, however, denied any drop in demand. “It’s true that the growth has stagnated for the last few months in and around Calcutta compared with the districts. But I don’t think there is a drop in refills,” said the official. The company had in July sent mails to the distributors in the city, informing them that several had registered negative growth in supplying refilled domestic LPG cylinders. According to the distributors, many of whom said they had sent their employees and delivery personnel to homes where refill demands have gone down to find out the reason, there are several factors for the dip. Many people who were staying on rent in Calcutta and surrounding areas, and working in private companies, shops, stores and other places, have lost their jobs following the Covid-related lockdown, which had brought business to a halt. Most of them have returned to their native places and, hence, are not booking refilled cylinders in the city. Many others have had their incomes drastically reduced and cut down costs, including those incurred on cooking. At many households cooks are not coming because they stay in suburbs and cannot commute to the city as train service has not yet resumed. Such families are either getting food from outside or cooking much less than their hired cooks used to, resulting in a slump in the LPG demand. Another reason for the LPG demand taking a hit is that many students and others who stayed as paying guests in the city have returned home because of Covid. Their landlords now have to cook much less. A homemaker at Jodhpur Park said their cooking gas consumption had gone down. “We are asking the cook to come every third day and she is cooking a dish that lasts three days. Earlier, she would come daily,” the homemaker said. “So, our LPG requirement has gone down from one every two months to one every two-and-a-half months. In fact, for the period when the cook was sent on leave, a cylinder lasted for even a longer duration because we used to cook on low flame and were careful to switch off when the ingredients were not ready, which a cook usually does not do,” she said. “There has been a sharp dip in refill orders for domestic LPG across Calcutta and the suburbs, which we think is a direct impact of Covid-19. This is in addition to the sharp dip in sales of commercial LPG cylinders because hotels and restaurants were closed for a long time. Many people are not ordering for refills at intervals which they would earlier do,” said Bijan Behari Biswas, president, Indane Distributors’ Association, West Bengal. Biswas said many of those who are in the BPL category and have been given money in advance by the Centre to get three cylinders free because of the pandemic are not booking refills. “Many of these consumers have spent the money on other things. So they are yet to take all the three refills that they are entitled to,” said Biswas. Sreema Indane Distributor in Garia has about 22,000 consumers. For the last five to six years, the agency had been supplying 14,000 to 14,500 refilled cylinders every month. Since July, the number has gone down to 11,000. “We have asked many delivery personnel not to come to work because of the fewer orders,” said Sunil Baran Dey, proprietor of Sreema Indane Distributor. “People don’t have money in hand and are trying to cut costs as much as possible.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-304
16-09-2020||Calcutta||Rs 5 lakh from Jadavpur University alumna to bridge gap||A Jadavpur University alumna who taught at the university for 36 years donated Rs 5 lakh to her alma mater to help it buy smartphones and data packs for poor students facing Net connectivity problems. Krishna Roy, 79, a resident of Jatin Bagchi Road in south Calcutta, had done her PhD from the university. She did not bother about the possible health risk and came to Aurobindo Bhavan — the university’s administrative headquarters — on Monday to hand over the cheque. The former head of the philosophy department had retired in 2006. During her stay on the campus she had seen many students grappling with financial problems, she said. The septuagenarian found it an “irresistible call” when she got to know of the university’s fundraising drive to build a corpus to help poor students with smartphones and high-speed data packs. “Scores of poor students study at JU. They cannot afford such a device or Net connectivity that is a must to attend online classes. When I got to know that vice-chancellor Suranjan Das has requested all to raise funds to help disadvantaged students, I found the call irresistible,” Roy said. In August, Das had requested university teachers and other employees to donate a day’s salary and the alumni, guardians and others to contribute and help raise money to provide students with smartphones and high-speed data packs so that they can overcome the digital divide and attend classes. Roy who had graduated from Jogomaya Devi College believes in the joy of giving. Last year, she had donated Rs 5 lakh to an organisation that works to help those in distress. “I am a pensioner. Whatever I draw I consider adequate for my sustenance. When my alma mater is going to unparalleled lengths to tide over the digital divide, I thought I would do as much to support the initiative,” Roy said. On Monday, she had met Gour Krishna Pattanayak, the finance officer of JU. He took her to the vice-chancellor’s office. “I had heard about Suranjan babu but hadn’t got any opportunity to meet him. Considering that virtual education is the way forward during the pandemic, what he has been doing is laudable,” Roy said. “I am touched by the Krishna Roy’s gesture. At a time like this when everybody is busy saving for himself or herself, wary of what is going to unfold, this gesture of giving stands out,” VC Das said. “It will help us ensure no one is left out for want of Net connectivity.” Some former mechanical engineering students have donated Rs 1.95 lakh to the corpus. Ananda Sengupta, a former student from the mechanical engineering department who, like VC Das, is from South Point School, played a key role in raising the fund. A survey on Net connectivity, conducted by the university, has shown 110 students need smartphones and 400-odd students need high-speed data packs. Classes for the new semester in arts and science have started from September 14 and the university has started the process of buying phones and data packs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-304
16-09-2020||Calcutta||In coronavirus crisis, interest-free loans ||Shankar Paswan ran a roadside sindoor stall in the Kalighat area before he had to shut up shop because of the lockdown. He used up his capital, borrowed money from lenders and survived on rations. Customers started returning but Paswan had no capital to restart his business. He needed Rs 3,000. Siliya Debi needed Rs 2,000 to restart the tea stall she had been running in Hazra for more than 15 years. It is no mean sum for her to arrange with grandchildren at home to feed. Calcutta Social Project, an NGO that has been working with women and children for almost five decades have decided to provide interest-free loans to such vendors to help them restart their businesses during the pandemic. The idea is not to give them donations or grants but let them remain “self-respecting vendors”, Arjun Dutta, the president of Calcutta Social Project, said. “They have to repay as and when they are able to.” The NGO will provide loans ranging from Rs 2,000 to Rs 7,000. The thought of giving loans came after speaking to food aid beneficiaries whom the NGO has been providing with ration during the lockdown, Dutta said. “We realised there are so many small independent people who have been reduced to being destitute… dependents on our charity… who have lost their security, self-respect and sustainability,” he said. “We have started identifying such people and restoring their businesses by helping them with funds. We will do this for small operators and they will repay when they can… the time can be decided when the loan is disbursed.” The NGO has formed a panel for the livelihood loans programme to “identify genuine people in need of help”. Those who have been given loans are not being left to themselves. Volunteers from the NGO are tracking their progress, Dutta said. On Tuesday, Paswan reopened his shop after more than six months. He went to Burrabazar on Monday to buy sindoor and shades with the Rs 3,000 he received. He has kept aside some for further investments. “During the lockdown I was forced to take a loan of Rs 5,000 from a lender at an interest rate of 10 per cent. He has been after me for the money…. but how could I repay with no source of income till now?” Till Tuesday afternoon he had earned only Rs 20 unlike the pre-lockdown days when he used to make Rs 300 a day on average. “People are trickling in... at least I have been able to restart my business,” he said. The NGO has given donors the option of directly funding beneficiaries on its list, Dutta said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-304
16-09-2020||Calcutta||Building plan telecom terms||Developers building housing complexes, commercial buildings and offices in New Town have to provide details in building plans about space allotted to set up telecom and Internet infrastructure, an official of the New Town Kolkata Development Authority said. Builders have to specify where they want to keep space for mobile phone towers and power generating units, among others, in their building plans, the official said. This has been done as several communities in the township’s three action areas have reported low network areas or shadow areas. The problem is not limited not only to New Town. Several Calcuttans face the problem of sketchy network and low data speed. Several residents and housing communities across the city have fixed repeater access points and network boosters haphazardly in empty places without any prior planning, the NKDA official said. These boosters are often installed illegally, the official said. “Most residents who don’t get proper network coverage are using boosters… they buy them themselves or ask local technicians to do so. These devices are not fixed by service providers.” Vinita Agarwal, 34, who stays in New Town’s Action Area II, said she had to ask a local technician to fix a network booster because she barely got any network in her house and faced problems while working from home. “I have been working from home during the lockdown… and I have faced major network problems. For days I had no network and we called a technician who suggested we get a booster installed. When we asked him for one he suggested another man’s name… that person came and installed it the next day. I paid Rs 2,000. Now we have much better network and decent data speed,” Agarwal said. Debashis Sen, the NKDA chairman, said many people were working from homes and most students were studying online. This has brought to the fore the shortcomings of a weak network in New Town, he said. In order to identify shadow zones where the broadband reach is poor, the NKDA has decided to conduct a house-to-house survey. “The survey will be done quickly by a competent agency after an expression of interest. Special attention will be given by Hidco and NKDA to see how a Rapid Action Connection can be achieved by putting in additional resources. The places with poor Net connectivity is worrying. Several residents have complained to us,” Sen said. The building plans must have details of spaces allocated to set up telecom infrastructure in order to get the plans passed, he said. It will be made mandatory as are electrical and mechanical plans that include where space for AC units, ducts, fire pumps and various electrical utilities, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-305
16-09-2020||Calcutta||Jadavpur University teacher dead||The former dean of arts at Jadavpur University, Subhasis Biswas, who had tested positive for Covid, died early on Tuesday. Biswas, 49, was admitted to a private hospital last Wednesday after he took ill at his home in Garfa. The history professor was put on a ventilator on Monday. Biswas’s tenure as dean ended in June 2019. In August 2018, he had resigned from the post of dean, head of the history department and convener of the admissions committee following complaints that many students who had scored 90 per cent or more in the Plus II board exams had been given 10 out of 100 or less in the university’s admissions test. Some of the prospective students had moved court. He had later withdrawn his resignation. After his tenure ended as dean, he continued as a professor in the history department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-305
16-09-2020||Calcutta||‘Can’t be an IPS officer’, teen kills herself||A Class VII student is believed to have jumped off the top floor of an 11-storey building on Amherst Street, where she stayed with her parents in a fifth-floor flat, on Tuesday. A note found on her said she was upset because of her exam results and failure to become an IPS officer. She was only 13 and a police officer’s daughter. The one-page note said: “I didn’t get good marks though I studied hard cuz (because) all are the best. I am really happy that I am going to die…. But the saddest thing is this that I cannot be a (an) IPS officer.” The teenager’s class teacher said she was an “above average student” and did well in the online test held last week. She scored 20 out of 20 in geography, 19 out of 20 in English and history, and 17 out of 20 in science. The students had been told their marks, the school said. “She was friendly and active in extracurricular activities. It’s shocking that she decided to end her life,” an official of the school said. The only child of her parents, the girl wanted to become a police officer like her father, but of a higher grade. Her mother was home while her father was on duty when the girl killed herself. A man who was parking a scooter in the compound heard a loud thud behind him. As he turned around, he saw the girl lying in a pool of blood. Amherst Street police station, which is in the same compound, was alerted almost immediately. The girl’s mother told the police that her daughter was fiddling with her mobile phone minutes before she jumped to her death. “We have evidence that she jumped from the top floor,” said an officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-305
16-09-2020||Calcutta||Covid waste notice to 2 hospitals ||The state pollution control board has slapped showcause notices and imposed fines on two hospitals, AMRI Salt Lake and Satyabala ID hospital in Howrah, for flouting Covid waste management rules. “AMRI has been fined Rs 10 lakh, Satyabala hospital Rs 5 lakh, following an investigation by the board,” board chairman Kalyan Rudra said on Tuesday. The unit was inspected by West Bengal Pollution Control Board officials on August 17, the board said in its order. “During inspection, officials found yellow and red bags of biomedical waste in huge numbers stored in the open in a non-designated area…. This is a violation of the Bio Medical Waste (Management & Handling) Rules, 2016.” While yellow bags are supposed to contain infectious anatomical waste and medicines, red bags are meant for contaminated medical waste. Subsequently, the board ordered AMRI to “submit an EC (environmental compensation) of Rs 10 lakh within 10 days” from the date of issue of the board’s letter, which is August 28, 2020. A board official said the hospital had sought a waiver. A spokesperson for AMRI said the government-notified medical waste lifting agency was at fault because it did not clear the Covid medical waste within the stipulated time and that led to the dumping. “We have earlier communicated the problem to the PCB,” the spokesperson said. The hospital has set up a dedicated room to keep medical waste, including PPEs, he said. “They should have done it to start with as per the norms… they cannot pass the buck and blame the agency,”a public health expert said. Satyabala ID hospital, a government unit treating Covid patients, has been fined as it was found during inspection that the “unit has not installed ETP (effluent treatment plant) and was operating without the valid consent” to handle biomedical waste. Earlier people had complained against the hospital for scattering infectious medical waste and PPEs. “We are not in a position to invest in an ETP ourselves and we had referred the matter to higher authorities,” a hospital official said. “We have already sent a letter apologising to the PCB for the violation and promised that there would not be any repetition of such violation,” Bhabani Das, the chief medical officer of health, Howrah, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-305
16-09-2020||Calcutta||Vikram charged for Sonika death||A city court on Tuesday framed charges against actor Vikram Chatterjee in connection with the death of model Sonika Singh Chauhan. One of the charges is culpable homicide not amounting to murder, which can lead to 10 years in jail. Among the other charges Vikram faces are drink driving and rash and negligent driving. The framing of charges has paved the way for the trial to begin. Vikram was at the wheel of his Toyota Corolla Altis when it crashed into the kerbside along Rashbehari Avenue early on April 29, 2017. Sonika, who police said was seated beside Vikram, died on the spot. The Indian Penal Code sections slapped on Vikram are 304(II), which deals with causing culpable homicide not amounting to murder with knowledge that it is likely to cause death but without intention; 279, which relates to rash driving; 338, which is relevant to causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others; and 427, which deals with mischief. Vikram has also been charged under Section 185 of the Motor Vehicles Act, which deals with drink driving. The court retained all the charges filed by the police. During the court proceedings, the public prosecutor had pressed for the charge of murder. Vikram’s lawyer Anirban Guha Thakurta had contested the plea saying the actor had no intention to kill “his friend” and, hence, could not be tried for murder. The court accepted Guha Thakurta’s plea and rejected the murder charge. Vikram is out on bail and has resumed his acting career. Clad in a white shirt, blue jeans and a black mask, he attended the court proceedings on Tuesday. Outside the court, when asked for his reaction, he refused to comment on the proceedings and said he had full faith in his team of lawyers. Sections under which actor Vikram Chatterjee will be tried:||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-305
16-09-2020||Calcutta||Three ‘beggars’ of Banjara gang in theft net||Three male members of the “Banjara gang” have been arrested in connection with multiple thefts across the city in the past month, police said. The male members of the gang engage their wife and children in cheating people and robbing homes in the guise of begging, the police said. The gang had been active in parts of Entally, Phoolbagan and Narkeldanga in the past few weeks. “But in Narkeldanga and Entally, the men themselves were involved… they had gone disguised as beggars,” an officer said. Cops started investigating two thefts in Narkeldanga and Entally last month when they came across CCTV footage that had the same set of male beggars present in the area where the thefts had been reported. The third case was reported in the Phoolbagan police station area. Gold ornaments, expensive utensils, laptops and other electronic devices had been reported stolen in all three locations. “A pattern was emerging. It became clear that the same gang was operating in all these locations,” a detective department officer said. A separate team comprising officers of the detective department’s anti-burglary squad was formed to track down the gang. Investigators got to know that a group of men had been camping on the Sealdah station premises for the past few weeks. Cops learnt that the men would usually send their wives and children to roam around the city and steal valuables from houses and shops whenever they could. Three men were arrested in the Sealdah station area, two of whom were spotted in the CCTV footage of the areas where the thefts had been reported. The police identified them as Shekhar Nag, Indra Singh and Khokon Singh. The station area was raided around 2am on September 12, an officer said. The gang was caught sleeping. There were many men and women and children but only the three were picked up because of the direct evidence, the officer said. Cops have seized gold and silver ornaments, laptops, mobile phones, a camera, and a mobile phone power bank from them. The gang keeps shifting from one place to another. Women with kids in their arms beg during the day. As a part of the modus operandi, women and children beg and steal and the men sell the stolen goods and run their families with the money, the police said. A few months ago, two women from a similar all-women gang had been arrested in Patuli. They had tried to steal valuables from a house in the guise of beggars with children in their arms. One of the women was pregnant, the police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-305
16-09-2020||Calcutta||Durga Puja organisers tweak plans to abide by Mamata’s plea||Several Durga Puja organisers have decided to alter their structures to ensure pandals have a bigger space and air circulates freely, conditions that experts say hinder the spread of Covid-19. Throughout Tuesday some of the organisers met their artists and decorators to discuss ways to abide by the advisory issued by chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday. They discussed how to go about altering their pandals with less than 40 days to go till the Puja. Some organisers wondered whether the ceiling height of the pandal could be increased, while others pondered over how to build additional gates to ensure the air flow was not hindered. Organisers who have an open space to erect pandals — like Deshapriya Park and College Square — discussed multiple options, including increasing the overall square feet of the structure to have more space for less visitors. Those who have just a lane or a road to erect pandals — like Nalin Sarkar Street and Kalighat 64 Pally — were planning to suitably modify their themes in keeping with the advisory of the chief minister. Mamata had on Monday said Durga Puja pandals should be open on all sides so that there was free movement of air. “Durga Puja is a big challenge and in Bengal it is a national festival. Let the pandals be kept open so that there is circulation of air,” Mamata had said. “Open thakley hawa batash boibe (If it is open, air will flow). It is for precaution. To be safe.” By Tuesday evening, many of the organisers managed to firm up their alternative plans. “After a long discussion with our decorator we decided to do away with a thakur ghor from this year so that there is more space for air to circulate,” said Kajal Sarkar of Bosepukur Sitala Mandir Puja Committee. “If the chief minister wants so, we have to abide by it.” Some organisers, including Kalighat Milan Sangha and Maddox Square, have similar options. “We will have a space, measuring around 30 feet X10 feet, which will separate visitors from those who will be engaged in rituals in front of the idols. The ceiling height is also being increased. The idea is to have free circulation of air,” said Sandipan Banerjee of Behala Notun Dal puja committee. “There are several ways to tackle the challenge. The usual style of forcing visitors to take zig-zag turns to enter a pandal will have to be done away with,” said Biswanath Dey, a theme artist who is working with at least three big pujas in south Calcutta this time. “Installations before reaching the main idol will have to be removed and where the space is constricted, adjoining houses and buildings can be made to look like a part of the overall concept.” In July, the Forum for Durgostav, an umbrella organisation of about 350 pujas in Calcutta, had agreed on a 17-point code on how to organise the Puja amid all restrictions. One of the codes was that pandals would be constructed in a way so one could see the idol even from a distance. “After the chief minister’s appeal, we have asked all our members to find ways so that air circulation is not hindered in a pandal,” said Saswata Basu, the secretary of Hatibagan Sarbojonin Durgostav Committee and also secretary of the forum. The chief minister is scheduled to meet Puja organisers on September 25.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-305
16-09-2020||Calcutta||Reopen rider for schools||Education minister Partha Chatterjee said on Tuesday the government was in no position to tell when schools and colleges could resume in-person classes, given the spread of Covid. On the sidelines of a programme in Behala, where a reporter asked him about the state government’s plans to resume on-campus classes, Chatterjee said: “The schools and colleges will reopen only when the situation becomes normal. As of now, the institutions are closed till September 30. How can you even ask when schools will reopen? Covid cases are still increasing rapidly…. I have no idea how you can open schools now.” The global advisory committee on Covid that the state government has set up is concerned about the situation, Chatterjee said. That committee, helmed by Nobel laureate Abhijit Vinayak Banerjee, is helping the state formulate strategies to minimise the impact of the pandemic on the economy, said an official of the education department. The Centre’s guidelines allow students of Classes IX to XII to go to school to consult teachers from September 21 with written consent from parents. But a senior state government official said on Tuesday evening: “We have not taken any decision on that yet.” Bengal on Tuesday reported 3,227 Covid-19 cases, 59 deaths and 2,996 recoveries. The total number of cases is over 2.09 lakh. In all, Bengal has had 4,062 Covid deaths till Tuesday. After a 15-day streak of a fall in the number of active cases, which ended on September 8, the state has seen a rise in count for eight consecutive days. The state government’s focus will be on reaching education to students in the absence of in-person classes, the minister said. “There is a need to ensure that studies continue and they are taken within the reach (of students). We will see to it…. If there is a rethink after September 30, we will see,” said Chatterjee. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had on July 28 said the state government had set a target to reopen the institutions from September 5 on alternate days if the situation allowed. The plan was not pursued as the situation did not improve.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-305
16-09-2020||Calcutta||Tiger claims third victim in four days||A fisherman who was part of a team that had ventured inside the Sunderbans forests to catch crabs died after being attacked by a tiger while he was cooking on the bank of a creek on Sunday morning, a forest official said. This was the third death from tiger attack in the Sunderbans in four days. The official said Gopal Baidya, 57, and two other men had left Satjelia village in the Gosaba block, South 24-Parganas, on a small country boat to catch crabs in the narrow creeks of the mangrove delta. Baidya was killed by the tiger in the Jhila 6 forest. Two other men lost their lives in the same forest area after being mauled by tigers on Thursday and Friday. Forest department officials said the body of Baidya could not be recovered as the tiger had dragged him deep inside the mangroves. “The tiger attacked Baidya from behind. The other fishermen tried to scare the animal off but it dragged Baidya deep inside the forest,” an official said. V.K. Yadav, the chief wildlife warden of Bengal, said: "We are tracking the developments closely and taking all measures. Fishermen have been alerted and we always ask them not to get off their boats and step on banks or embankments,” said Yadav. The Sunderbans field director, Tapas Das, said the men, like others, had ventured into a narrow creek to catch crabs. According to Das, the forest department carries out regular awareness drives and requests those venturing out into the forest not to catch fish or crabs in the creeks as the tigers can easily swim across and attack them. “The creeks offer more in terms of catch but fishing or trapping crabs there is extremely risky,” said Das.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-305
16-09-2020||Business||RBI 'battle ready' to kick-start growth, says Shaktikanta Das||RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das on Wednesday said economic recovery is still not well entrenched and that the central bank is "battle ready" to take appropriate measures to support growth. Addressing a virtual conference organised by industry body Ficci, Das said that Gross Domestic Product (GDP) data released by the government was a "reflection of the ravages of the Covid-19". The economy contracted 23.9 per cent during the April-June quarter on account of the strict lockdown imposed by the government towards end of March to check the spread of coronavirus infections. "Nevertheless, high frequency indicators of agricultural activity, the purchasing managers' index that is PMI for manufacturing and certain private estimates on unemployment point to some stabilisation of economic activity in the second quarter of the current year, while of course contractions in several other sectors are also simultaneously easing," he said. However, Das said that the economic recovery was not yet fully entrenched and also that the recovery is likely to be gradual. "The recovery is, however, not yet fully entrenched and moreover, in some sectors, the uptick, which was noticed in June and July they appear to have levelled off. By all indications the recovery is likely to be gradual as efforts towards the reopening of the economy are confronted with rising infections," he said. At the same time, Das assured the industry that the RBI stands "battle ready" and whatever measures are required will be taken to support liquidity, growth and control price rise. According to him, the immediate policy response to Covid-19 in the country has been to prioritise the stabilisation of the economy and support quick recovery policies for durable and sustainable high growth in the medium term post the coronavirus. The Governor also said financial market conditions in India have eased significantly across segments in response to the front-loaded cuts in the policy repo rate and large system-wide as well as targeted infusion of liquidity by the central bank. "We are also very carefully monitoring the markets. As and when required further measures will be taken. I even said it earlier during my statements that the RBI stands fully prepared... I had used the terminology that the RBI stands battle ready and whatever measures are required will be taken up by the RBI," he said. Despite substantial increase in the borrowing programme of the government, Das said that persistently large surplus liquidity conditions have ensured non-disruptive mobilisation of resources at the lowest borrowing costs in a decade. Currently, government paper borrowing rates are the lowest in the last 10 years, he added. Moreover, Das said that benign financing conditions and the substantial narrowing of spreads have spurred a record issuance of corporate bonds of close to Rs 3.2 lakh crore during 2020-21 up to August. Noting that fragility of NBFCs is a concern, Das said the RBI is regularly monitoring the health of top 100 NBFCs and it would be the endeavour of the central bank that no large institution should fail. Prior to the IL&FS crisis, Das said there were light touch regulations for the NBFC sector and the RBI is now trying to bring the regulations at par with banks so that there is no repeat of failure. Regarding loan restructuring scheme, the RBI chief said he would look into the suggestions of the industry. Interests of depositors and financial stability were kept in mind while framing the loan restructuring scheme, he said, adding that it had to be careful and a balanced decision on the part of the RBI. "The primary concern of any banking system should be the protection of the depositors' interests because ultimately it is the depositors' money. "... so, on the one hand we had to keep in mind the interest of the depositors, the need to maintain financial stability, the stability of the banking sector as we don't want a repeat of the situation which India experienced a few years ago where the NPA levels of banks had gone up very steeply," he said. On the other hand, Das said, "we are also equally mindful of the fact that Covid-19 has substantially affected a large number of businesses and particularly businesses that have availed loans from the banks. Therefore, they also needed some relief". The emphasis of resolution plan is to enable companies facing cash problem due to Covid-19 crisis to come back to normalcy and resume their activities, he noted. "So both the sides had to be matched. In fact, the revival of businesses would also ensure that the NPA levels are kept low and it will also ensure a quicker economic recovery," he said. Describing the New Education Policy 2020 (NEP) as a historic and much needed new age reform, he said it has the potential to leverage India's favourable demographics by prioritising human capital and that the goal to increase public investment in the education sector to 6 per cent of GDP must be pursued vigorously. It is important to recognise that investment in education pays by raising average wages, he said, adding that higher education also contributes to economic development through greater sensitivity to environment/ climate change, energy use, civic participation and healthy lifestyle. "While laudable crisis time response to scale up health infrastructure has helped in dealing with the health emergency, a more comprehensive approach similar to NEP for the health sector may be warranted, which must also cover deeper penetration of insurance, given the high burden of out of pocket expenses in India, and also preventive care," he said. Noting that India's participation in Global Value Chains (GVCs) has been lower than many emerging and developing economies, he said there is need to tap this potential segment for bolstering global trade and growth. A sharp policy focus on other GVC intensive "network products", including equipment for IT hardware, electrical appliances, electronics and telecommunications, and automobiles would also provide the cutting edge to India's export strategy with considerable scope for higher value additions, he added. Terming tourism as an engine of growth, the RBI Governor said although the sector is severely impacted by Covid-19, this is a sector where pent up demand could drive a V shaped recovery when the situation normalises. He also said the Covid-19 has brought the importance of food security and food distribution or supply chain network to the forefront of public policy debate in India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-288
16-09-2020||Business||Tax break for start-ups likely||Start-ups are likely to get a major tax break with the parliamentary standing committee of finance recommending that the tax on long term capital gains be abolished by at least two years for all investments funnelled through collective investment vehicles (CIVs) such as angel funds, alternative investment funds (AIFs) and investment limited liability partnerships (LLPs). “At a minimum, this should be done for at least the next two years to encourage investments during the pandemic period,” the committee said in a report posted on the Lok Sabha website. “After this two year period, the Securities Transaction Tax (STT) may be applied to CIVs so that revenue neutrality is maintained.” The committee noted that Investments by CIVs are transparently done and have to be done at fair market value. Thus, it is easy to calculate the STT associated with these investments. This can be done in lieu of imposing the long-term capital gains tax on these CIVs “to make the taxation system fairer, less cumbersome, and transparent,” the committee added. “This will also ensure that investments in unlisted securities are on a par with investments in listed securities.” STT is imposed at 0.1 per cent of the value of listed shares traded on exchanges. The panel said that unicorns —startups with over $1 billion valuation — need to be scaled up, and the source for their capital-raising should be Indian as against current source of US and Chinese funds. India has about 50 ‘unicorns’ that are now worth more than $500 billion collectively, and are leaders in the IT services, telecom, financial services, airline, e-commerce, and retailing industries, according to the report. The committee felt that the current law governing the taxation of long-term capital gains is “highly complex” due to varying tax treatment of income from capital gains based on varied parameters such as holding, tax rates that range from 10 per cent to 40 per cent and allows indexation only in respect of certain assets. It said the capital gains tax rates for investment in unlisted shares by domestic investors can range from 28.49 per cent  to 42.74 per cent. The complex tax regime dampens the enthusiasm of investors in the private equity (PE)/venture capital (VC) that are eyeing Indian investments. It said there was a need to incentivise large PE/VC funds to invest in the private sector and provide necessary capital to cash crunched companies. The report said that in various developed jurisdictions such as the US, the UK and other EU, capital gains earned by foreign investors are not taxed. Closer to home, countries such as Singapore do not have any capital gains tax, which attracts investors to pool/ invest in Singapore, the report added. The recommendation comes at a time when the Modi government amended its FDI policy by deciding to clamp down on investments in Indian companies through Chinese investors by subjecting them to rigorous scrutiny.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-288
16-09-2020||Business||WTO rap on US tariffs||The World Trade Organisation said on Tuesday that the Trump administration’s tariffs on Chinese goods totaling more than $200 billion are illegal under the rules of the global trade body. The decision marks the first time the Geneva-based trade body has ruled against a series of tariffs that President Donald Trump’s government has imposed on a number of countries, allies and rivals alike. Trump has repeatedly criticised the WTO, which oversees international disputes on trade, for allegedly treating the US unfairly. In its decision, the WTO ruled against the Trump administration’s argument that China has engaged in practices harmful to US interests, on issues including intellectual property theft, technology transfer and innovation. The ruling, in theory, would allow China to impose retaliatory tariffs on billions worth of US goods — if the process is completed. But the US government can appeal the decision announced by the WTO’s dispute settlement body, and the WTO’s appeals court is currently no longer functioning — largely because of Washington’s single-handed refusal to accept new members for it. The US tariffs target two batches of Chinese products. Duties of 10 per cent were imposed on some $200 billion worth of goods in September 2018, and were jacked up to 25 per cent eight months later. AP||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-288
16-09-2020||Business||Exide shifts strategy||Automotive and industrial battery major Exide sees a better opportunity in the lithium ion sector amid the ongoing economic slowdown and geopolitical tensions, with many of its existing clients reviewing their sourcing strategy from China. The company’s managing director and CEO Gautam Chatterjee informed shareholders at the annual general meeting on Tuesday that Exide will benefit from an early mover approach through its joint venture with Swiss firm Leclanche. “The JV is well placed with an assembly line of 1.5 GWh capacity to take a leading position in the lithium ion battery market in India. Production lines have been ordered for battery pack assembly of cylindrical, prismatic and pouch cells, with some of them already in operations. Many pilot orders have been collected from multiple automotive OEMs, as well as large telecom operators, UPS manufacturers and solar PV companies,” Chatterjee said. He added that the existing infrastructure will give an edge as demand for lithium ion cells picks up in the country in a phased manner. The lockdown has taken a toll on the business with automobile sales being subdued. The company has decided not to undertake any major capital expenditure, including planning any greenfield expansion in the near future. However, Chatterjee said that brownfield expansions will be under consideration.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-288
16-09-2020||Business||Max buyback bonanza||Max India on Tuesday said it would come out with a capital reduction programme under which the company would buy back equity shares worth up to Rs 92 crore from the public. The company plans to offer its shareholders the option of taking Rs 85 per share for up to 20 per cent of their equity in lieu of cancelling the shares. The shares of Max India rallied more than 8 per cent to close at Rs 67.05 on the BSE after the announcement. The buyback price translates to a 37 per cent premium to the closing price of the Max India scrip on Monday. Max India, which got relisted on the bourses on August 28, said it had Rs 400 crore in its kitty primarily from the divestment of its erstwhile subsidiary Max Bupa. Max wants to use up to Rs 92 crore of the sum for capital reduction, while the balance of more than Rs 300 crore will be apportioned for growth and other operational expenses. “The board has approved the capital reduction exercise. The proposal will need to be approved by a special resolution of public shareholders. It will additionally need regulatory approvals including from stock market regulator and NCLT, Mumbai. The approval process is expected to take about 6-8 months,” Max India said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-288
16-09-2020||Business||Goodricke meets goals||Premium tea maker Goodricke on Tuesday said that uprooting and replantation exercise is a continuous process for the company and the average age of bushes is less than 50 years. Speaking at the AGM, Goodricke MD & CEO Atul Asthana said that due to modernisation and replantation, the company had been able to meet the production shortfall as the entire workforce was not available due to the pandemic. He said that more areas have been brought under tea cultivation by introducing modern irrigation methods.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-288
16-09-2020||Business||Apple subscriptions in a bundle||Apple Inc rolled out a new virtual fitness service and a bundle of all its subscriptions, Apple One, focusing a holiday-season product launch on services that are the backbone of Apple’s growth strategy and cater to customers working at home during the Covid-19 pandemic. Apple also introduced a new Apple Watch Series 6 that monitors blood oxygen and will cost $399, and a lower-cost Apple Watch SE for $279. The Apple One bundle will cost $15 per month for an individual plan or $20 per month for a family plan and include television, music and games. Apple is also offering a bundle for $30 per month that adds news, the fitness service and more storage. Apple said both new watches can be pre-ordered starting Tuesday and will be available on Friday. Apple also introduced the Apple Fitness+ service, powered by its watches, that will deliver virtual workouts for $10 per month or $80 per year and be available before the end of the year. Shares of exercise stationary bike maker Peloton Interactive Inc, which also has a subscription service, were up about 3.6 per cent after Apple’s announcement. Apple said that most of its workouts were designed to be conducted with either no equipment or minimal gear such as a set of dumbbells, whereas Peloton’s workouts typically require either a bike or a treadmill. The ability of the Apple Watch to monitor blood oxygen seeks to match a similar feature already available on watches from rival Fitbit Inc, which Alphabet Inc’s Google is buying for $2.1 billion. Apple added a faster chip to its base model iPad, which it priced at $329 for consumers and $299 for education customers. Apple’s new iPad Air will cost $599 and look more like its iPad Pro models and a new A14 processor chip that Apple says will be the first to use a 5-nanometer chip manufacturing process. Apple’s biggest seller — the iPhone —is expected to be announced next month after executives have said its launch will be delayed by several weeks because of pandemic-related disruptions. Apple shares have soared this year even as the virus has crippled economies around the world, thanks in large part to booming sales of work-from-home items.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-288
16-09-2020||Business||SAIL slips into the red||Domestic steel major SAIL has suffered a consolidated net loss of Rs 1,226.47 crore for the June quarter of 2020, mainly on account of reduced income. The company had posted a net profit of Rs 102.68 crore in the year-ago quarter, SAIL said in a BSE filing. During the quarter under review, the company said its total income declined to Rs 9,346.21 crore from Rs 14,998.20 crore in the April-June period of the preceding fiscal. Its total expenses stood at Rs 11,325.10 crore against Rs 14,893.07 crore a year ago. The company said the pandemic outbreak and measures to contain it have caused significant disturbance and slowdown of economic activities. Consequently, the company’s manufacturing operations had to be scaled down during the said quarter. “Though the operations resumed in the later part of the quarter with limited availability of workforce and disrupted supply chain, the restrictions imposed adversely impacted the sales volume and realisation,” SAIL said. Budget carrier SpiceJet on Tuesday reported a first-quarter net loss of Rs 600.5 crore owing to the suspension of flight operations because of the coronavirus-induced lockdown. It had posted a net profit of Rs 262.8 crore a year ago. The airline’s operating revenue stood at Rs 521 crore in the first quarter of 2020-21, significantly lower against Rs 3,002.8 crore a year ago. Operating expenses during the June 2020 quarter were Rs 1,311.6 crore compared with Rs 2,886.7 crore in the year-ago period.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-288
16-09-2020||Business||Toyota in Rs 2,000cr investment flip-flop||Toyota Kirloskar Motor (TKM) on Tuesday found out that investment plainspeak could land a company into a political pothole in the country. Some hours after threatening to stop expansion because of the Modi-government’s  lopsided taxation , the auto giant did a U-turn to keep the political hounds at bay. The Japanese car maker announced an investment of Rs 2,000 crore over the next 12 months after a senior official of the company had said it would stop all expansion in India on account of high taxes The announcement on investment was made by TKM vice-chairman Vikram Kirloskar, whose company, Kirloskar Systems Limited, holds 11 per cent in TKM. Earlier in the day, TKM vice-chairman and whole time director Shekhar Vishwanathan had in an interview to Bloomberg said the company would halt all expansion in view of the prevailing high taxes on cars. He had stated that the “central government keeps taxes on cars and motorbikes so high that companies find it hard to scale”. It also makes car-owning out of reach for many consumers which translates into idle factories and less jobs. “The message we are getting after we have come here and invested, is that we don’t want you,” Vishwanathan has been quoted as saying. All it then took was a tweet by heavy industries minister Prakash Javadekar. “The news that Toyota Company will stop investing in India is incorrect. vikramkirloskar has clarified that Toyota will invest more than Rs 2,000 crore in next 12 months,” the minister said in his tweet. Endorsing Javadekar, Kirloskar tweeted: “Absolutely! We are investing 2000+ crs in electric components and technology for the domestic customer and export. We are committed to the future of India.” Sandwiched between Vishwanathan’s assessment and the late evening climbdown, the company had put out a statement saying it would first try to “achieve full capacity utilisation which will take time”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-288
16-09-2020||Business||States may go to court for GST dues||Opposition-ruled states may go to court if the Centre is able to rustle up support in the GST Council to the “disagreeable” option of forcing the state governments to raise borrowings from the market to fill up the shortfall in the GST collections which is estimated at Rs 3 lakh crore this fiscal. The shortfall — which the Centre is obligated to compensate the states for a period of five years till 2022 — should have come out of the proceeds of a compensation cess that is levied on a handful of luxury and other demerit goods. But the cess isn’t likely to yield more than Rs 65,000 crore this year which leaves a yawning gap of Rs 2.35 lakh crore. The Centre has refused to fork out this sum. Instead, it has cleverly diced this sum up into two components: a sum of Rs 97,000 crore which it has arbitrarily attributed to the infirmities in GST implementation and a larger Rs 1.38 lakh crore that has been ascribed to the Covid-19 pandemic and treated as an exogenous factor outside the scope of the GST regime. States have been given the option of either borrowing a sum of Rs 97,000 crore through a special loan window to be created by the RBI or the entire sum of Rs 2.65 lakh crore at market rates. Most BJP-ruled states have weighed in favour of the first option and the proposal is likely to be carried at the GST Council meet this Saturday. The Centre has a one-third weightage in any Council vote which fairly secures the outcome. At least one state, Bengal, has not ruled out the possibility to challenge the Centre’s sinister plan to shake off its obligations under the GST which was critical in securing the states’ support for a contentious tax reform that required them to subsume virtually all their taxes and levies under an overarching tax system designed to create a pan-India common market. “Whether we will go to court or not is a strategy I can’t reveal,” Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra told Karan Thapar in an interview for news portal The Wire. Even though Mitra had always insisted that trust and consensus had been the guiding lights for ushering GST in the country, seeking the view of the attorney-general of India on GST compensation may have changed the equation. Some believe the Centre has paved the way for legalese in the matter of GST when it buttressed its stand with the AG’s view in an attempt to wreck the spirit of cooperative federalism that underpinned the GST regime. Bengal and several other non-BJP states want the Centre to borrow the entire shortfall. In return, they are okay with extension of cess collection period to pay for the principal and interest on the central loan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-288
16-09-2020||Business||Narendra Modi sows agri reforms||The Narendra Modi-government on Tuesday set the stage for big bang reforms in the farm sector when it secured the Lok Sabha’s approval for the first part of a three-stage legislative template with the passing of a bill to amend the 65-year-old Essential Commodities Act. The farm sector reforms — which will allow the Big Boys of Business to storm the country’s farmlands and grab control over the distribution of farm produce — are designed to break the hegemony of the mandis, usher in contract farming in a big way, catalyse the creation of large cold chain storage facilities and logistic networks and shake off decades-old stockholding restrictions that were designed to ensure a pricing system that would be fair to both farmers and retail consumers at the end of a convoluted value chain. The contours of the reform process were outlined in June when the Centre passed three ordinances that are now set to gain the imprimatur of Parliament through legislative amendments. But the changes have already sparked an outcry from opposition MPs who worry that the system is now being gamed to help big business rather than the farmers who supposedly will get a fair price for their produce. On Wednesday, the Lok Sabha is expected to debate the second piece of legislation — the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill — which seeks to give farmers the freedom to skirt the mandi system and sell their produce through alternative trading channels that the large retailing channels in the country hope to create. Later, the House will also debate a proposal to allow big business to establish large contract farms, which many believe will threaten the livelihood of the small and marginal farmers who hold less than 2 hectares of land each and account for over 86 per cent of all the farmers in the country. The Modi-government’s farm sector reforms came under attack during the Lok Sabha debate with several opposition members dubbing it as a thinly-disguised plan to favour a few crony capitalists while professing to create a brave new world for farmers. The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020, seeks to deregulate food items, including cereals pulses and onion. Trinamul Congress’ Saugata Roy and Kalyan Banerjee opposed the bill and accused the Centre of taking away the power of states. “I don't understand what was the hurry of bringing the ordinance,” Roy said and claimed the legislation will benefit big traders, while farmers would be left in the lurch. “It will give big corporates entry into the space of farmers.” The Opposition cited to the provision that does away with stock limit unless prices shoot up to extra-ordinary levels. Participating in the debate, Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal, an ally of the ruling BJP, spoke about “misgivings” and “doubts” among farmers on the Bill and two other proposed legislations related to the farm sector.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-289
16-09-2020||India||Congress questions govt claim of lockdown gains||Senior Congress leader Anand Sharma on Wednesday questioned the government's claims that the lockdown prevented up to 29 lakh Covid-19 cases. Initiating a discussion on the Covid-19 pandemic in Rajya Sabha, he said people of the country should know if the lockdown really helped in containing the spread of the disease. "The minister said in a statement yesterday that it has been estimated that this decision prevented approximately 14-29 lakh cases and 37-78 thousand deaths...how have you derived this figure? What is the scientific basis, the House must be informed," Sharma said. The day the lockdown was imposed the country had 600 cases which have now increase to 50 lakh cases, he added. Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan had said in Lok Sabha that the lockdown had prevented 14-29 lakh cases of coronavirus. While saluting the doctors and paramedic staff for their efforts during the pandemic, Sharma also asked the government to strengthen public healthcare system in the country. He said 70 per cent of the intensive care beds in the country were in private hospitals with the rest in government hospitals. "In view of this pandemic, I want to request the government that after talking to state governments there is a need to make public health infrastructure stronger because government hospitals treated poor people. Where they have 30 per cent beds, they treated 70 per cent of the cases," Sharma said. So the time has come to learn lessons from this situation and strengthen the system, he added. "Make an action plan starting now and tell us that it would be implemented in so many years," he noted. Referring to an article in a leading medical journal which questioned the credentials of hydroxychloroquine, Sharma said, "They had to take it back ..because it was fabricated..a case should be filed here as well because the pharma lobbies, as it is an affordable drug, want to discredit it.." Sharma also sought answers from the health minister regarding the ongoing development work on various drugs for the treatment of Covid-19. BJP member Vinay P Sahastrabuddhe said the government took decision on the lockdown based on discussion with state governments. He said the prime minister, home minister, home secretary, cabinet secretary held discussion with state chief ministers and chief secretaries around 15 times and no one opposed lockdown. "Central government took decision based on the basis of state governments. No decision was forced," Sahastrabuddhe said. He said often prime minister and home minister are targeted on social media by the opposition and other people. "I believe politics of responsibility is more important than politics of ridicule," he said. He said those who light candles near India Gate for any reason close to their heart do not like lighting a lamp to express gratitude towards health workers and security personnel. Sahastrabuddhe said that Madhya Pradesh government made arrangements for food and travel of migrant labourers and also developed an app to help get jobs for labourers. He, however, criticised the Maharashtra government for the management of the pandemic due to lack of coordination among officers of different department and political leaders in the government. Sahastrabuddhe said a 2000-bed Covid centre was set up in Thane and the beds were taken on rent as rentals involve various kind of "wrong dealings". He also said that no arrangement has been made by the state government to fill up vacancies in the health department. Samajwadi Party MP Jaya Bachchan said even her family members suffered due to the pandemic. "The way people were being treated in hospitals, the way Mumbai roads are getting sanitised every hour, it is incomparable. There should be no politics on this subject," Bachchan said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-664
16-09-2020||India||SC orders fresh probe into the 2017 death case of a National Law University student||The Supreme Court on Wednesday set aside a closure report filed by Rajasthan Police and ordered a fresh investigation into the mysterious death of a third-year student of the National Law University, Jodhpur, in August 2017. A bench of justices R F Nariman, Navin Sinha and Indira Banerjee said, "We have set aside the closure report. We have directed a de-novo investigation with certain more directions". On September 8, the top court had said there is a need for a re-investigation in the case. "We may direct re-investigation. This is not the way," the top court had observed after perusing the report filed by the Rajasthan Police in the matter. During the hearing of the case, advocate Sunil Fernandes, appearing for the victim's mother who has sought transfer of the case from Rajasthan Police to the CBI, had argued that there has been no progress in the probe. In July, the top court had said that the investigation in the matter should be completed within two months and a final report be filed before it. Petitioner Neetu Kumar Nagaich, mother of victim Vikrant Nagaich (21), has also sought a direction to the CBI to take all steps to "solve the mystery of the unnatural death". While claiming that an FIR was lodged in the case after a delay of around 10 months in June 2018, the petitioner has alleged that the manner in which the probe was conducted "leads to an inescapable reasonable apprehension" that it is a result of a "probable collusion to shield some high, mighty and influential person(s)". "Despite the lapse of almost three years, no charge-sheet has been filed. The investigation is at a stand-still, with no effort made to apprehend the offenders," said the plea while pointing out several alleged lapses in the investigation conducted by the police. It said that on August 13, 2017, the victim went to a restaurant, around 300 metres from the university campus, with his friends in the evening but he did not return, and his body was found the next morning near a railway track. The plea has alleged that the police neither approached Google or Facebook nor retrieved the victim's mobile phone data which could have helped in tracing his movement to ascertain the events on the night of August 13, 2017. It has claimed that the police have also not retrieved the victim's chat conversations of the night of the incident from WhatsApp. The plea has said the chat conversation data would have been important in ascertaining who the victim was talking to or planning to meet at that hour, and it would also have been instrumental in unearthing the events which led to the death. "The chronology of events raised a reasonable suspicion that the death of petitioner's son was not merely an accident or a suicide, but was something more grave and profound, which demanded immediate consideration and investigation," it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-664
16-09-2020||India||DGCI nod to Serum Institute to resume Covid vaccine trials||Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) Dr V G Somani has gave permission to Serum Institute of India to resume clinical trial of the Oxford Covid-19 vaccine candidate in the country while revoking its earlier order of suspending any new recruitment for phase two and three trial. The DCGI has, however, put certain conditions like taking extra care during screening, providing additional information in informed consent and close monitoring for adverse events during follow-up of the study which have to be "scrupulously" followed by Serum Institute of India (SII). SII has also been asked to submit to the DCGI's office details of medication used in accordance with the protocol for management of adverse events. The DCGI had on September 11 directed Serum Institute of India to suspend any new recruitment in the phase two and three clinical trial of the Oxford Covid-19 vaccine candidate till further orders in the backdrop of pharma giant AstraZeneca pausing the clinical trials in other countries because of "an unexplained illness" in a participant in the study. On Saturday, British-Swedish biopharmaceutical giant AstraZeneca and the University of Oxford said clinical trials for their coronavirus vaccine have resumed in the UK after the Medicines Health Regulatory Authority's (MHRA) confirmed that the trials were safe. SII, which has partnered with AstraZeneca for manufacturing the vaccine candidate for Covid-19, on Tuesday submitted the recommendations of the Data and Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB), UK and DSMB, India, and requested for permission to restart enrolment in the clinical trial. According to Tuesday's order issued by DCGI, the DSMB, UK, recommended that the investigators recommence all immunization in their clinical trials subject to certain conditions. DSMB, India, also has recommended to continue the study and enrol the remaining participants in the clinical trial as per protocol subject to certain conditions. According to the order, SII has submitted revised participant information sheet, revised informed consent form and additional safety monitoring plan for the evolved participants. The Pune-based firm has also submitted a summary of safety follow up of seven days post first vaccination, stating that no serious adverse events were experienced by any of the subjects till the date of the reporting, and the reported adverse events were stated to be mild, resolved on their own and did not have any sequela. "In view of the above, I Dr V G Somani, Drugs Controller General of India, Central Licensing Authority, after careful examination of your reply and the recommendations of the DSMB in India and in UK revoke herewith the order dated September 11 issued under Rule 30 of the New Drugs and Clinical Trials Rules, 2019. "You may recommence the clinical trial as recommended by DSMB, India, as per already approved protocol and the provisions laid down under the New Drugs and Clinical Trial Rules, 2019, subject to the conditions mentioned," the order said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-664
16-09-2020||India||1cr Self Help Group members for Covid awareness||The Mamata Banerjee government has decided to engage nearly 1 crore members of Self Help Groups to create awareness of how to battle the spread of Covid-19 in the rural areas of Bengal. The decision has been taken in the wake of rising Covid cases at villages. Initially, the spread of the virus was limited to two cities — Calcutta and Howrah — while cases were under control in rural districts. But the scene changed in the past few weeks. For example, on June 1, 48 per cent of the total 271 cases were reported from the rural districts and the remaining were from Calcutta and Howrah. On September 14, 78.2 percent of total 3,211 cases were recorded in the rural districts. The figure was 77.8 percent on September 13. As most villages have SHGs and the members are active in their areas, health department officials think they can play an effective role in creating awareness of dos and dont’s to fight Covid-19. “Nearly 10 lakh SHGs are registered with the panchayat department with more than 1 crore members. We plan to engage them in generating awareness and assisting the health department in the battle against the spread of the novel coronavirus,” said a senior state government official. According to the plan, members of the SHGs will be used to make people understand the importance of wearing masks and to assist the ASA (accredited social health activists) by providing them with information on health condition of villagers. Sources in the health department said the awareness campaign in the rural areas was the need of the hour as it had been found that many of the villagers didn’t know what to do if they felt unwell. There is a lack of clarity in large parts of Bengal about the symptoms of the disease. Some are also not following norms when they are sent to home isolation. “The SHG members could play a vital role here as they know each of the villagers personally,” said an official. It has been reported that the disease has started spreading since the Unlock period started as many are not wearing masks when they are out in markets or congested places. “Wearing of masks properly can help check the spread of the virus. The SHG members would be used to make people aware of this,” said an official. Till now, the ASA workers have been carrying out surveys in households on the health condition of people. This has helped in keeping the spread of the virus in check, said a source. The effort could be strengthened if SHG members could be engaged to assist the ASA workers, said the sources. According to a bureaucrat, Bengal has a total of 53,000 ASA workers who work in 53,000-odd gram panchayats. “On an average, each ASA worker covers a gram panchayat, which is a large area with a minimum of 10 villages. If SHG members are deployed to assist the ASA workers, the monitoring system would be strengthened,” said the bureaucrat. Members of the SHG have been given a basic training on their roles. A video clip has been prepared by the panchayat and the health departments and it has been sent to all the SHGs. The SHGs have trained their members on what they need to help the state arrest the spread of the disease. Though the SHG members would not be given any remuneration for this purpose, the response from the member to join the effort is encouraging, said sources. “Many of the members said they wanted to do the work voluntarily to keep their villages safe... The response we received from the SHG members clearly suggest we will be able to engage 70 per cent of the SHG members on this work shortly,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-664
16-09-2020||India||Rajnath’s ‘inner areas’ leaves PM Modi defenceless||Defence minister Rajnath Singh told the Lok Sabha on Tuesday that China has mobilised a large number of troops and ammunition along the Line of Actual Control and in “inner areas” and acknowledged that India is facing a challenge in Ladakh, his admission drawing attention to the Prime Minister’s all-is-well line in June and his inexplicable silence since. “Abhi ki stithi ke anusar, Chinese side ne LAC aur andruni chhetron me badi sankhya me sainik tukdiyan aur gola-barud mobilise kiya hua hai,” Rajnath told Parliament. He said there were “several friction points” in eastern Ladakh and named some — Gogra, Kongka La and the north and south bank of Pangong Lake. “I will not hesitate to share with this august House that we are facing a challenge in Ladakh,” he added. The defence minister’s statement is in sharp contrast to the Prime Minister’s statement at the all-party meeting on June 19, four days after 20 Indian soldiers were killed by the Chinese at the Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh. “Neither has anyone intruded into our frontier there, neither is any intruder there, nor is any of our posts occupied by someone else,” Narendra Modi had said. The Prime Minister has been diffident about acknowledging the border tension, the worst in 45 years, or even naming China. Speaking in Parliament on Monday, Modi had again failed to name China or even Ladakh and merely called upon the members to express solidarity with the soldiers guarding the borders. Rajnath repeated that appeal on Tuesday: “I urge the House to pass a resolution in support of our armed forces who have been defending our motherland at great heights and in inclement weather.” He did not clarify whether “inner areas” (andruni chhetron) meant inside the LAC on the Indian side. Speaker Om Birla did not allow any questions. The minister’s refusal to take questions prompted the Congress to stage a walkout in protest. Rajnath’s statement stood out for what he left unsaid: ⚫ He did not mention restoration of status quo ante along the LAC. While he spoke of complete disengagement and restoration of peace, there was no word on restoration of the pre-April status quo that India has been demanding since May. ⚫ Rajnath did not disclose how much India-claimed territory had been occupied by the Chinese in Ladakh. According to an estimate by the security establishment, China’s PLA is occupying nearly 1,000sqkm. ⚫ He did not clarify the Prime Minister’s “no-intrusion” claim. ⚫ Rajnath did not explain what exactly had happened on June 15 night, when 20 Indian soldiers were killed. ⚫ He did not say why India did not demand restoration of status quo ante during the talks between the foreign ministers in Moscow last week. The absence of the phrase has raised concerns that India might be trying to wriggle out of the dispute with a give and take. ⚫ The statement skipped any mention of the firing on September 7, the first time in 45 years, near a strategic mountain pass in eastern Ladakh. Rajnath accused China of trying to “unilaterally change the status quo” at the LAC in violation of past agreements and said Indian forces were fully prepared for “any eventuality” and determined to safeguard the country’s territorial integrity. Counter-mobilisation of forces has been made to protect India’s security interests, he said. Skipping any reference to reports of serious incursions by the Chinese army in the last few years, he instead talked indirectly about Aksai Chin and Pakistan-occupied Kashmir being taken over by China. “As the House is aware, China continues to be in illegal occupation of approximately 38,000sqkm in the Union Territory of Ladakh,” he said, adding that in 1963 Pakistan had illegally ceded 5,180sqkm of Indian territory in PoK to China. He also talked about China claiming large parts of Arunachal Pradesh. Briefing the House on his meeting with his Chinese counterpart in Moscow on September 4, Rajnath said: “I conveyed in clear terms our concerns related to the actions of the Chinese side…. I also made it clear that even as we wanted to peacefully resolve the issue... there should be no doubt about our determination to protect India’s sovereignty and territorial integrity.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-665
16-09-2020||India||Migrant deaths government won’t see||A research group has compiled what the government of India did not: the deaths of nearly a thousand migrant labourers while returning home during the lockdown and job losses for an estimated two-thirds of the migrants. The question does not arise because no data of people dying on the way are kept, the Centre had replied in Parliament on Monday, asked whether any compensation was given to the families of migrant workers who had died. But the Stranded Workers Action Network (SWAN) on Tuesday said 972 deaths had been counted among migrant workers till July 4 during the course of the various lockdowns. “These are reported deaths. The onus lies with the government to verify these deaths and give compensation. The government may differ on the nature of deaths but it is unfair to brush aside the deaths saying there are no data. They are poor people whose families must be paid compensation immediately,” said Anindita Adhikari, a SWAN volunteer. SWAN is an organisation of researchers who have conducted a telephone survey of workers and the problems they are facing and also tracked similar reviews by multiple institutions. SWAN has made the calculations based on data curated by Thejesh GN, a public database of reported deaths of migrant workers due to starvation, exhaustion, accident, lack of medical care, suicide and effects of alcohol withdrawal during the lockdown. According to the data provided by SWAN, 216 migrants died of starvation and financial distress, 209 due to road or train accidents, 133 committed suicide, 96 persons died aboard Shramik Special trains and 77 died due to lack of medical care. As many as 49 deaths were reported at quarantine centres, 49 deaths were attributed to alcohol withdrawal and another 48 to exhaustion. As many as 30 deaths were attributed to police brutality and lockdown-associated crimes while the remaining 65 deaths are unclassified. There could be many more cases that went undocumented, Adhikari said. About compensation, the SWAN report referred to a tweet by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on May 16 about an ex-gratia amount of Rs 2 lakh to be paid from the Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund to the next of kin of each of the migrants who died in an accident at Auraiya in Uttar Pradesh. The government has not made any public statement on whether the compensation has been paid, according to SWAN. The railways have not announced compensation for those who died, mainly from exhaustion, during the long and arduous journeys back home in trains. On job loss, the SWAN document refers to different sample surveys, including the organisation’s own telephone survey, all of which have data collected in April, May and June. According to Action Aid India’s report titled “Workers in the time of Covid-19”, which surveyed 11,537 people from 21 states, over three-fourths had lost their livelihood since the lockdown began on March 25 and close to half had received no wages during the lockdown. Five out of six respondents said they got inadequate food during the lockdown. According to the Centre for Sustainable Employment, Azim Premji University, which surveyed 5,000 workers from 12 states, two-thirds had lost their jobs. Nearly 90 per cent of the urban self-employed among those surveyed lost jobs and 91 per cent of Below Poverty Line households were left with no work. Similarly, 67 per cent of the respondents did not receive the Rs 500 a month for three months that the government had promised under the Jan-Dhan Yojana. An overwhelming majority of farmers could either not sell their produce or had to sell at lower prices and about 80 per cent households had reduced food intake, according to the survey. According to the SWAN survey of 36,343 people from 25 states, only 4 per cent got paid during the lockdown. About 64 per cent had less than Rs 100 when the organisation got in touch with them. About 82 per cent had not received rations during the lockdown, 72 per cent had less than two days of rations left and 64 per cent had not received cooked food.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-665
16-09-2020||India||FB India, Delhi panel on collision course||Facebook’s India head Ajit Mohan refused to appear before the Delhi Assembly’s Committee on Peace and Harmony to testify on Tuesday on the social media giant’s alleged culpability in communal riots in the capital in February. The company wrote to the committee saying that only the Centre, not a state or Union Territory government, could regulate communications in India. Committee chairman Raghav Chadha said if Mohan did not respond to another summons, he would face proceedings for breach of privilege, under which the Speaker can issue a warrant to police to bring him before the Assembly. On Monday, Buzzfeed News had reported a leaked memo of a former Facebook employee that accused the company of ignoring or acting slow on fake accounts that undermined elections across the world, and that the company had not disclosed the existence of such a network to influence the Assembly polls in Delhi earlier this year. Mohan had appeared before a parliamentary panel earlier this month amid reports of Facebook’s inaction on hate speech by BJP MLAs. After the hearing, Facebook said it removed several accounts in the name of Telangana BJP MLA T. Raja Singh. On Tuesday, in a letter to Chadha, Vikram Langeh, Facebook director, trust and safety, said that “regulation of intermediaries like Facebook falls within exclusive authority of the Union of India” which has exclusive powers on the subject of communications, and in Delhi, the powers of law and order too. Langeh wrote:  “Given that the issues raised by the notice involve subject matter within the exclusive domain of the Union of India, and that the matters are under active consideration by Parliament,  we respectfully object to the notice and request you recall it.” Chadha said in a statement: “...it was clarified to Facebook once again that refusal to appear before the committee for reasons which are evidently untenable in law and facts, gives the committee the impression that they are attempting to conceal crucial facts in relation to Facebook’s role in the February 2020 violence/riots in the NCT of Delhi and thus as a note of caution that the committee advices as well as commands the to ensure your appearance in person on the next decided date of meeting which shall be intimated to them by issuing a subsequent notice of appearance, failing to which will be admitted as an intelligible breach of privilege and shall ensue the lawful and legal adverse actions against yourself.” He added: “As per the judgment of the Constitution Bench of the Supreme Court of India in State (NCT of Delhi) v. Union of India (2018) 8 SCC 501, the Legislative Assembly of the NCT of Delhi has legislative powers in respect of these subjects, and the Government of  NCT of Delhi has the exclusive executive power in respect of the same. Further, the Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in the Legislative Assembly of the NCT of Delhi (“Assembly Conduct Rules”) that have been framed under Section 33 of the GNCTD Act provides this committee the powers to summon and ensure the presence of witnesses…. “It is manifest from a perusal of this notice that the proceedings before the Parliament are in no way connected to the role of Facebook in the riots/violence in the NCT of Delhi in February, 2020.” Facebook India and Mohan did not respond to queries from this newspaper. Buzzfeed News had published excerpts of a memo recently fired data scientist Sophie Zhang of the “Facebook Site Integrity fake engagement team” — who refused a $64,000 severance package that put restrictions of what she could reveal about her work there. The report says: “Facebook ignored or was slow to act on evidence that fake accounts on its platform have been undermining elections and political affairs around the world….” Zhang’s memo focused on how the company was slow to act on campaigns through fake accounts by ruling parties in Honduras and Azerbaijan to mislead people and harass the opposition. The report said:  “In India, she worked to remove ‘a politically-sophisticated network of more than a thousand actors working to influence’ the local elections taking place in Delhi in February. Facebook never publicly disclosed this network or that it had taken it down.” Chadha said that the Buzzfeed News report: “...finds resonance with the initial findings of our committee with respect to misinformation spread by Facebook. The same has found place in the scathing account of an ex- employee of the Facebook who affirms that Facebook as a platform works in collusion with the ruling dispensation across the globe to disrupt free and fair elections and has been actively used as a means to sway public opinion, thus confirming it is not as neutral and non-partisan as it poses to be. The committee had received similar inputs while examining an independent witness Sh. Awesh Tiwari as he had affirmed with the help of some cogent set of evidences that Facebook through its actions/ omissions, have potentially affected the free and fair election in the capital.” Raipur-based journalist Tiwari and Ankhi Das, Facebook’s head of public policy in South and Central Asia, have filed FIRs against each other for online threats. Chadha added: “The memo also states that during the Delhi election in February 2020, the same former employee had worked to remove ‘a politically-sophisticated network of more than a thousand actors working to influence" the local elections taking place in Delhi in February’. However, no such information was made public by the platform so that if required, actions could’ve been taken as per the Indian laws in place.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-665
16-09-2020||India||China loan horse without a mouth||June 15: Chinese troops kill 20 Indian soldiers in the Galwan Valley. June 19: India signs a loan agreement with the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank (AIIB) for $750 million (Rs 5,521 crore) to support measures undertaken under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana (PMGKY). China is the largest shareholder in the Beijing-based multilateral development bank. July 29: India bans 59 Chinese apps, a precursor to subsequent action that covered more apps and which prompted an Indian television anchor to marvel at “the sheer suddenness of the move, the unexpected nature of the move, the unpredictability of the move”. The Narendra Modi government has formally confirmed that India took two loans totalling $1,350 million (Rs 9,202 crore) from the China-controlled bank in the thick of the border standoff. There is nothing wrong in taking loans from the AIIB, especially because India is the second largest shareholder in the bank after China. Neither can the objective be faulted: the assistance was accessed for accelerating India’s Covid social protection response programme. But the action of delinking the government’s financial transactions from bilateral tensions goes against the Centre’s policy of cracking down on Chinese business relationships in India. Besides, the Indian external affairs ministry has been asserting that it cannot be business as usual in the face of Chinese attempts to unilaterally change the facts on the ground along the border. The loans also make the Modi government’s spin of “strong economic counter-measures against China” appear a bit rich, not to mention the pain they pile on the Aatmanirbhar Bharat campaign. On June 19, four days after the Galwan massacre in which China also suffered unspecified casualties, India signed the $750-million loan agreement with the AIIB to tide over the coronavirus crisis. It was also the day Prime Minister Modi had made the “no-intrusion” claim. The loan was taken as budgetary support to the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana, a scheme launched by the Modi government in 2016 under which coronavirus-linked relief packages are being offered. On May 8, at a time when the first reports of Chinese incursions at multiple points in eastern Ladakh had begun coming in and were largely ignored by the Indian government, another loan of $500 million had been taken from the AIIB to fight the pandemic back home. The loan details were confirmed in a written answer in Parliament on Monday by junior finance minister Anurag Thakur. In his written reply to questions asked by BJP MPs Sunil Kumar Singh and P.P. Chaudhary in the Lok Sabha, Thakur said: “The government of India has signed two loan agreements with the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank under Covid-19 Crisis Recovery Facility. First loan of USD 500 million was signed on May 8, 2020, to partly support ‘India Covid-19 Emergency Response and Health Systems Preparedness Project’ to respond to the threat posed by pandemic and strengthen the national health system for preparedness.” The benefits, he said, had flowed to states and Union Territories. “As on date, against the first loan of USD 500 million, USD 251.25 million has been disbursed from AIIB,” Thakur said in the written response. “The second loan of USD 750 million was signed on June 19, 2020, as budgetary support to government of India for accelerating India’s Covid-19 Social Protection Response Programme in order to support measures undertaken under Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana (PMGKY), the benefits of which have also flown to states/UTs,” Thakur wrote. “All beneficiaries covered under PMGKY are benefitted from this loan. As on date, the signed loan amount (USD 750 million) has been fully disbursed under the programme,” he added. The two BJP parliamentarians had asked about the agreement signed with the AIIB for financial aid to fight Covid-19 and the details of the funds received. They had also sought details of the purposes for which the funds had been allocated and whether the money had been given to the states. The AIIB is a multilateral development bank to improve social and economic outcomes in Asia and beyond. It started operations in January 2016 and now has 103 approved members from around the world. India is among the founding members of the AIIB. China is the largest shareholder with 26.61 per cent voting shares, followed by India with 7.6 per cent. The development bank was first proposed in 2013 by Chinese President Xi Jinping with the objective of offering financing for infrastructure projects in underdeveloped countries across Asia and reduce the dependence on the World Bank and the IMF.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-665
16-09-2020||India||Vilification TV last straw on Supreme Court’s back ||The Supreme Court on Tuesday stayed until further orders a programme by a TV channel called Sudarshan News that suggested a large number of jihadi elements had infiltrated the central government services. The bench said it would also appoint a committee of five distinguished citizens to recommend standards for the electronic media. The BJP-led Centre, perceived to be the biggest beneficiary of the diversionary witch-hunt and stigmatisation that several TV channels pass off as journalism, batted in the court for “journalistic freedom”. On the particular programme, Justice D.Y. Chandrachud, heading a three-judge bench, observed while passing the injunction: “We are concerned…. When you say students who are part of Jamia Millia are part of a group to infiltrate the civil services, we can’t tolerate. As the Supreme Court of the nation, we cannot allow you to say that Muslims are infiltrating the civil services. You cannot say that the journalist has absolute freedom doing this.” Later, the bench, which includes Justices Indu Malhotra and K.M. Joseph, said in a written order: “It appears to the court that the object of the programme is to vilify the Muslim community and make it responsible for an insidious attempt to infiltrate the civil services…. Any attempt to vilify a community must be viewed with disfavour….” The top court will take up on Thursday (September 17) the fate of the stayed programme. Some episodes of the programme have already been telecast. The bench is dealing with a batch of petitions filed by Muslim individuals and retired Hindu civil servants, seeking a restraint on the channel from telecasting the show. On Tuesday, the hearing that went on for two hours witnessed sharp exchanges between the bench and solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, and senior advocate Shyam Divan who is representing the channel. The following are excerpts from the exchange between the bench and the Bar: Senior advocate Anoop Chaudhari, appearing for some petitioners: “If you read the transcript, you will see that they say Muslims are infiltrating the civil services. They say Muslim OBCs are eating the share of other OBCs. They have used… very unfortunate words. There are only 292 Muslim officers in the services.” Justice Joseph: “We need to look at the ownership of the visual media. The entire shareholding pattern of the company must be on site for public. “The revenue model of that company should also be put up to check if the government is putting more ads in one and less in another. “Media can’t fall foul of standards prescribed by themselves. Next, in debates, one needs to see the role of the anchor. How one listens when others speak…. But check in the TV debates the percentage of time taken by the anchor to speak. They mute the speaker and ask questions. “The freedom of media is on behalf of the citizens.” Justice Chandrachud: “The power of the electronic media is huge. The electronic media can become the focal point by targeting particular communities or groups. The anchors’ grievance is that a particular group is gaining entry into civil services. How insidious is this! “Such insidious charges also put a question mark on the UPSC exams. Aspersions have been cast on the UPSC. Such allegations without any factual basis, how can this be allowed? Can such programmes be allowed in a free society? “Reputations can be damaged, image can be tarnished. How to control this? State cannot do this. Shouldn’t there be enforceable standards that the media profess itself to so that Article 19(1)(a) is upheld? (The article guarantees the right to speech and freedom of expression.)” Solicitor-general Mehta (appearing for the Centre): “Freedom of the journalist is supreme. There are two aspects of the statements by Justice Joseph. It would be disastrous for any democracy to control press. “There is also a parallel media other than electronic media where a laptop and a journalist can lead to lakhs of people viewing their content.” Justice Chandrachud: “We are not on social media today. We cannot choose not to regulate one thing because we cannot regulate all.” Mehta: “I am talking about electronic media and print media. Justice Joseph’s concerns have to be addressed by giving respect to journalistic freedom. There are a large number of web portals whose ownership is different from what they show.” Justice Joseph: “When we talk about journalistic freedom, it is not absolute. He shares same freedom as other citizens. There is no separate freedom for journalists like in the US. We need journalists who are fair in their debates. “When journalists operate, they need to work around the right to fair comment. See criminal investigation, the media often focuses only on one part of the investigation. “This kind of shows is making people shut their TVs. If the media fails to realise this, they will be out of business. In the end, quality matters, whether it is a show, a company in which we intend to invest or a person we wish to trust.” Justice Chandrachud: “Let the best within the nation suggest measures which we can help debate on our platform and then arrive at standards…. Now an anchor is targeting one particular community. To say we are a democracy, we need to have certain standards in place.” Justice Chandrachud (to Divan, the advocate for the TV channel): “Your client is doing a disservice to the nation and is not accepting India is a melting point of diverse cultures. Your client needs to exercise his freedom with caution.” Divan: “I have been instructed that it is an investigative story. Rest we need to file an affidavit.” Nisha Bhambani: “We are for the News Broadcasters Association.” Justice Chandrachud: “We need to ask you if you exist apart from the letterhead. What do you do when a parallel criminal investigation goes on in media and reputation is tarnished?” Mehta: “We cannot compartmentalise electronic and print media.” Justice Chandrachud: “People might not read newspapers today but watch television. Again, reach of local papers in local languages is more than mainstream English newspapers. Watching TV has an entertainment value whereas newspaper has none. That’s why we want to have standards.” Mehta: “For example, I run a YouTube channel. How can my funding be ascertained?” Justice Joseph: “Rule 6 of the programme code notes that cable TV programmes cannot show anything that targets a particular religion or a community.” Mehta: “Your Lordships must have seen those programmes where ‘Hindu terror’ was highlighted. The question is to what extent can courts control the publication of content.” Justice Chandrachud: “The mediums have changed. Now Internet is a vexed area as one can operate it from anywhere.” Mehta: “We are looking at electronic media as these companies are the ones which are based in India. We cannot say we won’t regulate electronic media just because we cannot control the Internet. “During the lockdown there was a web portal which carried a show as to how the lockdown will lead to food scarcity and food riot, thus leading to migration. I don’t consider it less serious than a threat to communal disharmony.” Justice Joseph: “The problem with electronic media is all about TRPs, thus leading to more and more sensationalism. So many things masquerade as a form of right.” Mehta: “It needs to be seen if a potential accused can be given a platform to air the defence.” Advocate Shadan Farasat (appearing for some petitioners): “This show has completely vilified the image of Muslims in the civil services. They have been called a terror. Hate speech is something where right to respond is not possible. How does one respond to a statement that Muslims should not be in the civil services?” (Divan seeks two weeks’ time to place on record all the material relating to the telecast.) Justice Joseph: “Will you defer the airing till then?” Divan: “Not at all. I am not making any such concession.” Sharukh Alam (another advocate for the petitioners): “A young child has sent a video saying he is taking a pledge against anti-nationals and become like @SureshChavhanke (who runs Sudarshan News and anchors the particular programme)…. These videos are being used as promotional content…. These videos have about 8,000 likes.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-665
16-09-2020||India||Bollywood appeals to media to hunt news, not women ||Filmmakers Mira Nair, Farhan Akhtar and Anurag Kashyap and actress Sonam Kapoor are among over 2,500 people who have signed an open letter condemning the media’s “witch-hunt” of Rhea Chakraborty in the coverage of Sushant Singh Rajput’s death. Film personalities including Frieda Pinto, Zoya Akhtar, Alankrita Shrivastava, Gauri Shinde, Reema Kagti, Ruchi Narain, Rasika Dugal, Nitya Mehra, Amruta Subhash, Mini Mathur, Dia Mirza and Kubbra Sait are also signatories to the letter that asks the media to “hunt news, not women”. Rhea, who has been arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau in connection with drugs-related allegations in Sushant’s death case, has been at the centre of a vicious and breathless vilification campaign. The open letter, addressed to “the dear news media of India”, is published on a blog called Feminist Voices. “Dear news media of India. We are worried about you. Are you feeling ok? Because, as we watch your witch-hunt of Rhea Chakraborty, we cannot understand why you have abandoned every professional ethic of journalism, every tenet of human decency and dignity and chosen instead to physically assault a young woman with your camera crews, endlessly violate her privacy and work overtime on false accusations and moralistic innuendo for a drama of ‘Rhea ko phasao’,” the letter says. The signatories have called out the media for being “obsessed” with creating the narrative of a young woman as a “morally dubious character” because she speaks up for herself instead of “acting like a damsel in distress”. Drawing parallels with the coverage of cases of actors Salman Khan and Sanjay Dutt, the letter has urged the media to show the same kindness and respect to Rhea. “We know you can be different — because we have seen you be kind and respectful to the Salman Khans and Sanjay Dutts of this world, urging us to think of their families, fans and careers,” the letter says. “We write to ask you, the news media, to stop this unfair witch-hunt of Rhea Chakraborty…. We write to ask you to do the right and responsible thing. Your jobs. Hunt news, not women,” the letter added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-665
16-09-2020||India||Jaya Bachchan speaks up for Bollywood ||Bollywood appeared a divided house in Parliament this week — a divide that does not strictly follow party lines. Jaya Bachchan of the Samajwadi Party on Tuesday submitted a notice in the Rajya Sabha on the alleged conspiracy to defame the film industry, a day after actor-turned-BJP parliamentarian Ravi Kishan claimed in the Lok Sabha that Bollywood had been affected by the drug menace. In an impassioned appeal, Jaya said the entertainment industry provides direct employment every day to 5 lakh people and indirect employment to 5 million people. The veteran actress said that the Hindi film industry was being “used to be flogged by the social media and the government’s non-support” to “divert the attention of the people” at a time the “financial situation is in a depressing state and the employment situation is at the worst level”. Jaya reminded the House that Bollywood, in particular, is a contributor to India’s soft power in diplomacy. The actress said: “People who have made their name in this film industry have called it a gutter. I completely disagree and I am really embarrassed and ashamed that yesterday one of our members in the Lok Sabha, who is from the industry, spoke against, I am not taking a name, the film industry. It’s a shame. I hope the government tells these people, who have made their earning, name and fame in this industry, to stop saying such things.” Jaya also referred to a Hindi proverb on ungratefulness — “jis thali mein khate hain, usi mein chhed karte hain”. The reference was clearly to Kishan, who spoke about the Hindi film industry’s links with drugs in the Lower House on Monday and demanded strict punishment for the guilty, and Kangana Ranaut, the actress and Right wing favourite who had called Bollywood a gutter last month. While Kishan and Kangana took issue with Jaya’s comments, junior environment minister and singer Babul Supriyo took a more nuanced and middle path, contending that everyone should not be painted with one brush. “The crisis looming over Bollywood with drugs is reminiscent of what happened to cricket during the betting scandal years ago. Then the game of cricket won bcuz everyone wasn’t evil — NOW Bollywood & Art shall prevail & with Glory bcuz of the same reason — Everyone isn’t Evil AMEN,” Supriyo tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-665
16-09-2020||India||Congress to PM Modi: Don’t hide ||The Congress on Tuesday blasted the government for crushing the Opposition’s voice on such a critical issue as China and asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to apologise in Parliament for making a false statement that no one had entered India’s territory. As the Opposition wasn’t allowed to speak at all on this issue after defence minister Rajnath Singh made a statement, the party’s communications chief Randeep Surjewala said: “Don’t hide behind soldiers’ valour. Every Indian is proud of our soldiers. But questions on leadership failure can’t be steamrolled.” “Why did you lie to the nation, Mr Prime Minister? Why are you scared, where are you hiding? Come to Parliament and apologise for making that no-intrusion statement,” he said. Rahul Gandhi, who is now in the US for his mother’s treatment, tweeted: “It is clear from the defence minister’s statement that Modi ji misled the country on the Chinese intrusion. Our country always stood with Indian Army and will continue doing so. But Modi ji, when will you stand up against China? When will you take back our territory from Chinese occupation? Don’t be afraid of taking China’s name.” The Congress has been demanding answers from the Prime Minister over the past few months and hoped to corner Modi in Parliament. But it was clear Modi does not want a debate on this issue when he appealed to everybody to send out a clear message that the country is standing behind the soldiers. He hasn’t shown any inclination of explaining his statement made on June 19, leave apart tendering any apology. Congress leader in the Lok Sabha Adhir Chowdhury said outside Parliament:  “Heavens will fall on the BJP if we are allowed to ask questions. They protected themselves by crushing our voice in Parliament and hence we are speaking to you under the open sky. They are scared of questions. “The Prime Minister did not even come to the Lok Sabha. The defence minister hailed the Prime Minister. But what about the statement — na koi ghusa hai, na ghus aaya hai? These are not our words. Agar dil saaf hai toh debate se kyon darenge (If the heart is clear, why should somebody be scared of debate?)” Lamenting that the Opposition wasn’t even allowed to express solidarity with the government on Indian Army because of fear of uncomfortable questions, Chowdhury said: “Nobody else will be allowed to even hail the army? Nobody will be allowed to speak? This government has no respect for democratic traditions. In 1962, Atal Bihari Vajpayee asked for convening Parliament session when China attacked. Nehru allowed a debate and listened to his criticism. But this government neither allows questions, nor offers answers.” Reiterating full support to Indian Army, Chowdhury said: “The national interest is supreme for us. We have always stood behind our army. Their valour is our pride; they protect us and our nation.”Deputy leader in the Lok Sabha Gaurav Gogoi said: “The Prime Minister gave a statement that strengthen the Chinese position and the government won’t even clarify that. They won’t allow us to speak, crush our voices.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-665
16-09-2020||India||Ayurveda question: Why Gujarat, not Kerala?||The Congress leader in the Rajya Sabha, L. Hanumanthaiah, on Tuesday questioned why the government had decided to accord “institution of national importance” status to Gujarat institutions while ignoring states like Kerala and Karnataka that have a rich ayurvedic tradition. “The government is only interested in Gujarat and I feel... because the Prime Minister is from Gujarat. So they wanted to have an ayurveda national importance institute there, though there are no practitioners in Gujarat like (in) Kerala, Karnataka and West Bengal,” Hanumanthaiah, who hails from Karnataka, said when the government introduced in the Rajya Sabha the Institute of Teaching and Research in Ayurveda Bill, 2020. The bill, which had been approved in the last session, seeks to grant “institution of national importance” status to an institution that will be formed by merging three ayurveda institutes in Gujarat’s Jamnagar. The tag bestows greater autonomy to institutions in making academic decisions and expanding. IITs, IIMs and AIIMS enjoy the status. “Kerala is number one in ayurveda. Kottakkal Ayurveda is very famous. People from across the world come to Kerala for treatment. There is a research institute in Thiruvananthapuram which is 131 years old, whereas the Jamgnagar institute was started in 1952. My question is why a Kerala institute has not been given INI status,” Hanumanthaiah said. “What is the reason, we must know. My colleagues from Gujarat also agree with this,” he added. The Government Ayurveda College in Kerala capital Thiruvananthapuram was established in 1889. The institute to be granted “institution of national importance” status will be a conglomeration of the Institute for Post Graduate Teaching and Research in Ayurveda, Shree Gulabkunverba Ayurved Mahavidyalaya and the Indian Institute of Ayurvedic Pharmaceutical Sciences. The merged institution will be named Institute of Teaching and Research in Ayurveda, Jamnagar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-665
16-09-2020||India||Valley calls out ‘lies’ in House||Kashmir politicians on Tuesday reacted with outrage to the Narendra Modi government’s claim in Parliament that no person was under house arrest in the Valley, accusing the Centre of “excelling in all” forms of lies. Union minister of state for home G. Kishan Reddy said in a written response in the Lok Sabha that 223 people were currently under detention in Jammu and Kashmir but no one was under house arrest. Reddy was responding to Trinamul Congress MP Saugata Ray’s question seeking details of arrests and house arrests of political leaders in Jammu and Kashmir since the scrapping of the erstwhile state’s special status on August 5 last year and the number of militant attacks since then. “As on September 11, 2020, 223 persons are under detention. No person is under house arrest in the UT of Jammu and Kashmir,” Reddy’s written reply said. On terror attacks since August 5 last year, the minister said “nil”. Former People’s Democratic Party minister Naeem Akhtar, who is allegedly under house arrest, tweeted: “There are many categories of lies. Lies, white lies, data, judicial lies (spoken on oath), parliamentary lies: This government excels in all.” PDP leader Waheed ur Rahman said the government was “blatantly” lying in Parliament. “It has now been 7 months of house arrest and 6 months of detention for many of us, since 5 August, 2019,” Rahman tweeted. Iltija Mufti, whose mother and PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti is in detention, said it was shameful that “cabinet ministers are using Parliament as a forum to disseminate lies”. Earlier, the government had told the Supreme Court that former Union minister Saifuddin Soz was not under house arrest, after his wife had approached the top court against his allegedly illegal detention.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-665
16-09-2020||India||Drop Central Vista, restore fund: MPs ||The entire Opposition on Tuesday urged the government to restore the grant of MPLADS funds as its suspension had obstructed welfare measures in constituencies across the country. The MPs supported the decision to cut their salaries as part of austerity measures amid the pandemic-triggered economic crisis but batted for the Member of Parliament Local Area Development Scheme, under which each MP is allotted Rs 5 crore a year to carry out development work. Participating in a discussion on the Salary, Allowances and Pension of Members of Parliament (Amendment) Bill, 2020, in the Lok Sabha, members of the Congress, Trinamul Congress, BJD, NCP, TRS, the TDP and other Opposition parties passionately sought the restoration of MPLADS while some of them even urged the BJP members to muster the courage to speak up for its return. The government in April suspended the MPLADS for two years owing to the coronavirus-induced crisis. The Opposition MPs suggested on Tuesday that the government cut down on wasteful expenditure, including the grand plans for the Central Vista beautification and construction project in the national capital, instead of targeting the basic welfare activities that help people at the grassroots. The MPs usually sanction money from MPLADS for small activities such as building bridges, rural roads, community centres, school buildings and health clinics. Supporting the decision to cut MPs’ salary, NCP member Supriya Sule said: “The estimated cost of the proposed development of the Central Vista is Rs 20,000 crore and you (Union government) are saving around Rs 10,000 crore from MPLADS for a building which we have not asked for. Do you want a Central Vista and an office, or a ventilator and a good hospital in your constituency? It is not rocket science. I urge this government to come clean on this.” Trinamul leader Saugata Roy said salaries of parliamentarians can be taken away but a fund meant for the people should be given back. He also stressed that the government should reduce bigger expenses. BJD member Pinaki Misra said the government should seriously reconsider its decision on MPLADS. Congress leader Adhir Chowdhury said: “Everybody has called for the restoration of the funds, so why not we pass a unanimous resolution in this regard?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-666
16-09-2020||India||Cong on RSS ‘prop’ for AAP: We told you so ||The Congress has lapped up lawyer Prashant Bhushan’s accusation of Arvind Kejriwal’s links with the RSS, hoping that the suspicion about his ideological commitments will restrict Aam Aadmi Party’s acceptability among secular voters. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi tweeted on Tuesday: “What was known to us has been confirmed by a founding AAP member. The IAC (India Against Corruption) movement and AAP were propped up by the RSS/BJP to subvert democracy and bring down the UPA Government.” Though the Congress has often talked of AAP’s hidden axis with the RSS-BJP, Bhushan’s unambiguous charge lends credibility to its position because he was not only a founder member of both the India Against Corruption and the AAP but played a key role in sustaining the movement in the initial period. Bhushan was in the core team along with current Delhi chief minister Kejriwal and former IPS officer Kiran Bedi who built the Lokpal campaign with the help of social activist Anna Hazare. Bhushan recently said in an interview that he regretted not having seen that the movement was supported and propped up by the RSS-BJP “for their own political purposes to bring down the Congress government and bring themselves to power”. Bhushan, who unlike other members of the IAC, did not have any admiration for Sangh parivar’s philosophy, asserted that he had absolutely no doubt that Kejriwal knew of the RSS role and even described him as “unscrupulous, dictatorial and a Frankenstein monster”. Many RSS-BJP leaders have been talking about their involvement in the Anna movement. RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat also claimed that Sangh workers were active in “anti-corruption” movements before 2014. Kejriwal, who attracted a large number of anti-BJP votes, including secular intelligentsia, did lose some credibility by refusing to take stance on ideological issues and remaining aloof amid the raging violence in Delhi earlier this year. His decision to give permission to prosecute youth activist Kanhaiya Kumar also raised eyebrows in the secular camp. Though the Congress vacillations on the AAP have been bewildering — it first propped up the Kejriwal government in Delhi, then fought viciously against him and again contemplated alignment before 2019 parliamentary election — there is greater clarity in the minds of senior leaders now after the recent events. Congress leaders say Kejriwal’s attitude during the anti-CAA protests, his support to the scrapping of Article 370 and the subsequent crackdown on Kashmir and finally the negative role during Delhi riots stamped out whatever doubts they had about the hidden nexus. While Shashi Tharoor described him as “the un-ideological Kejriwal,” Randeep Surjewala tweeted: “The truth has come out. Prashant Bhushan showed the courage of revealing the truth. The Anna Hazare agitation was a RSS-BJP conspiracy to pull down the UPA Government to facilitate Narendra Modi’s accession to power.” Spokesperson Supriya Shrinate said: “All the misconceptions have ended now. The UPA government was defamed by RSS-BJP using money power. This is how democracy was subverted.” Veterans like Digvijaya Singh, who never had any doubt about the AAP being an RSS tool, tweeted: “What I used to say has yet again been proven correct. When I said this, people made fun of me. The innocent Anna Hazare was used as a pawn by the RSS and Kejriwal and then dumped. Will see how effective an agency Lokpal becomes in fighting corruption.” While Hazare has gone into hiding, nobody even talks of Lokpal whose role in fighting high-level corruption is fictional till now. Though Kejriwal himself has chosen not to react, his lieutenant Sanjay Singh responded to Rahul’s tweet saying: “For how long will you hide your failures making false excuses? Stop crying now and accept the truth that the country has lost hope from both the BJP and the Congress. Today only the AAP is concerned about the country and solves problems of school, hospital, electricity and water. Only the AAP will be the nation’s choice in future.” The Congress desperation to bring Kejriwal’s secular commitment into disrepute can be understood by his political expansion plan. While the AAP has started work in Uttar Pradesh, triggering fears of vote split in the Congress, it has become active in states such as Bihar and Madhya Pradesh as well after encroaching upon the Congress space in states like Punjab and Goa. The faith of leaders like Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee in Kejriwal has also been a nagging concern for the Congress which hopes to tackle this problem by highlighting the RSS factor.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-666
16-09-2020||India||MP bid to popularise Sambalpuri masks ||BJP’s Lok Sabha member from Baragarh in western Odisha Suresh Pujari has distributed masks made of Sambalpuri handloom among the members of Parliament to popularise the region’s textile products. The move struck an immediate chord among members with MP Supriya Sule tweeting, “Thank you Suresh Pujariji for the Sambalpuri design mask.” Pujari told The Telegraph, “On Monday, I distributed the Sambalpuri masks in the Parliament. It’s my effort to popularise Sambalpuri products across the globe. By distributing the Sambalpuri textile woven masks, I have been to some extent successful in bringing Sambalpuri textile products into limelight. All the MPs, particularly women MPs, praised it. Kanimozhi Karunanidhi approached me for a mask. All of them also spoke about the elegance of Sambalpuri saris, which have their own distinct designs.” Pujari said: “500 masks were given to me by Sanjay Meher of Baragarh to popularise the product. I have decided to distribute at least 5,000 masks in Delhi...” Meher is the director of Boyanika, Baragrh, which represents the primary weavers cooperative societies and works for the preservation of heritage design and providing a national and international platform to the weavers of Odisha. Meher told The Telegraph, “The masks which were distributed are of two layers. Each costs Rs 45. But we are distributing the masks to people from different sections of society free of cost. So far, we have distributed 15,000 masks. On our request, union petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan wears masks made of Sambalpuri textiles. We have also presented these masks to the governor of Odisha professor Ganeshi Lal.” Meher, who has employed more than 200 workers to make Sambalpuri saris and other products, said: “When the lockdown was announced, we suddenly became jobless. But when we started preparing the masks, nearly two lakh people of western Odisha dependent on the Sambalpui textile designing and weaving for their livelihood, got a means of livelihood.” On being asked how the price of a Sambalpuri sari is decided he said: “All the Sambalpuri saris are hand woven.  It is a traditional hand woven sari wherein the warp and the weft are tie-dyed before weaving. The price is mostly decided by how many days a worker spend on a sari, the thread and colour used in it. The price of a sari may vary from Rs 1,000 to Rs 2 lakh.” The Sambalpuri saris are so popular that personalities such as former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi, former President Pratibha Singh Patil, AICC president Sonia Gandhi, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, actresses Madhuri Dixit and Vidya Balan have worn them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-666
16-09-2020||India||Odisha to introduce E-muster roll||The Odisha government has decided to launch the e-muster roll for monitoring minimum wages and timely deposit of ESI and EPF dues on October 2. Henceforth, wages will be directly transferred to the bank accounts of the labourers in all the works that are being executed by line departments. Under this initiative, muster rolls will be maintained in electronic format (e-muster roll) to prevent manipulation and ensure transparency. A decision to this effect was  taken at a meeting chaired by chief minister Naveen Patnaik. In the first phase, the  initiative will be implemented in projects worth more than Rs 10 crore in the departments of works, water  resource,  panchayati raj, drinking water, rural development and housing  and urban  development. According to the order, all departments  will have the system in place by January 1 for universal implementation of the muster roll. The cabinet, which met on Tuesday, approved a proposal of the finance department to amend the Odisha Goods and Service Tax (OGST) Bill, 2017.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-666
16-09-2020||West Bengal||3,227 new cases, 59 deaths in Bengal||Bengal on Tuesday reported 3,227 new Covid-19 cases, 59 deaths and 2,996 recoveries as the total number of patients went above 2.09 lakh, of whom 1.81 lakh had been cured and 4,062 had succumbed to the pathogen. After a 15-day streak of a fall in the total count of active cases ended on September 8, the state witnessed a rise in the number of existing patients for eight days on the trot on Tuesday. The recovery rate, however, continued to climb and was 86.61 on Tuesday, a rise by over four per cent in the first 15 days of the current month. The national rate is 78.36 per cent now. “Our recoveries will keep rising. In fact, we are third now on the list of states with the highest recovery rates, after Bihar (91) and Tamil Nadu (89.2)…. We need to find ways to lower the surge in new cases and the steady toll of deaths,” said a Bengal minister. “In these 15 days, there have been over 46,000 new cases, around 47,000 recoveries and 834 deaths. Overall, given the stage of the pandemic, we haven’t been doing badly, at all,” he added. Bengal logged over 45,226 tests on Tuesday, taking the total past 25.62 lakh. The state now has 28,476 tests per million people. Fifteen days ago, the tests per million were 20,974. Steady rise in the tests, coupled with relatively lower cases being found, has improved the positive confirmation rate from 8.9 on August 23 to 8.16 per cent. Deemed as a key indicator in the Covid-19 pandemic, the positive confirmation rate is the percentage of positive cases out of samples tested. A decreasing positive confirmation rate is indicative of reducing levels of Covid-19 spread. Of the 59 deaths reported in 24 hours, 11 were from Calcutta and 15 from North 24-Parganas. The two districts have contributed 60 per cent of all Covid-19 deaths since the first was recorded in Bengal on March 23. Of the 4,062 total deaths, 3,483 (85.7 per cent) were reported as comorbid by the state government. The overall mortality rate improved to 1.94, while the national rate is 1.63 per cent. Bengal continued to be seventh in the list of states with the highest mortality rates and on the list of states with the most deaths. The state reported 32.87 per cent occupancy on 12,675 Covid-19 beds at 92 hospitals. Nearly 2.13 lakh telemedicine consultations have been provided, including 4,273 in the past 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-372
16-09-2020||West Bengal||Onion for hilsa donor stuck in ban||The Centre’s sudden decision to prohibit export of onion has slammed the brakes on hundreds of onion-loaded trucks and rakes waiting along India-Bangladesh border in the state and put the exporters in a quandary as they apprehend huge losses because of the embargo. Estimates from exporters suggest trucks loaded with about 3,000 tonnes of onions had already secured the shipping bills — clearance from the customs to cross over — and are waiting at the land ports, but cannot enter Bangladesh because of the ban. On Monday evening, the Directorate General of Foreign Trade, a wing of the commerce and industry ministry in India, issued the export ban order to control domestic prices. The onion order coincided with the arrival of the first consignment of hilsa fish from Bangladesh. “The ban on the export of onions came immediately after Bangladesh lifted the embargo on hilsa export and agreed to send 1450 tonnes of the fish to India. It  is really embarrassing,” said Petrapole Clearing Agents’ Staff Welfare Association secretary Kartick Chakraborty. On Tuesday evening, a section of Bangladeshi media outlets suggested that onion exports might be allowed at a higher price. They reported that India had doubled the export price of onion, which would mean importers in Bangladesh would have to amend the earlier letter of credit to get the consignments. Bangladesh is the biggest importer of onions from India. If the trucks waiting outside the land ports and the rakes are taken into account, another 7,000 tonnes of onions are ready for export. “It will be a disaster for us unless the Centre at least allows the consignments waiting at the port,” said Mihir Ghosh, an exporter at the Ghojadanga land port in North 24-Parganas, where around 300 trucks loaded with onions worth over Rs 30 crore are stranded since Monday afternoon. In the nearby Petrapole land border, around 100 trucks were stranded, whereas in Malda’s Mahadipur, the count was 70 inside the port and 80 outside. On Tuesday, the Centre sought information from the Customs authorities about the quantity of onions lying at different ports after issuance of shipping bills. “As the directorate asked the Customs authorities to submit the information by 5pm on Tuesday, there was some hope that approval would be given to export ready consignment of onions.… But we haven’t heard anything till late in the evening,” said a clearing agent. Ghosh said: “If the onions are damaged because of indefinite wait, we wo­uld be comp­elled to sell them at throwaw­ay prices... Most of us will suffer huge losses as we take bank loans for our business.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-373
16-09-2020||West Bengal||IAF plans to make Birbhum aerodrome permanent base||Simmering tension on the India-China border in Ladakh has brought into focus a World War-II airfield in Birbhum’s Surichua as the Indian Air Force wants to use it as a permanent base and is in a hurry to complete building a boundary wall around it for security reasons. Sources have said the aerodrome is spread over 550 acres at Surichua village on the Birbhum-Jharkhand border. A source in the defence ministry said the aerodrome, which is around 11km from Rampurhat town, is being considered strategic because it is located 611km away from the India-China border in Sikkim. The air base is monitored from the Panagarh Airbase, which is around 120km from Surichua. IAF sources said the aerodrome had been lying abandoned since the end of World War II till the defence ministry decided to turn it into an auxiliary air base in 2013 because of its “strategic location and the availability of airstrips”. However, it is for the first time that the IAF plans to use it as a permanent air base. In 2014, the IAF had conducted four trial landings of helicopters on two of the six Surichua airstrips that were fit for use then. The IAF had repaired the other four airstrips but since then, there had been no major activity. However, after the India-China standoff in the Galwan Valley in Ladakh in June, activities, including landing of aircraft, have increased at the aerodrome. “The aerodrome has become an important point for us because of its strategic location and aerial proximity to the border in Sikkim. Building the boundary wall had been pending for a long time and we are in a hurry to finish the work for security reasons,” said an IAF officer. IAF sources said after it was noticed in 2013, it took three years to make the airstrips ready for use. At least four of the six airstrips were damaged as stone-laden trucks used to travel over the airfield, using it as a short-cut to reach nearby areas. A source said earlier one or two aircraft used to land in Surichua in a month but since June, the number of landing had increased to three every alternate day. A team of IAF personnel met the Birbhum district magistrate Moumita Godara Basu last week seeking help from the state government to finish work on a 2km-long stretch of the boundary wall “as soon as possible”. District officials said there were around 50 houses on the land that belongs to the defence ministry. Both the IAF and the defence ministry want to evict them as it is necessary to finish the boundary wall. The district magistrate, however, said the government would discuss the issue with the local residents. Sources said the IAF needs to build the boundary wall for security reasons and encroachment by local villagers was coming in its way . “Whenever an aircraft lands, local people crowd the area to take photographs. Such action infringes on the security of the IAF. We can’t stop movement of local residents because there are several unguarded entries to the airfield,” said an IAF official. Sources in state government said the sub-divisional officer in Rampurhat had been asked to hold a meeting with the IAF personnel and local panchayat bodies to resolve the issue. The date and time of the meeting is yet to be announced. “Those the IAF wants to evict are residing here for at least 50 years,” said Pantha Das, deputy chief of Rampurhat-I panchayat samity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-373
16-09-2020||West Bengal||First round of talks on tea bonus inconclusive||Representatives of tea planters’ associations and trade unions held a virtual meeting on Tuesday to decide on the rate of annual bonus that would be paid to the workers in the Terai and the Dooars ahead of Durga Puja this year. Last year, workers had been paid the bonus at the rate of 18.50 per cent. At the first round of talks on Tuesday, the unions sought bonus at 20 per cent rate. No decision has, however, come from the tea planters who have sought more time and insisted on further talks. The next round of talks will be held on September 18. “We have demanded bonus at 20 per cent rate and in addition, cash awards should be given to the workers who had gone beyond their call of duty and worked consistently during the Covid-19 pandemic. We hope tea planters will accept our demand,” said Mannalal Jain, the vice-president of the Cha Bagan Trinamool Congress Mazdoor Union. According to senior trade unions leaders and tea planters, this is probably the first time in the history of the tea industry that the bipartite meeting on bonus was held on a virtual platform. Trade union leaders and representatives of planters’ association joined the meeting from different locations in the state. In course of the meeting that started at 12 noon and continued till 5.30pm, the trade union leaders elaborated on their demand and mentioned that the bonus was of the last fiscal (2019-2020). “During this period, there was neither any lockdown nor any loss in production. The prices at auctions were steady. There is no reason why the industry cannot pay bonus at a higher rate than last year,” said an INTUC leader in Siliguri. Sanjoy Bagchi, secretary, Dooars Branch of Indian Tea Association, said: “The meeting was held in a congenial atmosphere. But both the sides need to discuss some more issues before a decision is reached. That is why another round of talks will be held on September 18.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-373
16-09-2020||West Bengal||OPDs opened for post-Covid ailments||Separate outpatient departments have been opened at eight state-run health establishments in the Alipurduar district for people who recovered from Covid-19 but face different complications now. “We have come across a number of post-Covid-19 cases. After recovering from the infection, there are people who are suffering from different ailments and need healthcare. That is why the separate OPDs have been opened for them at the hospitals. The OPDs started functioning from Tuesday and people are turning up with different complications,” said Subarna Goswami, a deputy chief medical officer of health in the district. According to doctors, recovered Covid patients are reporting hypoxia, general weakness, cough and cold, and ailments in stomach, liver and kidney. As such cases are being reported across the state and in the district, the health department took the initiative to open the OPDs at the Alipurduar district hospital, the super specialty hospital in Falakata, the state general hospital in Birpara and five rural hospitals in other parts of the district. The performance of the health department in Alipurduar to handle the pandemic has earned appreciation from the state government and also the World Health Organisation. This is because the department, along with the administration, had initiated preventive measures since January this year and could control the pandemic to a considerable extent. “The opening of OPDs is yet another move that will help the district handle the situation. In other districts and in different parts of the country, it has been found that people have died because of such complications, even after recovering from Covid,” said a doctor at the district hospital. From Wednesday, sources said, the second phase of sero-surveillance, according to the guidelines of the ICMR, will commence in the district. “We will collect blood samples from 400 people residing in different parts of the district to conduct antigen tests. This would give us an idea as to what extent the pandemic has spread in Alipurduar,” said a health official. So far, around 3,000 Covid patients have been found in the district and 12 have died. The death toll is much lower than the other districts of north Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-373
16-09-2020||West Bengal||Loan plan to meet tea auction centre expenses||The committee that runs Jalpaiguri’s North Bengal Tea Auction Centre (NBTAC), where no sale has been conducted since 2015, has decided to apply for a bank loan to meet the expenses. Since 2005, when the centre was opened, it had been facing the crisis of less inflow of tea. The centre somehow managed to function for around 10 years in an erratic manner but the auction of tea stopped in 2015. “We are in an acute financial crisis and could not bear the regular expenditure like power bills and other maintenance. Also, salaries of three employees of the centre have been due for over a year now. That is why we approached the district magistrate, who is also the committee’s chairman, today (Tuesday). It has been decided that we will draw loans from banks against some fixed deposits we have with the banks to meet the expenditure at least till March next year,” said Purajit Bakshi Gupta, the vice-chairman of the committee. Sources said there were three employees — a supervisor and two house-keepers — who had not received their salaries for months now. “The committee has also planned to reduce the employees’ salaries. Also, one of the house-keepers has been told not to join his duties from October 1,” said a source. In north Bengal, there is a second tea auction centre in the neighbouring town of Siliguri. It is the oldest centre and handles a major chunk of tea produced in the region. “In south India, there are auction centres in neighbouring towns of Coonoor and Coimbatore and both have been functioning well for years. We fail to understand why the auction centre in Jalpaiguri did not become viable even though tea production has increased in north Bengal over the years,” said Bijoygopal Chakraborty, a member of the auction committee. Abhishek Kumar Tiwary, the district magistrate of Jalpaiguri, said: “The committee will use the fixed deposits to draw loan from bank to meet the fund crisis at the auction centre.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-373
16-09-2020||West Bengal||Visva-Bharati VC to meet alumni & Tagore kin today ||Visva-Bharati vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty has invited around two dozen alumni and old-timers of Santiniketan, including kin of Nobel laureates Rabindranath Tagore and Amartya Sen, for a meeting on Wednesday to exchange thoughts on ways to improve the university. Sources have said this is the first such move since Chakrabarty took over as the VC in November 2018. The invitation for the meeting comes after several controversies gripped the varsity in the recent past and a section of Santiniketan residents and alumni expressed their displeasure over the way Visva-Bharati was being run. “The undersigned is directed to convey that the VC desires to meet you as a well-wisher of Visva-Bharati to exchange the thought for betterment of the university,” reads the letter sent to each of the invitees by the confidential secretary of Chakrabarty. The sources said the VC had decided to talk to stakeholders of Visva-Bharati after a large section of old timers of Santiniketan had in the recent past criticised the authorities on several issues, including inviting BJP leaders to address programmes on the campus. “The VC will try to listen to them first and seek help from them regarding the welfare of Visva-Bharati,” a university official said. Supriya Tagore, a descendent of the Tagore family and former Patha Bhavan principal, said he would attend Wednesday’s meeting. “This is the first time we have been invited by the VC for discussion. I will certainly attend the meeting,” he said. Shanta Bhanu Sen, a cousin of Amartya Sen, is also among the invitees for Wednesday’s meeting. However, an invitee said: “If the varsity wants to use us as pawns to fulfil its agendas, we will protest.” Subir Banerjee, a varsity alumnus and an old timer of Santiniketan, said: “It is a good gesture…we believe any problem can be solved through discussions. Let’s see what happens in the meeting.” An alumnus said he would submit his views on boundary walls and other issues in writing to the authorities. “The varsity should be constructive and should not create any difference between state and central government. I will request the VC to solve the issues but not to create the issues which harms the culture of varsity,” he said. Vandalism had erupted on the campus on August 17 over the varsity’s decision to build boundary wall on Pous Mela ground. While condemning the vandalism, several prominent citizens of Santiniketan had protested against the varsity’s “culture of building boundary walls” on the campus. Last week, a section of residents, including relatives of the two Nobel laureates, wrote to chief minister Mamata Banerjee requesting her to take back control over a road running through the campus that the state government had handed over to the varsity in 2017. In the letter to Mamata, the residents had objected to the varsity’s plan to stop public movement on a 600m stretch of the 2.9km road that links Santiniketan to Sriniketan. The varsity’s plan to block the 600m stretch between Upasana Griha and Sangeet Bhavan will result in a detour of 2.5km for those living along the 2.9km road.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-373
16-09-2020||West Bengal||Rain causes inundation, landslides||A sudden bout of heavy rain across the sub-Himalayan north Bengal since Monday night led to inundation in Alipurduar and Cooch Behar districts. The rainfall has also triggered landslides in different locations of the hills and one such landslide halted traffic for around two hours on NH10, the principal highway to Sikkim. In Alipurduar, it rained close to 300mm till Tuesday afternoon, which caused water-logging in 12 of 20 wards in the town. Over 15,000 people were marooned and more than 1,800 families had to shift to safer places as water entered their homes. The water-logging also halted movement of private buses from the town as the bus terminus went under waist-deep water. Such a situation made the district magistrate, SDO and the MLA of Alipurduar visit different areas of the town and take stock of the situation. “We have provided relief to over 1,800 people. Our officers are keeping a vigil,” said Rajesh, the SDO. Water-logging was also reported at places like Hasimara, Samuktala, Kalchini and Hamiltanganj in the district. Communication between Alipurduar and Falakata got snapped as water from a stream started flowing over one of the diversions. Those travelling between the towns had to take a turnaround route via Pundibari. In the hills, a landslide occurred in the Shwetijhora, a stream near Kalijhora that is about 25km from Siliguri. Traffic from Siliguri to Sikkim and Kalimpong was hampered because of the landslide. Workers and excavators were engaged to clear the debris and traffic was restored around 9.30am. Also, minor landslides have been reported in some other areas of the hills. In Cooch Behar, where it rained around 214mm, vast stretches of agricultural land went under water. “Though no flood situation has been reported so far, we apprehend a huge loss in agriculture. We need to make the assessment of loss. Also, there had been water-logging at some places but the water started receding in the afternoon,” said an official in the district administration. Met experts have pointed that the southwest monsoon was active in the region and was causing the rainfall. There is a chance of heavy to very heavy rainfall (from 70mm to 200mm), along with thunderstorms, in some areas of north Bengal in the next couple of days, they said. In Malda, fresh erosion by the Ganga has been reported in the Koshighat area of Bhutni islet since Monday night. According to locals, around 150m stretch of the bank has been eroded by the river that is closer to the dyke now. The state irrigation department has engaged workers to use sandbags and tree branches to prevent erosion in the area, sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-373
16-09-2020||West Bengal||Meghalaya CM writes to Shah for Gorkhaland||Meghalaya chief minister and National People’s Party president Conrad K. Sangma has written to Union home minister Amit Shah, batting for Gorkhaland and reminding the Centre that “the Gorkhas too are rightful Indian citizens who deserve to have their own identity and Bas Bhoomi (homeland)”. The letter was written on September 4 but made public on Tuesday by the NPP, an NDA constituent. The letter comes at a time the NPP is looking at expanding its support base in north Bengal after having opened its unit here. “Sir, you are aware of the long pending constitutional demand of the Gorkhas for a separate state of Gorkhaland,” is how Sangma has flagged the statehood issue in the letter. “Sir, as stated, the Gorkhas have contributed immensely to the fabric of Indian society and as with other citizens of India, the Gorkhas too are rightful Indian citizens who deserve to have their own identity and Bas Bhoomi,” the chief minister said. He also highlighted the contributions of Gorkha freedom fighter Durga Malla, members of constituent assembly Damber Singh and Ari Bahadur Gurung and Captain Ram Singh Thakuria, “a prominent Gorkha freedom fighter and musician who composed the music of the inspiring National Anthem”. Sangma has requested the Centre to “offer an honourable and lasting political solution” to the Gorkhas. The letter was made public when the monsoon session of Parliament was in progress and there were growing demands by NDA allies in Darjeeling for finding a “permanent political solution”. The Akhil Bharatiya Gorkha League (Pratap Khati camp) on Tuesday wrote to Sangma thanking him for his letter. Sangma is the second chief minister to lend support to the Gorkhaland demand. When Pawan Chamling was the Sikkim chief minister, he got a resolution adopted in the Assembly on March 29, 2011, terming Gorkhaland as a “genuine and legitimate” demand of the people of the hills. Neeraj Zimba, GNLF leader who became the Darjeeling on a BJP ticket, also wrote to Shah on Tuesday seeking a permanent political solution. The GNLF plastered posters across the hills for the statehood. “Sangma’s letter is definitely interesting and is going to add more steam to the ‘permanent solution demand’ in the hills,” said an observer. The NPP is the first political party in the Northeast to be recognised as a national party by the Election Commission of India. Even though the BJP has promised a “permanent political solution” in its election manifesto, the party has not spelt out the details till date. “The BJP also has to tread its path carefully given its ambition in Bengal,” the observer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-373
16-09-2020||West Bengal||Give Bharat Ratna to Tenzing: Raju Bista in Lok Sabha||Darjeeling MP Raju Bista on Tuesday demanded in the Lok Sabha that highest civilian award Bharat Ratna be conferred on Everester Tenzing Norgay Sherpa posthumously, months after he and Bengal minister Gautam Deb had sparred on the issue. Speaking in Nepali, the BJP MP reminded Parliament about the “humblest of backgrounds” of Tenzing and his struggle “to become an icon for the entire world”. Mount Everest had been conquered for the first time by Tenzing, along with Sir Edmund Hillary, on May 29, 1953. The demand to bestow Bharat Ratna on Tenzing started gathering steam in 2012 after the Centre had widened the ambit of the award to “recognise excellence in any field of human endeavour”. Earlier, the country’s highest award had been restricted to exceptional achievements in art, literature, science and public service. On Everest Day, which is commemorated on May 29, Bista and tourism minister Deb had sparred over the Bharat Ratna issue. While requesting Bista to take up the demand with the Centre, Deb had then said: “It is unfortunate that we have to raise the demand time and again before the central government.” Bista then reminded the minister that he had already raised the demand in Parliament on March 12, 2020. The MP said he had “been doing so much before he (Deb) shared his concern with me”. “I also request him (Deb) to send all documents and communication that the Bengal government had sent to the Centre in this regard as they would further strengthen my efforts to bring due recognition to one of the world’s greatest inspirations — our Gorkha great Tenzing Norgay Sherpa ji,” Bista had said in a written statement. Tenzing received a host of medals from Britain, Iran, Nepal, the Soviet Union, France and Italy. He was awarded the Padma Bhushan in 1959 and Padma Vibhushan posthumously in 2008 — some 22 years after his death at the age of 71. In 2015, a mountain region in Pluto was also named after Tenzing by the International Astronomical Union, the internationally recognised authority for naming celestial bodies and their surface features, after the same was recommended by the Nasa.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-373
16-09-2020||North East||Peasant body’s unity call deadline||Peasant organisation Krishak Mukti Sangram Samiti (KMSS) has set a deadline of September 20 for the AASU, AJYCP and the AJP to respond to their appeal for a united fight by regional forces to oust the ruling BJP in the next year’s Assembly polls. The deadline comes a day after the announcement of the name and roadmap of the All Assam Students’ Union (AASU) and the Assam Jatiyatabadi Yuba Chatra Parishad (AJYCP)-backed new regional political party — Assam Jatiya Parishad (AJP) which has adopted “Assam First, Always and Ever” as its guiding principle. KMSS president Bhasco D. Saikia on Tuesday said they wish the AASU, AJYCP and the AJP well, but there was nothing to celebrate. “We still are for a united fight under one party, one flag and one goal because we feel regional forces fighting separately will only help the BJP,” Saikia said. Even BJP rivals admit the ruling party is a formidable force and can be checked only if the anti-BJP votes are not divided. The KMSS deadline was seen as its way of politely expressing its displeasure over the formation of the AJP if one goes by the tone and tenor of Saikia’s appeal. “Our appeal for a united fight by regional forces should not be seen as a weakness. We are reiterating our appeal because we want to strengthen regionalism, jatiyatabad. We need to unite to not only defeat the BJP, but also the Congress and the AIUDF. We have appealed in the past and we are appealing today for the AASU, AJYCP and AJP to respond. We will wait till September 20 or else we will continue with our political activities,” Saikia said. KMSS has also announced a political party with its chief adviser Akhil Gogoi as the chief ministerial face. Akhil, however, has ruled himself out as the chief minister face, but is pushing for a united fight to save the Assamese community. Saikia said the KMSS has an open mind and feels every issue can be sorted out through negotiations. AJYCP general secretary Palash Changmai told The Telegraph that they are also for a unification of regional forces, for a united fight. “But political decisions will be taken by the AJP. They will decide. They will hold negotiations,” a circumspect Changmai said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-45
16-09-2020||Opinion||Loud vassal: Media as judge and jury||The jurisdiction of the kangaroo court is no longer limited to the hinterland. Its ambit, it seems, has now extended to the drawing rooms of urban India, with a prejudiced, virulent, agenda-driven electronic and social media donning the dreaded garb of jury and executioner. So much so that the extra-judicial role of the media has caught the attention of the court. The Delhi High Court has expressed deep annoyance with a popular television channel’s alleged enthusiasm for running parallel investigations into the unfortunate demise of a Congress leader. The Delhi High Court is not the only judicial body to have expressed such concern. While hearing petitions seeking various interventions pertaining to the death of a young actor, the Bombay High Court conveyed its dismay over the government’s inability to restraint a hawkish fourth estate. The court even went to the extent of asking whether television news could be justifiably regulated by the State in instances where the content has the potential of having “serious ramifications.” Taken together, these judicial admonitions reveal a frightening crisis in the media. The Indian media, in every conceivable form, have been transformed into cheerleaders of the powers that be. In this role as a dutiful defendant of the government, the media — given their exponential reach and power to influence opinion — have been entrusted with the responsibility of distorting the public discourse to suit specific political and ideological agenda. The complicity has resulted in the media willingly denouncing their primary responsibility of speaking truth to power on the behalf of the conscientious, dissenting citizen. Little wonder then that the prime minister of a democracy is being allowed to get away with his stubborn refusal to address searching questions on policy failure. One way of stemming the rot would be for journalists and media organizations to rediscover their ethical spine. The Delhi High Court’s insistence on responsible journalism must be looked at in this context. Diligence and morality can serve as powerful deterrents to the vectors of crassness and commerce that seem to have infected the media’s constitution. A responsible media would, in turn, neutralize the need for State regulation which, given the ambience, could lead to the stifling of independent voices. The media and the court are the bulwarks against authoritarianism. The former must deliberate on the wisdom of the latter if India is to survive as a functioning democracy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-147
16-09-2020||Opinion||A shining legacy: Remembering Swami Agnivesh||Sir — The demise of Swami Agnivesh is a great loss for the entire nation (“Swami’s last word: Resist”, Sept 12). In him, India has lost a progressive, firebrand social worker and leader who wore many hats in his lifetime — he served as a college lecturer, a lawyer, a spiritual thinker, and even a principled politician during his term as the education minister of Haryana. But perhaps the most significant contribution of Agnivesh to Indian society is his campaign against bonded labour through his foundation, Bandhua Mukti Morcha. He was also fiercely vocal against female foeticide, fought for women’s emancipation and participated in civil movements including the one led by Anna Hazare in recent times. For his crusade for communal harmony, Agnivesh received the Rajiv Gandhi National Sadbhavana Award, besides significant international awards. Agnivesh will be remembered as the face of India’s diverse and vibrant civil society. Ramesh G. Jethwani,Bangalore Sir — The social crusader in saffron, Swami Agnivesh, will be greatly missed. But he was not given recognition, even in death, by major English language newspapers. However, many Urdu dailies reportedly carried the news of his death on the front page, and had editorials and obituaries dedicated to him. Perhaps this lack of attention is on account of Agnivesh’s consistent opposition to Bharatiya Janata Party’s brand of Hindutva. A Brahmin from Andhra Pradesh, Agnivesh was a major proponent of the Arya Samaj whose influence spread across the Hindi heartland, among other regions. Agnivesh had given up a career as a professor in Calcutta to become a full-time social activist, with a mission to resist the sangh ideology at all levels. Shovanlal Chakraborty,Calcutta Sir — Swami Agnivesh, who passed away last Friday, was a vocal critic of social issues such as bonded labour and mob lynchings. It is unfortunate that many in India were not well aware of him until now. A reason for this could be the right-wing propaganda on television channels to deny recognition to such noble personalities. This is also evident from the comment of the retired Indian Police Service officer who called Agnivesh’s demise ‘good riddance’, accusing the latter of having done enormous damage to Hinduism and comparing him to a “lion” in sheep’s clothing. It is heartening that the historian, Irfan Habib, condemned this remark, saying, “Abusing the dead may be Hindutva but is certainly not Hinduism”. True to his own words, Agnivesh was clad not in saffron but in fire — of courage, compassion and tolerance. The pure colour of saffron has been tainted by the supporters of Hindutva to such an extent that the peace-loving citizens refrain from associating with it. The increasing amount of communally charged speeches on social media and in political rallies often incite the masses to violent acts against religious minorities. While the country is looking for a vaccine for the coronavirus, there is also an urgent need to find a cure for communal hatred. Avik Chatterjee,Calcutta Sir — Throughout his life, Swami Agnivesh kept the flame of tolerance burning and himself became a beacon of hope for the oppressed. Agnivesh should be remembered as a modern-day social reformer — he fought against female foeticide and bonded labour, against corruption alongside Anna Hazare, and at one time even helped in negotiating with extremists to ensure the release of five policemen. Anwesa Chaudhury,North 24 Parganas Sir — The secular citizens of India mourn the death of Swami Agnivesh. He fought against many controversial laws passed by the Union ministry under the Narendra Modi-led government. Throughout his life, he stuck to his ideology of humanity and tolerance, and was a vocal critic of communal orthodoxy and mob violence. Forward-thinking citizens will not forget him. Md. Yusuf,Illambazar, Birbhum Fight back Sir — The film, Mulan, has once again been embroiled in controversy. Only last year, people were enraged when the lead actress of the film expressed support for the Hong Kong police at a time they were using forceful means to quell protests. Now, the makers of the film have drawn flak online for thanking eight government entities in China’s Xinjiang province — the site of mass detention and alleged human rights violations of over a million Uighur Muslims. It is heartening to see that although large franchises seem to have relinquished social responsibility, viewers have kept the hope alive. Sanjukta Bhattacharya,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-148
16-09-2020||Opinion||Slip or not: Delhi Police and riot evidence||Eleven lakh pages of technical data cannot be a joke. On these would be based the questioning of Umar Khalid, a former student of Jawaharlal Nehru University and one of the protestors against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. He has been arrested for inciting the riots in northeast Delhi in February. But are the Delhi police sure that the 10 days of custody granted by the court would be sufficient to ‘confront’ him with all the evidence? After all, they have not displayed as much efficiency in formulating credible accusations as in arresting young people on the charge of having incited or organized or taken part in the February violence. Based on the so-called disclosure statements of two students arrested earlier, Natasha Narwal and Devangana Kalita, the police named the academics, Jayati Ghosh and Apoorvanand, and the politicians, Sitaram Yechury and Yogendra Yadav, in a supplementary charge sheet. In a kind of black comicality, not only do the main sections of the two statements tally in spelling errors and wrong English, but both show that the purported makers of the statements have also written that they refuse to sign them. The purpose of these documents — hovering between assumed factuality and malicious fiction — is revealing. Lawyers point out that, according to the Indian Evidence Act, confessions to the police are not admissible as evidence in court. The Delhi police are not ignorant of this. So the supplementary charge sheet was possibly formulated as part of the police’s efforts to harass, intimidate and humiliate citizens who can be associated with dissent. A statement by academics, lawyers and activists speaking up against the continued arrests of anti-CAA activists, including Umar Khalid’s, suggests that the northeast Delhi violence is being used as a ruse to detain those who protested democratically against new citizenship laws; it is a kind of ‘witch-hunt’. It is a comment on the Delhi police’s actions that retired senior police officers have reminded the police commissioner of the question raised by Julio Riberio, former director general of police: are the police being true to their oath? The former Supreme Court judge, Madan B. Lokur, has said that the Centre is using an iron hand to curb free speech. But perhaps it is not surprising that the police are being obvious. To intimidate and silence, being barefaced is likely to be more effective.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-148
16-09-2020||Opinion||The plot thickens in Nagaland||From all indications, a comprehensive resolution to the Naga problem seems destined to remain elusive. As hinted by the Central government, what may come about is a partial solution which will leave out the most organized of Naga insurgent factions, the National Socialist Council of Nagalim (Isak-Muivah). While other Naga militant groups have come together under the broad canopy of the Naga National Political Group and have agreed to settle their 73-year-old struggle within the Indian Constitution, Thuingaleng Muivah, the NSCN(I-M) supremo, remains resolute in his demand for a separate Naga Constitution and flag, both of which the Centre has turned down. There is something romantic and heroic about not letting go of a past vision. However, such stances have often tended towards tragedy. Edgar’s intuitive wisdom in his casual verdict in one of William Shakespeare’s grand tragedies, King Lear, says it all. When Gloucester showed pique at the unkind fate King Lear was dealt, Edgar remarked: “What, in ill thoughts again? Men must endure/ Their going hence, even as their coming hither./ Ripeness is all. Come on.” Like King Lear, who remained a faithful adherent to a past era and its values, Muivah and many of the older-generation leadership of the NSCN(I-M) remain wedded to the original dream of a sovereign Naga homeland and are unable to accept the radically changed circumstances in the decades that have gone by. The only thing constant is change; hence no revolution can continue to be fought on 70-year-old slogans. At the turn of an epoch, those not resilient enough to accommodate and adjust to the paradigmatic changes are probably fated to be left with a bitter sense of betrayal and defeat. As it stands today, the Centre has fixed September as the deadline for concluding a peace accord with the Nagas. Quite obviously, the Bharatiya Janata Party government in New Delhi is impatient and is under tremendous pressure on account of the mounting Covid-19 crisis and a failing economy. It, therefore, wants a deal sealed on this front as evidence that all is not going downhill. Moreover, just a year ago, the Centre abrogated Kashmir’s special status; the NSCN(I-M) is insistent upon a similar special status. A concession here, it is probably feared, may discredit its Kashmir policy. There have been suggestions by commentators sympathetic to the NSCN(I-M) to allow the Nagas to treat Article 371(A) of the Indian Constitution with suitable modifications as the Naga Constitution. Obviously, the Centre has not paid heed to this. It is also not known whether this cosmetic solution would be acceptable to the NSCN(I-M). Also coming under scrutiny is the August 3, 2015 ‘Framework Agreement’ signed by the NSCN(I-M) and the government interlocutor, R.N. Ravi, which the NSCN(I-M) has now made public. This turned out to be a single-page document, simply agreeing to reach an agreement on the broad terms of ‘shared sovereignty’ and ‘inclusiveness’, neither of which is elaborated upon and is, therefore, open to varying interpretations. While some have chosen ‘shared sovereignty’ to mean the power-sharing mechanism listed in Schedule VII of the Indian Constitution, the NSCN(I-M) sees it as a relationship akin to a partnership between two sovereign nations. Likewise, Ravi has chosen ‘inclusive’ to mean all stakeholders, including every Naga underground faction, but the NSCN(I-M) thinks it means integration of all Naga-inhabited areas. All in all, the Framework Agreement is a surprisingly incomplete document. For the same reason, it is now proving to be irrelevant. Nobody is in any doubt that Naga sovereignty could ever have been negotiated across the table. However, so long as the vision of a sovereign Nagaland was on the horizon, the grand project of a unified Naga homeland remained attractive. But when it became clear that the settlement is to be for a state within India, many in Nagaland seem to be saying that strengthening the present state of Nagaland is the best option for them. Indeed, as a bigger state of India, with nearly three times the number of tribes, it is foreseeable that the problems of power and resource sharing would be compounded in the new Nagaland. The NSCN(I-M) under Muivah’s stewardship has more reason to object to the changed goalposts. If the settlement is for the state of Nagaland, a majority of its leadership and cadres, including Muivah, would be left out, as most of them are from tribes outside Nagaland. It is also a fact that after Isak Swu’s death, the NSCN(I-M)’s foothold amongst Nagaland’s tribes has depleted. Again, the NSCN came into being after rejecting the Shillong Accord of 1975 — it agreed for a settlement within the Indian Constitution — as a betrayal of the Nagas. If the NSCN(I-M) were to agree to an unconditional settlement within the Indian Constitution now, it would be an admission of a 45-year-old mistake that has caused immense trauma to ordinary Nagas. The author is editor, FPSJ Review of Arts and Politics||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-148
16-09-2020||Opinion||Caste and the Constitution||Are scheduled castes in India a homogeneous class? To anyone familiar with the caste system in India, this would appear to be a nonsensical question. The official list of all scheduled castes in India runs to 23 pages, comprising scores of distinct castes in each state and Union territory. There are approximately 60 scheduled castes in West Bengal alone with ritual rules governing their inter-marriage, dining and participation in religious ceremonies. We are all familiar with Saratchandra’s Abhagi, her body thrown in a pit by the river for being a Duley (a particular caste in the scheduled caste category), denied her last wish of ascending to heaven on a chariot of smoke from her own cremation. Yet, the fascination of a constructed homogeneity and equal benefits for all scheduled caste persons has meant that the law of the land as declared by the Supreme Court has remained insulated from this reality. In Chinnaiah’s case, the Supreme Court in 2004 struck down a sub-classification among different scheduled castes by the Andhra Pradesh government providing sub-quotas for each of them. The logic behind the sub-quota was simple — Malas were a dominant scheduled caste group, which disproportionately benefited from reservations at the expense of Madigas, Rellis and Adi-Andhras. The sub-quota would ensure that benefits flowed to the more backward castes amongst the scheduled castes who needed them most. The Supreme Court, however, said that such sub-classification was impermissible. This was because, in its view, the Constitution envisaged scheduled castes as a single class entitled to reservation in Parliament and state legislatures, and for whose benefit states could reserve government jobs. The enumeration of scheduled castes could only be done by a presidential order and amended by Parliament. Though done state-wise, states themselves could play no role because that would amount to politicization. But when Punjab provided a similar sub-classification reserving 50 per cent of all scheduled caste quota seats to Balmikis and Mazhabi Sikhs, the court, last month in Davinder Singh’s case, took a different view. It held that sub-classification of scheduled castes was a mechanism to ensure that the benefits of reservation percolate to the most backward groups and ought to be permitted. In principle, it felt that such classification was similar to the well-accepted creamy layer exclusion amongst other backward classes, which progressively reduced reservation benefits for economically better-off OBCs. While recognizing that the creamy layer was an exclusion from reservation, whereas a sub-quota was a distinct distributional principle amongst the identified castes, it called for a larger bench to settle this controversy authoritatively in light of the court’s earlier judgment to the contrary in Chinnaiah’s case. There is plenty of interpretive room in the Constitution to support both views. But the court’s view in Davinder Singh’s case is truer to the reality on the ground. In his doctoral research, Anup Surendranath has pointed out the startling fact that in Andhra Pradesh, Malas, one of the four major scheduled caste groups, with a population share of 40 per cent has 60 per cent of all government jobs reserved for scheduled castes (as of 1997) whereas Madigas, another major group, is significantly under-represented. Even within Malas, the priestly class is dominant, when compared with other Malas engaged in menial tasks. With some variations, this pattern repeats itself in most states. Distinctions between scheduled castes and within each caste abound, yet the law, laid down by the Supreme Court in Chinnaiah’s case and accepted so far, does not recognize them. This is neither judicial shortsightedness nor oversight but an entirely plausible reading of India’s pre-constitutional history of reservations. By virtue of the Communal Award of 1932, untouchability emerged as a bright line marker separating certain ‘depressed classes’ from caste Hindus. The Award not only reserved seats in legislatures for depressed classes, but it also permitted exclusive voting through separate electorates. This was in addition to members of depressed classes exercising their franchise for non-reserved seats. In effect, historical disadvantage was being offset by a double vote, including one through a separate electorate. This scheme was central to B.R. Ambedkar’s vision of depressed classes being distinct from caste Hindus, while remaining part of the general body politic. As central as it was to Ambedkar, to Mahatma Gandhi, separate electorates repudiated his fundamental belief that scheduled castes must remain part of the Hindu fold. Untouchability was like a cancerous growth in Hindu society, which had to be clinically excised, rather than be eradicated root and branch by dismantling the caste system itself. When Gandhiji went on a fast-unto-death against separate electorates, the bright line of untouchability became an entrenched feature of India’s caste politics overshadowing differences above and below. Forced into a corner by Gandhiji’s fast, Ambedkar entered into a pact, commonly called the Poona Pact, by which depressed classes would have significantly more reserved seats in lieu of separate electorates. From then on, sociological differences among various depressed classes became largely irrelevant in law. The Government of India Act, 1935 created a homogenous construct of “Scheduled Castes” all of whom would benefit equally from reservation. This arrangement continued into the Constitution where the power to recognize scheduled castes was vested in the president. Differences amongst them were subsumed as a minor secondary cost. Such unity, necessary for a collective struggle for the self-respect of Dalits vis-à-vis caste Hindus, was a political masterstroke by Ambedkar. However, in his later years, he appeared to realize that the path to Dalit self-respect did not lie in a modern articulation of substantive equality through reservations alone. To this end, in a radical act, he embraced Buddhism in an attempt to create a moral basis for Dalit unity. But as D.R. Nagaraj in his insightful critique argued, this alternative basis, though radical and startlingly original, glossed over Dalit gods and goddesses, their established ways of life, and lived histories. True self-respect would only come when respect for Dalits arose because of such histories, not despite them and certainly not after rewriting them out of the dominant narrative. It is the unraveling of this hard-won yet illusory collective unity (or homogeneity if you will, in judicial parlance) that is at play in the Supreme Court today. This unraveling at once reinforces Ambedkar’s view that caste is everywhere, even within untouchable society. At the same time, it questions whether Dalit unity can remain a permanent political reality. It is also a testament to the limitation of the Gandhian view that simply mainstreaming Dalits would lead to the slow death of untouchability, while affirming his belief that real reform lies in the minds of people and not in the rabbit hole of the law where the logic of reservation only spawns demands of more reservation. It is also the continuation of pre-Independence caste politics at a changed time, with changed actors, yet in an all-too-familiar and depressing setting. Seventy years is perhaps too short a time for the shared vision of Gandhi and Ambedkar of a post-untouchability society to have evolved in India. But even today, would Abhagi, a Duley, have been able to fulfil her simple last wish of a cremation with dignity in our modern constitutional republic? It’s a question that unfortunately has no easy answers. The author is Research Director, Vidhi Centre for Legal Policy. Views are personal||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-148
16-09-2020||Jharkhand||Govt launches website to handle home isolation requests||Asymptomatic Covid-19 patients in Jharkhand will now have to register and upload necessary information on a government-run website in order to get permission for home isolation, the health department said in a notification on Wednesday, announcing the launch of Swaraksha.nic.in. The Swaraksha website, designed by the state National Informatics Centre (NIC), will allow asymptomatic Covid patients to download home isolation certificates to prove that they are eligible to stay at home despite carrying an infection. However, in order to get the certificate, a patient will have to register on the website through his or her Specimen Referral Form (SRF) ID, a unique number which is given to every person who undergoes a Covid test. After registration, the patient will have to provide infrastructural details such as the number of rooms in the patient’s house, the number of toilets and whether the house had the facility of an oximeter. Besides, the patient will also have to provide details of family members older than 60 years and younger than 10 years. Also, details of all family members and their comorbidities, if any, will have to be specified while filling up the form on the website, the notification said. Along with the SRF ID, the patient seeking home isolation will also have to provide details of the collection date of his swab and the date on which his test result was out. In case the patient is suffering from any other disease, he or she will have to mention it on the website irrespective of the nature of the disease. Once the patient shares all the details on the website, the district administration will decide if he/she can be allowed to stay in home isolation. The patient will be able to download the home isolation certificate from the website once the district administration scrutinizes all the details provided and grants him or her permission to stay at home. As per government data, as many as 64,456 people across Jharkhand have been infected by Covid-19 virus so far. There were 14,135 active cases of infection in the state, and a majority of the patients were asymptomatic, health officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-298
16-09-2020||Jharkhand||Firing at Hazaribagh banquet hall||Shots were fired at a banquet hall in Hazaribagh on Wednesday around 8pm. Though no one was injured in the incident, superintendent of police Karthik S. and Sadar subdivisional police officer Kamal Kishore went to the banquet hall and took some people into custody. Kishore said that the landlord and tenant were locked in a legal battle. Local sources said the landlord was not in favour of leasing the property to the present tenant. This angered the tenant which resulted in the legal battle. Garhwa police on Wednesday busted a seven-member gang involved in the illegal trade of firearms. Subdivisional police officer, Garhwa, Bahman Tuti identified the arrested men as Vivek Kumar Singh, 25, Ravi Kumar Mehta, 19 (both residents of village Pansa in Palamu), Prince Kumar Singh, 22 (a resident of Panchkhori in Palamau), Lalmohan Dubey, 25 (a resident of Baliyari in Garhwa) and Ramchella Rajwar, 38 (a resident of Bharat Pahari in Garhwa). After a tip-off, a team of Kandi police reached Rajwar’s house. They arrested three men with a bag containing weapons, including indigenous country-made items and tools. During interrogation, the men told the police that their companions were hiding in the forest, Tuti said. Two persons were arrested on Wednesday from the Saria area in Giridih in connection with a robbery in Nirsa’s Galfarbari on September 14. Vickey Sharma and Sanjay Sharma had allegedly stolen two laptops and a mobile phone from a shop which they reached ostensibly to get a photocopy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-298
16-09-2020||Jharkhand||Marandi poser for JMM govt on rising crime||The leader of the Opposition, BJP leader Babulal Marandi, on Wednesday blamed the Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) government in the state for deteriorating law and order triggered by a rise in Maoist violence, growing crime rate and flourishing illegal trade of minerals. Marandi alleged that in nine months of the JMM’s rule, the government has failed to perform in every front. The JMM government had the opportunity to bolster law and order and make healthcare available to coronavirus patients at government hospitals; however, it never focused on these areas, Marandi said. As a result, crime and Maoist violence are on the rise, and mismanagement at government hospitals is making Covid-19 patients suffer, he said. Private hospitals are charging exorbitantly high rates which the poor or middle class cannot afford, he added. Marandi said: “Maoist extremism had almost vanished under the BJP government, but has resurfaced across the state. At least 85 minor and major incidents of Maoist violence have taken place during the JMM’s rule.” According to Marandi, Maoists who had left the state have returned. Marandi, while talking to reporters at the Circuit House here, said that during the JMM’s rule, theft, dacoity, loot, murder and other crimes have increased manifold. Women and girls are insecure because of the rising cases of rape, he said. “It is noteworthy that criminal incidents have increased when compared to the situation under the BJP government. Why would police fail to deliver under this government?” Marandi asked. He also stated that the districts on the border have seen a rise in illegal trade of coal, stone and other minerals. These are being smuggled to other areas and government leaders are crying for funds, he said. Development projects have been badly affected. Central government funds for MGNREGA and other schemes are reaching the ground, but there are high levels of corruption. The BJP also condemned the JMM’s land mutation bill. The party will oppose the bill in the Assembly as well. The bill is not favourable to the people of Jharkhand, Marandi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-298
16-09-2020||Jharkhand||Tata academy graduate appointed Owen Coyle's deputy||Experienced coach Noel Wilson will join Owen Coyle’s backroom staff as an assistant coach for the upcoming Indian Super League (ISL) season alongside Sandy Stewart and goalkeeping coach Ezequiel Gomez. Noel, who worked as the reserve team’s head coach in the previous season, led the team to some excellent performances in the 2nd Division I-League and various other tournaments. On  being appointed as the first team assistant coach, Noel said: “ I thank God for giving me this opportunity and the management for handing me such a challenging position. It’s a great privilege for me to work alongside a well-established coach like Owen Coyle. I will share all my knowledge and support with Owen to help the players in the best possible manner so that we can have a successful season in the IPL.” Noel also comes with abundant experience from his playing career, which was established in Jamshedpur. He was enrolled in Tata Football Academy in 1996 and graduated with the third batch in 1998 with fellow cadets like Deepak Mondol and Mahesh Gawli. Being a former TFA player, I have a big connection with the city of Jamshedpur. For me, it is the city that made me what I am today. It’s an honour to serve this city as the club’s first team assistant coach,” Noel said. The 40-year-old began his career as a coach in 2013 and currently holds an AFC `A’ license certificate. He worked with Roots Football Academy and South United FC in Bangalore before joining Jamshedpur as the reserve team's head coach. Noel has also represented several major clubs like Churchill Brothers, Mohun Bagan, Mohammedan Sporting and Mumbai FC as a player and also played at the international level for Team India on numerous occasions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-298
16-09-2020||Jharkhand||Covid positive MLA seeks virtual access to Assembly  ||A Congress MLA, who has tested positive for the coronavirus and is now on 14-day home quarantine, has requested the Speaker to make arrangements so that Covid patients like her can join the upcoming monsoon session of the state Assembly virtually. In a letter to Speaker Ravindranath Mahto on Wednesday, Barkagaon representative Amba Prasad pointed out that there were several MLAs who, like her, were in home isolation after testing Covid positive, but were asymptomatic. “The session is being convened after a long time. Hence, every MLA will have several burning issues of their constituency to raise within the House. Also, in the interest of public good, it is important to take part in the voting process for the passage of important bills. Therefore, I request, on behalf of several MLAs, to make online arrangements so that legislators can attend the session virtually,” she said. Speaker Mahto could not be contacted for his comments. But Assembly secretary Mahendra Prasad said he was yet to receive a formal request letter from the MLA. Nor had he received any directive from the Speaker. “The journalist fraternity has, in fact, requested for online arrangements to witness the proceedings of the House. This, we are exploring. As for the MLA’s request, we shall act accordingly after receiving formal directives,” he said. Another Congress MLA, Naman Bixal Kongari (Kolebira), tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday, which means the strength of the party would be reduced in the Assembly during the monsoon session scheduled to be held between September 18 and September 22. Currently, the Congress has 17 MLAs in the 81-member House with an effective strength of 79. Following Kongari’s infection, the party’s strength in the House will be 15. Three other MLAs — Deepika Pandey (Mahagama), Banna Gupta (Jamshedpur West), Badal Patralekh (Jarmundi) _ who were infected have recovered. But it isn’t clear whether they will attend the session or not. In the wake of the pandemic, Covid-19 tests have been made mandatory for all MLAs, bureaucrats and officials taking part in the Assembly session. They have all been asked to provide Covid negative reports 72 hours before the commencement of the House session.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-298
16-09-2020||Jharkhand||This Dhanbad Puja goes with Covid as pandal theme  ||The pandemic has caught the imagination of Puja committees with one of the most well known pujas of Dhanbad deciding to build a pandal based on the coronavirus theme. The pandal this year will be smaller compared to the last year's pandal of 40 feet.But it will be studded with a large number of posters intended at creating awareness about the significance of adhering to safety norms, including social distancing. Notably, the Puja will be held on a smaller scale this year with low-height pandals, smaller idols and without elaborated immersion ceremonies as per the decision taken last week by  organisers of over 250 pujas. Divulging details, Shyamal Sen, a renowned artist of Dhanbad who is one of the founder member of Navyuvak Sangharsh Samiti that organises the Puja at Manaitand , said, “After much pondering over various themes we decided to make the pandal on the real issue affecting humanity now. Instead of a Utopian theme, the padal will be based on the shape of the coronavirus and will be equated with a demon.” “The virus has changed the life of human beings, whether on the socio economic front or on the professional front. So, we can’t remain aloof from it. Hence, we decided to lend the opportunity to visitors to interact with the truth and get prepared for the fight. We must arm ourselves with necessary gear like masks, sanitizers, gloves and make changes in our behaviour  by adopting social distancing  as a way of life,” said Sen. He said this year, they will not allow devotees to offer pushpanjali as a social distancing measure. Instead, volunteers deputed outside the puja pandal will collect flowers from devotees and offer them before the idol. “We have also decided to instal two sanitization chambers at the entry point so that all visitors  get sanitized before the entering the pandal,” said Sen, adding that since the income of everyone has been hit, they will be not be collecting donations from visitors. Instead, they will manage through contributions of committee members. Navyuvak Sangharsh Samity has been organising Pujas every year since 1972. Every year, the pandal is based on a theme. Last year, the theme was based on the Chinnmastika temple of Rajrappa.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-298
16-09-2020||Jharkhand||Hemant launches Covid lab, welfare measures in Dumka||Chief minister Hemant Soren launched a Covid-19 testing lab, an operation theatre and an ultrasound unit at Dumka Medical College and Hospital on Wednesday, describing the Rs 20 crore worth additions as key assets for the revival of the ailing health infrastructure of the Santhal Pargana region. While winding up his three-day tour of Dumka, Hemant said that setting up the RT-PCR lab at the hospital, recently renamed Fulo-Jhano Medical College and Hospital, was in keeping with his government’s endeavour to reach Covid care facilities to the grassroots to ensure early detection and cure of patients. “Since the outbreak of this global pandemic in Jharkhand in March, we have had to begin from the scratch to combat this menace. At one point in time, we didn’t have a single Covid testing lab in our state. But despite financial and other challenges, we have set up many labs both in government hospitals and private entities so that we can screen as many as we can to curb the spread of this virus,” he said. He also promised all-round support to develop the medical college and hospital in the days ahead. Dumka’s Covid-19 lab for RT-PCR tests is the first in the district and second in the Santhal Pargana region. Last month, a private lab set up similar facilities in Deoghar in association with the district administration. Principal of Dumka medical college Dr Hiralal Murmu said they had begun testing samples from August 28. “On an average, we are now testing 1,000-1,200 samples daily, covering three districts of Dumka, Pakur and Sahebganj. The lab is a boon for the people of the region who had to wait for weeks to get their Covid test reports, which in turn delayed timely detection and also complicated health parameters of people with comorbidities,” he said. Dr Murmu said the lab had been set up in association with a private agency named, Prejah Foundation. “We have signed an MoU with this agency for three months for setting up the lab, training our people for testing and for providing other support. The state government has spent close to Rs 2.5 crore,” said Murmu. Another official of the medical college appealed to the Hemant Soren government for ensuring proper teaching manpower. “Although, the college has started with 100 students of MBBS this year, we are struggling as there is an acute shortage of teachers. Against a required staff strength of 115 teachers, we now have only 58,” said the official on condition of anonymity. Later, Hemant also launched a sewing training centre at Hirapur panchayat in Dumka and doled out credit cash linkage facilities to women’s self-help groups. During his three-day tour, Hemant held extensive public meetings with civil society groups and notables, and also took part in government sponsored programmes. The visit, JMM sources said, was also aimed at gauging the public mood in Dumka, considered a party bastion, ahead of by-elections, dates of which are yet to be announced by the Election Commission of India. On Tuesday, Hemant announced at a public meeting that his government was committed to providing old age pension (60 years and above) to the needy and was working on plans to provide widow pensions irrespective of age.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-298
16-09-2020||Jharkhand||Teacher makes model of IPL trophy to perk up students ||A schoolteacher here has built a replica of the IPL 2020 trophy from waste material and got his students to work on painting portraits of captains of the eight teams participating in the T20 tournament as a way to encourage them to take up sports. “Being born and brought up in a humble family, I have always had a soft corner for children of low-income group families living in slums. Hence, I will be gifting the model to such children after organising a cricket match among them in order to encourage them about sports,” said Arjun Ram Paul (31), an art teacher of Kamal Katesaria School, Dhanbad. Paul said the two feet model, weighing around 400gm, was made of wastepaper and broken utensils, all put together using adhesive during the last week. He had made similar models of the FIFA World Cup trophy in 2018 and the ICC World Cup in 2019. “The two students, who worked with me at my house developing the model and paintings, spent less than one hour every day for a week,” he said, adding that he was careful to ensure they observed social distancing norms while working on the project. “We maintained a distance of a metre among ourselves, wore masks and used sanitisers regularly,” Paul said. As for the paintings of all the captains _ M.S. Dhoni of Chennai Superkings,  Rohit Sharma of Mumbai Indians, Dinesh Karthik of Kolkata Knight Riders,  David Warner of Sunrisers Hyderabad, Steve Smith of Rajasthan Royals, K.L. Rahul of King’s XI Punjab, Virat Kohli of Royal Challengers, Bangalore; and Shreyas Iyer of Delhi Capitals _ they used acrylic colours. “I have been a sports lover since childhood. And I leave no opportunity to promote sports. Since IPL 2020 is being held outside the country in Dubai, I made the model of the trophy to create a buzz around the tournament here among young sports lovers,” Paul said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-299
16-09-2020||Jharkhand||1702 people, including Ranchi Mayor Asha Lakra, tests Covid positive in a day||Ranchi mayor Asha Lakra was among the 1702 people who tested positive for Covid-19 in Jharkhand on Tuesday, taking the Covid tally in the state close to 65,000, health officials said. Lakra also met several policemen at Morabadi on Tuesday, hours before she took to social media to announce that she has tested positive for Covid-19. As per a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) on Tuesday late night, as many as 457 of the 1700-odd cases of Covid infection reported in Jharkhand were from Ranchi. Meanwhile, at least 1638 Covid patients recovered from the infection in 24 hours, and 329 of them were from Ranchi. The Covid toll in Jharkhand jumped to 571 on Tuesday after eight patients, including three from East Singhbhum, died during treatment. As per government figures, the count of Covid casualties reached 250 in East Singhbhum on Tuesday, which is the highest among all districts in Jharkhand. Meanwhile, Dhanbad and West Singhbhum reported two Covid casualties each and one patient died in Bokaro. Despite the casualties, Jharkhand’s Covid mortality rate dropped to 0.88 per cent, the NHM bulletin stated. After witnessing a fall in active cases for the past five days, the count of active cases increased in Jharkhand. There were as many as 14118 active cases of Covid-19 infection in Jharkhand by Tuesday midnight. The NHM bulletin stated that the tally in Ranchi was close to 14,000 on Tuesday, while the number of active cases reached 3,523 here. The number of active cases, however, dropped in East Singhbhum as 191 fresh cases surfaced there while 282 patients recovered. East Singhbhum, as per government records, had 2,703 active cases of Covid infection. The count of Covid recoveries also drew close to 50,000 on Tuesday and the recovery rate jumped to 77.20 per cent. As per records with the health department, as many as 49,750 people have overcome Covid-19 infection across Jharkhand, and 10,297 of them were from the state capital. The government on Tuesday tested swab samples of 51,795 people from across the state. So far, health workers in Jharkhand have collected swab samples of 14.83 lakh people and tested 14.71 lakh of them. The health department has intensified Covid testing across the state and several testing camps are being organised across cities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-299
16-09-2020||Jharkhand||Jharkhand land bill faces opposition||At least three different organisations jointly demonstrated at 22 revenue circles across Ranchi districts on Tuesday to lodge their protest against the Jharkhand Mutation Bill 2020 that was approved by the state cabinet on September 8. The bill aimed at providing online facility for jamabandi or entries regarding ownership, cultivation and other rights and changes as noticed by the revenue agencies is facing opposition, not only from BJP but also from an alliance MLA. Bandhu Tirkey who won the Mandar assembly seat as a JVM-P (then headed by Babulal Marandi who later merged his party with the BJP) candidate and later joined Congress mobilised those organisations that protested against the bill at 22 circles — 4 in Ranchi city and 18 in rural areas — of the district on Tuesday. The protestors belonged to the organisations like Jharkhand Janadhikar Manch (not Mahasabha as another organisation is known), Adivasi Sena and CNT Act Bachao Morcha. “Land mafia has grabbed large parcels of land in connivance with the revenue officials of the state and the bill is trying to give them immunity,” Tirkey told this newspaper when asked about their grievances. The records are full of errors in names etc that made it very difficult for the owners to prove their rights over land legally, he further said, adding the system needs to be revamped and reports of surveys made from time to time should be published. Babulal Marandi, the leader of BJP legislature party in the state Assembly, also protested against the bill and threatened agitation if the government went ahead with the bill. Terming it as a “black bill” at a press conference on September 13, he also alleged that gair mazrua land (a type of land vested in government) were illegally transferred in the name of many people in connivance with revenue department officials, adding Section 22 of the bill gave protection to such officials as that section of the bill said no civil or criminal proceeding can be initiated against them. In a hurriedly called press conference on Monday, state’s revenue, registration and land reforms secretary K.K. Soan wanted to clarify the government stand. “The government has no intention to give immunity to any revenue official who does something with bad intention,” the secretary said. Though section 22 of the bill said about certain protection given to revenue officials, it also has a sub-section that has provision for initiating suitable action against erring officials with prior approval from competent authorities of both state and central governments, he clarified. But Tirkey was not convinced. “Does the secretary has any parameter for measuring bad intentions?” he asked and went ahead with the protest on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-299
16-09-2020||Jharkhand||Wife, lover and friend lynched in Gumla||Mob lynching raised its ugly head in less than 24 hours again in Jharkhand’s Gumla district on Monday late night. Barely, a day after a 32-year-old former Maoist Sandeep Tirkey with criminal antecedent was lynched by villagers at Tesera village under Sadar police station of Gumla on Monday, police on Tuesday morning recovered four bodies, including a woman at Derengdih village under Raidih police station in the same district, with three of them being lynched by villagers over illicit affair. Sources in the Raidih police station informed that bodies of the three lynching victims were lying in the courtyard of Marianus Kujur. The body of Marianus was lying outside the house. “We were alerted by the eldest son of Marianus, aged 12-years that two men along with their mother (Neelam Kujur) were strangulating their father in their house at around 10.30 pm. We rushed to the spot and found the three of them near the body of Marianus Kujur. We knew that she (Neelam) had an illicit affair with a man. We tied up the men and started beating them who then confessed that they had hatched a plan to murder Marianus on the advice of Neelam Kujur. Both the youths were from neighbouring Simdega district. We started beating three of them and killed them and in the morning informed police,” confessed Abraham Kujur, younger brother of Marianus Kujur to the police. Police sources also revealed that villagers have informed that in the past few months there had been fights between Marianus and his wife over her extramarital affairs. “Villagers claimed that there had been fights between the couple on several occasions as Marianus suspected his wife of having an extramarital affair while he was away working in a private company in Pune. He had returned last year and got suspicious of his wife after seeing the youths visit his house and had beaten up his wife. The wife had then hatched a plan to kill her husband with help of her paramour,” the sources said. Superintendent of police, Gumla Hrudeep P. Janardhanan said that two separate FIRs have been lodged in the case. “We have filed two separate FIRs in the case. While a brother of murdered Marianus has lodged a case against Neelam and two youths from Simdega for strangulating to death Marianus. On the other hand, another FIR has been lodged by administration against unknown villagers for beating to death the woman and two youths aged between 28 and 30. We have sent all the four bodies for post-mortem and will soon be identifying villagers involved in the incident. We will also try to arrange for compensation for orphaned children from the government who are now staying with their uncle,” the SP said. The senior police official confirmed of the illicit affair as the motive behind the murder and the subsequent lynching. “Marianus’s wife had an affair with one of the youth identified as Sudeep Dungdung a resident of Kersai thana in neighbouring Simdega district and yesterday night had conspired to kill her husband with help of her paramour who had come along with another youth Prakash Kullu from Simdega on a bike. The villagers got alerted somehow and gheraod the house and beat to death the two youths and the woman,” informed Janardhanan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-299
16-09-2020||Jharkhand||Minor ‘raped’ by relative in Ramgarh||A 14-year-old girl was allegedly raped by a relative following which her parents brought her to the Patratu police station in Ramgarh on Tuesday where an FIR was lodged. The relative was identified as Deepak Rajwar, 26, who raped the minor girl on August 29. Some village women had been witness to the crime. They complained to the panchayat, which summoned Rajwar. He admitted to raping the girl. However, he denied committing the crime on Tuesday, prompting the girl’s father to approach the police. To revamp the infrastructure at the dedicated Covid-19 hospital at Dhanbad’s Jagjivan Nagar, the district administration on Tuesday decided  to carry out some civil work with the help of Bharat Coking Coal Ltd. The water supply system will be overhauled, toilets repaired and campus sanitised as part of the revamp in the next 15 days. The decision to revamp the infrastructure was taken at a meeting under the chairmanship of deputy commissioner Uma Shankar Singh, where director (personnel), BCCL, Malikarjun Rao and others were present. No new patient will be admitted to the hospital for the next three days; instead, all serious patients will be sent to the Covid-19 ICU at PMCH cath lab. Dhanbad-based NGO Shubh Sandesh, engaged in providing counselling to those suffering from lockdown-induced depression, will now encourage people who have recovered from Covid-19 to donate plasma for the treatment of serious patients. The district administration is preparing to launch plasma therapy for serious Covid-19 patients from next week at Patliputra Medical College and Hospital. Shubh Sandesh had also helped returning migrant workers reach their homes by providing them transport. Anti-corruption bureau (ACB) officials from Palamu on Tuesday arrested the mukhiya and a member of the panchayat samiti of Baligarh at Ketar block in Bhawnathpur police station area while accepting a bribe of Rs 5,000 from a villager. According to ACB deputy superintendent Ram Pukar Singh, mukhiya Surendra Yadav allegedly demanded the bribe from Kameshwer Singh, 56, who had taken a contract for the construction of a culvert. He contacted the mukhiya for release of the last instalment. As a bribe, Yadav had demanded Rs 5,000. Three youths were swept away at the confluence of two rain-fed rivers, the Ouranga and the Koyal, when they were bathing on Tuesday. The body of one of them, identified as Niraj, has been fished out from Bakhari in Palamau district. A meeting of various stakeholders involved in the widening of a 20-km stretch of Kako Math-Gol Building road was held in Dhanbad on Tuesday. The meeting, led by the Dhanbad deputy commissioner, involved representatives of the road construction department, state highway authority, Jharkhand Urban Infrastructure Development Company and Dhanbad Municipal Corporation The meeting failed to arrive at a final decision as representatives of stakeholders such as the state urban development agency were not available. Two contractors, Tribeni Construction Ltd and Shivalaya Construction Pvt Ltd, are working on the World Bank-funded project. Work on widening the road has been stalled since June 17. A joint team of Ranchi and Chatra police on Tuesday arrested an alleged area commander of Tritiya Prastuti Committee (TPC) after a tip-off. Rajesh Mahto, or “Pahadi”, was at Bachra village in Chatra’s Piparwar to watch a football match. The police have seized a motorcycle and a mobile phone from him. Officers said he was wanted in a dozen cases related to alleged extortion and violence. Binod Bihari Mahto Koylanchal University administration led by vice-chancellor Anjani Kumar Srivastava on Tuesday held a meeting with the principals of all 28 colleges where BEd and MEd examinations are scheduled from September 21 and September 24. Srivastava cautioned the principals against any kind of relaxation in examination norms and directed that the tests be held as per UGC guidelines. MBBS examinations are also scheduled from September 25. Binod Bihari Mahto Koylanchal University’s pro vice-chancellor Anil Kumar Mahto on Tuesday conducted an inspection of SSLNT Women’s College situated on Luby Circular Road in Dhanbad and directed all street food vendors near the college main gate to remove their stalls immediately. Social distancing norms were being flouted near these stalls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-299
