17-09-2020||Calcutta||Final-year MBBS student found dead||A final-year MBBS student was found hanging inside his room in the main hostel of Calcutta National Medical College and Hospital on Wednesday morning. Dibyendu Sardar, 24, appeared to have hanged himself from the ceiling fan using a bed sheet, an officer of Beniapukur police station investigating the matter said. The body has been sent for post-mortem. No suicide note has been found, the officer said. Some students from his batch have told cops that he had been keeping to himself of late. He apparently did not want to step out of his room on the top floor of the five-storey boys hostel on Beniapukur Road. Around 8am, some of his friends went to his room and found it locked from inside. After waiting for a while when repeated knocks went unanswered, some junior doctors alerted the police around 9am. “We entered the room and found him hanging,” an officer said. “Doctors said he had passed away a while ago.” A resident of Bairagipara in Gosaba in South 24-Parganas, the student had visited his parents recently following the death of a close relative. Some of his friends have said he had not been speaking much after returning from home, the police said. He had apparently told a few close friends that he was unable to come to terms with the untimely death of this relative. These friends had tried to counsel him. They had told him that he would be a registered practitioner after clearing the final exams in a few months. After doctors at the hospital confirmed his death, cops alerted his father Jagadish Sardar and asked him to reach Calcutta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-303
17-09-2020||Calcutta||Akshar students’ call to connect over Covid newsletter||Students of a city school have started an e-newsletter to talk about their times “as they remain stuck inside” homes because of the pandemic. The newsletter, Covid Chronicles, is an initiative of the students of Akshar school. They recently launched it over a webinar. Indira Biswas, a Class IX student, has penned her experience from the US where she went in February. She did not know that the “one-month holiday would turn into a six-month quarantine”. Indira, still stuck in New Jersey, lost her aunt during this period with whom she had been staying and the teenager has written how “the deadly virus had come” to them. Not only students but also a radiologist working in the city, Ambar Kumar Gupta, has written about doctors working during the pandemic. “... for once I am in my gear, the few patients who are coming to the hospital and need my examination keep me busy. In full gear I can hardly hear myself.” The school said the newsletter would give students an opportunity to channelise their energy and free time and do something positive while they remain at home. “Children are not happy with what is happening and channelising their creativity helps create positive vibes. It’s also a way to collaborate with other students despite not going to school,” Jayanti Neogi, a political science teacher at the school, said. Covid Chronicles is an initiative of the school’s literary and political science clubs. “We have extra time being stuck at home… it will give students a platform to express themselves. There is so much that students want to say and articulate during the pandemic,” Antara Dasgupta, a Class XII student, said. She is in the editorial team with classmate Rishita Chatterjee. The group has been hosting webinars, too. The latest was on Women in Power and how they want fundamental human rights. At the launch, the students invited former student Pranav Balakrishnan, a practising doctor working at a private hospital in the city as the Covid coordinator, along with radiologist Gupta. They asked them questions about the pandemic and the precautions one should take. If masks will be a companion forever, Balakrishnan said wearing a mask is a courtesy one is doing to others. “The most important thing is understanding.... It is a courtesy you are doing to people around you and you are hoping they will do the same courtesy to you,” he said. “You are preventing droplets; if you are infected it’s preventing them from getting released into the near surroundings and that’s why we probably should continue until we have a believable cure or a vaccine against this disease.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-303
17-09-2020||Calcutta||CU declares final-year exam schedule||Calcutta University has announced the final year final semester exam schedule for undergraduate courses. The university uploaded the schedule on Wednesday on its website, www.caluniv.ac.in, detailing when the theory and practical exams will be held. Students of BA, BSc, and BCom Part III Honours will have theory exams from October 1 to 8. BCom honours students under the choice based credit system (CBCS) will have theory exams from October 5 to 8. BBA Part III Honours students will have theory exams from October 1 to 9. Colleges will conduct the practicals for BSc students (except for those who have take the exams before the pandemic and their marks have already been uploaded) anytime between October 1 and 14. Colleges will conduct project work and viva voce exams for BCom Part III Honours students and those under the CBCS system anytime between October 1 and 14 with the help of internal examiners only for this year, the notice on the university website says.Since pen-and-paper tests cannot be conducted this year and students will take the exams from their homes, the university will email question papers to colleges. And colleges will email or WhatsApp the papers to students at the start of the exam. Students will have to email or WhatsApp their answer script in PDF format to their colleges within 24 hours of receiving the question paper, vice-chancellor Sonali Chakravarti Banerjee had recently said. In case any student is unable to manage a smart device or unable to upload the answer script because of poor Net connectivity, he/she will have to submit a hardcopy of the answer script in a sealed envelope to his/her college within 24 hours, a university official said. “A large number of students live in remote areas. Many are from the Sunderbans where Net connectivity has been severely disrupted in the aftermath of Cyclone Amphan,” Jaydeep Sarangi, the principal of New Alipore College, said. “The university should spell out clearly and share details with colleges so that no student is left out for want of Net connectivity.” Colleges have been requested to upload the question papers on their websites as well, a university official said. The schedule was prepared after the UGC last week approved the state government’s proposal that state universities be allowed to hold the final year exams from October 1  to 18.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-303
17-09-2020||Calcutta||Post-Sunday respite from heat on radar||Hot, humid and not as rainy as it should be, September has so far been uncomfortable for Calcuttans. There is no respite in sight till Sunday, by when the Met office expects a low-pressure to reach the Bay of Bengal and trigger steady rain in south Bengal, including Calcutta, over the next couple of days. The city is gradually taking strides towards normality in the backdrop of the pandemic and people stepping out for work are having to cope with sultry and sweaty conditions. The Celsius and moisture content have been on the higher side for several days now. Some parts of the city have seen occasional showers. But the rain has been scattered and triggered by local cloud formation. The showers were far too little to bring down the temperature. If anything, they made conditions more sweaty and increased the discomfort level. On Wednesday, the minimum relative humidity — the measure of the moisture content in the air during the driest part of the day — was a whopping 61 per cent. The effect — the temperature was around 33 degrees around 1.30pm but the RealFeel was 42 degrees. “A bus ride wearing a mask is almost unbearable. As soon as I got down, I bought a bottle of water, removed the mask and splashed the water on my face,” said Chandan Roy, a sales professional with a share trading firm who boarded a bus from Dunlop to Esplanade on Wednesday afternoon. Dark clouds started gathering over the city in the afternoon, prompting expectations of a round of sharp rain. But it was not to be. September is usually sultry but not without a spell or two of heavy rain. This year, there has been none so far. The city has received stray showers. The volume of rain so far in Calcutta has been around 100mm, compared with the usual half-way quota of 160mm, said a Met official. The monsoon trough is also stationed over Andhra Pradesh because of a low-pressure area in the southern state. The trough is too far from Calcutta to have an impact, said the official. The conditions are expected to change from Sunday, the Met office has said. “A cyclone currently positioned over the northwest Pacific is expected to reach northeast Bay of Bengal, via Vietnam, Thailand and Myanamar, around Sunday. But it is expected to lose strength and become a low-pressure system by the time it reaches the northeast Bay. From Monday, it is expected to move towards Gangetic Bengal,” said a Met official. The system is expected to trigger steady rain across south Bengal. A heavy spell in Calcutta is not ruled out. The system is also tipped to bring down the temperature from Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-303
17-09-2020||Calcutta||Snarl solution: widen 500m of Jessore Road ||A 500-metre stretch of Jessore Road ahead of and after the Belghoria Expressway flyover will be widened to ease traffic flow in the airport area, an officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said on Wednesday. Also, a new gate will be built on Jessore Road, about 200m from the airport Gate No. 2.5, to minimise traffic snarls in the area, the officer said. The new gate will be wider than the 2.5 one so that more vehicles can pass through it, he said. The T-junction at Gate No. 2.5 gets choked the moment there is a heavy rush of vehicles, Sandipan Guha, a resident of Dum Dum who drives down the road regularly, said. Many people now enter the airport complex through the flyover instead of going through the chaos on the slip road. They take the road in front of Airport police station to reach Gate No. 2.5 from the opposite end and add to the congestion there, an officer said. Metro had on September 9 reported how vehicles crawl on Belghoria Expressway, Jessore Road and the airport’s slip road during rush hour because of a heavy traffic flow and innumerable potholes. Vehicles, including two-wheelers, headed to the city from Barasat, Dakshineswar, and Madhyamgram via Jessore Road or going to these places from the city are caught in traffic snarls that add more than 45 minutes to their travel time. The new gate will help in quicker dispersal of vehicles headed for the VIP Road from Belghoria Expressway as well as from Madhyamgram and Barasat. Once the gate is completed, motorists and two-wheeler riders can turn left and get on the airport road from the base of the flyover, an officer in the commissionerate said. Now, vehicles headed for the VIP Road from these places have to travel around 200m before they can turn left and get on the airport road from Gate No. 2.5. A joint inspection of the area was carried out by officials from the public works department, the Barasat highway division, and the Dum Dum Municipality, apart from representatives of the National Highway Authority of India and the Airports Authority of India. This was done to ensure better coordination among all agencies during the widening of the road, the police said. The new traffic plan is expected to ease snarls and “drastically cut” travel time, Dhritiman Sarkar, the deputy commissioner, traffic, of the Bidhannagar commissionerate, said. “We have conducted a detailed study… we are positive that this plan will work best for the region for now.” The airport’s outer compound wall will be broken to create the new gate that will give vehicles headed from the expressway access to the slip road without having to move till Gate No. 2.5, a PWD engineer who was part of the inspecting team said. Additionally, a 500m-long elevated storm water drain will be removed from near the approach to Gate No. 2.5. A new one will be created further back, the engineer said. A civic official from the Dum Dum Municipality said the proposal had been accepted and that a detailed survey would be carried out to shift the drain.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-303
17-09-2020||Calcutta||Police to monitor Covid norm for tarpan||A team of police officers will be deployed at each of the 37 Hooghly ghats from early on Thursday to ensure social distancing is followed when visitors turn up to perform the ritual of tarpan on the occasion of Mahalaya. Each team will be split into two — one will make continuous announcements from loudhailers spreading awareness about the need to maintain distancing amid the Covid pandemic and the other will try and restrict the number of visitors to the ghat. “Masks will be mandatory for all visitors,” an officer said. Tarpan is a ritual of offering water and sesame seeds to departed ancestors and is performed on Mahalaya, at the end of Pitri Paksha. Every year, lakhs of people turn up at the ghats along the Hooghly to perform the ritual. “Elaborate arrangements have been made to ensure the social distancing norm is followed. Teams from the disaster management group will be deployed at the ghats. There will be nets in some of the bigger ghats to ensure visitors don’t stray further into the water while taking a dip,” said Syed Waquar Raza, deputy commissioner of police, Port division. “We will try and ensure that the assembly is restricted on the main roads and not the ghats, where people will perform tarpan.” River traffic police teams will move up and down the Hooghly on speed boats, keeping an eye on people offering tarpan. Senior officers of the rank of assistant commissioner of police will oversee the arrangements at ghats while being in constant touch with the control room at the police headquarters in Lalbazar. Babughat will have the biggest deployment of forces among all 37 ghats, officers said. Guard rails and ropes have been sent to all ghats to restrict vehicles in the event of a surge in the number of visitors. By late Wednesday evening, several priests had reached Babughat and its adjoining areas, police said, with many deciding to spend the night on railway platforms at BBD Bag, Prinsep Ghat and other stations of Circular Railway. “We are not expecting the usual turnout because of the pandemic. So barring Strand Road, there is no specific traffic restriction,” a senior police officer said. “This time there won’t be trucks carrying idols to pandals. So, we have decided that restrictions will be imposed if there is a big gathering around a particular ghat. All traffic guards have been asked to inform the control room if there is a crowd surge.” Mahalaya marks the countdown to Durga Puja, which usually starts a week later. This year, however, the Puja begins on October 22.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-303
17-09-2020||Calcutta||Website for Durga pujas of the world||A website was launched at Sovabazar Rajbari on Wednesday that promises to bring together Durga pujas in the city and the districts, outside the state and even outside the country. “DurgaFest.com will be a global digital aggregator of Durga puja. We are inviting all pujas to join us and archive their images year on year. So while it serves its immediate purpose by giving home-bound people amid the Covid pandemic a glimpse of this year’s Puja, it will also have a long-term use,” said Shreyasi Paul, a co-founder of the website. The website has been divided into zones of the city, rest of Bengal, rest of India, abroad and aristocratic households. “We have already tied up with over 200 pujas. More are in the pipeline,” Paul said. Work on the website started when Covid was just breaking out in India. “Since the World Health Organisation was forecasting a long haul before the virus would recede, we started planning ahead for Puja,” Paul said. Minister Shashi Panja, the chief guest at the inauguration, said: “When they came up with the idea, I encouraged them thinking that this would be helpful not just for those in the city not venturing out this year but also those who are stuck away from Bengal. I have asked them to provide recordings of each important ritual as a highlight package on a daily basis so that people do not miss the festivity.” “We have little idea or record of how Durga puja was 100 years ago. But such a website will leave a digital footprint of how Durga puja was celebrated, for instance, in the year of the pandemic. They are also accepting older pictures of the respective pujas to archive,” said Debashis Sen, the chairman-cum-managing director of the Housing & Infrastructure Development Corporation, which is supporting the initiative. The DurgaFest.com team also plans to include an account from each organiser of how this year’s puja will be different from other years. Visitors can even rate the puja on the basis of the information and the visuals provided. “This year, it will not be possible to allow visitors into the house. So we will encourage people to watch our puja on electronic and satellite media which will get restricted access,” said Debasish Krishna Deb, a member of the Sovabazar Rajbari, where the launch took place. Nine special covers will be released on each day of Navratri, from October 17 to 25, by the department of posts, West Bengal circle, to commemorate nine manifestations of Durga. The Forum for Durgostav, an umbrella organisation of over 300 Puja committees in Calcutta, will give Rs 4,000 each to 65 artisans in Kumartuli on Thursday to help them tide over the financial crisis resulting from lack of enough orders for idols.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-303
17-09-2020||Calcutta||Non-chartered foreign flight lands in city ||The first non-chartered international flight since the Bengal government lifted restrictions landed in and took off from Calcutta on Wednesday. The government had imposed the curbs as a precaution against Covid. The Emirates airline flight from Dubai arrived with 179 passengers in the morning under an air-transport-bubble arrangement, said airport officials. It took off for Dubai with 110 passengers. The state government had given a no-objection certificate for the flight a week before. Several airlines are applying for no-objection certificates to operate flights under air transport-bubble arrangements (temporary arrangements between two countries to restart commercial passenger flights because regular flights are suspended). SpiceJet will operate a flight between Calcutta and Dubai on Thursday, an official said. The airline has several other flights on the route planned for this month. Emirates has planned at last two more Dubai-Calcutta flights this month. Airport sources said IndiGo was planning to operate a flight to and from Singapore in the last week of September. Air India's first of the several Calcutta-London direct flights under the Vande Bharat evacuation programme is scheduled for Thursday. In July, the Bengal government had asked the civil aviation ministry to stop evacuation flights from international destinations after hundreds of passengers refused to go to a paid quarantine centre after landing in Calcutta and went home instead. Any flight from abroad needs a no-objection certificate from the state government. Later, the government eased the restrictions and allowed chartered flights from abroad to arrive in Calcutta. Earlier this month, the state government, following appeals from airlines and travel operators, started giving approvals for evacuation as well as air-transport-bubble flights. The 179 passengers who arrived in Calcutta on the Emirates flight had tested negative for Covid-19 within 96 hours before the journey. “All arriving passengers will have to undergo home quarantine for 14 days,” said an airport official. Those boarding the Dubai-bound flight from Calcutta got their tests done, too. The Boeing 777 aircraft that Emirates operated can carry 360 passengers but India’s directorate general of civil aviation has restricted the number of passengers to 225. SpiceJet has a good number of bookings for its Calcutta-Dubai flight, officials said. “Already, we have 182 passengers booked from Dubai and 135 from Calcutta for Thursday’s flight. We have got the NOC from the state government. More flights to Dubai are scheduled for September 24 and 26,” said Debjit Ghosh, sales head (east), SpiceJet. Tour operators said they were having good bookings for the flights. "Mostly people who want to join work and students are booking seats," said Anil Punjabi, chairman, east, Travel Agents Federation of India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-303
17-09-2020||Calcutta||Move to calm frayed nerves||Forest department officials have held meetings with panchayat pradhans, members of joint forest management committee members and villagers from the Sunderbans and asked them not to harm tigers if they spot one. Tempers are frayed in the region after three men got killed in tiger attacks in the Jhila forest area. Anger is simmering as villagers and fishermen believe a single tiger has been attacking them, a forest official said. Villagers have asked forest officials to “do something” about the tiger, the official said. Forest officials have told representatives of fishermen and villagers that all the three men who had been attacked had moored their boats and were on the banks of the muddy creeks, either laying crab nets or cooking. “We told them not to get off of their boats. Fishermen are not allowed nor are they supposed to go anywhere near the creeks or channels in the Sunderbans,” an official said. Thousands who hail from the Sunderbans have lost their jobs because of the pandemic and have returned to their villages. But farms and ponds inundated were left with saline water in the aftermath of Cyclone Amphan. A large number of villagers have been venturing deep into tiger territory to catch crabs and fish. Some fishermen have told the forest officials at the meeting: “It is our right to fish wherever there is water.” The idea can set a dangerous precedent to man-animal conflict in the region, an official said. The Sunderbans tiger reserve field director Tapas Das said forest officials had asked villagers who go out to fish not to get off their boats and lay nets on the banks of creeks to catch crabs or cook food. “They are not supposed to enter narrow creeks. We have asked them not to enter them at any cost.” The lure of crabs is a strong pull as earnings are higher than fishing, another forest official said. Tigers in the Sunderbans region face multiple difficulties while hunting their regular prey that includes deer and wild boar among others because of the muddy terrain and exposed roots of mangroves that act like thorns and prick their paws, Das said. “Humans are easier to attack and more so when somebody moors the boat and gets on land. We asked the village heads to ensure this is stopped,” he said. The forest department is thinking of imparting vocational training and setting up poultry farms and small fishery projects as a means of alternative livelihood for fishermen. Apart from the meeting, the forest department has started boat patrols near the Jhila forest and daily 10 boats carrying forest officials and villagers have been patrolling the channels and creeks along Jhila 2, Jhila 4 and Jhila 6 forests. In Jhila 6, a 57-year-old man was killed by a tiger while preparing lunch. Two other fishermen were killed on September 3 and 4.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-303
17-09-2020||Calcutta||Covid victim body to be handed to kin: Calcutta High Court||The high court on Wednesday directed the state government to hand over bodies of Covid victims to their nearest kin so they can perform the last rites. The division bench of Chief Justice T.B.N. Radhakrishnan and Justice Arijit Banerjee framed guidelines after considering the Centre’s norms for cremation of bodies of Covid victims by family members. The order says: “When post-mortem of the dead body is not required, the dead body shall be handed over to the immediate next of kin of the deceased, that is the parents/ surviving spouse/ children, after completion of hospital formalities. “The body should be secured in a bag, the face and end of which should be preferably transparent and exterior of which will be appropriately sanitised so as to eliminate/ minimise the risk to the people transporting the dead body.” Family members and acquaintances will accompany the body to the crematorium/burial ground straight from the hospital. According to the court’s guidelines, the face and end of the bodybag “may be unzip-ped by a staff at the crematorium or burial ground to allow the relatives to see the body for the last time. At this time, religious rituals, such as reading from religious groups, sprinkling of holy water, offering grains and other last rites that do not require touching of the body should be allowed.” If a family does not claim a body, the government will have the right to cremate it, the court said. According to previous norms, the family could come to the hospital and have a last look at the body during a 30-minute window. The body wrapper is transparent in the upper part, which makes the face visible. Two family members can go to the crematorium or burial ground but that rarely happens since the immediate family is mostly in quarantine, a Calcutta Mu-nicipal Corporation official said. In the early stages of the pandemic, families were not allowed to see the bodies. The petitioner in the case, Vineet Ruia, had alleged that the government was not handing over the bodies to family members “only to suppress the figure of total deaths from the disease”. The state government has yet to decide whether they will challenge the high court’s judgment in the Supreme Court. “We are yet to receive any instruction from the state health department whether to challenge the order,” a senior government lawyer said in the evening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-304
17-09-2020||Calcutta||ICSE council rethink after Bengal government stand||The Council for Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) has notified its schools on partial reopening for students seeking guidance with parental consent from September 21 but the council may reconsider the approach in Bengal after the state government said schools should stay shut at least till September 30. The CISCE on Wednesday sent the schools the notification on the partial reopening and suggested that the time be utilised to make up for lost classes on “project” and “practical” work. On the same day, the Bengal government said that schools in the state would not reopen at least till September 30. Gerry Arathoon, the council chief executive and secretary, told Metro on Wednesday evening: “We will soon hold a meeting (to discuss Bengal).” A fresh notification may be “issued in a day or two” specifically for Bengal. “It is not possible for students who will appear in the ICSE and ISC exams next year to do practical work at home. So, when the ministry of home affairs issued the guidelines, we decided to enable students to do some practice in practical work,” Arathoon said. The Union home ministry had issued guidelines last month saying students from Classes IX to XII could be permitted to visit school from September 21 with written consent from guardians to take guidance from teachers. Earlier in the day, Bengal education minister Partha Chatterjee told this newspaper that all educational institutions in the state would be kept closed at least till September 30, as announced by the state government. “I am not aware about the ICSE council’s decision…. Our government had announced that all educational institutions in the state will remain closed till September 30. There is no change in the decision,” Chatterjee said. On Tuesday, Chatterjee had said the state government was in no position to tell when schools and colleges could resume in-person classes, given the spread of Covid. The council in its notification has advised the schools to enable students, particularly those appearing in the Class X and XII board exams, to do practical on prescribed topics in school laboratories as the “hands on” practical work could not be performed earlier because of the pandemic and the lockdown. “Hands-on practical work could not be carried out earlier... The schools are advised to utilise this period to perform sufficient practical work in the laboratories, as per the topics mentioned in the reduced syllabus. Thereafter, some of the practical work may be graded and the marks recorded,” the notification says. The schools have also been advised by the CISCE to utilise the partial reopening to complete project work and ensure the projects are submitted to the subject teachers by a deadline. The notifications advised  “affiliated schools to perform the following activities: Completion of the project work…. Practice and completion of practical work”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-304
17-09-2020||Calcutta||Durga Puja Covid duty plan for doctors||Puja holidays are likely to be scrapped for doctors and other employees at several of Calcutta’s private hospitals in order to be prepared if the festival season records a spike in Covid-19 cases. Usually, private hospitals in the city operate with around 40 per cent staff during Durga Puja, extending till Lakshmi Puja. Many doctors go on a holiday during the period. Officials of several private hospitals said this time they were planning to ask all doctors, nurses, paramedics and other employees not to take leave for the entire festive season. On Thursday, Bengal reported 3,237 Covid-19 cases. The number of cases till Thursday in the state touched 2,12,383. Many private hospitals fear it would be a challenge to run hospitals like now during the Puja but their big hope is that most senior doctors would not go on a holiday because of safety issues and uncertainty over international flights. Peerless Hospital this week sent a communication to all employees, appealing to them not to take leave during the Puja. The AMRI Hospitals authorities held a meeting with senior officials recently, asking them to be on duty for the entire festival week. Others are trying to prepare rosters for the Puja with as many healthcare personnel as possible. For the past several years, most private hospitals had 50 per cent occupancy during the festive period. Mostly emergency patients, including accident victims, would be admitted during the period. Planned surgeries and procedures are not scheduled for the festive month as most doctors are not available and patients, too, want to enjoy the festive spirit without the worry of visiting hospital. Most hospitals keep their outpatient departments closed from Saptami till Lakshmi Puja. But the Covid-19 pandemic has changed everything. “Earlier, during the Puja, we would have less than 200 patients, This time, of the 350 beds, 150 have been reserved for Covid patients. On Thursday, all Covid beds were occupied,” said Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital. The hospital has appealed to its 2,000-odd employees, including doctors on the payroll and 150 consultants, not to take leave during the Puja. “We are fearing Covid-19 patients would need admission even during the Puja and we need to be prepared for that. Managing 200 patients in the pre-Covid times and treating 150 Covid patients are different,” Mitra said. One of the biggest problems is having separate teams of doctors, nurses and other personnel for Covid and non-Covid wards. “Even those washing linens cannot be spared. For Covid beds, fresh linens are needed every day to control infection,” he said. “We have held a meeting with officials and they have agreed to be on duty during the Puja. Now, we have to speak to the doctors and request them to be available during the festive period because of the pandemic,” said Rupak Barua, group CEO, AMRI Hospitals. The hospital’s Salt lake unit is now a Covid treatment centre. The Narayana Health group, which runs the RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences and two hospitals in Howrah, keeps its OPDs closed on the festive days. But this time they are planning to keep them open. “It is our endeavour to keep our OPDs and fever clinics open and perform planned procedures/ surgeries, apart from emergency services during the Puja. We will meet our doctors, nurses and support service team…” said R. Venkatesh, director, eastern region, Narayana Health. The CEO of a hospital said it would be difficult to keep the nurses from Bengal on duty during the festive season. Others are concerned, too. “It will be tough to prepare the Puja roster keeping all operations like other times of the year, as well as giving leave to people,” said Pradip Tondon, CEO, Belle Vue Clinic. But officials of many hospitals said they were banking on the possibility that most senior doctors would be reluctant to go on a holiday during the festive period because of the Covid scare and uncertainty over international flights. “I had plans to visit my daughter in the UK during the Puja. But now there is no question of going,” said surgical oncologist Gautam Mukhopadhyay.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-304
17-09-2020||Calcutta||Low-key Vishwakarma Puja looms||The puja that heralds autumn festivities in Calcutta’s calendar has taken a hit. Some organisers have cancelled Thursday’s Vishwakarma Puja, while the ones going ahead with the puja have planned to keep the affairs low key, bereft of the pomp of previous years. Lack of cash is the main reason but concerns about large gatherings amid the Covid pandemic have also made some organisers scrap the usual mutton-rice feast and only stick to the rituals. Arjun Singh, a real estate developer, used to organise a feast for 600 people on the occasion of Vishwakarma Puja at his office. His friends, business competitors and many others would be invited to the feast. This year only his employees and the masons who work for him have been invited. “Real estate sales have slumped badly. I had paid my employees over the past six months though my income was very low. How could I have organised Vishwakarma Puja on the same scale as previous years?” Singh asked. Harideb Sarkar, who runs a unit that manufactures iron grilles and wrought iron beds, has not invited anyone other than his employees and their families to the puja at his factory. “Orders from new flats have reduced significantly and it is no longer possible to spend lavishly on puja,” he said. With businesses reeling under the slump that set in with the Covid pandemic, cutting costs has become an essential survival tactic. For Vishwakarma Pujas organised by transport unions, subscription rates have been reduced as both employees and owners are taking less money back home, transport workers said. The union of autorickshaws that ply between Garia and Gariahat is known for organising a fairly big Vishwakarma Puja. Till last year, over 1,600 people used to be fed over two days on the occasion. On the puja day, bhog would be distributed. The second day was reserved for a “non-veg feast”. This year the second day’s feast has been cancelled. “An autorickshaw driver used to take home Rs 500 daily. That has now come down to Rs 200. The income of vehicle owners has dipped, too,” said Debraj Ghosh, a union leader. The union has lowered the subscription from Rs 101 to Rs 51 for auto owners and from Rs 31 to Rs 21 for drivers. Indologist Nrisinghaprasad Bhaduri said no instance of the puja of Lord Vishwakarma could be found in the Vedas or the Puranas. The festival seems a more recent phenomenon, which followed the advent of industries set up by the British. “Vishwakarma Puja is more or less organised on September 17. This practice of organising the puja on a particular date of the calendar the British follows creates a suspicion that the occasion was aimed at granting masons, carpenters and other workers a day of celebration,” he said. Vishwakarma Puja has a social aspect as well. It is one festival where employers never shy away from funding a festivity to be enjoyed mostly by employees. “The employer comes for the puja, stays with employees for some time and then leaves. The employees immerse themselves in the freedom of the carnival. The employer does not stay for long but will never refuse to fund. This has been the culture of Vishwakarma Puja over the years,” Bhaduri said.  The decline of industry in Bengal came as a big blow to Viswakarma, the god of craftsmen. Artisans at Kumartuli have received orders for small idols from many of their old customers who bought taller idols in previous years. Gouranga Pal could sell seven large idols, which are 9ft tall, till Wednesday evening, a pale figure compared with last year when he sold as many as 20 such idols. Realtor Vivek Ruia said more than the money, he was worried about a large assembly on his premises. Usually, he has around 250 guests but not this time. From a gala at a building site, it is now a small ritual inside an office.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-304
17-09-2020||Business||Bhel plans to introduce Maglev trains||State-run engineering firm Bhel on Wednesday announced its tie-up with SwissRapide AG to bring Maglev trains (magnetic levitation) to India. Aimed at expanding its footprint in the urban transportation sector as part of its diversification initiatives, Bhel has entered into a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with SwissRapide AG for Maglev Train projects in India, a company statement said. The Maglev Rail system hovers in the air instead of rolling because of magnetic levitation. Thus the vehicles have no physical contact with the guideway. This enables the system to be highly energy efficient with operating speeds of up to 500 km per hour and significantly reduces the total cost of system ownership. The MoU was signed by S. V. Srinivasan, GM and head (transportation business group), Bhel, and Niklaus H. Koenig, president and CEO, SwissRapide AG. SwissRapide AG is a Swiss company specialising in the promotion, project management, planning, specification, design, implementation and commissioning of international Maglev Rail projects and related technologies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-287
17-09-2020||Business||New Bandhan Bank vertical part of five-year strategy||Bandhan Bank on Wednesday announced the consolidation of different microlending operations under a new business vertical, called Emerging Entrepreneurs Business (EEB). The introduction of this vertical is part of the next five-year strategy of the microfinance-turned-universal bank, which completed the first five years of operations last month. The EEB vertical of the bank will also focus on small-ticket home loans, micro bazaar loans and micro enterprise loans. Former Airtel and ICICI Bank official Kumar Ashish, who has been appointed executive president and head of EEB, will lead the operations of the vertical. Ashish spent about two decades in ICICI Bank where his last role was the senior general manager and retail head of North India, leading businesses such as mortgage, MSME loan, auto loan, commercial vehicle loan, personal loan, credit card, wealth management, fee income and branch operations. Before joining Bandhan Bank, Ashish was group director, Airtel Money, in Africa. “We are committed to our next five-year strategic vision and are ready for the next phase of growth. In line with the capability requirements, the bank has been focusing on capacity building both through training and up-skilling of existing employees, and through lateral hiring,” said Chandra Shekhar Ghosh, MD and CEO of Bandhan Bank. “Kumar Ashish brings with him a wealth of experience in banking. We are confident he will drive the newly formed EEB vertical to success,” Ghosh said. The microbanking assets of Bandhan bank stood at Rs 47,500 crore as on June 30, 2020, recording a growth of 21.2 per cent over previous year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-287
17-09-2020||Business||Airlines seek $1.5bn interest-free credit||Airlines in India have sought at least $1.5-billion in interest-free credit from the government. The Covid-19 related lockdowns and restrictions have dragged their revenues down 86 per cent in the first quarter to Rs 3,651 crore from a year ago, civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri said on Wednesday. The carriers have also sought a deferment of loan repayments by six months without these borrowings being classified as “non-performing”, Puri said in a written reply to Parliament. The airlines have asked the government to include jet fuel in the Goods and Services Tax and abolish excise duty on aviation turbine fuel, the minister said. Indian carriers need as much as $2.5 billion to keep flying, according to estimates by CAPA Centre for Aviation; and one or more of the country’s airlines are expected to fail in the absence of additional funding from the government or their owners. “The revenue of Indian carriers has reduced from Rs 25,517 crore during April-June 2019 to Rs 3,651 crore in the same period in 2020. The revenue of airport operators has decreased to Rs 894 crore from Rs 5,745 crore during April-June 2019,” the minister said. The employee count of Indian carriers went down to 69,589 on July 31 from 74,887 on March 31, a decrease of 7.07 per cent. The employee count at airports has come down to 64,514 on July 31 from 67,760 on March 31. The number of employees at ground handling agencies fell 22.44 per cent to 29,254 in the April-July period. Air India’s total revenue has come down to Rs 1,531 crore during the first quarter of 2020-21 from Rs 7,066 crore during April-June 2019. Scheduled domestic flight services were suspended in India from March 25 to May 24 because of the coronavirus-triggered lockdown. They were resumed from May 25 but in a curtailed manner. Puri stated the domestic air traffic in the country fell to 1.2 crore during March-July period compared with 5.85 crore in the year-ago period. International traffic dropped to 11.55 lakh during these five months compared with  93.45 lakh in the year-ago period, he added. Scheduled international flights have been suspended in India since March 23 because of  the coronavirus-triggered lockdown. However, special international passenger flights have been operating in India under the Vande Bharat Mission since May and under bilateral air bubble arrangements formed between India and other countries since July.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-287
17-09-2020||Business||Power draft rules placed in public domain for suggestions||The government has for the first time attempted to enumerate the rights of power consumers. A set of draft rules, placed in public domain for comment, propose strict timelines for the provision of electricity connections, enjoin power distribution companies to provide smart prepayment meters and pay compensation to consumers if they stumble on performance parameters. The “Union power ministry in a historic pro-consumer move drafts Electricity (Rights of Consumers) Rules, 2020; invites suggestions/comments by September 30, 2020”, the ministry said in a statement. The objective is to provide consumers better services and facilities, it said, adding that electricity consumers are the most important stakeholders in the power sector. According to the draft rules, state electricity regulators will have to notify updated “standards of performance” for discoms and specify the compensation amounts that consumers would receive if the standards are not met. The parameters for which consumers would be eligible for compensation include unsatisfactory supply duration, number of power cuts and the time taken by discoms to provide new connections and replace defective meters. The draft rules also entitle consumers to get rebates on power bills not served on time and other compensation from discoms if they fail to address grievances in a timely manner. The draft said a distribution licensee shall supply 24x7 power to all consumers. The Electricity Commission, however,  may specify lower hours of supply for some category of consumers such as agriculture. New connections must be provided within seven days in metro cities, 15 days in other municipal areas and 30 days in rural areas. Under the draft rules, no connection will be provided without a meter; most often it will be a smart pre-payment meter. Consumer shall be given the option to purchase the meter and associated equipment. The meter shall be read at least once in every billing cycle. In the case of smart pre-payment meters, the meters shall be read remotely at least once a month. A bill amount of more than Rs 1,000 must be mandatorily paid online. There will be suitable rebates for online payments, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-287
17-09-2020||Business||Safety focus in mobility choice in post-Covid times||Indian consumers would prefer to travel in their own vehicles instead of public transport in a post-Covid world. About 73 per cent of the respondents of a survey conducted by the Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers (Siam) and Grant Thornton India titled “Personal mobility experience post Covid-19” said they would buy a new vehicle once the economy slowly revives. While 29 per cent of the respondents planned to purchase a new vehicle over a period of 12 months, 8 per cent were eager to buy one in the next six months. More than 56 per cent of participants feel it makes better financial sense to keep their current vehicle considering the overall economic scenario at present. Rajesh Menon, director-general of SIAM, said, “The survey revealed two clear trends. While most consumers are preferring personal mobility over public and shared transportation, the slowing economy and its adverse impacts will continue to remain a cause of worry for consumers when it comes to making new purchases. However, because of safety concerns in the wake of the pandemic, customers who were earlier not considering buying vehicles, have also become potential buyers now.” Respondents also showed a preference towards two wheelers and electric vehicles, accounting for around 20 per cent each.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-287
17-09-2020||Business||Flipkart overseas IPO bid in early 2021||Walmart-controlled Flipkart is preparing for an initial public offering overseas as early as 2021, which could value the firm up to $50 billion, sources familiar with the company’s plans told Reuters. Bangalore-based Flipkart, which vies with players such as Amazon.com’s local unit in India and India’s Reliance Industries, will be aiming for a valuation in the $45-50 billion range, according to one source with knowledge of the matter. If achieved, that would mean Walmart would have more than doubled its investment. Flipkart is likely to choose between Singapore, or the United States for the initial public offering (IPO), said two other sources, who asked not to be named as discussions are private. “Flipkart is incorporated in Singapore, but listing in the United States, where parent Walmart is based, could give it access to a deeper pool of funds,” one of the sources said. Flipkart and Walmart did not respond to Reuters requests for comment. The sources said the preparations and discussions have been largely internal for now, but the company is preparing to tap external advisers on the process soon. The discussions come as India drafts new regulations that could pave the way for domestic companies to directly list overseas. Two other sources familiar with the plans said that work has begun to ensure compliance, legal and finance functions will meet regulatory standards ahead of a potential listing. “Right now, the IPO target is more or less considered to be late 2021, or early 2022, but the current crisis has made things a little blurry,” said one of these two sources. The second person added that being “IPO ready” has become a constant refrain in top level meetings internally. Walmart acquired a roughly 77 per cent stake in Flipkart for about $16 billion back in 2018. That deal remains the single largest foreign direct investment in India. It turned Flipkart’s founders Sachin Bansal and Binny Bansal into billionaires, and confirmed Flipkart’s status as the country’s most successful start-up at the time. Later that year, Bentonville, Arkansas-based Walmart in a regulatory filing said it could take Flipkart public in four years. In July this year, Flipkart raised $1.2 billion in fresh funding with Walmart as its lead investor. That round valued Flipkart, which counts China’s Tencent, US hedge fund Tiger Global, and Microsoft among its investors, at $24.9 billion. Flipkart said it would use the funds, to be received in two tranches this fiscal year, to support the development of its e-commerce marketplace as India emerges from the Covid-19 crisis. Like its rival Amazon, Flipkart began by selling books, but diversified rapidly into selling smartphones, clothing and other items. It now competes with Amazon in most categories. India’s e-commerce sector is expected to be worth $99 billion by 2024, according to Goldman Sachs, as more Indians switch to online shopping. That expanding market has attracted not only global giants such as Walmart and Amazon, but also India’s oil-to-telecom conglomerate Reliance, which has jumped into the fray.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-287
17-09-2020||Business||Vedanta wins arbitration case involving government||A judgment of a Malaysian tribunal was considered as valid by the Supreme Court in a case involving the government of India and some Indian parties. The apex court on Wednesday squashed the government’s claim that the award by the Malaysian arbitration was not valid as it was against “public policy”. The tribunal had awarded $476 million to Vedanta Limited (formerly Cairn India Ltd.),  Ravva Oil, Singapore and Videocon Industries towards contract charges for exploration of oil and gas on the Ravva oil fields, while the government claimed they were entitled to $198 million. The Union government had pleaded that in terms of the original production sharing contract (PSC) entered between the government and the private companies in October 1994, the latter were entitled to only $198 million. The Ravva fields are located off the Odisha coast. However, a Malaysian arbitration tribunal in 2011 had ruled that the Indian government had to pay around $476 million. The decision was subsequently upheld by the Malaysian High Court and the Court of Appeal in that country. Thus all the three forums had rejected the Indian government’s plea. Aggrieved, the Centre had appealed in the Delhi high court challenging the award. However, the Delhi high court too in this year dismissed the government’s appeal, following which the Centre appealed in the apex court. A three-judge bench of Justices Abdul Nazeer, Indu Malhotra and Aniruuddha Bose refused to interfere with the award, saying there was nothing on record to prove that the award was contrary to “public policy” as argued by India. “The Award is not contrary to the fundamental policy of Indian law, or in conflict with the notions of justice, as discussed hereinabove. The term of the PSC was for a period of 25 years from October 28, 1994, which ended on October 27, 2019. “We have been informed that the term of the PSC has since been extended for a further period of 10 years, through the mutual agreement between the parties. This itself would reflect that the performance of the obligations under the PSC were not contrary to the interests of India,” the apex court said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-287
17-09-2020||Business||RBI holds out early rate cut hope||RBI governor Shaktikanta Das on Wednesday said that the central bank was “battle ready’’ to crank up the economy as he gave priority to growth over inflation, which has been well above the tolerance level. Das said the RBI was prepared to take whatever measures to revive the economy, which contracted at a shocking 23.9 per cent in the April-June quarter, even as retail inflation at 6.69 per cent in August remained above the medium-term target of 4 per cent  plus or minus 2 per cent for the for the fifth straight month. At its meeting last month, the monetary policy committee (MPC) of the RBI had left the policy repo rate unchanged because of concerns over inflation. The latest comments from the RBI governor will keep hopes alive of an interest rate cut from the MPC at its October meeting. Addressing a virtual conference organised by industry body Ficci, Das said the contraction of 23.9 per cent in the first quarter was a telling reflection of the ravages of Covid-19. However, high frequency indicators such as  agricultural activity, the purchasing managers’ index (PMI) for manufacturing and private estimates of unemployment point to some stabilisation in the second quarter  amid several sectors reporting easing in contraction. But at the same time, the recovery is not yet fully entrenched and in some sectors, the uptick seen in June and July is easing. “By all indications, the recovery is likely to be gradual as efforts towards the reopening of the economy are confronted with rising infections,” Das said. The RBI governor said the immediate policy response was to focus on stabilisation along with quick recovery policies in the medium term. Ficci chairperson Sunita Reddy said the private sector was afraid of getting crowded out of the loan market as the government could increase borrowing because of the poor state of its finances. The Centre has announced a record borrowing of Rs 12 lakh crore for this fiscal. Das allayed Reddy’s fears as the borrowing costs in the economy were at their lowest levels in a decade. “Despite substantial increase in government borrowing programme, large surplus liquidity conditions has facilitated non-disruptive mobilisation of resources at the lowest borrowing costs in a decade, the RBI governor said. Moreover, Das said that benign financing conditions and the substantial narrowing of spreads have spurred a record issuance of corporate bonds of close to Rs 3.2 lakh crore during 2020-21 up to August. Commenting on its one-time restructuring scheme, Das said that the interests of depositors and financial stability were kept in mind while framing the mechanism. “The primary concern of any banking system should be the protection of the depositors’ interest... so, on the one hand we had to keep in mind the interest of the depositors, the need to maintain financial stability, the stability of the banking sector as we don’t want a repeat of the situation which India experienced a few years ago where the NPA levels of banks had gone up very steeply,” he said. At the meeting, the RBI governor told the industry leaders to focus on five areas which would sustain India’s growth in the medium-run. These included human capital, in particular education and health, productivity, exports, which is linked to raising India’s role in the global value chain, tourism and food processing. In a bid to protect the interest of depositors, the Lok Sabha on Wednesday passed an amendment to the Banking Regulation Act to bring cooperative banks under the supervision of the RBI. The Banking Regulation (Amendment) Bill, 2020 replaces an ordinance that was promulgated on June 26. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said the legislation was designed to protect depositors’ funds and would not undermine the powers of the Registrar of Co-operative Societies. The powers of the registrar have not been encroached upon but the banking activity of co-operatives will be regulated by the RBI, she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-287
17-09-2020||India||Akali Dal minister quits Modi govt over farm sector bills||The Shiromani Akali Dal's Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal resigned from Prime Minister Narendra Modi's government, hours ahead of the voting in Lok Sabha on two contentious farm sector bills the party has been opposing. While making the announcement in Parliament on Thursday, her husband and party chief Sukhbir Badal said the Akalis would continue to support the government and BJP but would oppose the "anti-farmer politics" of the BJP government, NDTV.com reported. The bills, which the BJP claims will usher in big-ticket reforms in the agriculture sector, have angered farmers of Punjab and Haryana, who have been holding protests for weeks. The Akalis, who initially supported the bills, have now woken up to the potential damage it might cause them in the state and appealed to the Centre to press pause on the issue till the concerns of the farmers were addressed. But with the BJP remaining adamant, the party decided to withdraw their support to the bills and vote against them in Parliament. Earlier, while moving for consideration The Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, and The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, in the Lok Sabha, Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said the legislations were aimed at making farming profitable. Tomar said the minimum support price (MSP) mechanism for farmers would  continue and that the mechanism would not be impacted by two proposed legislations. Further, he assured the House that the proposed legislations would not encroach upon the Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) Acts of the states. "These two bills will ensure that farmers get better prices for their produce. They will not be subject to the regulations of mandis and they will be free to sell their produce to anyone. They will also not have to pay any taxes. "These bills will increase competition and promote private investment which will help in development of farm infrastructure and generate employment," Tomar said. The minister noted that because of these two reform bills farmers will be able to connect directly with big business and exporters, and will be able to make farming profitable. Initiating the debate on the bills, Congress member Ravneet Singh demanded that the bills be withdrawn. He also said that Punjab collects about Rs 3,630 crore from mandis, which are used for welfare activities for farmers and creation of rural infrastructure like roads. He also wondered why the Centre was interfering when agriculture was in the concurrent list. “There are state assemblies... you want to snatch away the powers of states," Singh said, adding that the meaning of having "absolute" or "golden" majority does not mean that the centre would take all the power. He asked how small farmers would be able to resolve disputes with big corporates and claimed that the laws will "finish farmers". Singh said that farmers of north India should join hands on the issue as he urged the government to withdraw the bills. RSP leader N.K. Premachandran demanded that the bills be sent to the standing committee and that there was no justification for promulgation of an ordinance. "What is the urgency in promulgating the ordinance?," he questioned. He also alleged that the ordinances were passed to bulldoze the farmers' interests while taking advantage of the COVID-19 pandemic. “All the ordinances are aimed at facilitating the interests of corporates,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-662
17-09-2020||India||Amit Shah discharged from AIIMS after check-up||Union home minister Amit Shah, who recently recovered from COVID-19 and was admitted to AIIMS for a medical check-up, was discharged on Thursday evening, officials said. He was admitted to the premier hospital on September 12. The home minister has been discharged from AIIMS, an official said. Earlier in the day, Shah had addressed an event in his constituency Gandhinagar in Gujarat through video conference from the hospital. On August 2, Shah, 55, had said on Twitter that he had tested positive for COVID-19. He had undergone treatment at Medanta Hospital and was discharged after he recovered from the disease. Shah was admitted to the AIIMS here on August 18 for post-COVID care and was discharged on August 30 following recovery, hospital authorities had said. After his admission at AIIMS on September 12, the AIIMS said in a statement: "As per advice given at discharge, he has now been admitted for complete medical check-up before Parliament session for 1-2 days". The monsoon session of Parliament is ongoing. During the Gandhinagar event, Shah noted how Prime Minister Narendra Modi improved the lives of 60 crore poor people in the country after assuming office and also enhanced India's stature on the world stage. Shah, while greeting the prime minister on his 70th birthday, said under his leadership the country saw the launch of a string of welfare programmes for various sections of the society, especially the poor. What the Congress could not do for the poor in its 70 -year rule, Modi did it in just five years, Shah said and wished the PM a long life so that he can continue to "serve the nation". The Gujarat government on Thursday launched several schemes and development projects to celebrate Modi's 70th birthday. Shah attended the ground-breaking ceremony of a 24X7 water supply project for Gandhinagar city through video- conference from AIIMS, Delhi, said state BJP media coordinator Prashant Vala.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-662
17-09-2020||India||Opposition leaders meet President, question role of police in Delhi riots||Opposition leaders met President Ram Nath Kovind on Thursday and raised questions about the role of the police during the February riots, besides expressing their lack of confidence in the probe of the incident. In a joint memorandum, the leaders raised their concerns over the probe into the riots being conducted by the Delhi Police. The Delhi Police has set up Special Investigation Teams (SIT) and its Special Cell is also probing the aspect of conspiracy behind the Delhi riots in which 53 people lost their lives. "There are, however, serious questions about the role played by the Delhi Police during the violence and also the manner in which the police is harassing and attempting to falsely implicate activists and young people who took part in the anti CAA/NRC/NPR movements as the perpetrators of violence. "Such a manufactured conspiracy theory has now begun to falsely implicate political leaders," it said. The memorandum also criticised the police for the reference made to CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury citing disclosure statements by the accused. "This is a disturbing trend that raises serious questions over the manner of such investigations," the leaders said. They also alleged that there are several publicly documented accounts and videos of police being "complicit in the violence, directing mobs pelting stones or looking the other way when mobs were indulging in violence". "During the violence, a disturbing video emerged showing uniformed policemen assaulting young men lying injured on the road and forcing them to sing the national anthem while repeatedly beating them with lathis. "One of the men, Faizan, succumbed to his injuries a few days later," the memorandum said highlighting other such instances, including one in which they alleged the "DCP stood quietly next to a BJP leader who was instigating violence against the protestors, warning that if they did not vacate the road, he would do it himself". "Despite several complaints being filed alleging involvement of senior police officials in the violence, including a DCP, additional commissioner and SHO, it appears no urgency has been accorded to identifying the policemen involved in the violence and ensuring that they are brought to book," it said. It also pointed out that while the police was "silent" on the alleged hate speech of BJP leaders, and turned a blind eye towards the role of its own personnel during the violence, the probe appeared to be pursuing a line of inquiry "criminalising the protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA)" and portraying them as a conspiracy which resulted in the riots in Delhi. "The entire investigation appears to be aimed at arriving at a pre-meditated theory about a conspiracy propounded by the Home Minister in Lok Sabha in March 2020, before any investigation had even begun into the riots," it said. The memorandum also said that the ongoing investigation by the Delhi police did not inspire confidence as there were serious questions about the "impartiality" of the probe. "A credible and unbiased probe is crucial to restore public trust in the law and order machinery of the state. The investigation cannot be allowed to become a fishing and roving expedition aimed at causing a chilling effect on dissent and protest in the country. "We, therefore, urge you to call upon Government of India to institute an inquiry into this investigation under the Commission of Inquiry Act, 1952, headed by sitting/retired judge(s)," the memorandum said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-662
17-09-2020||India||Rajdeep Sardesai: hooked on daily news, cricket and Kishore Kumar||Celebrity anchor Rajdeep Sardesai knew from the word go that he had a mega-scoop on his hands when he landed a marathon interview with Rhea Chakraborty and that it would bring out the trolls in strength. But he was astonished by the welter of hate mail that landed on his online doorstep after the broadcast. That astonishment now has turned to dismay and fury in the face of an unending tide of abuse. “I have been targeted. People are saying, ‘You must have taken money.’ This is a hyper-polarised, hyper-angry society that’s out to hound people,” Sardesai says heatedly. Sardesai’s so livid about what’s going on around him that he feels a divide growing between himself and the profession that he loves. “I feel distanced from the medium I have been a part of. The newsroom has always been a home away from home for me. Now they’re giving space to this lynch mob mentality. This is not why we became journalists.” But he reserves his greatest anger for social media which he calls a “digital Frankenstein that rips everything apart”. He adds: “Rhea is a story playing out in an era of the social media Frankenstein. TV has allowed itself to become a part of it.” For Sardesai, the Chakraborty saga began with a tweet he made suggesting trial by media of Chakraborty was unfair.  That led to a series of calls and finally, a mad scramble to Delhi airport after a caller said the interview would have to be done the very same evening. Sardesai caught the 7.49pm SpiceJet flight to Mumbai to Delhi and finally kicked off the interview after midnight. Chakraborty looked at the fat docket Sardesai had taken along and remarked, “You seem to have a lot of questions.” But she insisted she was ready to answer anything he threw at her. Says Sardesai: “I was impressed by someone saying, ‘Feel free to ask whatever you want’.” And that’s exactly what he did. Over the next two hours, Sardesai threw all manner of allegations that have been aired since Sushant Singh Rajput died. He asked about Rajput’s old girlfriend Ankita Lokhande and about whether Chakraborty was part of a drugs cartel and whether she took drugs herself. It speaks volumes that Sardesai who has been a familiar face on Indian television screens for more than two decades is almost an odd man out in an era of multiple channels and hyper-competitive ratings wars. He’s still striving – often against the odds – for neutral journalism and telling a story without slanting one way or another. Says Sardesai: “How do I deal with the noise around me? You just do what you have been doing. News is not a Big Boss show. You try to create a space.” Old-fashioned journalism or not, Sardesai who’s 55 certainly crams a lot into his working day. He hosts daily TV shows – though he stresses that he gets Sundays off because he’s a consulting editor at India Today TV and not a hands-on administrator. In between, he writes a weekly newspaper column and during the last six years, has turned out three books – two political volumes on the 2014 and 2019 elections and the third a book on cricket, the great love of his life. He even puts aside half-an-hour each day to ensure that his 8.9 million Twitter followers are kept informed and entertained. Till not so long ago, he did two half-hour Twitter sessions daily but has now taken the social networking site off his mobile. “You can’t run away from social media,” he says, adding, “my resolution now is to only spend half-an-hour on it.” What’s his secret of success? “I am active and energetic. There’s lots of time. You just have to manage it.” Time management means sitting down, usually on Wednesdays, and writing his newspaper column between 7am and 9am. His latest book, ‘2019 How Modi Won India,’ was written from June and September last year and he managed to set aside two-three hours daily for it. Sardesai, who’s married to another prominent journalist Sagarika Ghose with whom he has a son and a daughter, confesses that after all these years what keeps him going is a huge love for news. It was a trait that manifested itself early when, as a precocious pre-teen he headed to the American Center to watch the Jimmy Carter-Gerald Ford presidential elections in 1976. “At the age of 11 I had a love for current affairs,” he says. Mind you, it could have been totally different. As a youngster, Sardesai was also totally obsessed by cricket and dreamt of following in his father, Dilip Sardesai’s illustrious footsteps. This wasn’t an idle dream because he captained the Bombay schools team, played first class cricket at Oxford and made it to the India Under-19 trial camp. So,, it wasn’t far-fetched to think of a Test career. Why he changed his mind must probably be attributed to a host of reasons, but Sardesai reckons that a pivotal moment came when he was at Oxford and playing for the Oxford-Cambridge team against Pakistan. It wasn’t a successful day at the crease and he got out for a mere two runs after facing Pakistani spinner Abdul Qadir. As he was walking off the field, one Pakistani fielder muttered at him. “You’re an Indian and you can’t play spin.” That, he says, was the last straw on the cricket field for him. He says, with considerable modesty: “My father had talent. I didn’t have talent.” Sardesai has found himself at several such crossroads during his life. At Oxford, he trained to be a lawyer. But after returning to India, he decided he didn’t want to don a black gown and dedicate his life to the hurly-burly of the Indian courts. Instead, he interned at Mumbai’s punchy Afternoon Despatch & Courier. “I loved the newspaper. Print gives me a high. The smell of the newspaper was a high.” That helped him move to the Times of India where he rose meteorically and became news editor by 26. It was a great time to be at the heart of events both in Maximum City and outside. One important assignment was covering the Rath Yatra in Gujarat where he happened to meet a young pracharak Narendra Modi. Most crucially, he led the reporting team during the Mumbai riots and he considers that one of the most fulfilling achievements of his career. Suddenly, the south Mumbai youngster who had led a relatively insulated life got to know every inch of the city. Also, the newspaper had such clout in the city at that time that everything they did was noticed. “Whatever you reported made an impact,” he says. He and his team did a book on the riots but he says it didn’t make an impact without famous names to back it. “It was a seriously good book but nobody read it,” he says sadly. The next fork in the road came when he was working at The Telegraph and received an offer to jump into the brave new world of news television. He was sad to leave print but doesn’t think for a moment that he made a mistake. “I would have loved to have been the editor of a daily newspaper. But I can’t regret television after all it has given me.” The climb to fame became unstoppable from the moment he appeared on our TV screens. In 2002, he was the man on the frontlines of the Gujarat riots, often going on air as the stones and brickbats were still flying in the background. For Indian viewers, it was a nerve-shattering experience because it was the first time that riots had unfolded before their eyes and in their homes. There’ve been ups and downs over the last two decades. Sardesai reckons that NDTV was a time of “cutting-edge journalism”, but that the years when he was the chief of CNN-IBN TV18 were “the most professionally rewarding”. He says: “Everyone had written us off. We built a team and one year we got every Ramnath Goenka award.” In a farewell letter to the CNN-IBN team in 2014, he put it even more colourfully, saying: “I still remember when we decided to set up an English news channel: we had one chair and a table, and no one gave us a hope in hell. I recall an advertising executive watching our pitch and asking why we were even attempting a new news channel.” He threw in a PS at the conclusion of the letter, indicating he wasn’t always the easiest boss to work with: “Am sorry if I would occasionally call at 3am in the morning. Blame it on being a news junkie.” Sardesai then spent a few months writing his book on the 2014 elections and then moved to India Today TV as a consulting editor. But by then he could see the world of television news changing radically. Social media was turning the atmosphere more poisonous and the plethora of news channels meant impossibly brutal ratings wars. Says Sardesai: “This never used to happen. The viewer was not this angry ranting person. I am only the journalist. Don’t make me the story.” To some extent, he also blames senior politicians for fuelling the fire, asking: “If political leaders start following abusive handles, what is left?” He also defends himself against accusations that he’s too soft on the people he interviews. Last week, he did an interview with activist lawyer Prashant Bhushan and his father Shanti Bhushan, who was a former law minister. Again, this resulted in an avalanche of angry trolling. Says Sardesai: “Why should Prashant Bhushan not have a voice?” He replies to the charges that he isn’t tough enough on his subjects, saying: “People ask why aren’t you asking tough questions? I am having a conversation.” Interviewing Rhea Chakraborty also gave him an additional bonus of getting to see his mother in Mumbai after a six-month gap. Sardesai says he’s grateful to India Today for standing by him when he’s been attacked. He concedes, though, that at times the strain of it all almost gets too much to handle. But he has always had readymade fallbacks, watching old cricket videos on YouTube, listening to his all-time favourite, Kishore Kumar and following what he calls, “a disciplined life”. “Sometimes, you retreat into Kishore Kumar. I am deeply troubled. To retain sanity I don’t watch news. I do more reading and writing,” he says, adding: “2020 was to have been a year of relaxation. I thought I would learn cooking and do more reading and writing.” Instead, everyone’s world has gone topsy-turvy and it’s been a very different year from what Sardesai or anyone else could have conceived. He clocks in for work by joining the noon editorial conference from home. From then, it’s a helter-skelter news day that goes on till late night with an afternoon nap and walk thrown in. Sardesai reckons that TV news has missed the opportunity to tackle in-depth stories that would throw light on crucial subjects. “This is the time to be dissecting the economy,” he says. “It is important to realise that news should be in the public interest. That concept has got severely diluted.” What’s next if the world of news loses its allure? Sardesai says he’s always wanted to own a mango and cashew farm in Goa. But he laughs that off for now, saying: “I won’t think too far ahead.” Sardesai thinks back to his days in print when asked what keeps him going. At the Times of India, the person in the next cabin was the legendary cartoonist R. K. Laxman. Sardesai remembers asking Laxman how he kept going, turning out one cartoon after another. Laxman’s philosophical reply was: “Every day is a new day.” Sardesai’s world view is almost certainly very different, so what keeps him going? After all these years the answer – despite the trolls – is still is very clear: “It’s daily news that gives me an adrenaline rush,” he says. He’s still driven by that “madness and a passion for journalism” he wrote about in his goodbye IBN letter six years ago.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-662
17-09-2020||India||PM Modi turns 70, wishes pour in||Prime Minister Narendra Modi turned 70 on Thursday, and wishes poured in for the BJP leader from top dignitaries, including President and Vice President, Union ministers and leaders from across the political divide. The BJP is organising a number of events, mainly aimed at public service, across the country to celebrate Modi's birthday as 'Sewa Divas'. Wishing the prime minister, President Ram Nath Kovind said, "Prime Minister Narendra Modi Ji congratulations on your birthday and best wishes. You have presented an ideal in showing commitment to India's life values and democratic traditions." "My compliments and prayers that the almighty keeps you healthy and joyous always, and the country keeps getting your valuable services," he said. Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu said Modi has made tireless efforts to take the country to new heights and asserted that his work will pave the way for India to become self-reliant. Wishing the prime minister, top BJP leaders said India's stature rose on the world stage under his leadership and his life dedicated to the welfare of the nation is an inspiration for them. In a series of tweets, BJP president JP Nadda wished Modi, saying that under his leadership India moved swiftly on the path of progress and raised its stature at the world stage. Modi's life is dedicated to nation building and he is an inspiration for all party workers, Nadda said. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi wished Modi a happy birthday. Home Minister Amit Shah said Modi is loved by everyone. The prime minister, he said, connected deprived sections of the society with mainstream of development. Shah said Modi has dedicated his entire life for the welfare of the country and is laying the foundation of strong and self-reliant India. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said India has benefited tremendously from his astute leadership, firm conviction and decisive action. "He has been working assiduously towards empowering the poor and marginalised. Praying for his good health and long life," Singh said. Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee also greeted Modi on his 70th birthday. Banerjee, a strong critic of the prime minister, wished him a healthy and successful year. "My greetings to the Hon'ble Prime Minister Shri @narendramodi Ji on his 70th Birthday. I wish him a healthy and successful year ahead," she tweeted. The ruling BJP celebrates Modi's birthday as 'Sewa Diwas' and organises public welfare activities across the country for a week.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-662
17-09-2020||India||Asymptomatic Covid reinfections emerge in India||Two healthcare workers in India have become reinfected by the new coronavirus although remaining symptom-free during both episodes, scientists have reported while describing what could be the world’s first asymptomatic reinfections. The scientists say their findings do not change current thinking that reinfections occur only rarely but suggest that asymptomatic reinfections among people at high risk of exposure could go unnoticed just as would asymptomatic first-time infections. The researchers at the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, New Delhi, working with doctors at the Government Institute of Medical Sciences, Noida, detected the reinfections in the two healthcare workers routinely monitored for infection as their work involved high exposure levels. One of the two healthcare workers was reinfected by a coronavirus that had a mutation previously suggested by other scientists as helping the virus evade neutralising antibodies, the researchers said. A 25-year-old male healthcare worker tested positive for the SARS-CoV-2 virus that causes Covid-19 on May 5, turned negative on May 13, but was found positive again on August 21. A 28-year-old female healthcare worker was positive on May 17, negative by May 27, positive again on September 5. What appears to be a reinfection, scientists say, may occur from either of three possible causes — a persistent infection by the same virus with some period of no symptoms, a reactivation of the same virus after a period of no symptoms or a reinfection by a new strain of the virus. “Our studies point to true reinfections — the virus specimens in both healthcare workers in both episodes of infection were genetically slightly different from each other,” said Sridhar Sivasubbu, a senior IGIB scientist who led the study. Only three cases of genetically corroborated reinfections have hitherto emerged — in Hong Kong, Belgium and the US. In each of those cases, the patients had symptoms during one or both the infection episodes. Reinfections are a potential cause of concern because they suggest at least some people can turn susceptible to the coronavirus after a first-time infection. But scientists say the handful of true reinfections observed so far among the 21 million-plus people who have recovered worldwide from the coronavirus suggests that the phenomenon is rare. “Our findings, however, point to the possibility of asymptomatic reinfections,” said Vinod Scaria, another scientist at IGIB and a team member. “They highlight the need for constant surveillance of healthcare workers who are at high risk of infection and reinfections.” Scientists say the mechanisms of reinfections remain a mystery. In most viruses, the immune response triggered by a first-time infection protects people from future infections. But some viruses such as other coronaviruses that are relatively harmless respiratory infections can cause reinfections. “The number of reinfections is too small at present for any clarity on implications,” said Sivasubbu. A reinfection may occur either because of mutations in a virus or because of a person’s genetic makeup. “At present, we don’t know what’s contributing to these reinfections,” Scaria said. The implication of the mutation detected in one of the healthcare workers remains unclear, he said. Doctors at the Medanta hospital in Gurgaon (Haryana) had last week reported what appeared to be reinfections in two children with cancer who had turned negative and shown antibodies to the virus. However, because they did not conduct genetic studies on the viruses, it is unclear whether they are persistence, reactivation, or true reinfections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-662
17-09-2020||India||AAP and BJP showdown in Rajya Sabha over Covid management||The Aam Aadmi Party and the BJP clashed over the issue of Covid-19 management in Rajya Sabha on Thursday, with AAP MP Sanjay Singh terming the prime minister's call to clap and beat utensils in honour of coronavirus warriors "foolish". BJP's Sudhanshu Trivedi hit back, saying the PM's move was symbolic and sought to unite the country socially just like Mahatma Gandhi chose the symbol of 'charkha' for national cohesion during the freedom struggle. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had asked people to clap, beat steel plates and ring bells to express gratitude towards those risking their lives and working tirelessly during the coronavirus outbreak in March . Sanjay Singh, while participating in the debate on Covid-19, further used the occasion to accuse the government of looking for opportunity in times of disaster and alleged corruption in the procurement of equipment to fight the disease including thermometers and oxymetres. "I want to ask this government, tell me any one research in the world that shows Covid can be prevented by clamping utensils and by clapping. "The entire opposition will not go home, but will clap with the prime minister and light 'diyas' in Parliament premises. "You bring such absurd and foolish schemes and expect the entire country to be fooled by you," Singh said. Countering him, Trivedi said,"Burning diyas and beating utensils and clapping were symbolic in the fight against coronavirus. "Would the British have run away by the use of the 'charkha' (spinning wheel)? The 'charkha' was a symbolism Mahatma Gandhi chose in his bid to unite the country against the British. The same way, PM Modi made the 'diyas' and beating utensils symbolic in bringing together all Indians in the fight against Covid," Trivedi said. The BJP member, without naming Rahul Gandhi, also took a swipe at the former Congress president for his vision of giving an early warning about Covid-19 and said he was himself not in the country when the Congress was seeking a ban on international flights. He also countered the opposition charge that the lockdown was not imposed early as the BJP wanted to topple the Madhya Pradesh government of the Congress, saying at that time there were only 29 coronavirus cases in the country and not a single case was reported in Madhya Pradesh at that time.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-663
17-09-2020||India||Regulations should be placed on digital media first, Centre tells SC||The Centre has said that if the Supreme Court decides on the issue of media regulation then such an exercise should be undertaken with the digital media first as it has faster reach and information has the potential to go viral due to applications like WhatsApp, Twitter and Facebook. The government told the apex court that sufficient framework and judicial pronouncements exist for the electronic and the print media. Considering the serious impact and the potential, it is desirable that if this court decides to undertake the exercise, it should first be undertaken with regard to digital media as there already exists sufficient framework and judicial pronouncements with regard to electronic media and print media, said the counter affidavit, filed by the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting. It is submitted that while in a mainstream media (whether electronic or print), the publication /telecast is a one-time act, the digital media has faster reach from wider range of viewership/ readership and has the potential to become viral because of several electronic applications like Whatsapp, Twitter, Facebook, it said. The affidavit was filed in a pending matter in which the top court is hearing a petition which has raised grievance over Sudarshan TV's Bindas Bol' programme whose promo had claimed that channel would show the 'big expose on conspiracy to infiltrate Muslims in government service'. A bench headed by Justice D Y Chandrachud had on September 15 restrained the channel from telecasting its episodes of programme for two days, saying the intent of aired episodes prima facie appears to vilify the community. The bench had suggested that a committee of apolitical experts of distinguished citizens or former judges may be appointed to help in self-regulating the electronic media specially. The apex court is scheduled to hear the matter today. In its affidavit, the Centre has said that subject matter of the present petition namely balancing between the journalist freedom and responsible journalism is a field already occupied either by the statutory provisions made by the Parliament or by the judgments of this court . It is respectfully submitted that in view of the issue having already received attention of the Parliament, as well as, of this court, the present petition be confined to only one channel namely Sudarshan TV and this court may not undertake the exercise of laying down any further guidelines with or without appointment of an amicus or a committee of persons as amicus, the affidavit said. It said that situation in each case shall have to be decided on a case-to-case basis and a broader exercise which is too general in nature is neither warranted nor permissible . The affidavit said, Even if this court considers it appropriate to undertake the said exercise, there is no justification to confine this exercise only to mainstream electronic media. The media includes mainstream electronic media, mainstream print media as well as a parallel media namely digital print media and digital web-based news portal and You Tube channels as well as over the top' platforms (OTTs). Referring to earlier verdicts delivered by the apex court, the affidavit said it lays down the correct legal proposition requiring no general exercise to be undertaken merely based upon one episode or few episodes of a channel. Separately, Sudarshan TV has also filed an affidavit in the apex court and claimed that it has no ill-will against any community or any individual and the programme concerns a matter of grave national interest. The channel claimed that it has used word like UPSC Jehad' in its programme as an institute for Muslim UPSC aspirants has received foreign funds, also from those which are linked to organisations that allegedly funds extremist groups.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-663
17-09-2020||India||India’s ‘sophisticated rhetoricians’ on China||Anthony Gonsalves has met his match. Na wahan koi hamari seema me ghus aaya hai aur na hi koi ghusa hua hai, na hi hamari koi post kisi dusre ke kabje me hai (Neither has anyone intruded into our frontier there, nor is any intruder there, nor is any of our posts occupied by someone else): Prime Minister Narendra Modi, June 19, all-party meeting. Abhi ki stithi ke anusar, Chinese side ne LAC aur andruni chhetron me badi sankhya me sainik tukdiyan aur gola-barud mobilise kiya hua hai (According to the situation now, the Chinese side has along the LAC and in inner areas mobilised troops and ammunition in large numbers): Defence minister Rajnath Singh, September 15, the Lok Sabha. No infiltration has been reported along India-China border during last six months: Junior home minister Nityanand Rai, September 16, the Rajya Sabha. Go figure! Or ask Anthony, who said more or less the same thing in Amar Akbar Anthony in 1977: “You see the whole country of the system is juxtapositioned by the haemoglobin in the atmosphere, because you are a sophisticated rhetorician intoxicated by the exuberance of your own verbosity.” The rapid-fire monologue prefaces a song that proclaims Anthony’s house number to be “420”. Several veterans expressed shock at what they felt was another instance of the government’s flip-flop on the China crisis. But they had not factored in the ingenuity of the Indian bureaucracy. By evening, “sources” were lecturing journalists on the nuances of semantics. The junior minister was asked about “infiltration” and he replied about “infiltration”, not “transgression” or “intrusion”. “The word ‘infiltration’ is used for terrorists crossing from the Line of Control. It is not the same as transgression or incursion, the common parlance for the military action on the Line of Actual Control,” a home ministry official said in the evening. To be fair to the government, the junior home minister was asked by BJP member Anil Agrawal “whether it is a fact that the cases of infiltration from Pakistan and China has (sic) increased during the last six months”. “Infiltration” has an element of intrigue and surreptitiousness. By all accounts, the Chinese troops did not “infiltrate”. They appear to have “intruded” or “transgressed” with impunity in plain sight while the Indian government pretended for weeks that all was quiet on the frontier. The problem with the junior home minister’s statement (his ministry headed by Amit Shah oversees the Indo-Tibetan Border Force that guards the border with China) is that many saw in it confirmation that Modi has accepted China’s position. Military veteran Pravin Sawhney said: “This confirms that India has accepted China’s 1959 claim line, which is also its (China’s) LAC. This reality was acknowledged by Prime Minister Modi’s June 19 statement -- it is now inbuilt in the new term ‘Border Areas’.” ‘Border Areas’ was the phrase used in the “joint” statement after the meeting of the Indian and Chinese foreign ministers in Moscow last week. Some saw in the “no-infiltration” statement on Wednesday a hint of an escape hatch for the Prime Minister. Modi can now claim he meant “infiltration”, not “intrusion”. But a glaring hole in this potential armour for Modi is that no one was speaking about infiltration when 20 soldiers were killed in the Galwan Valley on June 15. The external affairs ministry had used terms like “attempts to transgress”. An Indian defence ministry document had acknowledged that China had “transgressed” into eastern Ladakh in early May. But the document was quietly removed from the ministry’s website a day after it was uploaded.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-663
17-09-2020||India||China’s word awaited on fresh talks||China is keeping New Delhi waiting for a fresh round of military talks. “The Chinese are yet to confirm the dates for the corps commander-level meeting, which is supposed to take place by the end of this week. We are still waiting for their confirmation. It seems they are playing a wait-and-watch game,” a defence ministry official said. When the foreign ministers had met last week, it was agreed that the troops should “continue their dialogue, quickly disengage, maintain proper distance and ease tensions”. “We are ready with our agenda for the talks but there has been studied silence from them. It could be that they are awaiting clearance from their political bosses,” the ministry official said. “We are expecting them to respond sooner than later.” Military veterans had cautioned the army against any complacency, underlining that the Chinese use negotiations to gain time and strengthen positions on the ground. So far, the five rounds of military talks have failed to achieve any breakthrough.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-663
17-09-2020||India||Tagore’s Puri house wall demolished||The Puri administration has demolished the boundary wall of the house of Nobel laureate Rabindranath Tagore located on Chakratirtha Road near the beach in the temple town bringing back into focus the dilapidated state of the century-old property. The demolition of the wall has triggered demonstrations and an FIR against the authorities. The Patherpuri house, which Tagore built, is more than 100-years-old. A heritage structure, the property comes under the supervision of Samanta Chandra Sekhar (SCS) College, Puri. The building was used as a hostel for college students in 1945. However, it is almost in ruins and the hostel is not functional. Hector Mishra, chief of social organisation Voice of Common Man, said, “The boundary was razed to widen an existing road apparently at the behest of some hoteliers on Tuesday. The road will connect with the beach. We protested on Wednesday. We have lodged an FIR against the executive engineer. After taking over the land, they planned to construct another wall. But we protested and asked them to return the land.” Activist-cum-journalist Jagannath Bastia said, “The place was home to the poet who used to love Puri where he had composed some of his famous literary works, including Gitanjali. A portion of the building was earlier used as a hostel for the students of SCS College, Puri. The hostel has been closed for several years. The property is in a dilapidated state. There has been no effort at its restoration. After Cyclone Fani hit the town in May 2019, the building was almost in ruins. Drug addicts frequent the place. But the administration is yet to take steps for its restoration.” The building has been declared unsafe by the public works department. “Four existing roads already connect the area with the beach. Hence there was no need to take the land from Patherpuri house for the expansion of another road. This is being done at the behest of some hoteliers. We, the advocates of Puri, will soon join hands with the ABVP to launch a movement against the administration’s decision,” former SCS College student and ex-secretary, Puri Bar Association, Sarada Prasad Samal told The Telegraph. SCS College principal Sujata Mishra said: “The district administration has demolished the wall. What can I do? It’s better you ask the district authorities why they demolished the boundary. I have already informed the higher education department about the development. Besides, I have urged the department for renovation of the building. We have enough land to start our junior college there. Many things can be done.” The Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage (Intach), Odisha chapter, had also written to the Puri district administration to restore the heritage building for the benefit of future generations. “Earlier, the district administration had planned to raze the entire building. But they stopped following protests by us. It’s unfortunate that the district administration has demolished the wall of Patherpuri,” said Anil Dhir, media coordinator, Intach. “We had submitted a proposal to repair it for conservation. Since the building is synonymous with Tagore, we have requested the works department through a letter to construct a building which can be made into a museum to preserve the documents and artefacts in Patherpuri. But no progress has been made yet.” Puri sub-collector Bhaba Taran Sahu said: “We have not acquired any part of the Patherpuri hostel. We have just demolished a part of the wall, particularly the corners. It was a broken structure that has been demolished to expand a 10ft by 10ft road. Earlier, the RTO (regional transport officer) had emphasised the need to expand the road to reduce the number of accidents. It’s being done for the good of public. Besides, the land belongs to the government. Whenever the administration takes any such step, a section of people oppose it.” On steps being been taken to restore the heritage building, he said: “Many proposals have been submitted in this regard. We are examining the proposals.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-663
17-09-2020||India||Riddle: exodus in UP, case in HP||Can a journalist’s comments questioning the country’s pandemic preparedness start an exodus by migrant workers, the Supreme Court wondered on Wednesday while hearing veteran journalist Vinod Dua’s plea to quash sedition charges against him. The bench of Justices U.U. Lalit and Vineet Saran highlighted that the case had been registered in Himachal Pradesh while the exodus it allegedly triggered mostly involved other states, from where migrants had returned home to Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. The court’s queries were put to solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Himachal government, and senior advocate Mahesh Jethmalani, representing a purported BJP leader who had lodged the original complaint against Dua in April. Dua is accused of stating in a programme, uploaded on YouTube on March 30, that “Narendra Modi has used deaths and terror attacks to garner votes” and of creating panic by “spreading false information that the government does not have enough testing facilities” for Covid-19. Justice Lalit said: “This (registration of the case) was 10 days after the episode was aired. (The complainant says that) as a result of this episode, people started migrating. “But was this migration, per se, mentioned in the FIR, and did this particular episode trigger any other FIRs (elsewhere)? We understand that the migration issue is more or less (a matter of) UP and Bihar and the FIR was filed in Himachal....” Mehta defended the registration of the case, saying: “Video can be viewed from anywhere... even if no migration to and fro happened from Himachal.” Justice Lalit wondered how migration by some people could lead to a criminal case against another person. “I may not migrate but I was panic-stricken. To hear that government has no resources would lead to panic. That is enough to attract an offence,” Mehta contended. To a query from the bench, Mehta said that more than 10 lakh people had viewed the video. Jethmalani questioned Dua’s credentials, saying: “This particular petitioner claiming to be a media person is undeserving of any preliminary inquiry. There have been other podcasts where he has used the pandemic to incite people.” He claimed the earlier generation of editors maintained due restraints before publishing anything, but Dua “incites people to become violent”. Jethmalani said the company that owns the website on which Dua “airs his views... has unsecured loans of Rs 5 crore of which we have no clue about the source. Who are these benevolent people who have put so much faith in him?” He added: “It is not a case of fair comment that the government is negligent. It is an attack on the government and is an exploitation of a disaster… (whose magnitude) he has exaggerated on the basis of pure surmises and personal bias.” The arguments will continue on Friday. While challenging the sedition charges, Dua’s petition also accuses state governments of registering FIRs against journalists to harass and intimidate them. It seeks apex court guidelines on the registration of such FIRs. The top court had earlier restrained the police from arresting Dua but refused to stay the probe and said Dua would have to join the investigation “through videoconferencing or online mode”. Dua faces charges of sedition, criminal defamation and public mischief, among others.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-663
17-09-2020||India||100m Russia Covid doses for India||A Russian agency and an Indian pharma company announced on Wednesday their plans to conduct an efficacy trial of the Russian candidate vaccine against the coronavirus disease in India and distribute 100 million doses for mass vaccination campaigns. The Russia Direct Investment Fund, the country’s sovereign wealth fund, and the Hyderabad-based Dr Reddy’s Laboratories have partnered for clinical trials and distribution of the vaccine after approval from the Indian drug regulatory authority, the two entities said. “Upon regulatory approval in India, RDIF shall supply 100 million doses of the vaccine…. Deliveries could potentially begin in late 2020 subject to completion of successful trials and registration of the vaccine by regulatory authorities in India,” the RDIF and the DRL said in a statement. Russia had approved the candidate vaccine, named Sputnik V, after phase 1 and phase 2 safety and immunogenicity studies. A critical round of phase 3 efficacy studies to test the vaccine’s capacity to protect people from the infection is under way in Russia with 40,000 healthy volunteers. “The phase 1 and phase 2 results have shown promise. We will be conducting phase 3 trials in India to meet the requirements of Indian regulators,” DRL managing director G.V. Prasad said in the statement. Vaccine researchers say a clinical trial in India, if approved by the regulatory authority, would likely involve a few thousand healthy volunteers. The proposal to distribute 100 million doses is intended to support a mass vaccination campaign, the researchers said. “They are meant for population-wide general use — a mass vaccination campaign,” a spokesperson for the RDIF told The Telegraph, adding that an application for the clinical trials in India would be filed soon. The application will need to be filed with the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO), India’s regulatory authority for drugs and vaccines. Under standard procedures, any mass vaccination can only start after the results of phase 3 trials have been assessed as successful. However, the CDSCO can under certain exceptional circumstances approve “emergency authorisation” use for either a drug or a vaccine ahead of standard trial requirements. India’s health minister Harsh Vardhan had on Sunday hinted that the Centre might consider emergency authorisation of Covid-19 vaccination “especially in the case of senior citizens and people working in high-risk settings”. Senior health officials had said earlier this week that the CDSCO had not yet received any proposal for emergency authorisation of a Covid-19 vaccine. “We believe our human adenovirus dual vector platform will provide a safe and scientifically validated option to India in the battle against Covid-19,” Kirill Dmitriev, RDIF’s CEO, said. Russia is also looking to use India as a source of mass production of the vaccine for which the RDIF is in talks with several vaccine makers, a spokesperson said. The Russian agency said over 55,000 volunteers had applied to take part in post-registration trials. The first results of these trials are expected to be published in October or November. “The data in their scientific paper look impressive,” said Sudanshu Vrati, a senior virologist and director of the Regional Centre for Biotechnology, Faridabad (Haryana). “But the actual proof of protection from the infection will only come from phase 3 trials.” The phase 1 trials primarily assess the safety of the vaccine while phase 2 trials are intended to find out whether a candidate vaccine will generate an immune response in the recipients. In the phase 3 trial, the candidate will be assessed for its capacity to protect the recipients from future infection. India is also independently assessing two home-grown vaccines, currently in phase 2 trials, and an Oxford-made vaccine in phase 3 trials.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-663
17-09-2020||India||Julio Ribeiro’s Gandhian jibe at ‘this regime’||Celebrated police veteran Julio Ribeiro has in a second letter to Delhi police commissioner S.N. Srivastava written that “Gandhians have lost favour with this regime!” The former DGP on Wednesday responded to Srivastava’s reply to his first letter, which had asked the commissioner to examine whether officers under his command “have been true to their oath”, hinting at bias in the Delhi riot probe. “There are doubts in my original open letter which you have not addressed. I realise that it is difficult, indeed impossible, to justify the licence given to the three BJP stalwarts I named (Kapil Mishra, Union minister Anurag Thakur and MP Parvesh Verma) licence to rant, rave and threaten those who are peacefully protesting perceived wrongs. If the speakers were Muslims or Leftists the police would have surely taken them in for sedition!” Ribeiro, 91, wrote on Wednesday. The “Gandhian” reference came in relation to social activist Harsh Mander and Delhi University professor Apoorvanand Jha, whom Ribeiro had in his first letter to Srivastava last week described as “true patriots”. Both are being probed by the police for alleged links between the citizenship protests they supported and the February riots that killed 53. Ribeiro wrote: “I note in your e-mail to me that you have doubted the patriotism of the three who I named as ‘true patriots’. The three include Harsh Mander, Prof. Apoorvanand and me…. Harsh and Apoorvanand are Gandhians. I should have remembered that Gandhians have lost favour with this regime!” Ribeiro and the Constitutional Conduct Group of retired civil servants have issued several statements on what they have termed a “partisan” riots probe that blames the violence on peaceful protesters against the new citizenship regime. After Ribeiro’s first letter to Srivastava, the police had initially said they were checking the veracity of the email. News agency PTI has quoted Srivastava’s reply to Ribeiro, in which the commissioner said that more FIRs had been registered on complaints from the minorities than those from the majority community. “It is best that the criminal justice system, with its inherent checks and balances may be allowed to work, lest lending one’s name inadvertently imparts a false aura of credibility and authenticity to these concocted and motivated stories,” PTI quoted Srivastava as saying. “Chargesheets in many cases have been filed while investigation is continuing in many others. The above details have been given to dispel any impression that one may harbour.” In his response, Ribeiro thanked Srivastava for his reply and a phone call, and said he would have done the same in Srivastava’s position. “After talking to you on the phone and perusing your letter I have decided to put myself in your shoes!.. I would quickly file the chargesheets in all the 753 cases, including specially the conspiracy case registered by your Special Cell, and get the evidence authenticated in a court of law,” Ribeiro wrote. “More pertinently I would not prolong the UAPA case by arresting persons just a day or two before the time limit expires for filing the chargesheet.” Ribeiro’s reply came on a day the first chargesheet was filed in the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act case, three days after rights activist Umar Khalid’s arrest. Among the accused in the FIR are Khalid, suspended Aam Aadmi Party councillor Tahir Hussain and several student protesters against the new citizenship matrix.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-663
17-09-2020||India||Limboos up ante on Sikkim House quota||The patience of the Limboo community with the ruling Sikkim Krantikari Morcha clearly appears to be wearing thin nearly a year-and-a-half after being influential in voting chief minister P. S. Tamang (Golay)’s party to power in the state. Days after a nascent organisation of the Limboos and Tamangs upped the ante on the reservation of seats for the two communities in the Assembly, the Sukhim Yakthung Sapsok Songchumbho (SYSS), which espouses the Limboo cause, too, lend its voice, placing a host of demands before the government in addition to the Assembly quota. In a memorandum submitted to the chairman of Sikkim Scheduled Tribes Welfare Board, Prem Kumar Limboo, in Gangtok on Wednesday, the SYSS also demanded reservation of seats for the Limboos and Tamangs in the urban and rural local bodies. “We are hopeful that the due Constitutional rights of the Limboos and Tamangs will be fulfilled by the SKM government soon, given the promise to this effect made by the party in its election manifesto,” Gulshan Limboo, the SYSS secretary, told The Telegraph. Asked if the organisation had set any timeframe for the government, Limboo replied in the negative. “We will talk to other like-minded organisations and decide on the next course of action (in the event there is no positive response from the government),” Limboo added. The Limboos and Tamangs were given Scheduled Tribe status in 2003, but are yet to be granted reservation of seats in the Assembly as mandated by Article 332 of the Constitution. An organisation of the two communities had approached the Supreme Court on the issue in January 2019, and the matter remains pending. The SKM had vowed to deliver Assembly quota to the Limboos and Tamangs within 100 days of coming to power, but is yet to spell out its formula, unlike the opposition Sikkim Democratic Front. The SDF, when it was power, had suggested to the Centre to increase the strength of the Sikkim Assembly from the present 32 to 40, and reserve five seats for the Limboos and Tamangs. At present, 12 seats are reserved for the Bhutias and Lepchas, two for the Scheduled Castes and one for the sangha, which is a body of monks. Analysts said the Limboos seemed to be losing patience with the SKM government. “Look, the SKM had promised to reserve Assembly seats to the two communities within days of coming to power. Forget delivering on its promise, the party has not even spelled out how it plans to go about the job. This raising of the ante by the Limboo lobby clearly suggests its impatience,” said an analyst. Limboos are the predominant community in West Sikkim. Out of the eight Assembly seats in the West district, the Limboo vote plays a decisive role in six. In the 2019 Assembly elections, the SKM had won six seats from the area, which was largely responsible for the party to pip the SDF by 17 to 15 seats and come to power. Similarly, the Pawan Chamling-led SDF had swept the entire eight seats in 2014 to retain power for the record fifth consecutive term. The other demands of the SYSS are 15 per cent reservation in jobs for the Limboos and Tamangs according to the proportion of population, early completion of incomplete Limboo projects, inclusion of Limboo Language in state eligibility test and declaration of Yumaism as religion of the Limboo tribe, among others.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-663
17-09-2020||India||Art scholar Kapila Vatsyayan passes away||Scholar, author and connoisseur of the arts Kapila Vatsyayan died at her Delhi home on Wednesday. She was 92. “She passed away at 9am today at her home in Gulmohar Enclave,” Kanwal Ali, secretary of the India International Centre where she was a lifetime trustee, told PTI. Vatsyayan, who was awarded the Padma Vibhushan in 2011, was the founding director of the Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts. A former nominated member of the Rajya Sabha, she was also chairperson of the Asia Project at the IIC. The renowned scholar of art history, architecture and Indian classical dance was born in New Delhi in 1928 and did her Master's in English literature from Delhi University and in education from the University of Michigan in the US. Vatsyayan, the younger sister of poet and critic Keshav Malik, is survived by her younger brother Subhash Malik. She married legendary Hindi litterateur Sachchidananda Vatsyayan ‘Agyeya' in 1956, and continued with her married name even after their separation in 1969. The final rites were held at the Lodhi Cremation Ground on Wednesday afternoon. She authored nearly 20 books on different forms of art and their histories in her long career. Her notable works include The Square and the Circle of Indian Arts (1997), Bharata: The Natya Sastra (2006), Dance in Indian Painting (2004), Classical Indian Dance in Literature and the Arts (2007), and Transmissions and Transformations: Learning Through the Arts in Asia (2011). Tributes poured for the culture czarina, who occupied a unique space all her own. From politicians and academics to writers and artists, many people remembered her as an institution builder who had contributed immeasurably to the world of art. IIC president N.N. Vohra said in a statement that Vatsyayan had made an “invaluable contribution” to the growth of the institution. Renowned Hindi writer Ashok Vajpeyi said Vatsyayan's death was a “personal loss”. Congress leader Karan Singh said the nation has lost a woman of great learning and erudition.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-663
17-09-2020||India||‘Police conspiracy’ cry at solidarity meeting||Senior advocate Prashant Bhushan on Wednesday alleged that the police investigation into the Delhi riots was a “criminal conspiracy” to protect the perpetrators and frame the innocent. Attending a media conference in solidarity with those facing terror charges in connection with the February Delhi riots in which 53 people were killed, Bhushan told reporters at the Press Club of India: “It’s a criminal conspiracy by Delhi police to frame innocent people who were protesting peacefully against an unconstitutional law, and those activists who were supporting these peaceful, exemplary protests. It’s a conspiracy to let off those against whom unimpeachable evidence is available to show their involvement in these riots.” The media conference was held hours before the police announced that they had filed the first chargesheet on an FIR in which rights activist Umar Khalid, who was arrested on Sunday night, and several student and youth activists as well as former municipal councillors of the Aam Aadmi Party and the Congress, Taahir Hussain and Ishrat Jahan, have been booked under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act. The 11-volume, 17,000-page chargesheet was submitted in court in a steel trunk. Khalid’s parents were present at the media conference but did not speak. His mother Sabiha Khanum wore a facemask with her son’s picture on it with the message “We are all Umar Khalid” written in Hindi. Several of those present held placards, each bearing the picture of an accused booked under the UAPA with the name suffixed to the writing “We are all”. They also issued a statement demanding the release of the accused and the arrest of BJP leaders who had made incendiary speeches before the riots. A video message recorded by Khalid just before his arrest was screened in which he said: “The Delhi police are not arresting the rioters who incited and caused the large-scale communal violence in the capital in February. Instead, it is going after those who criticise the government and its policies, especially the Citizenship Amendment Act. The ones who participated in the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act protests are being wrongly framed without proof.” CPI national council member Kanhaiya Kumar, who had been arrested along with Khalid and fellow JNU student Anirban Bhattacharya for sedition in 2016 for which they are yet to face trial, was listed as a speaker at Wednesday’s media conference but he did not turn up, ostensibly because he was stuck in another meeting. Kanhaiya wrote on Facebook: “The question is why have the BJP leaders who openly instigated the riots not been called for questioning and arrested? Questions being raised on the investigation into the Delhi riots are inevitable as the aim is not to ensure justice but to take political revenge.” Friends of Khalid said the police’s special cell had allowed books to be given to him in custody. He is currently said to be reading Vikram Seth’s A Suitable Boy. Artist Shuddhabrata Sengupta has gifted Khalid a copy of Christopher de Bellaigue’s The Islamic Enlightenment: The Struggle Between Faith and Reason, 1798 to Modern Times, which will be handed over to the police through Khalid’s lawyer Trideep Pais. Former Planning Commission member Syeda Hameed said at the media conference: “The objective of the government is to target Muslims along with other marginalised and deprived sections. The idea is to finish off our composite culture. We’re running at great speed towards a theocratic state. It is up to us to decide what kind of a country we want.” Several speakers drew comparisons between the Centre’s legal offensive against the anti-CAA activists and the misery of people due to the lockdown. CPIML politburo member Kavita Krishnan referred to the police citing voluminous documents while seeking Khalid’s custody and said: “This government has 11 lakh pages against Umar but not one page on the deaths of migrants. This shows their priority.… Delhi police must introspect whether they want to be remembered as a private army of the powers that be.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-664
17-09-2020||India||Migrant register off, Centre to create a database ||The Centre on Wednesday told Parliament that it intended to create a database for unorganised-sector workers including migrants, days after facing criticism for its lack of data on the deaths of migrant workers during the lockdown. Labour minister Santosh Gangwar’s assertions comes at a time the government’s proposed labour reform laws have dropped a longstanding but largely ignored legal requirement for the registration of migrant workers. “Ministry of labour & employment has envisaged development of a National Database for Unorganised Workers seeded with Aadhaar for all unorganised workers,” Gangwar said in a written reply to a question from DMK member Tiruchi Siva in the Rajya Sabha. “The project will enrol all unorganised workers including migrant workers.” Siva had asked whether the ministry would formulate a national database for migrant workers. Media reports have suggested that scores of migrant workers died of exhaustion or accidents while walking or hitch-hiking hundreds of miles home from their workplaces after the lockdown left them unemployed. But on Monday, Gangwar told the Lok Sabha that the question of compensation did not arise because the government did not maintain data on people “dying on the way”. Independent researchers have said that 972 migrant workers died while returning home between March 25, when the lockdown was announced, and July 4. The government had no data about the migrants despite the Inter State Migrant Workmen (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Services) Act, 1979, mandating the registration of migrant workers in their home and destination states. Now this provision, unenforced for four decades, is set to go altogether. The Occupational Safety, Health and Working Condition Code Bill, which will subsume the 1979 law once it is enacted, does not contain the registration clause for migrant workers. When the migrants were stuck in the various states — without jobs, money and sometimes food — neither the Centre nor their home or workplace states had any data about them. The labour contractors who had placed them in various factories were missing from the scene. Under the 1979 law, employers and contractors are to maintain records of the migrant workers employed, wages paid and the nature of work assigned to them. Government officials are to periodically inspect the records and the facilities provided to the workers. But the implementation of the 1979 law has been abysmal. In response to an RTI application from Anjali Bhardwaj, the labour ministry last week said that only 84,875 inter-state migrant workers had been registered, by just 372 establishments, between 2010-11 and 2019-20. The figure of 84,875 is just 0.8 per cent of the 1.04 crore migrant workers who the government says returned to their home states after the lockdown. The government cited this figure in Parliament this week on the basis of information collected from the states. The labour ministry’s reply to the RTI query showed that in several regions including Delhi, Dehradun, Jabalpur and Patna, not a single migrant worker had been registered in the year 2019-20. Another recent RTI application, filed with the railway ministry, had sought data on the number of migrant workers who had died while returning home on the Shramik Special trains. The Railway Board’s safety directorate replied that railway policing being a state subject, the registration of cases of unnatural death and their investigation were the states’ responsibility. The board said it maintained data of casualties from train accidents, and asserted that no deaths had occurred on the Shramik trains from train accidents during the pandemic. Altogether, three labour reform bills introduced by the labour ministry — the safety code bill, Industrial Relations Code Bill and Social Security Code Bill — are pending with Parliament. A Wage Code Bill has already been passed. These four laws will subsume the existing 44 labour laws in the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-664
17-09-2020||India||A hundred lies to conceal one lie spoken by the PM: Congress||The Congress on Wednesday pounced on the government’s claim that “no infiltration has been reported along the Indo-China border in the last six months”, saying this was another attempt to defend Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s “lie” that nobody had entered Indian territory. “A hundred lies to conceal one lie spoken by the Prime Minister. This government is with China or with Indian Army?” party communications chief Randeep Surjewala tweeted. The Congress also posted this message: “As defence minister exposes PM Modi’s lies, the home ministry runs to his rescue. Shame! BJP, get your act together. Prioritise India over Modi ji.” Junior home minister Nityanand Rai had made the no-infiltration claim in the Rajya Sabha on Wednesday, a day after defence minister Rajnath Singh had spoken of heavy Chinese mobilisation in “inner areas”, throwing into relief Modi’s June 19 claim that no one had intruded into India. Surjewala reminded the government that 20 Indian soldiers had died in the June 15 clash with the Chinese in the Galwan Valley and added: “Undermining their sacrifice is treason.” The Congress also asked the government to clarify whether it was claiming that the clash had taken place in Chinese territory — implying the Indian troops had transgressed the LAC. Although the government maintained that Rai’s statement had come in the context of infiltration by terrorists, the Congress believes the Centre’s intention was to deny Chinese intrusion and save the Prime Minister from embarrassment. Rahul Gandhi posted a sarcastic tweet: “Understand the chronology: PM said — no one crossed the border. Then, took a huge loan from a China-based bank. Then, defence minister said — China occupied our land. Now, minister of state for home says — there’s no infiltration. Is Modi government with Indian Army or with China? Modi ji, why so scared?” Rahul’s reference was to India taking loans from the China-controlled Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank while citing the border standoff to crack down on Chinese business relationships in India. Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera later told a news conference: “This (no-infiltration claim) is a shameless insult to the martyrdom of our brave soldiers in the Galwan Valley. Is the government trying to say that the Galwan clash happened in Chinese territory? By saying so, is the government (accusing) the Indian Army of trespassing into enemy territory? “Isn’t this just another clean chit to China but also a handle given to China by our government? China can now claim that the Government of India and the Prime Minister and the minister of state for home are saying they are not the aggressor. The response of the government dilutes the resolve of India and its mighty army to protect every inch of our valuable territory.” Khera added: “Why is this government so keen to give clean chits to China? After the Prime Minister, now the defence minister talks about differing perceptions of the LAC (in the Lok Sabha on Tuesday). There are no differing perceptions; the LAC is clearly defined. These statements will only embolden China.” Khera asked the defence minister to answer these questions: “Are we able to patrol the same areas as we were able to do so before April 2020? What is the pressure under which the Prime Minister gave a clean chit to China? Under whose pressure did the defence ministry remove the document that acknowledged Chinese transgression in eastern Ladakh? Is the entire government now trying to justify that one big lie of the Prime Minister?”The defence ministry had without explanation on August 6 removed from its website a one-day-old document that had acknowledged China had “transgressed” into eastern Ladakh – the first government document to admit to the intrusion. Khera accused the government of hypocrisy in taking loans worth Rs 9,202 crore from the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank while, he said, the Prime Minister was claiming credit for banning Chinese apps.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-664
17-09-2020||India||Akalis object, govt holds back farm reforms bills||BJP president J.P. Nadda blew hot and cold over the farm reforms bills the government has lined up for ratification in Parliament, tearing into the Congress for opposing them but exercising caution while tackling ally Shiromani Akali Dal, which too has objected to the plan. Nadda hailed as “farsighted” and “revolutionary” the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill and the Farmers’ (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, which are to be passed in the current monsoon session of Parliament. The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill cleared the Lok Sabha on Tuesday. The Farmers’ (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill was scheduled to be taken up by the Lower House on Wednesday but was held back, with sources claiming the government was trying to get the Akali Dal on board. The Punjab-based Akali Dal, which had supported the proposed changes when ordinances had been passed in June, shifted track after farmers erupted in protest in the agriculture-rich state and also in neighbouring Haryana. The protests are being led by Congress veteran and Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh. The Akalis are now claiming that the central government didn’t consult them before the three ordinances were approved by the Union cabinet in June and have asked its two members in the Lok Sabha and three in the Rajya Sabha to vote against the bills. Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal has urged the government to talk to the farmers and address their concerns before rushing through the bills in Parliament. “The Akali Dal can go to any extent to protect the interests of the farmers,” Badal said on Tuesday. Asked about the ally’s objection, Nadda said: “We are talking to them and their concerns will be addressed.” The BJP chief, however, did not have such kind words for the Congress, which has been from the beginning opposing the proposed changes. The Congress has threatened a mass protest and vowed to defeat the “conspiracy to hand over the farm sector to crony capitalists”. Nadda accused the party of opposing the bills only for politics and in the process trying to harm the interests of farmers. He also accused the Congress of maintaining double standard, claiming that the party had been in favour of the reforms in the past but had turned against them only to play politics.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-664
17-09-2020||India||Naidu bristles at mask-off reminder ||Rajya Sabha chairperson M. Venkaiah Naidu ticked off Trinamul Congress member Santanu Sen on Wednesday for reminding the House how his party colleagues had been asked to remove their masks by the Chair in March during the budget session. Clearly upset by repeated reminders by Trinamul members outside the House of the March 18 incident when he had asked them to remove their masks, Naidu stopped Sen to say: “Thank you for this information which has been relayed time and again. That day when the Chair had given that ruling, the ICMR (Indian Council of Medical Research) had not given any such advice, for your information.” “With confirmation, I am saying this information. At that time, the Chair was guided by the guidelines issued by the ICMR. On that day, when this comment was made, there was no such thing,’’ he said. Further, Naidu recalled how he had allowed members to continue wearing masks after Congress leader P. Chidambaram intervened on their behalf. “But some people are not able to forget it and continuously calling TV persons, telling them also and relaying it again. Why? There is, actually, no factual information. Now you are happy I am wearing a mask. I am also happy you are wearing it but removing in between. Please wear it. Please wear and then go ahead.’’ Sen had earlier begun his intervention on The Institute of Teaching and Research in Ayurveda Bill, 2020, by recalling what transpired on the morning of March 18 in the House. “It is good to see everyone wearing mask in the august House as we recall in the early days of Covid-19 pandemic, when our members of the All India Trinamool Congress were wearing masks, we were asked to remove it by the Chair.’’ Trinamul MPs had back then come wearing masks partly as part of a strategy to drive home the need to adjourn Parliament mid-session because of the growing number of coronavirus cases across the country. The chairperson twice asked Trinamul MPs to remove their masks, and when they did not comply, other MPs intervened on their behalf after which Naidu yielded. By March 18, it was a week since the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 a pandemic but the Narendra Modi government took another month to reconcile different opinions within the establishment on widespread use of masks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-664
17-09-2020||India||Delhi riots: Police files charge sheet under UAPA against 15 for larger conspiracy||Delhi police on Wednesday filed a charge sheet before a city court under the UAPA and various sections of the IPC against 15 persons for larger conspiracy in northeast Delhi riots in February even as a group of activists and academics demanded immediate release of those booked under the stringent law. According to sources, those named in the charge sheet are Taahir Hussain, Mohd Parvez Ahmed, Mohd Illyas, Saifi Khalid, Ishrat Jahan, Miran Haider, Safoora Zargar, Asif Iqbal Tanha, Shahdab Ahmed, Natasha Narwal, Devangana Kalita, Tasleem Ahmed, Saleem Malik, Mohd Saleem Khan and Athar Khan. The special cell of the police told additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat that it had relied upon CD-R and WhatsApp chats. In the charge sheet running into 10,000 pages, the police has listed 747 witnesses; of them, 51 have recorded their statements under Section 164 of CrPC (before the magistrate). The final report has been filed under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA), various sections of the Indian Penal Code and Arms Act. The police said it has given the chronology of conspiracy and relevant events in its charge sheet which is likely to be taken up for consideration in the coming days. The evidence includes WhatsApp chats of February 24, the time of the riots. At that point, key conspirators were guiding their foot soldiers about violence in the area. The key conspirators were directly in touch with their foot soldiers, police said. WhatsApp groups were used by conspirators for “violence” in the Seelampur-Jafarabad area. There were 25 protest sites in 25 cities. Twenty-five WhatsApp groups were especially created for each city. The impression was given that they were anti-CAA protest groups but through these sites conspirators were being guided, it said. The special cell said that Tahir Hussain, Khalid Saifi and Umar Khalid had allegedly planned massive violence in the capital during US President Donald Trump’s visit to Delhi. In the charge sheet, which discusses the conspiracy behind the Delhi riots, the police has claimed that on January 8, Tahir had met Umar Khalid and Khalid Saifi at the Shaheen Bagh sit-in. Meetings subsequently also took place in the PFI office in Jamia. Umar said that through his contacts (in the PFI), logistical support, etc. will be provided, the police said. It said the probe is still underway and the force will file a supplementary charge sheet in the matter. A group of activists and academics on Wednesday demanded immediate release of those booked under the UAPA in connection with the northeast Delhi riots. They sought the setting up of a judicial inquiry commission to punish the “real culprits”. In a joint statement, they alleged that the democratic voices of dissent were being “gradually implicated”. The statement came after the arrest of former JNU student leader Umar Khalid by the Delhi police on September 13. Khalid has been charged under the UAPA. The joint statement was issued by Syeda Hameed, writer and former member of erstwhile Planning Commission of India, senior lawyer Prashant Bhushan, former JNU students' union president Kanhaiya Kumar, CPIML politburo member Kavita Krishnan, journalist Pamela Philipose and former DUTA president Nandita Narain. “All democratic voices of dissent are being gradually implicated. This includes students, academicians, artists, politicians and activists. We demand an immediate end to this outrageous investigation that is being conducted with prejudice and mala fide intent,” the statement stated. “We demand that activists booked under the UAPA be immediately released and a judicial inquiry commission be constituted to punish the real culprits and ensure justice for the Delhi violence,” it stated. Communal clashes had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 after violence between supporters of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and those against the legislation spiralled out of control, leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured. At a news conference earlier in the day, Bhushan said they recently requested President Ram Nath Kovind to constitute a commission of inquiry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-664
17-09-2020||West Bengal||Agitation threat by ex-Kamtapur Liberation Organisation men ||Former militants and linkmen of the Kamtapur Liberation Organisation in Cooch Behar district have decided to launch a movement from October 1, demanding government jobs and an autonomous council for the Rajbanshi community in seven districts of north Bengal. In the late nineties, KLO, a militant outfit, had been formed by a section of Rajbanshi youths of the region for separate statehood. It had carried out subversive activities across north Bengal but gradually turned defunct following the arrests of prominent leaders. On Wednesday, over 25 former militants and linkmen held a meeting near the Rajbari Stadium here and decided to mount pressure on the state. “Many of our former colleagues in the neighbouring districts of Alipurduar and Jalpaiguri have been provided with jobs by the state government. They are working as home guards now. From our district, 51 names have been sent to the state and the police verification of each of us has been carried out. However, none of us has been given any job so far,” said Pulasthya Burman, a former militant who hailed from the Mathabhanga subdivision of the district. “Next week, the chief minister will visit north Bengal. If we are not provided with jobs by then, we will launch a movement from October 1. Also, we want the state to form an autonomous council for seven districts in north Bengal like it has been announced in Assam,” he added. After the meeting, some of them met Partha Pratim Roy, the district Trinamul president, and informed him about the decision. “Time and again, the state had assured us that we would be provided with jobs. But what we see here in Cooch Behar is that we are being treated in a biased manner. It is over two years since former militants like us started working as home guards in the adjoining districts,” said Pranesh Ishore, another ex-KLO member from Dinhata. It was in July 2018 that chief minister Mamata Banerjee had handed over letters to the former militants of Alipurduar and Jalpaiguri posting them as home guards. The demands of the former rebels have come as a new challenge for the state government as well as Trinamul. “This is because former militants and their families have been with Trinamul for several years. They made it clear before the district party president today (Wednesday) that if their demands were not met, they would decide whether to support the party. Our leaders have communicated the matter to senior leaders of the party and have sought their suggestion,” said a Trinamul insider.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-371
17-09-2020||West Bengal||Cough syrup smuggling arrest||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) arrested a key person of a racket smuggling cough syrups to Bangladesh. Santu Saha was arrested from a Calcutta hideout on Tuesday based on information shared by two persons arrested from Gazole in Malda last November, NCB sources said. “A truck laden with 25,000 cough syrup bottles was stopped in Gazole on November 5, 2019. The vehicle was headed towards South Dinajpur to deliver the consignment near the international border,” an NCB official said. Two persons arrested at that time during interrogation spilled the beans about “mastermind” Saha of South Dinajpur. Since then, hunt was on for Saha. “On Tuesday, we acted on information from a source and caught him from Calcutta,” the source informed. On Wednesday, Saha was brought to Malda and was produced in a local court. Sudipta Ganguly, a lawyer representing the NCB, said Saha had links with similar rackets in Bangladesh. “A case has been registered against him under NDPS act,” he said. The court sent Saha to judicial custody for two days. “We will file an appeal to get him into NCB custody. He needs to be thoroughly interrogated to get information about others involved in the racket and how they operate at the border,” Ganguly said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-371
17-09-2020||West Bengal||Trinamul faces defiance in Nandigram||Mansura Begum, former chief of Kendamari-Jaalpai panchayat in Nandigram, was re-elected panchayat pradhan on Tuesday, embarrassing Trinamul that had nominated panchayat member Sakina Khatun instead. Mansura was among the 25 leaders in Nandigram suspended on July 7 by the Trinamul after the party received multiple allegations against them of siphoning relief funds in the wake of the May 20 Cyclone Amphan. Following her suspension, Mansura resigned from her panchayat pradhan post that necessitated Tuesday’s election. However, on September 16, Trinamul in Nandigram revoked the suspension of 15 party members, including Mansura, accused of misappropriating Amphan relief funds. The party justified its decision, saying members had returned the funds, but it led to outcry from the BJP and CPM. Sources in the ruling party said that protests by Opposition parties and accusations that the Trinamul was trying to rehabilitate the corrupt led the party to do a rethink on fielding Mansura as the candidate for Wednesday’s election. It nominated Sakina. Trinamul’s plan, however, went awry as most members of the panchayat run by the party on Tuesday “blatantly ignored” the whip served in a sealed letter to elect panchayat member Sakina as panchayat pradhan. Taken aback by the defiance of panchayat members, Trinamul’s Nandigram leadership held a core committee meeting on Wednesday. Sources said Mansura and her husband Sheikh Sahauddin, also a panchayat member, might be expelled from the party, but no one came on quote to confirm it. Trinamul block committee has written to the district committee for action against Mansura and Sahauddin, said a source. Block president Meghnad Pal denounced the panchayat’s activities, saying members had “disregarded and disrespected” the party whip and said the “party does not support such activities”. He confirmed a party core committee meeting was held on Wednesday but declined to comment on Mansura’s expulsion. Mansura said there was “no foul play involved” in her re-election “determined by a fair mandate”. “Sakina declined to be elected and proposed by name,” she added. “This (re-election of Mansura) is going to cause a serious image problem for the party (Trinamul),” said BJP district vice-president Pralay Pal. CPM district secretary Niranjan Sihi said Trinamul was trying to play games ahead of the 2021 polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-371
17-09-2020||West Bengal||Trinamul protest spurs NH12 repair word||Trinamul supporters held a roadblock at the toll plaza on NH12 at Baishnabnagar in Malda for five hours on Wednesday to protest the bad shape of the highway’s 60km stretch. The roadblock forced National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) officials to promise agitators to start repair from Thursday. The roadblock, NHAI sources said, led loss in their revenue as hundreds of vehicles passed through the toll plaza without paying charge during the agitation. Raising slogans of “No repair, no tax”, Trinamul workers, led by the party’s district coordinator Amlan Bhaduri blocked toll gates from 11.30am. Trinamul leaders in the demonstration alleged that the 60km stretch of NH-12 between Gazole and Baishnabnagar (Malda district) was dilapidated. The NHAI, despite collecting toll at Baishnabnagar and Gazole, did not heed the need for repair these last six months, protesters said. Initially the protest led to traffic jam. Soon, demonstrators allowed vehicles to pass through the two gates. “The NH stretch between Sujapur to the Kaliachak BDO is not commutable. The bypass connecting Jadupur in Englishbazar and Narayanpur in Old Malda is yet been fully functional. The condition of the NH is deplorable. The NHAI has been collecting taxes from two toll plazas. This can’t continue. That is why we held the demonstration,” Bhaduri said. People supported the protest, because thousands bear the brunt of commuting on the damaged stretch. Debarati Choudhury, a schoolteacher, who went to Calcutta by road recently, said: “It took nearly two hours from Englishbazar to Baishnabnagar (around 30km).” Political watchers believe Trinamul intends to draw peoples’ support with the movement on the highway issue. Earlier, Malda’s mango merchants had blamed the dilapidated NH12 for their losses. “Trucks carrying mangoes could not reach the destinations on time because of the miserable condition of the highway. Many orders were cancelled for the delivery delay,” said Uzzal Saha, secretary, Malda Mango Merchants’ Association. Om Nath Bihari, deputy project manager of NHAI posted in Malda, however, said the monsoon delayed the work. “We will start non-bituminous work immediately. Bituminous work will start from October 1,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-371
17-09-2020||West Bengal||Resort workers protest against ‘rude’ manager||Twenty-one employees of a tourist resort run by West Bengal Tourism Development Corporation (WBTDCL) at Murti on the fringes of Gorumara National Park here on Wednesday locked the property’s entrance and protested with placards against their manager’s alleged misbehaviour. In recent years, this is the first time that employees of a state-run report have walked out and resorted to such a protest. Employees of Moorti Tourism Resort at Murti also refused to let manager Gouri Ghosh enter. Shital Bansfore, one of the employees, said: “Gouri Ghosh, the manager, regularly misbehaves with us. She insults us in derogatory language and hands a showcause notice if anybody protests. We are facing this mental torment for months now. We can no longer bear it. That is why we locked the resort and started this demonstration.” Another employee said Ghosh always threatened to fire them. “We have told her she should not misbehave with us but there has been no change. We will continue our protest and not resume duties till she is transferred,” the employee said. Ghosh was brief in her reaction. “I have told my superior officers about the situation. I won’t make any further comment,” she said. A senior officer of WBTDCL said they were collecting information on the case. “We will also speak with the employees and the manager. Work will soon resume at the resort,” the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-372
17-09-2020||West Bengal||Coal mine meeting with panchayat members||Bengal state government officials held a meeting with representatives of four gram panchayats in Birbhum’s Mohammedbazar on Wednesday to prepare for a survey that would be carried out among land-losers for the first phase of the proposed Deocha Pachami coal mine. The meeting on Wednesday was important to create awareness about the potential benefits from the project and the need of the survey to fix compensation for the 3,500-odd land-losers. “The meeting was held with local people’s representatives to facilitate the surveyors on the ground...The survey is important before starting the discussion for compensation,” said Moumita Godara Basu, Birbhum district magistrate. The Bengal government is betting heavily on the Deocha-Pachami coal block, located in Birbhum’s Mohammedbazar. The coal block is spread over 11,222 acres and has an estimated coal reserve of around 2.2 billion tonnes. According to government estimates, the project can generate jobs for at least 1.5 lakh people and has the potential to act as an engine of economic growth for the entire south Bengal. On Wednesday, around 30 persons including representatives of four gram panchayats — Hinglo, Bharkata, Sekedda and Puratangram — and a senior official of PDCL (Power Development Corporation Limited) were present for the meeting along with senior district officials. “A group of people in the area are trying to resist the project from the beginning and they can spread rumours about the survey... So, the panchayat chiefs have been asked to do a door-to-door campaign so that no one can mislead the residents,” said a senior official. Sources said that the government wanted to complete the survey by September and start the basic work of mining in Deocha-Pachami by January 2021. “The PDCL would dig up around a dozen wells to test the quality of coal and find out the layers of coal. It needs a stretch of land first. After the survey, we would proceed to hold a meeting with the land-losers about compensation,” said another official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-372
17-09-2020||West Bengal||Stop tea leaf theft: Growers||Small tea growers in Jalpaiguri district have alleged tea leaf theft from plantations across different blocks of the district. Growers accused thieves of conniving with brokers to sell the stolen tea leaves. On Wednesday, they met Jalpaiguri SP Pradeep Kumar Yadav on this issue. Bijoygopal Chakraborty, secretary of the Jalpaiguri Zilla Kshudra Cha Chashi Samiti or district small tea growers committee, said they had received complaints from members of such thefts since some weeks. He added that growers had to bear losses from such thefts. He accused some brokers of helping the thieves to sell the stolen leaves to the bought leaf factories (standalone tea factories that buy tea leaves from growers and process them). “Recently, we revised the wage rate of workers, and we have to pay workers bonuses ahead of Durga Puja. If growers have to bear losses now, it would only mount pressure on them,” he said. Chakraborty said one could find vehicles loaded with tea leaves in the tea belts of Jalpaiguri even at 7am though plucking started in tea plantations after 8am and tea leaves were sent to bought leaf factories around 11am and onwards. He added if police checked the documents of these “untimely” vehicles, thefts could be averted. “Any vehicle carrying tea leaves should have the challan with details of the seller and the buyer.” SP Yadav said he would look into the issue. In Jalpaiguri, most small tea plantations are in Rajganj, Sadar and Maynaguri blocks. Tea leaf theft has been reported from all three blocks, said growers. Sources said in the current year, price of tea leaves soared in the past couple of months as supply reduced because of the lockdown and inclement weather. “On last year, the average price of a kilo of tea leaves was Rs 16 but now it is Rs 35 to Rs 38,” said a small tea grower in Jalpaiguri. In north Bengal, tea production has been less till July this year, says Tea Board data. Last year, 195.81 million kg tea was produced in the region from January to July of which the small tea sector contributed 109.18 million kg. This year, total production till July is 157.04 million kg of which 63.84 million kg came from the small tea sector.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-372
17-09-2020||West Bengal||Letter a political stunt: Binay Tamang camp||The Binay Tamang camp of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha on Wednesday described as “a political stunt” Meghalaya chief minister Conrad K. Sangma’s letter to Union home minister Amit Shah seeking Gorkhaland. Sangma is also the president of the National People’s Party, a constituent of the NDA. He reminded the Centre in the letter that “the Gorkhas too are rightful Indian citizens who deserve to have their own identity and Bas Bhoomi (homeland)”. The Morcha, which has an alliance with the Trinamul Congress that strongly opposes Gorkhaland, advised Sangma to practise what he preached vis-à-vis Gorkhas living in Meghalaya. Keshav Raj Pokhrel, the spokesman for the Tamang faction, said: “We consider Conrad’s statement as a political stunt. This is because the Bengal Assembly elections are round the corner and the Gorkhas are aware that your party (NPP) is planning to contest.” The NPP had opened its unit in north Bengal a few months ago amid allegations that the party tiptoed into the state as part of the BJP’s strategy to split Gorkha votes. Sangma’s letter had been written on September 4 but made public on Tuesday. The Darjeeling-based Morcha also alleged that GNLF leader Subash Ghisingh had launched the Gorkhaland agitation after Gorkhas had been driven out of Meghalaya in the 1980s when Conrad’s father P.A. Sangma was the chief minister. P.A. Sangma was chief minister from 1988 to 1990 whereas the Gorkhaland agitation had started in 1986. The Darjeeling Gorkha Hill Council was formed in 1988, following which the agitation came to an end temporarily. Pokhrel asked the Meghalaya chief minister to allow Gorkhas to live with dignity first in his state. “The condition of Gorkhas in the present situation is not good in Meghalaya. The Gorkhas are looked down as second class citizens and are denied various benefits. The chief minister should practise what he preaches,” said Pokhrel. “Conspiracy to chase Gorkhas away from Meghalaya is still being played out,” the Morcha leader further alleged. Sasank Ghatraj, the NPP in-charge of north Bengal-Sikkim, said his party was mature and did not believe in “vindictive politics”. “But we are committed to taking forward the voices and aspirations of the marginalised. We have opened the floodgates for other parties and governments to support the genuine cause of the people,” said Ghatraj, who added that the NPP always supported the formation of smaller states. The NPP is the first political party in the Northeast to be recognised as a national party by the Election Commission of India. Sangma is the second chief minister to lend support to the Gorkhaland demand. When Pawan Chamling was the Sikkim chief minister, he got a resolution adopted in the Assembly on March 29, 2011, terming Gorkhaland as a “genuine and legitimate” demand of the people of the hills.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-372
17-09-2020||West Bengal||Couple shot dead by relative’s ‘abductor’||A retired army man and his wife were shot dead at their home in Habra, North 24-Parganas, during the early hours of Wednesday allegedly by a youth who was accused of kidnapping the ex-soldier’s niece at gunpoint earlier. Family members of the deceased — Ramkrishna Mandal, 58, and his wife Lila Mandal, 51 — said Tanmay Bar, 24, had climbed a coconut tree to land on the terrace of the couple’s two-storied residence around 3am on Wednesday. The accused was out on bail in the abduction case. Police sources said Bar had broken open a door on the terrace and the noise alerted Ramkrishna and Lila. They woke up fearing a theft bid. “When the couple came out of their rooms, the duo came face-to-face with Bar, who shot at the couple from close range and fled,” said a police source. Ramkrishna and Lila, both residents of Kumra-Tunighata, were rushed to Habra state general hospital, where the woman was declared dead. Ramkrishna was transferred to Barasat state general hospital and succumbed to his injuries on the way. A doctor at the Habra hospital said: “The deceased woman had a bullet injury to the head, while her husband was shot in the chest.” Habra police have started a murder case against Bar, a resident of Habra’s Kashipur, on the basis of a complaint lodged by the victims’ family. However, he could not be arrested till Wednesday evening. Superintendent of Barasat police district Avijit Banerjee, who visited the crime spot, said: “We began a search for the accused. The motive behind the murder could be ascertained once he is arrested.” The couple’s daughters are married and they stay elsewhere. Ramkrishna’s younger brother Jyotirmoy Mandal, who is also a retired army man, said: “The youth turned desperate recently and had threatened to eliminate us, including my daughter, whom he kidnapped and married by force in 2016 when she was a minor. However, my daughter returned home last year because of physical torture and never returned to him.” Local sources said, in 2016, Bar, a palmist by profession, allegedly kidnapped Jyotirmoy’s daughter and took her to Bangladesh where he married her by force. Before kidnapping the girl, Bar had allegedly orchestrated an acid attack on the girl, but she had a close shave. “After the girl became an adult in 2017, Bar returned to India and forced her to register their marriage. However, in 2017 he was arrested on charges of kidnapping. The same year, he was released on bail and had since been torturing the girl. Eventually, the girl managed to escape from his clutches and refused to return to him. The girl had recently filed a divorce suit,” said a relative of the Mandal family. Asked why the girl’s uncle and aunt were targeted, family sources said being the head of the family they were very behind all the legal actions against Bar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-372
17-09-2020||West Bengal||BJP feud hits Tathagata Roy application||Former governor Tathagata Roy’s application for active membership in the BJP has been pending for over a week amid murmurs that the Bengal leadership of the party is trying to settle scores with the veteran leader. Multiple sources in the BJP said Roy — who had served as the governor of Tripura and Meghalaya — had become a victim of the party’s internal squabble. “The faction led by BJP state president Dilip Ghosh is upset with Tathagata-da because of his criticism of Dilipda... As this faction calls the shots in the state, Tathagata-da’s application is gathering dust,” a BJP leader said. “Finally, they will have to grant him active membership, but the delay is deliberate to humiliate Tathagata-da,” added the leader. At a recent web seminar, Roy had said people currently running the party in Bengal weren’t doing it the right way. Roy, according to several party insiders, was also critical of Ghosh’s leadership abilities at a closed-door meeting he had with Kailash Vijayvargiya, the in-charge of the BJP in Bengal. Roy’s term as the governor of Meghalaya ended in August 2020, following which he expressed his intention to make a comeback to active politics. Like any other member of the BJP, Roy, who had quit the party after his posting as the governor of Tripura in 2015, became an ordinary member through the missed call route. However according to norms, people interested in participating actively in the party have to apply separately through an ‘active membership’ form and that application needs clearance of the state leadership. “The procedure is still pending,” Roy told The Telegraph on Wednesday evening while adding that he was not worried about the delay. According to him, he had sent the form through an acquaintance to the BJP office last Thursday. “However, it wasn’t accepted for some reason. On Friday, it was a lockdown and then came the weekend and hence, the delay.” “I’m sure things will be sorted soon,” Roy added. Party sources have said that there is no reason for the delay as the process of accepting active membership application from a party veteran is simple as it just needs approval of the party’s general secretary (organisation). A source said Subrata Chatterjee, general secretary (organisation), was sitting on the application. “Subratada is deferring the process,” this person added. A source said the Ghosh camp was wary of Roy, who has an RSS background and direct access to the central leadership, because of his ability to create a new power centre. Ghosh, however, swatted away all the speculations about the delay in Roy’s membership. “One phase of the membership drive is already over. From this lot itself, at least one lakh active members have been enrolled. The drive will start soon. However, for Tathagatada, there will be no problem. It will be done as soon as possible,” said Ghosh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-372
17-09-2020||West Bengal||Kin of migrants lose compensation hope||Family members of migrant workers from Bengal who died in a road accident in Uttar Pradesh on their way home in May amid the lockdown, have lost hope of getting Rs 2 lakh each as relief from the Narendra Modi government after the Centre on Monday announced in Parliament that no data on migrant worker deaths were available. Asked by MPs if any compensation had been given to the families of migrant workers who had died during the lockdown, Union minister of state for labour and employment Santosh Gangwar told Parliament on Monday the question did not arise because no data of people dying on the way were kept. Five migrant workers from Bengal, including four from Purulia, were among the 25 homebound persons killed when a trailer and a truck collided at Auraiya in Uttar Pradesh on May 16. The four migrant labourers from Purulia were Chandan Rajwar, 24, Milan Badyakar, 20, Ajit Mahato, 48, and Ganesh Rajwar, 22. Akbar Ali, 22, a resident of Rampur village under Hemtabad block of North Dinajpur, was also killed in the accident. Bhiksakar Rajwar, father of deceased migrant worker Chandan, said: “The office of the Prime Minister had assured us compensation of Rs 2 lakh. After we heard the government telling in Parliament that it had no record of deaths of migrant workers, we became sure that we would not get the money the Prime Minister had promised.” “We are very poor and my son Milan was the sole bread earner of our family. I have to bear the pain of losing my son. The compensation of Rs 2 lakh from the Prime Minister would have helped us immensely, but after what the Centre has said in Parliament we have no hope of getting it,” seconded Amrit Badyakar. Bereaved family members referred to a tweet by the official Twitter handle of the Prime Minister’s Office on May 16 where the assurance of compensation of Rs 2 lakh each had been made to the families of those killed in the accident. “An ex-gratia of Rs 2 lakh each for the next of kin of those who lost their lives due to the unfortunate accident in Auraiya, UP has been approved from the PM’s National Relief Fund. Rs 50,000 each for the injured has also been approved,” PMO India had tweeted on May 16 evening. The Bengal government had provided Rs 2 lakh each to the family members of the deceased. The UP government  also gave the same amount as compensation. But the assured compensation from the Centre did not reach the families. “When the Bengal and Uttar Pradesh governments have given us compensation, how can the Centre say that it has no data? We should not forget that the BJP runs both the central and Uttar Pradesh governments,” said Anup Rajwar, a cousin of Chandan. He, however, complained that they were yet to get death certificate and other relevant documents regarding Chandan’s death from the Uttar Pradesh government. Rahul Majumdar, the Purulia district magistrate, confirmed no compensation from the Centre had come. “The relatives of the deceased migrant workers received compensation from both Bengal and Uttar Pradesh governments. But they did not get such relief from the Centre,” said the DM. Despite the government denying having any data, a research organisation — Stranded Workers Action Network (SWAN) — on Tuesday said 972 deaths had been counted among migrant workers till July 4 during the course of the various lockdowns.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-372
17-09-2020||West Bengal||Bengal logs 3,237 cases and 61 deaths||Bengal on Wednesday logged 3,237 new Covid-19 cases, 2,971 recoveries and 61 deaths. With this, Bengal went past 2.12 lakh cases, since the first was detected on March 17, of which over 1.84 lakh are recoveries and 4,123 are deaths. After a 15-day streak of fall in total of active cases ended on September 8, Bengal has now seen a rise for nine consecutive days. Despite that, the recovery rate continued to climb and was 86.69 on Wednesday, a rise by over 12 per cent in a month. The national rate is 78.58 per cent now. “In a month, we had around 96,000 new cases, but we had over 97,000 recoveries. We are looking to get our recovery rate well past 90 before the end of this month,” said a minister. Of the 61 deaths, 15 were from Calcutta and 11 from North 24-Parganas. The two districts have contributed 60 per cent of all Covid-19 deaths recorded in Bengal since March 23. Of the toll, 3,536 deaths (85.8 per cent) were reported comorbid by the state government. The overall mortality rate stayed at 1.94, while the national rate is 1.62 per cent. “Reducing the mortality rate… halving it to less than 1 is our foremost priority now… we hope to be able to start seeing the results by the end of this month,” the minister said. The state also reported 45,713 tests on Wednesday, taking the total past 26 lakh. Steady rise in testing, coupled with relatively lower cases being found has improved the positive confirmation rate from 8.9 on August 23 to 8.14 per cent. A decreasing positive confirmation rate is indicative of reducing levels of Covid-19 spread. Having begun testing in early February, Bengal took three-and-a-half months to cover 1 lakh tests. Four months on, it did 25 lakh more. The state reported 33.09 per cent occupancy of 12,675 Covid-19 beds in 92 hospitals. Over 2.17 lakh telemedicine consultations have been provided, including 4,328 in the past 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-372
17-09-2020||West Bengal||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee to visit Siliguri next week||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee is slated to be in Siliguri on September 21,  22 and 23 to hold review meetings for five north Bengal districts. The visit will be the first since Covid-19 broke out. “The chief minister is likely to reach Siliguri on Monday (September 21) and she would hold review meetings from Uttarkanya (the branch secretariat),” said a source. According to the schedule, Mamata will hold the review meetings of Jalpaiguri and Alipurduar on September 22. The following day, review meetings for Darjeeling, Kalimpong and Cooch Behar would be held. According to sources, Mamata would hold the meetings through video conference. “Only district magistrates of the respective districts, along with the chief secretary and the home secretary, would be present at Uttarkanya. Other district officers would attend the meetings through video conference,” said a source. “The chief minister could have easily held the meetings from Nabanna as it would be held through video conference. But she has decided to visit north Bengal for several reasons,” said an official. Trinamul insiders said Mamata’s decision to visit Siliguri and hold the review meetings from Uttarkanya amid the pandemic clearly suggested that she was keen on monitoring existing projects and launching new ones in the north Bengal districts. In the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, Trinamul had come first in just 12 out of 54 Assembly seats in north Bengal. “Considering the tough fight ahead in the Assembly polls, each constituency is important for us. The chief minister made it clear that she would focus on north Bengal in the next few months,” said a Trinamul MLA. In north Bengal, a number of issues have cropped up in the past few months, right from the Gorkha-dominated Darjeeling hills to the Rajbanshi belts of Cooch Behar. The most prominent among them are the demands for conferment of land rights on the hill residents and people living in tea plantations in the foothills, creation of autonomous council for the Rajbanshis like the neighbouring state of Assam and fixing of minimum wage for tea garden workers. “The state government principally approves these demands... It is interesting to see what the chief minister announces during her north Bengal visit,” said a source. Mamata has recently held review meetings of a number of south Bengal districts through video conference from Nabanna.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-372
17-09-2020||Opinion||No limits: Naomi Osaka's US Open win||Sir — Naomi Osaka won her second US Open women’s singles trophy and her third Grand Slam in a thrilling match last week (“Feet on ground, star reclaims sky”, Sept 14). Osaka played against Victoria Azarenka in a near-empty Arthur Ashe Stadium. Initially down to 1-6, 0-2, Osaka bounced back ferociously to put up a brave fight against her opponent, finally clinching the title at 1-6, 6-3, 6-3 in an hour and 53 minutes. Azarenka, who defeated the seasoned champion, Serena Williams, in the semi-final, had started off strong but ultimately failed to claim the title. Remarkably, the 22-year-old Japanese is the only Asian player to have won three Grand Slam singles. Osaka’s win is particularly significant against the backdrop of the Black Lives Matter movement. Throughout the tournament, she donned face masks with the names of black people — including George Floyd, Ahmaud Arbery, Trayvon Martin and Philando Castile — killed in racist attacks or in violent interactions with the police. For the final match, she unveiled the seventh and last mask, emblazoned with the name of Tamir Rice, a 12-year-old boy killed by the police in Cleveland in 2014. She earlier withdrew from the Western & Southern Open in the wake of the brutal police attack on Jacob Blake in Kenosha, Wisconsin. One hopes that Osaka, with her commitment to social justice, continues to be an inspiration to the youth. Pramatha R. Bhattacharya,Calcutta Sir — The tennis star, Naomi Osaka, who represents Japan in the international circuit, must be congratulated for winning this year’s US Open women’s singles. She defeated the former top seeded Belarusian, Victoria Azarenka, in a thrilling final match. Osaka’s win does not come as a surprise. She played exceptionally well throughout the tournament and deserved to win the trophy. If Osaka continues to be dedicated to the game, there will be many such wins for her in the future. Sourish Misra,Calcutta Sir — At a time when the United States of America is burning with hundreds of Americans speaking up against racial prejudice, it was good to see the 22-year-old mixed-race player, Naomi Osaka — she was born to a Haitian father and a Japanese mother — lift the women’s single trophy at the US Open. Osaka has been a vocal supporter of the Black Lives Matter movement and thus it is fitting for her to win at this historic moment. Seetharam Basani,Hanamkonda, Telangana Unwelcome push Sir — Whenever a single language has been imposed on a group of people with a diverse linguistic and cultural history, it has led to conflict and acrimony (“Many voices”, Sept 14). An example in modern history would be West Pakistan’s imposition of Urdu on the Bengali-speaking population of East Pakistan which finally led to the creation of Bangladesh. Language imposition is a particularly sensitive matter in a heterogeneous society like India, which boasts 22 official languages and over 19,500 languages or dialects spoken as mother tongues. The claims put forth by the government that the National Education Policy is geared towards the preservation of linguistic diversity need to be evaluated in light of its simultaneous push towards Hindi. It must also be remembered that the three-language formula was never properly implemented in the Hindi heartland while non-Hindi speaking states were compelled to adopt the language. The government should perhaps consider keeping the third language as optional and ensure that people learn English and a regional language properly. H.N. Ramakrishna, Bangalore Rather reckless Sir — The initiative, Eat Out to Help Out, undertaken by the United Kingdom’s chancellor of the exchequer, Rishi Sunak — it encourages people to eat at restaurants — has been hailed by many as a saving grace for the hospitality industry which has been badly affected by the pandemic. However, reports suggest that there might be a correlation between the scheme and the sudden spike in infection rates in the UK. While the government is imposing restrictions on public gatherings again, much of the damage has already been done. Rather than opting for quick fixes, policymakers should make sure that normalcy is restored in a safe and gradual manner. Abhay Sinha,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-147
17-09-2020||Opinion||Broken pledge: Staggered PF interest payments||The Centre has announced staggered payment of interest on employees’ provident fund organization accounts. The announced interest rate of 8.5 per cent will not be paid upfront. An interest rate of 8.15 per cent will be paid for the financial year, 2019-20. The remaining interest, at the rate of 0.35 per cent, will be paid at the end of the year if the organization is able to redeem its equity investments. Hence, there is an uncertainty in terms of the ability of the EPFO to get enough money through the sale of equity in the market. The interest payments at the rate of 8.15 per cent will be paid out of the returns on debt fund investments. If only 8.15 per cent is finally paid, it will be the lowest rate since 1977-78 when 8 per cent was paid on EPF. It has been reported that if the entire interest payment is paid all at once, there will be a shortage of Rs 2,500 crore. The EPFO services 190 million accounts. From the government’s point of view, it reflects a financial crisis of sorts where uncertainty rules supreme. It has done well to make transparent its plan so as not to take provident fund contributors by surprise. From the point of view of the provident fund contributors, it sends a signal that the promises made by government agencies are not cast in stone, and can be subject to mid-course alterations, leading to a higher perception of risk associated with government commitments. The worst-affected employees will be those who are near retirement or are being eased out of the labour market through various voluntary schemes. The provident fund amount they receive will be lower than expected and going into the near future, the funds will earn lower interest rates than what they would have even a year ago. It will be a double whammy for this particular section of employees. This raises serious concerns for senior citizens, especially those without pensions, who depend on interest income as the main source of earnings after retirement. Lower interest rates offered by banks might drive the gullible citizen into the hands of chit-fund fraudsters who promise higher returns and lucrative deals. Senior citizens want an assured return and easy liquidity of funds in case of an emergency. Most schemes offer either of the two features that make life a little easier for the aged. This is not impossible to design and implement if the constituency of pension earners is left out.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-147
17-09-2020||Opinion||Come clean: Rajnath Singh on China||What is left unsaid, at times, says a lot more than what is actually uttered. In a statement to the Lok Sabha, the Union defence minister, Rajnath Singh, stated that China has amassed a formidable number of troops along the Line of Actual Control and — this admission is significant — in “inner areas”. Mr Singh’s sombre tone was in sharp contrast to the bragging tune adopted by some influential figures, including the prime minister. Mr Singh may have been comparatively transparent than Narendra Modi who has, so far, not issued a substantial statement on a matter concerning national security. But Mr Singh, just like Mr Modi, was also being evasive. He did not, for instance, elaborate on what these “inner areas” are; there is no word yet on the restoration of status quo ante along the LAC; neither did he explain the details of the fateful night that cost the lives of Indian soldiers or, for that, matter, why New Delhi proceeded to sign a loan agreement with a financial institution that has Beijing as its biggest stakeholder only four days after the death of its valiant soldiers. The Centre’s admission of accepting financial assistance from a Chinese-controlled bank would certainly take the sting out of its rhetoric of an economic retaliation against Beijing manifest in the banning of Chinese apps. The bunglings of Mr Modi’s government on China are now fairly evident. The government is speaking in many tongues, with the statements of the defence minister or of the army countering those made by the prime minister, only to be refuted, in turn, by the home ministry. The inability to speak in a transparent, unified voice on the part of a government that supposedly prioritizes unity is shocking and shameful. Sowing the seeds of confusion, even though it casts the government in poor light, may not be an entirely innocent exercise. The multiple signals would, the Centre may be hoping, deflect public attention and enquiry. Mr Modi’s government has been busy stonewalling questions raised by the Opposition during the current session in Parliament. The Opposition, even in its fragmented state, must now take the responsibility of mobilizing public opinion, forcing the Centre to come clean on the matter. Truth — history is a witness — has a way of prevailing over falsity. The accompanying political costs of disclosure, Mr Modi should remember, are not insubstantial.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-147
17-09-2020||Opinion||Chinks in the NEP armour||The newly minted National Education Policy envisions Indian higher education institutions as large, multidisciplinary universities that will henceforth focus on holistic learning and aspire to achieve global excellence. The NEP also recognizes faculty quality as the single most important factor driving such excellence. But this appears to be merely lip service, as the policy prescriptions, such as providing infrastructure support and lighter teaching loads, appear too banal to do justice to the NEP’s stated aim of attracting the best talents to academia. Time was when academics was the natural choice for gifted students. Today, as an aspiring society indulges the vaulting ambitions of a young India, academia as a career has fallen out of favour. Students who top board examinations usually prefer more attractive career choices, such as medicine, management or the civil services. Those with a more scholarly bent of mind pursue an academic career, but not necessarily in India. The NEP argues that better pay has improved the status of the academic profession in India. This complacence, however, masks the reality that academia as a career lags behind other career opportunities. Since academia cannot match the pay of the private sector, universities abroad make up for it by offering tenure to faculty members. Tenure provides job security, freedom to express one’s views as well as the option to keep working as long as one is physically fit and mentally alert. The NEP recommends a system of tenure in Indian HEIs, but provides a rather loose definition which speaks about the security of employment but does not mention the other two perks of tenure: academic freedom and voluntary retirement. The NEP also seeks to incentivize faculty excellence through rewards. While laudable, this does not lead to any meaningful reform in faculty compensation design. There is nothing more unequal than the equal treatment of unequal people. It follows that faculty pay, at least in the top HEIs, must be delinked from rigid government pay scales and, instead, be decided by individual HEIs based on market value and continuous performance. To effectively compete in the global market for faculty talent, our HEIs, like their Chinese counterparts, must be allowed to hire faculty of any nationality and offer them globally competitive terms of employment. Star professors lured away from the likes of Oxbridge, or even young Ivy League PhD holders, might go on to become role models for many. To promote self-governance and autonomy, the NEP recommends that HEIs shall be run by an independent board of governors, comprising individuals of proven competence. The proposal looks good in theory. But the devil lies in the detail. While university governance the world over is complex and varies widely, it typically follows a participatory model where the governing board, although the ultimate legal authority of the university, delegates many of its powers to the faculty council and actively seeks its recommendations. The hierarchical, corporate model suggested by the NEP can undermine the role of faculty governance in Indian HEIs and discourage talented faculty members from being associated with institutions where they may have a voice. This also speaks to broader cultural issues in Indian HEIs. While good foreign universities pride themselves on their collegiality, most Indian HEIs take a hierarchical culture for granted. While it is not for government policy to address this, the real concern is that the NEP does not even recognize these challenges and their role in deterring outstanding faculty candidates. The NEP also speaks of merit-based promotion of faculty to positions of institutional leadership and tasks the board with the job of selection. It is nevertheless silent on the specific composition of the board and the selection process of board members. If past precedents are anything to go by, there is ample reason to believe that political considerations might decide appointments to various board positions in both Central and state HEIs. Laying down rigorous criteria for board appointments might lessen such extraneous interventions. In turn, a professional board is more likely to rely on faculty merit while selecting university leaders. Speaking of merit, many would also argue that caste-based reservations are an obvious challenge. However, despite its many references to merit, the NEP skirts the issue of reservations in faculty hiring and promotion. The NEP worldview is also out of touch with reality. For instance, its plan to set up multidisciplinary universities in every district is likely to come a cropper as it will be very difficult to find top-notch faculty willing to work in remote districts. This might change if there are appropriate incentives, such as higher pay than a similar city-based job, a suitable job for the spouse, and quality schooling and healthcare facilities. When it comes to attracting world-class faculty, the NEP displays what the management scholar, Richard Rumelt, calls the hallmarks of a bad strategy: failure to acknowledge the real problem, mistaking goals for strategy, ‘blue sky’ objectives that simply proclaim the desired state of affairs, and fluff, where buzzwords are used to restate what is obvious. All said and done, it appears that while the NEP seeks to reclaim India’s past glory by restoring its status as the vishwa guru, it fails to put the ‘guru’ back at the heart of our academic discourse.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-147
17-09-2020||Opinion||Rated highly||It is six months since the prime minister’s broadcast and the ‘Janata Curfew’ last March that signalled the end of normal life in India. Much has happened since that time when the number of people infected by the dreadful Covid-19 virus was only 130 — the health ministry’s estimate on March 18. On the morning of September 15, the official tally of the number of those who had tested positive at some point or other stood at nearly 48.50 lakh — active cases being 9.90 lakhs — and the death toll was 80,776. Of course, this is significantly less than one alarmist estimate in March — gleefully publicized by a section of the anti-Narendra Modi media — of a so-called specialist based in the United States of America that — in the worst-case scenario — some 70 to 80 crore of Indians would be infected. Last March, there was optimism that a determined, if painful, bout of personal hardship and temporary dislocation — such as a three-week lockdown — would suffice to beat off the challenge. The suspension of all normal life, including the suspension of travel, would be undeniably painful, but the unpalatable alternative was what had happened in Wuhan and northern Italy — the worst-affected areas at the time. There was even a belief that the ‘Wuhan virus’ thrived in a cold climate and that it would be worsted by the scorching summer sun of India. There was also some vague controversy over the effectiveness of lockdowns. There were those who were spirited advocates of the Swedish model of life as usual with perhaps some nominal social distancing. This line of thinking found unlikely supporters among some political parties and state governments. In West Bengal, for example, wags often referred to a Rajabazar model that indicated a differentiated application of counter-Covid strategies. There were others who suggested that masks served no real purpose — a view that appealed to libertarians who resented any form of State intrusion in their private lives and those guided by literal interpretations of theology. Six months later, the belief that Covid-19 can be defeated by a resolute show of human determination has eroded significantly. Throughout the world, including India, economies have suffered grievously. The belief that the future would witness an unending spiralling growth of the GDP has been punctured, as millions of people agonize over both their health and their livelihood. In particular, with State revenues shrinking along with the truncation of economic activity, the faith that concerted State intervention will provide a much-needed booster dose for economic growth and bring life back to the old, pre-Covid normal has also dimmed — although some economists still repose their faith in the unrestrained printing of currency notes. These are legitimate concerns and it is striking that a great deal of hope is pinned on the rapid discovery and equally speedy dissemination of a vaccine that can either insulate people against the coronavirus or at least act as an antidote. Throughout the world, countries are in competition to ensure that they are the first to formulate a wonder drug that will put an end to the pandemic and rescue human civilization. In political terms, the situation is tailor-made for Opposition politics. In a country where there is a tradition of looking up to the government of the day as the proverbial ma-baap, whatever a ruling dispensation does or does not is bound to be slightly or substantially below expectations. The limits of State power are often not acknowledged in the popular imagination and the deficits assume a disproportionate significance. In India, the Opposition parties have naturally tried to take advantage of the widespread dislocations that have resulted from the pandemic. The three-week national lockdown, for example, was mocked by the Congress and its leadership for being an overreaction. The Opposition argued that Modi had put his image as a determined leader above concern for people’s livelihood. The much-publicized exodus of migrant labour from the cities was billed in the international media — always inclined to view Modi with a generous measure of distaste — as a ‘humanitarian disaster’ whose impact would resonate all through rural India. The intelligentsia on their part also heaped scorn on symbolic measures such as lighting diyas, blowing conch shells and putting off lights for nine minutes despite their wide appeal. And finally, the professional economists had nothing but scorn for the Rs 20,000 crore financial package that was unveiled by the finance minister, Nirmala Sitharaman, to provide some relief to both individuals and the affected sectors of the economy. It was presented as an elaborate eyewash, if not a hoax. There was also jubilation in some circles over the steep decline in the GDP growth figures and this provoked an Opposition MP to make a tasteless personal remark on the appearance of the finance minister. That the Opposition would train its guns on the Modi government was only to be expected. Throughout the democratic world, the political leadership have been mercilessly attacked for their inability to live up to the expectations of the back-seat drivers. If Angela Merkel and Boris Johnson have been criticized for being excessively stringent in curbing personal freedoms, Donald Trump has been attacked for his nonchalance in the face of a pandemic. What is significant about India is how little impact these assaults have had on Modi. The intelligentsia in particular have been both astonished and disgusted that the concerns over pandemic management and the economy have been overwhelmed — among the media consuming classes at least — by a salacious obsession over the personal lives of Bollywood stars. They have expressed their disgust at a section of the popular media persisting with an issue that is deemed frivolous but yet enjoys sustained viewership ratings. A part of this apparent lack of obsessive concern with Covid-19 and the economy may be explained by the enormous popular trust in Modi. According to the bi-annual Mood of the Nation poll, the popular preference for Modi as the prime minister has risen from 53 per cent in January 2020 to 66 per cent in August 2020. In the same period, Rahul Gandhi’s ratings have dropped from 13 per cent to 8 per cent. The improved ratings at a time of intense national stress are obviously based on a belief that the country is in safe hands. Secondly, just as any country rallies round a leader in times of war, the faith in Modi could also be due to a perception that these are extraordinary times that warrant suspension of political partisanship. This would indicate that there is a direct correlation between the prime minister’s soaring graph and the extreme shrillness of his critics, particularly among intellectuals. Their fulminations against Modi seem more an expression of political frustration than an expression of public opinion. However, there is another aspect of the national mood that is worth considering. Whether it is public policy to deal with the pandemic or strategies to cope with the economic downturn, there is no visible agreement among either scientists or economists. Whereas science was once marked by verifiable certitudes, the Covid-19 challenge has, so far, resulted in conflicting views that — to the lay person at least — seem like experts whistling in the dark. As for the economists, the outbursts of former economic advisers and Reserve Bank of India governors seem governed by profound expressions of aesthetic repugnance towards a leadership that is inclined to trust managers and politicians more than those who can teach economic theory. Modi may be an unintended beneficiary of this exasperation with experts who often seem to view India as a mere case study.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-147
17-09-2020||Jharkhand||Congress gets cold feet over proposed changes in land mutation rules ||The controversial Jharkhand Land Mutation Bill, 2020, which was cleared by the state cabinet last week, may not get tabled in the upcoming monsoon session starting from Friday as the Congress, part of the ruling alliance, now believes that the bill is flawed and can hurt mass sentiments. The Congress reached the conclusion in the wake of protests against the proposed bill, forcing the Hemant Soren dispensation either to make a U-turn or introduce amendments. While the Opposition BJP had already threatened mass protests against the bill and demanded its rollback, Mandar MLA Bandhu Tirkey, who after winning as a JVM-P candidate had joined the Congress, led an agitation in Ranchi on Tuesday citing loopholes. Voices of protest against this bill also resonated at the Congress’s legislative party meeting on Thursday evening ahead of the monsoon session. The meeting, to strategise the party’s stand on various issues in the House and to defend the government against Opposition barbs, went on for three hours from 3pm. Speaking to reporters after the meeting, Congress president Rameshwar Oraon, who is also the state’s finance minister, said: “We concede that the land mutation bill has some flaws and it needs to be amended. The bill was cleared by the cabinet but needs to pass many more stages to become an act. We will put our concerns before the chief minister so that we can come up with a law to suit everyone.” Oraon, who was flanked by Pakur MLA and state rural development and parliamentary affairs minister Alamgir Alam, didn’t clarify whether this bill will be tabled in the upcoming session but reiterated that the feedback from MLAs and other quarters so far had suggested that it will not be good in public interest. Mandar MLA Tirkey, on the other hand, said the proposed bill is tilted more towards the bureaucracy and less towards the public. Explaining the loopholes, he said: “Section 22 of the bill is intended to provide immunity for officials engaged in land registration, mutation and other activities from any civil or criminal action even if any wrongdoing is done. So, if my land documents are forged and get falsely registered in someone else’s name in connivance with officials and the land mafia, I will have no option to file a case anywhere. This will be disastrous for the state, where land is always a sensitive issue and fraud and corruption are widespread.” Defending the bill a few days ago, state land and revenue secretary K.K. Soan had stressed that the focus of the bill was to introduce reforms in mutation and land registration by introducing time limits to enforce accountability on officials. On the question of immunity to officials, he had said: “The government will still be free to take action in case of any wrongdoing if prosecution against him/her is approved by the competent authority.” Tirkey, however, questioned the yardstick for judging wrongdoing. “What yardstick will the government (land revenue department) follow to assess wrongdoing? The bill doesn’t prescribe this. Moreover, the bill simply weans power from the common man in the event of any land crime against him and equips officials with more authority. Till the time this clause of protection to officials is not removed from the bill, I shall continue to block it, no matter what,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-296
17-09-2020||Jharkhand||Residents demand Purushottam Express halt in Bokaro||Bokaro residents have demanded that the New Delhi-Bhubaneswar Purushottam Express make a halt at the local railway station. Purushottam Express has two stops in Jharkhand -- Jamshedpur and Koderma. Bokaro residents say that the train has not been halting at the local railway station since the Covid-19 pandemic began and this is causing them hardship. Bokaro is the only major station in the state under the Adra division of South Eastern Railway (SER). Usually, the Bokaro station records a daily footfall of about 6,000 passengers and earns big from freight. Bokaro residents consider Purushottam Express a convenient and economical option for travelling to and from Delhi. Before Covid-19 hit, as many as 32 pairs of trains passed through Bokaro railway station every day. Now, only two trains stop at the station: the New-Delhi Bhubaneswar Rajdhani (02801) and the Darbhanga-Secunderabad Express (07007). Many residents travel to Purulia in Bengal, 48km away, to catch the Purushottam Express. Between 110 and 120 passengers board the Rajdhani at Bokaro every day. Rajesh Kumar, a shopkeeper, said he has to go to Delhi for his younger brother’s treatment but cannot afford the Rajdhani's fares. So, he will buy a ticket in Purushottam Express. Similarly, people going to Gaya, Sasaram, Mughalsarai and Kanpur also go to Purulia and board the Purushottam Express. Dhanbad MP P.N. Singh demanded that the state government ensure that Purushottam Express makes a halt. He said: “I have requested the state government and asked the railway board to ensure Purushottam Express has a stoppage here. It is affordable for all classes of passengers.” The senior divisional commercial manager of Adra railway division, O.P. Charan, said: “Only after the railway board’s direction can Purushottam Express stop in Bokaro.” Railway officials said that proper sanitation and thermal checking of passengers are being conducted at Bokaro railway station. One other train, Patna-Ranchi Janshatabdi, used to stop at Bokaro, but the railway department had suspended its services in Jharkhand in August, as the state government asked the railway board to stop trains coming from Bihar. Currently, the Janshatabdi is making rounds between Patna and Ranchi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-297
17-09-2020||Jharkhand||Marandi attacks govt on migrant labourer issue||The Jharkhand unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Thursday attacked the state government on the issue of employing migrant workers and distributed offer letters from private company contractors among more than 70 of the workers in the district. The event was organised by the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) on Thursday at the newly constructed party office on Baliapur road. Former chief minister Babulal Marandi was among those present. The event was part of the “seva saptah (service week)”, which also saw blood donation camps and food distribution for migrant workers being held, and organised a day after Marandi took on the state government over deteriorating law and order. A cake was cut at the event to celebrate the birthday of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. While speaking at the event, Marandi praised the Centre led by Modi for the effective handling of the Covid-19 situation. He claimed that though initially PPE kits and ventilators were not manufactured in India and masks were made in small numbers, the country is now in a position to supply PPE kits to other parts of the world. “Although due to the large population of country, the number of infections is high, the death rate due to Covid-19 is marginal,” Marandi said and added that the food distribution for the poor and money transfers into the Jan Dhan accounts were unique initiatives by the Centre to mitigate the economic impact of Covid 19. “Despite the efforts of the Centre, the Jharkhand government is protesting,” he said. Earlier, only a portion of the money allocated would reach the common people, whereas Modi has ensured that the entire amount reaches the bank account of the beneficiaries and there are no middlemen involved, Marandi said. Exhorting the activists of the youth wing of the party to work to make the country self-sufficient, he said that production in India of various items will make the nation self-dependent and create employment for people. “Modi took the initiative in this regard by banning several foreign articles, including Chinese products and services. We also need to promote the interests of our farmers because when the industrial activity dipped, farmers ensured the wheels of economic progress kept rolling,” said Marandi in presence of former Dhanbad mayor Chandrashekhar Agawal, Nirsa MLA Aparna Sengupta and Sindri MLA Indrajit Mahto, besides the state unit president of BJYM, Kislay Tiwari, and others. Sudarshan Lal, a resident of Hirapur in Dhanbad, who has been provided an appointment letter from drug-supply company Shiv Shakti, said: “I was working as an accountant at a private company in Asansol and lost my job during the lockdown and remained idle for several months. BJYM activists liaised with the company and gave me a job.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-297
17-09-2020||Jharkhand||State unlikely to reopen schools for seniors by end of September||Jharkhand is unlikely to implement the Centre’s unlock 4.0 guidelines on staggered re-opening of schools for higher classes from September 21 with the education department thinking of slashing syllabuses by about 50 per cent on account of the prolonged shutdown of educational institutions due to the pandemic. Jharkhand Education Project Council (JEPC) project director Shailesh Chourasiya said on Thursday they were unsure about implementing the Centre’s unlock guidelines vis-a vis schools. “Yes, we had sent a draft proposal to the education department but it is yet to be cleared so that it can be sent to the disaster management department for a final nod,” he said, stating that deliberations on it were still on. The JEPC had prepared a draft in early September. It was a proposal about re-opening schools in accordance to the Centre’s guidelines for those studying in classes 9 to 10 in case they wanted to come to school to consult their teachers. But there was no consensus on it. The JEPC draft proposal suggested that a maximum of 20 students be allowed in a class per day to ensure social distancing. After receiving requests from parents to allow students to attend school, the school would have to prepare a roster in which only 50 per cent teachers would attend classes per day. Chourasiya revealed that in view of the continued closure of schools the syllabus was expected to be trimmed for students across classes under Jharkhand Academic Council (JAC). “Following active consultations with all stakeholders of the state education department and JAC, we had prepared a class-wise proposal for revision of syllabus for this academic year. We have proposed 45 per cent to 50 per cent cut in syllabus for all classes through a formal proposal sent to the education department. The proposal is awaiting the government’s nod,” he said. As per the health department’s latest bulletin, the number of people who have recovered from Covid in Jharkhand crossed the 50,000 mark on Wednesday. The overall recovery rate touched 77.72 per cent, 0.2 per cent above the national average. The total number of cases in Jharkhand stood at 66,074.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-297
17-09-2020||Jharkhand||Shibu Soren back home in Ranchi after beating Covid-19||Rajya Sabha MP and Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) patriarch Shibu Soren returned to Ranchi on Thursday after recovering from Covid-19 at a private hospital in Gurugram and taking oath as a Rajya Sabha member three days ago. Chief minister Hemant Soren received him personally at Ranchi’s Birsa Munda International Airport in the afternoon around 1.30pm. Clad in white-kurta pyjama, face covered with a mask and wearing sports shoes. Soren looked comfortable as he walked out of the airport along with Hemant, who drove his own car to the airport to receive his father. While both Soren Senior and Junior did not speak to the media, JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharjee said that Guruji would continue to be under medical observation. “Everyone is happy with Guruji’s return after defeating Covid-19. He will rest for a few days and will be under medical observation. His return will be a great asset for the party ahead of the crucial Bihar polls and upcoming byelections in on two seats of Jharkhand,” he said. Notably, the state government’s Covid rules also prescribe 14-day mandatory home quarantine for anyone returning/coming from outside Jharkhand. Shibu Soren along with his wife Rupi Soren had tested positive for Covid-19 in the third week of August. After staying in home isolation for the first few days, Soren was shifted to Medanta Hospital in Ranchi owing to breathing problems. On August 25, he was admitted to Medanta in Gurugram after being referred from here. On September 6, he was finally declared Covid free after which he stayed put in Delhi in the official residence of Rajmahal MP Vijay Hansdak. On September 14, Soren finally took oath as Rajya Sabha member, almost three months after he won the election held on June 19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-297
17-09-2020||Jharkhand||Speeding train kills wild elephant in West Singhbhum||A wild elephant was hit by a speeding train and killed on the Howrah-Mumbai main line in the Saranda forest area of West Singhbhum, about 190 km from here in the wee hours of Thursday. Significantly, despite the stretch being an elephant-sensitive zone, the train that hit the elephant was running at a speed of over 110 kmph. Divisional forest officer, Saranda, Rajnish Kumar, who visited the spot, said, "The mishap took place while a herd of five elephants was crossing the railway track at about 1 am .  Four elephants had already crossed the track and while the fifth was crossing it, a speeding train hit it causing it to get flung away.  Subsequently, the train, which was an inspection train, ran over it. The animal died on the spot." Kumar said the elephant which was killed was waiting for another elephant to cross first. But in the meantime, the train, running at blistering speed, hit it. "There was an agreement between the railway and the forest department. The Saranda area is an elephant project area and elephants regularly cross tracks from one side of the dense forest to another. Hence, the speed limit of trains on the stretch should not be more than 40 kmph. But, the train that caused the mishap was running at 110 kmph," the DFO, Saranda, told Telegraph Online. The senior forest officer looked into the reason behind the speed limit violation. He quoted the train driver, S.R. Kundu, as saying that he did not have a "caution order". The railway line where the mishap took place falls under Chakradharpur railway division with headquarters at Chakradharpur in West Singhbhum district. Senior divisional commercial manager (DCM), Chakradhapur, Manish Pathak said he was aware of the accident. "The mishap took place after an inspection train was running at maximum speed as mandated for trials.  But when there was a herd of elephants near the railway track, the forest department should have alerted the nearest railway station. Then, the train driver would have been issued a caution order accordingly," said Pathak. The senior DCM further said that the speed limit pertained to 5km only, from Manoharpur to Bisra, during which time the train has to run at a speed under 40 kmph. But the accident  took place at Raikapath, far away from the restricted stretch. The absence of an alert from the forest department caused the mishap, he claimed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-297
17-09-2020||Jharkhand||Jamshedpur farmer turns around fortunes with organic farming||Singrai Soren is witnessing a positive turnaround in his fortune. The 37-year-old tribal farmer from Khikdihutu village in Gorgora panchayat of Jamshedpur block has started organic farming, a move which is to paying rich dividends. Soren is using Jeevamrut (in liquid form) as a fertiliser for vegetable farming. Jeevamrut is a liquid organic manure popularly used as a means of organic farming. It is considered to be an excellent source of natural carbon, biomass, nitrogen, phosphorous, potassium and a lot of other micro nutrients required for the crops. “I used chemical fertilisers in paddy and vegetable farming and spent Rs 8,000 to 10,000 every year. But after adopting Jeevamrut, my farmland has become more fertilised and expenses towards farming has come down,” Soren said, adding his profit has also gone up. Soren has started making Jeevamrut at his home thanks to help extended by district agriculture officer Mithilesh Kalindi. The progressive farmer grows sweet gourd, bitter gourd, radish, green beans and brinjal at his farm which is spread over an acre. The farmer sprinkles and also makes the fertliser reach to the crops via small drains. “I have started making Jeevamrut at my home. It’s easy to make. I am highly satisfied after adopting organic farming. I am not facing financial crisis any longer. My family is also happy,” said Soren. Jeevamrut is made from cow dung and urine, black jiggery, lentil powder and handful of soil. First lentil powder and jaggery are mixed and then cow dung is added. The solution is kept for 2-7 days in the shade for fermentation, Soren explained. According to him, the use of chemical insecticides has also become a thing of the past now. “I used to spray chemical insecticide but this practice has been discontinued after I adopted Jeevamrut as a means of fertiliser. The quality of the soil has also improved,” Soren pointed out. Besides paddy, Soren also grows vegetable in Kharif season. He sells vegetables at the local haat bazaar  with help from his wife.”I have started earning 40,000-50,000 yearly by selling vegetables. Now, I have become self-reliant and am able to take care of my family’s needs,” he added. Soren called upon the farmers to, besides  traditional paddy farming, also go for vegetable farming. “By using Jeevamrut, farmers will make profit and also become self-reliant and fulfil the needs of their families. I am an example,” Soren said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-297
17-09-2020||Jharkhand||Mahalaya: The beginning of Devi Paksha||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-297
17-09-2020||Jharkhand||Covid recoveries cross the 50,000 mark||The count of Covid-19 recoveries in Jharkhand crossed the 50,000 mark on Wednesday as at least 1607 Covid patients, including nearly 700 in Ranchi alone, overcame the viral infection in 24 hours, data released by the health department on Wednesday night stated. Wednesday’s test results also took Jharkhand’s Covid recovery rate above the national average of 77.70 per cent as the number of recovered patients jumped to 51,357 against the tally of 66,074, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. The recovery rate in the state, as per government figures, had dropped to as low as 45 per cent by the end of July. Despite high recovery figures, the count of fresh Covid cases outnumbered the recoveries on Wednesday, causing a minor rise in the number of active cases in Jharkhand. As per the NHM bulletin, as many as 1618 cases of infection surfaced in Jharkhand on Wednesday, taking the number of active cases to 14,138. However, the number of active cases of infection reduced in Ranchi, the worst-affected district in the state, on Wednesday. As many as 342 fresh cases surfaced in Ranchi against 694 recoveries. Meanwhile, East Singbhum reported a major spike in the count of active cases as only 80 patients recovered from the infection there against 401 cases on Wednesday. As per government data, at least 3,171 people were battling the infection in Ranchi, while 3,021 patients were yet to recover in East Singhbhum. The Covid toll in Jharkhand rose to 579 on Wednesday after eight patients, including four from East Singhbhum and two from Ranchi, died during treatment, the NHM bulletin stated. Lohardaga and Pakur reported one death each on the day. The Covid mortality rate in the state, as per government data, was 0.87 per cent against the national average of 1.70 per cent. Health workers across Jharkhand tested swab samples of 55,761 people on Wednesday and 54,143 of came negative. So far, the government has collected swab samples of 1.55 lakh people and tested 1.53 lakh of them. Out of the 66,074 people infected by the virus in Jharkhand so far, 51,357 have recovered, highlights government data. A majority of the Covid victims in Jharkhand, as per health officials, were already suffering from comorbid conditions, and most of them were above the age of 50 years. As per government data, at least 420 of the 579 Covid victims in the state were older than 50 years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-297
17-09-2020||Jharkhand||UP man to demonstrate his invention in Jharkhand||A government sanitation worker from Jalaun in Uttar Pradesh has invented a mechanism which ensures a motorbike only starts if the rider is wearing a helmet. He will be live demonstrating his invention in Jharkhand later this month or in October. Dinesh Kumar has recently been made a member of the Youngistan Warriors of Martial Art, an NGO based out of the Gamharia block of Seraikela-Kharsawan. With branches in different parts of India, including Bengal, the organisation works for the promotion of martial arts among government school students, and also recognising inventions of people in different fields. Dinesh has already presented his invention to senior government functionaries, including the district magistrate, in Jalaun but is yet to commercialise it. “I don’t have money to patent my device. Though I have won accolades for my invention, nobody is coming up to help me financially. I thought of looking at Jharkhand where an NGO has promised to help me in getting the patent. Amit Modak, who is the president of the NGO, is a friend of mine and has assured all support,” 39 year old Dinesh said. Dinesh, who is a postgraduate in sociology and has also completed ITI, explained, “There are two components to my invention, once which is put on the helmet, and the other on the bike. The bike will not start unless one wears the helmet. I think my device will save people from getting killed in road mishaps.” “The demonstration will take place in front of politicians and senior government officials in Ranchi and Jamshedpur. The demonstration will also be uploaded on social media so that it reaches the central government,” Amit Modak told The Telegraph Online.. Dinesh has also invented a broom which can clean roads measuring 40 km in an hour.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-297
17-09-2020||Jharkhand||Covid positive MLA seeks virtual access to Assembly||A Congress MLA, who has tested positive for the coronavirus and is now on 14-day home quarantine, has requested the Speaker to make arrangements so that Covid patients like her can join the upcoming monsoon session of the state Assembly virtually. In a letter to Speaker Ravindranath Mahto on Wednesday, Barkagaon representative Amba Prasad pointed out that there were several MLAs who, like her, were in home isolation after testing Covid positive, but were asymptomatic. “The session is being convened after a long time. Hence, every MLA will have several burning issues of their constituency to raise within the House. Also, in the interest of public good, it is important to take part in the voting process for the passage of important bills. Therefore, I request, on behalf of several MLAs, to make online arrangements so that legislators can attend the session virtually,” she said. Speaker Mahto could not be contacted for his comments. But Assembly secretary Mahendra Prasad said he was yet to receive a formal request letter from the MLA. Nor had he received any directive from the Speaker. “The journalist fraternity has, in fact, requested for online arrangements to witness the proceedings of the House. This, we are exploring. As for the MLA’s request, we shall act accordingly after receiving formal directives,” he said. Another Congress MLA, Naman Bixal Kongari (Kolebira), tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday, which means the strength of the party would be reduced in the Assembly during the monsoon session scheduled to be held between September 18 and September 22. Currently, the Congress has 17 MLAs in the 81-member House with an effective strength of 79. Following Kongari’s infection, the party’s strength in the House will be 15. Three other MLAs — Deepika Pandey (Mahagama), Banna Gupta (Jamshedpur West), Badal Patralekh (Jarmundi) _ who were infected have recovered. But it isn’t clear whether they will attend the session or not. In the wake of the pandemic, Covid-19 tests have been made mandatory for all MLAs, bureaucrats and officials taking part in the Assembly session. They have all been asked to provide Covid negative reports 72 hours before the commencement of the House session.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-297
17-09-2020||Jharkhand||CPI(Maoist) Posters and banners in Chaibasa||CPI (Maoist) launched a poster-campaign against the administration at Chaibasa marketplace and township in West Singhbhum on the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday. Three banners, along with several posters denouncing the government's measure to eliminate naxalism from the tribal-dominated district were put up a day after Ajay Lynda joined as the new district superintendent of police. The posters and banners in Ho, written in Hindi script, were found at the Chaibasa bus-stand,  Birsa Munda Stadium and at Mangla Haat market, all under Sadar thana area in Chaibasa. The posters demand, among other things, the withdrawal of the Saranda Action Plan. They also call upon the young people to join the outfit in large numbers to work for the upliftment of tribals and fight against the administration. A team of police officials from the Sadar thana have seized the banners and posters and initiated a probe. "Having seized the posters and banners, we have started an investigation to know whether the poster-campaign was carried out by the outlawed naxal outfit, or by any criminal elements.  We are talking to people near whose shops or business establishments the posters-banners were found.  We are also scanning the footage of CCTV cameras," SP Ajay Lynda told The Telegraph Online. "As I joined on Tuesday,  I declared that the police will launch a more aggressive fight against naxals and will see to it that naxalism is wiped out from the district, including Saranda. Not only did the naxals throw a challenge to the police and administration, but also tried to show that they are very much present in the district headquarters," the officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-298
17-09-2020||Jharkhand||Jharkhand caps test rate at  Rs 1,500||The Jharkhand government has slashed the price of the RT-PCR test for Covid-19 charged by private laboratories and hospitals for the second time. In a directive issued by mission director of National Rural Health Mission (NRHM), Ravishanker Shukla, on Tuesday evening, the maximum price which can be charged by private laboratories for the RT-PCR test has been capped at Rs 1,500 from the existing Rs 2,400 with immediate effect. “Action will be taken against any private lab or private hospital that charges more than the maximum fixed rate for RT-PCR test. The communiqué has been sent to the respective civil surgeons and the deputy commissioners. If any lab does not comply with the new order action would be initiated for violation of the Jharkhand State Epidemic Disease (Covid-19) Regulation, 2020, and stringent action, as per rule, will be taken against the lab,” said state health minister Banna Gupta. Significantly, the state government had on June 29 capped the RT-PCR test rate at Rs 2,400 from the earlier Rs 4,500. “The decision was taken as part of the government’s effort to maximise the number of tests in the state. We had reduced the RT-PCR test cost from Rs 2,400 to Rs 1,500 for the benefit and betterment of the people. As it is, test drives are being carried out free of cost for any suspected cases in the government hospitals. This applies to only private hospitals and laboratories,” added Gupta. According to data available with the Union health ministry, Jharkhand has tested 35,689 samples per million and is placed in the 22nd position among states and Union Territories in terms of tests per million. Shukla said that the decision was taken following a reduction in prices of RT-PCR kits and the ICMR-validated viral transport medium (VTM) kits in the country. Sources in the state integrated disease surveillance programme (IDSP) said that a three-member expert team from the Union health ministry, which had visited the three cities of Ranchi, Jamshedpur and Dhanbad (which had the highest number of positive cases) earlier this month, had also suggested increasing the number of tests. As on Wednesday afternoon, the state had a total of 64,456 Covid-19 positive cases while the deaths stood at 571 out of a total sample testing of 14,71,588. The state’s seven day growth rate was a tad higher than the national average of 2.01 per cent at 2.13 per cent. The seven-day doubling rate of Jharkhand stood at 32.82 days compared to the national average of 35.11 days. The recovery rate of Jharkhand was at 77.20 per cent compared to the national average of 77.70 per cent. The state had a low mortality rate of 0.88 per cent against the national average of 1.70 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-298
17-09-2020||Jharkhand||NGT prod on sanctuary tag ||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has the directed Union ministry of environment and forests and Jharkhand’s forest department to submit report on the failure to declare Sasangada/Saranda sanctuary in West Singhbhum district as an eco-sensitive zone. The directive was given by the NGT’s eastern zonal bench comprising Justice S.P. Wangdi and expert member Nagin Nanda while hearing a petition filed by Delhi-based conservationist and trustee of non-profit entity Legal Initiative for Forest and Environment, R.K. Singh, last week. “Considering the facts and circumstances set out in the application we are satisfied that substantial question relating to the environment arises in the case,” the bench said and issued a notice to the respondents (ministry of environment and forests and Jharkhand forest department) to reply within six weeks. “The respondents shall file a report with regards to the questions raised in the application at least one week before the next date,” the directive said. The case is slated for its next hearing on October 19. “My fight is to give status of eco-sensitive zone to the Sasangada/Saranda sanctuary (considered to possess Asia’s largest sal reserves) which consists of 126 compartments of reserve forest blocks and two protected forest blocks in an area of 31,468.25 hectares which have been included in the working plan for management of the Saranda forest division prepared for the period from 1976-77 to 1994-95 (forest working plans are made for 20 years),” Singh told The Telegraph. The wildlife expert, who did his PhD on impact of mining on the elephant habitat in Saranda forest from the Wildlife Institute of India (Dehradun), in his application to the tribunal has alleged that successive Jharkhand governments and the ministry of environment, forests and climate change have failed to declare the eco-sensitive zone in respect of Sasangada/Saranda sanctuary and have excluded it from the exercise conducted across the country pursuant to the directive issued by the Supreme Court in the 2011 case of Goa Foundation vs Union of India. “The Jharkhand government is not even recognising Saranda as a sanctuary and has excluded it from the exercises conducted in pursuant to the Supreme Court judgement in the case of Goa Foundation vs Union of India (2011). “The Supreme Court had categorically asked the government to declare eco-sensitive zones around all notified sanctuaries and national parks. If the government fails to do so, then a 10km radius from the boundary of the sanctuaries and national parks would be deemed as eco-sensitive zones,” said Singh. Singh said that the Saranda sanctuary finds mention in the report prepared by the now defunct Indian Board for Wildlife (IBWL) on November 24, 1965, for a delegation of the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN). The name of the sanctuary also features in the Indian Forest Records: Glossary of Terms used in nature conservation and wildlife management, published by the Forest Research Institute in 1970. “It was last mentioned in the working plan for the Saranda forest division from 1976-77 to 1995-96 wherein it mentions that the sanctuary was notified in February 1968 and covers forest areas of Thalkobad, Karampada, Kodalibad, Tagooda, Karujagdaburu, Samta and Tirilposi,” said Singh. A 2016 study by the Wildlife Institute of India found that plant species in the Saranda forest had come down to just 87, from over 300 species earlier. They also could not spot a single elephant, even though the 2010 census recorded 253 elephants. “If it is notified as an eco-sensitive zone, then the sanctuary’s diversity would be protected and all activities detrimental to the sanctuary would not be undertaken,” said Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-298
