18-09-2020||Calcutta||Teachers Day tributes go online||Our way of life has been turned on its head by the pandemic, but that has not stopped schools from celebrating special occasions. Several schools went online to pay tribute to teachers on September 5.Salt Lake School Salt Lake School celebrated Teachers Day by posting two videos on their social media sites where the students are seen dancing, reciting and singing to say thank you to the teachers. The first video is more than 40 minutes long where students from pre-primary 1 till Class IV of the primary section are seen performing. Supreetha Chowdhury of Class III starts the celebration singing guruvandana, followed by Suhana Kar and Prayas Paul of PP1 singing a rhyme to thank their teachers. Kairavi Chowdhury, Anumegha Saha, Naisha Dey, Aaditri Sen and Tiyasha Saha of PP2 were seen pairing white hair bands with their white dresses as they danced to Lakri ki kathi, the favourite ditty of children from the film Masoom. “I missed my friends but learning from a video clip was also fun. I got to play the video and dance whenever I wanted and I also got a new dress,” smiled five year old Aaditri Sen. “Learning from online videos and recording were not new to her as for the last few months she has been taking dance classes online. But managing our office work and making her practice was a bit difficult. Teachers helped a lot. We did not have a white dress so we had to go to a market to buy it. Luckily the shop was not crowded,” added Aaditri’s mother Sayantani Ghosh. Students of Class I danced to the tune of Bam bam bole from Taare Zameen Par in orange tops and yellow bottoms  while Class II students in jeans and top danced to Galti se mistake from the film Jagga Jasoos.  Class III came together in The Gummy Bear Song while students of Class IV danced to show their love for their teachers with the song Teacher ko pyar by Swara Oza. “I enjoy dancing and love this song. This was my first digital performance. My mother helped me with the practice but I really missed my friends and teachers. My video was selected on the first attempt and everyone said they really enjoyed it,” said Sannidhyi Paul of Class II. “After the Independence Day celebration at our school, our principal wanted us to do something for Teachers Day and include the primary section students too. We coordinated with the class teachers and asked students to send small performances. Then we guided them through video calls on what to wear and what background to keep after sending them video clips to practise to.  Guiding students digitally is a bit difficult but now they are also getting used to this. We had huge support from the parents they tried their best to organise everything that I asked of them,” said Sreemoyee Kaushiki Basak, the dance coordinator. Tushit Bhattacharya of Class III chose to wear the school uniform while reciting a poem in English thanking the teachers while Shrestha Ghosh, Madhusha Dutta and Reshmi Pahar of Class I chose blue, orange and pink dresses as they performed to the Tagore song Momo chitte. The primary section video ended with Rohan Das of Class III singing Ruk jana nahin, the evergreen Kishore Kumar number from the film Imtihaan, from the lawn of his house. The video posted by the secondary section runs for an hour and 15 minutes as they tried to include as many performances possible to wish their teachers. Swarnadeep Misra, Avik Mondol, Meghdoot Chakrabarti, Jeetu Chowdhury and Sourjavo Chakraborty of Class IX came together to perform Kholo kholo darwaza from Taare Zameen Par. The five students have formed a band named Black Rhythm a few weeks ago and started rehearsing for their performance. “It was difficult to prepare everything digitally but we tried our best. We only got to meet through video calls and chats.  We recorded the tracks separately and I edited the video later. This was our first attempt and I am not an experienced editor. So there is scope for us to improve in future as we plan to perform as a band,” said Sourjavo, the band’s percussionist. A tabla player training under Pt. Anindo Chatterjee, Sourjavo loves to try new things. “This time, I tried Cajon, which is a box-shaped Latin American instrument. I heard about it last year and being a percussionist, I easily picked up the style of playing cajon. I love this instrument because it is a short form of drums and very compact,” he smiled. Recitation was also a popular choice among students.  Class IX students Rishabh Bagchi and Aagnik Sengupta chose to recite Bengali poems. Rishab recited Bangla tangla by Apurba Dutta while Aagnik Sengupta performed Bangla ta thik ashe na by Bhabani Prasad Majumdar. “Recitation is my hobby. I have been doing this for the last eight years, and now it has become a habit. Though now I cannot go for classes, every day I try to keep some time to practise recitation. I thought this poem will go with the celebration and I had it ready too,” said Aagnik. Students gave dance performances to several songs, mainly Rabindrasangeet, like Moharajo which was used in Ek Je Chhilo Raja, Pran bhoriye, Hridhoy amar nache re and Mitwa from Kal Ho Naa Ho.  Sanaskriti Saha chose to wear a blue sari with a yellow border as she performed in the passage of her building to the song Monomor megher songi. “I wanted to dance as well as play the violin, but due to shortage of time I chose only to dance. This time, the song choice and choreography were done by me with a little help from my mother. The shooting was done early in the morning so that the roads were empty and no one got disturbed. My father recorded the video,” said the Class VII student. “We received more than 600 videos from students from which we, along with our principal, made a selection. Later, we guided the chosen students and  created the video with their final performances. It was uploaded on the school website and social media page. The principal shared the video links with teachers in the morning on September 5,” said Payel  Das, cultural coordinator. Shatadipa Bhattacharya Hariyana Vidya Mandir Students of Hariyana Vidya Mandir celebrated Teachers Day by posting a 20-minute-long video where students of the senior section entertained teachers with their singing, dance and recitation performances. The members of the students council came together to give a special tribute to their teachers. Kunal Verma of Class XII welcomed everyone with the sloka Guru Brahma guru Vishnu. “A teacher is considered Brahma, Vishnu and Shiva together since, like the supreme gods forming the Trinity do with the universe, teachers help us create our personality, protect us from the negativity and destroy any obstacles in our way,” explained Verma. Simran Sarawgi of Class XII also spoke on what teaching means. Then the cultural performances started. Ayush Chakroborty, Taparup Kundu, Suryarati Saha and Shreya Banik of Class XII presented a group musical performance to the Tagore song Ekla chalo re while Sahil Mishra of Class X recited the poem from the movie Pink Tu chal with a lot of enthusiasm. Subhangi Das and Soham Biswas of Class XII came together for a duet performance of the Bengali song Esho hey from the film Ek Je Chhilo Raja by recording the songs at their respective homes. “This is a beautiful song so we wanted to perform it for our teachers. Practising digitally is completely different from doing it in school where we get to practise so much.But here we divided the song in portions, and then practised and performed on our own so it could be edited easily,” said Subhangi. The audio and the video clips were separately recorded. Shatadipa Bhattacharya||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-301
18-09-2020||Calcutta|| Bhanu turns 100: Quiz answers||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-301
18-09-2020||Calcutta||Another flag off for Tagore centre, old age home||Foundation stones for two projects that have been dragging on for years were unveiled by urban development and municipal affairs minister Firhad Hakim along with fire and emergency services minister and Bidhannagar MLA Sujit Bose on Tuesday. One is the building of Rabindra Bhavan, now renamed Rabindraangan by the chief minister, that had been announced way back when the Left-led board governed the erstwhile Bidhannagar Municipality. The foundation stone of the plot had been laid by the then civic chief Biswajiban Majumdar. Then in 2013, the Trinamul Congress-led municipality had installed a Tagore statue at the plot and had again announced that a centre dedicated to Tagore would be built here. The other “new” project that was “unveiled” is an old age home behind Matri Sadan in EE Block. This too had been in the backburner for several years and construction is yet to kick off. The programme was held on the plot opposite Central Park in FE Block where a centre of excellence devoted to Rabindranath Tagore is being built. The mayor of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation Krishna Chakraborty was present at the launch along with councillors and mayoral council members of the civic body. Hakim “unveiled” the plan for building the centre on Tagore in the second phase in which construction of the ground floor till the third will be started. This centre has been rechristened as Rabindraangan by chief minister Mamata Banerjee, Hakim said. “This will be a revolutionary centre that will teach cultural values to the generations to come,” he said. The centre will have an auditorium as well as classrooms for cultural studies and a hostel for foreign students on exchange programmes. There will be digital archives and an e-library featuring the life and art of Rabindranath Tagore alongwith a cafeteria. Hakim lauded Krishna Chakraborty for setting aside funds from the profits earned by the civic body by organising the Bidhannagar Mela (Utsav). According to Chakraborty, they have raised a corpus fund of nearly Rs 4 crore earned from the profits registered by organising the fair. Another civic official pipped the project cost to be nearly Rs 50 crore. “We have already initiated the tender process and construction of laying the foundation and aligning the utilities is on,” said Chakraborty. The tender for the construction of the old age home on the other hand is yet to be called. A civic official said that the detailed project report is yet to be prepared and submitted to the municipal affairs department for clearance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-301
18-09-2020||Calcutta||Hope of road repair as civic body starts survey||The road repairs department of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation has surveyed several areas where craters have formed in Salt Lake. Urban development and municipal affairs minister Firhad Hakim on Tuesday said that he had received a request from Bidhannagar MLA Sujit Bose to release Rs 4 crore for repairing roads of the township. “I will look into this and we want to repair the roads before the Pujas,” Hakim said at the foundation stone laying ceremony of Rabindraangan and an old age home in EE Block. The Telegraph had reported on August 28 how several roads had craters that spanned the entire lane. Ditches had been dug to replace water pipes in Sector III near KB KC blocks behind AMRI Hospitals but had not been levelled out. An engineer of the corporation said they had conducted a detailed survey to chalk out a repair plan. Of the areas checked are a 200m long section of the road that connects Anindita Island to the Broadway in Sector III. A large ditch has formed in both flanks of the crossroad there and several accidents involving both two and four-wheelers have been reported in the past few weeks. The civic body also wants to relay the entire surface of the blacktop from Tank 13 to Anindita Island that has large potholes. This stretch has a new water reservoir being built near the Income Tax colony. A stretch of road that connects Tank 13 to the EZCC traffic island on Broadway has also fallen into disrepair and motorists often use the opposite flank to bypass the damaged stretch, creating traffic snarls. A resident of IA Block said that it became extremely risky to negotiate this road. “The area resembles the surface of the moon. The other day the undercarriage of my car got scraped after it fell into a pothole at low speed. Now I make it a point to use the opposite lane knowing fully well that it is very risky. The problem is compounded at night,” said Santadip Choudhury, a techie who stays in IA Block. In Sector II, the stretch leading to GD Block bus stand from the Tank 10 needs repair. “We conducted patchwork repairs there. Soon we will repair the other stretches,” said the engineer. Tapas Chatterjee, the deputy mayor of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation who is also the mayoral council member in charge of roads, had said that work would take place in phases. “We hope to complete the repairs by Puja,” said Chatterjee, who is in hospital currently for Covid-19. Pramila Chatterjee, a resident of DL Block, said that roads inside their block were cratered and needed immediate repairs. “Earlier we used to take pride in the roads of Salt Lake as they were in better shape than those in other parts of the city. But sadly the civic body has not been conducting regular repairs,” said Chatterjee. A contractor who undertakes repair work in the township said they were yet to receive payment for earlier work. “Our payment has been erratic. Moreover, the civic body has not called for any fresh tenders for road repairs,” said the contractor, who did not wish to be named. Chatterjee, on the other hand, said that the new tender process would soon be initiated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-301
18-09-2020||Calcutta||New Town cafe sets sail in ship container||One can barely guess that a piping hot cafe next to the Eco Space Island in New Town is brewing inside a discarded ship container. But look closely and you notice that the brightly painted exterior is made of — not cement but — metal. The kitchen is compact, rectangular-shaped and that its “windows” are but cut out of the metal walls. Cafe@Ecospace is located inside a recycled ship container. Rather, the kitchen is inside the container and chairs have been laid out outside for customers to sit on. The project is an initiative by New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA). “This stretch of road from Eco Space to Elita Garden Vista or Avenida complex had become unsafe with even a case of snatching having taken place a couple of years ago,” explained Debashis Sen, chairman, NKDA. “Thereafter a police camp has come up nearby, streetlights have been added and as a strategy we have decided to set up roadside cafes that will attract customers and make the place less deserted.” To run the cafe, the authorities narrowed in on a women’s self-help group called Rabindra Swanirbhar Gosthi. “These women have been successfully running a food joint called Jagarani for three years opposite Eco Space and shall now run this cafe as well,” said Sen. The women are excited about the venture. “We shall serve soups, sandwiches, rolls, chowmein, momos and more,” smiled Mahasinara Begum from behind her mask. “At Jagarini, we would cook for 250 people a day but due to the pandemic very few people are coming now. Nonetheless we are supplying food to a safe house in New Town and doing home delivery. We realise that customers at the cafe will be scanty to start with but we are hopeful in the long run,” said Sabina Bibi, a resident of Rajarhat. Their sandwiches are priced upwards of Rs 30, chowmein Rs 25 and lassi Rs 30. As for the container, Sen said they went with the idea as they advocate recycling. “Since the metallic roof would get terribly hot in summer we built a shed atop and have added solar panels there. The women are also cooking with electric means instead of LPG,” he said. The ladies are quite satisfied with their 20ftx8ft container kitchen, induction cooker and microwave. “This is more eco-friendly and is easier to clean than when using gas cylinders,” said Manoshi Maity, another member of the self-help group.  saltlake@abpmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-301
18-09-2020||Calcutta||Charging station coming up for e-cars||In 60 days from now, New Town should throw open a fast charging station to accommodate 25 electric four-wheelers simultaneously, in what is being touted as the largest public station of its kind in the country. Debashis Sen handed over the letter of intent to a group called Shuchi on September 16 that will be building this station near Biswa Bangla Convention Centre. Sen is chairman cum managing director of Housing and Infrastructure Development Corporation (Hidco) and chairman of New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA). “New Town has about 10 charging stations for four-wheelers and some more for three-wheelers like totos but these are scattered across the township, unlike at this new station,” said Sen. “Land for this station will be provided by Hidco and Shuchi will pay us 88 paise per unit of electricity sold to vehicles.” The space demarcated for the project is right next to the proposed multi-level car parking complex that will hold thousands of cars, especially of those visiting the convention centre. The space is on the Major Arterial Road and the station will be called Powerbunk. The very first clients of the station are likely to be from Lithium, a Bangalore-based corporate car rental company that exclusively deploys electric vehicles. “Lithium operates out of six major cities and we have just started out in Calcutta. We shall roll out a fleet of 1,000 electric cars over the next two or three years, which will charged right here,” said Vikash Mishra, business head— north and east, Lithium. Incidentally, Shuchi, the group that will be building the station is a joint venture between Lithium and a solar power company called Fourth Partner Energy. “Electric car owners charging their vehicles at home use the slow mode that provides full charge over eight hours but the commercial level fast chargers here will charge cars in an hour,’ said Mishra. He claims this would be India’s largest public charging station and that they will begin services in 60 days. “Our fleet of 1,000 electric vehicles (EV) will abate 10,000 metric tonnes of carbon emission a year. That will be comparable to adding 10 Eco Parks to the environment,” he says. Shuchi will be investing Rs 150 crore in this project and expects to create more than 3,000 direct and indirect jobs, besides triggering the entry of original equipment manufacturers and related EV products and service centres to come up. Lithium will be using electric cars like Tata Nexon, Tata Tigor, Mahindra eVerito and MG ZS EV. Principal secretary of the transport department, Prabhat Kumar Mishra, attended the ceremony and hailed the New Town authorities for bridging the infrastructure gap. “Before this, it was always a chicken-and-egg situation with respect to electric cars and charging stations,” he said. “New Town has six electric buses, Calcutta has 80 and a new fleet of 50 such buses should ply in Salt Lake and Rajarhat in six months’ time under the Faster Adoption and Manufacturing of Electric Vehicles in India (FAME-II) scheme. The city has a huge number of taxis and we also want to persuade at least some of them to switch to electric power.” Also present was Rakhi Basu, transport expert representing the World Bank. “We had helped the state government procure the 80 electric buses and seeing their success, private players have gained confidence to enter the market. Calcutta has one the highest users of public transport in the world and the city in fact went electric way back with the tram. We want to make electric vehicles (EV) popular in the 21st century now.” Also attending the event was Sanjoy Chatterjee, founder of Ideation Technology Solution that has developed Pathadisha, the public transport assistance app for the state government. “Transport is the backbone of any city,” said Chatterjee. “Eventually we shall integrate this charging station with the app so anyone with driving an EV can come here for anxiety charging (fear of the battery running out).” saltlake@abpmail.co||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-301
18-09-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta Police initiates probe into the death of Sharbari Dutta||The Calcutta Police on Friday initiated a probe into the death of renowned fashion designer Sharbari Dutta. Dutta, 63, was found dead in the bathroom of her residence on Broad Street in south Calcutta on Thursday evening. A case of unnatural death was registered and the body sent for postmortem examination, a senior police officer said. "There are injury marks on her ankle. We have initiated a probe into the matter," he said. A doctor, called by Dutta's family members after they found her body in the bathroom, attributed her death to cardiac arrest. Her family members, however, said Dutta was not seen in the residence throughout Thursday and she was later found dead in the bathroom. "I had last seen my mother on Wednesday. I hadn't seen her on Thursday. I thought she was busy and had gone out for work. "Both of us remained so busy that we didn't get to meet every day. Later, we found her body in the bathroom," her son Amalin Dutta, also a fashion designer, said. Sharbari Dutta, the daughter of Bengali poet Ajit Dutta, had made a mark in designing men's ethnic wear. Her label became popular for a unique blend of ethnicity and modernity in fabric and vibrancy in colour. Dutta had set up her brand 'Shunyaa' with outlets in Calcutta. She dabbled into women's wear and was a known face in fashion shows organised in the city. The showbiz fraternity expressed shock over her death.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-301
18-09-2020||Calcutta||At CID hub, curiosity bares ‘impersonation’||Two men who had been called to the CID headquarters in Alipore for questioning had allegedly sent someone else impersonating one of them. The duo’s bluff was caught when their curiosity got the better of them and they wanted to check what had happened when the man they allegedly sent was taking more than the usual time to step out. The two — Romi Hirawat and Varun Laddha — were allegedly found tampering with the visitors’ register at the entrance to Bhabani Bhawan on Wednesday while trying to enter the building where they had sent an impostor hours ago, police said. Hirawat and Laddha allegedly sent one of their employees, Raktim Chowdhury, to appear before the CID officer posing as one of them. “It appears this was not the first time the two had seen sending an impersonator to the CID, scheduling the visit in a way that the investigating officer of the case in which they are accused would not be at Bhabani Bhawan,” an officer said. Everytime Chowdhury visited the building, he allegedly signed as one of the accused on the visitors’ register. “The investigating officer got suspicious about the visits, in response to a court order, because they were timed with his absence. He stayed back to check and... found their bluff,” said an officer of Alipore police station, where the CID has lodged a complaint against the two accused and the alleged imposter. When Chowdhury did not come out for more than two hours, Laddha and Hirawat decided to enter the building and find out what happened to him. “While entering the building, they had written their actual names on the register and one of them was found scratching the name Chowdhury had allegedly written a few hours before. They were trying to replace the entry with ‘Raktim Chowdhury’. The sentry immediately alerted officers, who detained Hirawat and Laddha,” an officer said. All three were arrested. A case of cheating, forgery and criminal conspiracy has been started.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-301
18-09-2020||Calcutta||Sight-less teacher with vision for Covid-hit||A teacher lacks sight but his vision has given new direction to thousands of people with visual impairment. In the wake of the pandemic, an organisation steered by him has supported over 500 out-of-work families. As principal of the Ramakrishna Mission Blind Boys’ Academy in Narendrapur in 2010, Biswajit Ghosh has been mentoring the students towards a life of dignity. The academy is known for placing stress on extra-curricular activities. Apart from studies, the students take part and win laurels in cricket, football, swimming, music and several other activities. But his work is not limited to the academy. The pandemic has put millions of people out of work. Among such people, the differently able have been hit the hardest. Thousands of visually impaired hawkers who sold stuff on local trains and at suburban stations have been robbed of their livelihood. The Society For The Welfare Of The Blind, of which Ghosh is the secretary, has provided dry ration and financial support to over 500 such families across eight districts of Bengal. Ghosh and his NGO were felicitated with the Disha Samman 2020, organised by Disha Eye Hospitals, at a New Town auditorium on Thursday. The award is given to acknowledge the achievements of visually challenged people and organisations which work towards the benefit of these people. The award comprised a plaque and a cash prize of Rs 1,00,000. The Telegraph has earlier reported on the donation drives of the NGO. “After every fortnight, I sit with plans of the next — how to gather money for the drive. We have a target of reaching out to 900 families. We have already covered over 500. I am extremely grateful to my friends, colleagues and former students who have supported me in this. But a lot of work is left,” Ghosh said on Thursday. “The pandemic situation has been challenging for all of us. One can very well understand the plight of the visually impaired during this testing times. It is really encouraging that the Society has come forward to help the blind,” said Debasish Bhattacharya, the chairman and managing director, Disha Eye Hospitals. Debashis Sen, the chairman of Hidco, presented the award to Ghosh on Thursday. Those supported by the NGO includes people selling everything from incense sticks to homemade chanachur. What struck Ghosh most is the difficulty for visually impaired people to switch professions. “These people were not begging. They earned a life of dignity by hard work. The pandemic is threatening that,” said Ghosh, who has done his master’s in English literature from Calcutta University. Ghosh was himself a student of the Narendrapur academy and taught there for more than 15 years before taking over the top post.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-301
18-09-2020||Calcutta||Schools give entry fee relief||Several schools in the city have decided to provide financial relief to parents seeking admission for their children in Nursery by allowing them to pay the fee in two instalments. For most of them this is the first time that schools are making such an exception keeping in mind the pandemic. South Point and Vivekananda Mission School, Joka, are some of the institutions which have told parents to pay the admission fee in two instalments because of the current economic situation. Many people have faced economic hardships, loss in businesses or even pay cuts during this period and many of them have also been unable to pay the school fees and sought waivers. Some of the schools “anticipated” that parents might be finding it difficult and so they made the changes in their admission fee payment method. Across many city schools, the fee to be paid at the time of admission varies between Rs 65,000 and Rs 1 lakh. South Point that has begun taking admission will accept the payment now and again in December. “In order to provide some financial relief to the parents in view of the current economic situation due to COVID-19, the total amount will be collected in two instalments,” the school has written to the parents. “We did it on our own because we realised if parents do not have to shell out the entire amount at one go, it will be a relief for them,” said Krishna Damani, trustee of South Point. Vivekananda Mission School in Joka has also decided on the instalments and parents could pay by the end of the year or beginning of the session. “Even in paying the first instalment several parents are asking for extension of the deadline....,” said Arnab Chandra, the rector of the school. Some of the institutions like Indus Valley World School and South City International School, however, are not extending the benefit to all parents but only those who are requesting. The admission process in city schools begins in September for the April 2021 session. Many schools are conducting it online and some of them have already published the list of selected candidates. “We have received requests from some parents who are in financial distress and we are considering their request to stagger the payment,” said Amita Prasad, director of Indus Valley World School. “From now to when the classes start in April, the parents will get some months to make the payment.” Parents are either sending email to the school or talking to the admission officer to make a request, the school said. Several other schools are also deliberating on considering cases depending on the nature of request and the extent of financial distress. “We understand that not many parents will make such a request because there is a difference between the existing parents of the school and the new parents,” said the head of a school.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-301
18-09-2020||Calcutta||Work on airport Metro subway starts||The construction of an underground passenger corridor connecting the upcoming Airport Metro station and Jessore Road started on Wednesday. An underground Metro Railway station connected to three lines — Airport-New Garia, Airport-Noapara and Airport-Barasat — is being built on the airport premises, around 150m from the integrated terminal. Two subways will be built from the station — one leading to the terminal and another to Jessore Road. “On September 16, construction of subway connectivity between the underground airport station and Jessore Road (NH35) started. After construction of temporary guide walls, soil is being excavated for the diaphragm wall. The diaphragm wall panel is 1m wide and 5m long. Its depth is 18.5m,” said Metro spokesperson Indrani Banerjee. “Work is running round the clock under the supervision of senior engineers. It is being executed by maintaining all safety precautions and measures for Covid-19.” In the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday, a giant crane drilled the guide walls beneath the earth, aided by scores of workers. The corridor between Jessore Road and the Airport station will be around 280m long, 10.4m wide and 4.5m deep. The construction is expected to be completed within eight to nine months, said a Metro engineer. The distance has to be covered on foot, unlike the proposed corridor till the airport terminal. There will be a corridor with walkalators for passengers to reach the terminal from the station, the official said. Counters for luggage check-in could be set up at the station and there might be a dedicated corridor for transporting the luggage to the boarding point, said airport officials. The airport authorities will build the entry to the terminal for the Metro passengers. The corridor to reach Jessore Road will be longer than the one leading to the airport terminal, officials said. “There will be passenger entry/exit points on either side of the road near gate 2.5 of the airport,” an official said. The station at the airport will have five platforms, a concourse level and an underground railway yard, which will be Calcutta’s first. The platforms will be at 12m below the ground and the concourse level at 6m, said Metro officials. Work to remove girders of the abandoned portions of the Circular Railway viaduct beyond Jessore Road, which was an obstacle to the alignment of an underground tunnel for the extension of Metro from Noapara to Barasat via the airport, also resumed on Wednesday. “After crossing the most crucial portion of VIP Road, the work continued even in the backdrop of the pandemic. But a sudden mechanical failure of the 600MT crane forced the work to halt. After being suspended for nearly two months, work resumed on Wednesday when a girder weighing over 400MT was removed,” said a Metro official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-302
18-09-2020||Calcutta||Follow state directive: ICSE council||The Council for Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE)  on Thursday clarified that the partial reopening of its schools will have to be in “conformity” with the directives of the respective state governments and any reopening will be subject to their permission. The council directed the schools not to do “anything” in regard to reopening which “contravenes” the guidelines of the state government. The CISCE had on Wednesday notified its schools on partial reopening for students seeking guidance with parental consent from September 21. The council had later said it would reconsider the approach in Bengal after the state government said all schools in the state would remain shut at least till September 30. In the fresh notification issued to the heads of all its affiliated schools on Thursday, the CISCE said: “Please note that the re-opening of the schools in your State must be in conformity to the respective State Government directives. Therefore, the suggested activities to be carried out are subject to the State Government’s permission for schools to re-open in the State.” The notification reads: “You are hereby directed to kindly follow the guidelines, as issued by the State Government. Do not do anything which contravenes or is in direct conflict with the guidelines of the State. Your (the schools’) compliance of the State is solicited.” Though the council had said it would reconsider its decision for Bengal, the notification issued on Thursday applies to all states, the principal of a school in Calcutta said. After the CISCE issued its notification on partial reopening, Bengal education minister Partha Chatterjee had told The Telegraph on Wednesday that all educational institutions in the state would remain closed at least till September 30, as announced by the state government. “I am not aware about the ICSE council’s decision…. Our government had announced that all educational institutions in the state will remain closed till September 30. There is no change in the decision,” Chatterjee had said on Wednesday, reacting to the council's notification. The council in its Wednesday’s notification had advised the schools to enable students, particularly those appearing in the Class X and XII board exams, to do practical on prescribed topics in school laboratories as the “hands on” practical work could not be performed earlier because of the pandemic and the lockdown. The schools were also advised by the CISCE to utilise the partial reopening to complete project work and ensure the projects are submitted to the subject teachers by a deadline.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-302
18-09-2020||Calcutta||Kite flying injures many birds||Kites flying activity in the run up to Vishwakarma Puja has taken a heavy toll on birds across the city. More than 30 birds with kite string injuries have been rescued since Wednesday by the forest department’s wildlife rescue teams as well as individuals across the city, an official at the Wildlife Rescue Centre in Salt Lake said on Thursday. Birds struggle to free themselves after they get caught in the strings and in the process injure their wings, legs or talons. Some even die. According to the forester, the centre had been receiving calls from across the city and even from the outskrits to resuce injured birds. Manja (a mixture of glass and glue) helps kites soar but also adds to the string’s sharpness. Such strings do not snap and leave birds, entangled in them, severely injured. The nylon ones are known as Chinese manja — they are almost unbreakable and extremely sharp. Calcutta High Court had in July directed cops to strictly enforce the ban on Chinese manja. However, they are easily available in the markets. Suprakash Mukherjee, a resident of Manicktala who has been flying kites with his son, said the Chinese manja was quite popular as during kite fights. “If you are using Chinese manja then your kite becomes near invincible....although it is extremely hazardous for two-wheeler riders as well as birds,” said Mukherjee. The Telegraph had earlier reported how kite sting injuries were getting increasingly common as birds would fly into dangling strings. Soumyodip Mukherjee, an IT architect, rescued a dove that was dangling from a piece of kite string in Phoolbagan. “It was a piece of nylon string. We had to cut through with a knife to get the bird down,” said Mukherjee. Kalyani resident and bird lover Diptimoy Pal, drove down to Dankuni, a distance of around 45km, to help residents there bring down a black crowned night heron that was entangled in a kite string. Pal will handover the bird to the forest departmnet on Friday morning. Subhankar Patra, a veteran birdwatcher said that they would often come across these injuries when the season of flying kites starts. “Birds cannot see the string while flying and they get entangled in them,” said Patra. Several NGOs that work towards animal welfare have started campaigns on social media asking people not to use nylon strings or glass laced ones while flying kites. Shamik Dutta, a member of Bonyo, an animal welfare organisation, said they had started a social media campaign as well as helpline number where people can call if they spot injured birds. A similar campaign has also been started by Society for Heritage & Ecological Research (SHER), an NGO that works to reduce human-wildlife conflict. “Awareness is the key here,” said Joydip Kundu the founder member of SHER.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-302
18-09-2020||Calcutta||Jewellery hub reflects Covid crisis||Just about 300 shops and workshops out of the 7,000-odd in the jewellery hub of Bowbazar celebrated Vishwakarma Puja on Thursday with most shop-owners and goldsmiths opting to stay at home, struck by the Covid-induced slump in business. The ones that held the puja had an early closure. The familiar sight of elaborate lunch with generous servings of biriyani was missing and so was the loud music. Across parts of Nabin Chand Boral Lane, Prem Chand Boral Street, Durga Pituri Lane and Syakrapara Lane, the stillness of the afternoon reflected the crisis that one of Calcutta’s most booming businesses has slipped into. “There have been no orders for almost six months now. People have stopped visiting ornament shops, leave alone buying,” said Tapan Ghosh, the owner of Gold Plaza jewellery shop on Durga Pituri Lane. “There is nothing to celebrate this year. Not even Vishwakarma Puja.” Ghosh, like several others, didn’t open his shop on Thursday. Not one of his five goldsmiths stepped out of their homes during the day. They haven’t earned anything for the last few months. Traders and market watchers said the central Calcutta jewellery hub would witness a transaction of around Rs 450 and Rs 500 crore around this time every year. Orders would pour in from across India with customers choosing their trusted shops in the lanes and bylanes such as Durga Pituri Lane, Gour De Lane and Radha Mohan Pal Lane. It would be the busiest time for the 15,000-odd artisans engaged in the gold trade in Bowbazar. Many of them commute from parts of Naihati, Baruipur, Sodepur and Amta. “The first setback came last year, when Metro tunneling work created a subsidence,” said Bharat Soni, the owner of a jewellery shop in Syakrapara Lane. “Then came the Covid-19 pandemic.” “I didn’t even feel like going to Bowbazar today,” said Gopal Modak, who owns a jewellery shop. “Several of my friends who have been allotted an alternative space by Metro following last year’s cave-in didn't open their shutters. Byabshai nei, ki korbo (There is no business. What do we do).” Traders and members of the Bangiya Swarna Shlipa Samity, an umbrella organisation of gold traders, said Calcutta would consume around 50 tones of gold annually and Bowbazar would contribute the largest share. This September, the slump has brought the business down by almost 70 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-302
18-09-2020||Calcutta||Police turn down plea for cycling lanes||Police have turned down a proposal to have dedicated lanes for cycles on some roads in Calcutta, arguing that such corridors will shrink the road space, slow down vehicles and lead to an increase in air pollution, a CMDA official said. The CMDA had written to the police with a request for a meeting to fix the roads where a portion can be earmarked for cycles. Ever since the phased Unlock started in June, many people have chosen cycles as their mode of transport as it allows them to remain at a safe distance from others. Across the world people have embraced cycles as a cleaner mode of transport. Many Calcuttans feel this was the opportune time to maximise the use of bicycles, but Calcutta police have a history of stonewalling efforts to introduce widespread cycling across the city. Cycling is now allowed only in select lanes and bylanes in the city. “We have replied to the CMDA. We have told them that their proposal is not feasible,” said Rupesh Kumar, deputy commissioner, traffic, Calcutta police. Kumar did not want to elaborate on whether the police gave any other proposal to the CMDA and whether it was impossible to have dedicated lanes for bicycles at all. A CMDA official said they had planned to use mobile lane markers or guardrails to carve out a portion of the road for bicycles. “The police said the shrunken road space would create snarls. The additional pollutants that will be released in the air because of extra burning of petrol and diesel, resulting from the snarls, will negate the positive impact of cycles,” the CMDA official said. A Calcutta police officer with over three decades of experience in traffic management said allowing cycles on the city’s thoroughfares was almost impossible given the unique problems Calcutta faces. “No other city suffers from encroachment problems like Calcutta. All pavements have been taken over by hawkers, forcing pedestrians to walk on the road. Moreover, there are auto stands and parking zones along the kerbs of most roads. All these take up a portion of the road width. If more road space is taken away for cycles, only half the carriageway will remain free for buses, motorbikes, autos and cars. Traffic would come to a crawl,” the officer said. Chandigarh has dedicated cycle lanes on some roads. Bangalore, too, is making cycle lanes, said Sharif Qamar, a fellow at the Centre for Sustainable Mobility in The Energy and Resources Institute (TERI). “In India, the stress is still more on moving motorised transport than moving people. While 50 per cent of the people rely on walking or cycling for movement, the space allotted for them is marginal. But private cars move only a fraction of people and they eat up the majority of road space,” said Qamar. A Calcuttan, who visited the Netherlands a couple of years back, said commuters need to follow certain etiquette if the roads are to have cycling lanes. “In the Netherlands, no pedestrian or motorised transport enters the lane for cycles,” he said. Some cyclists feel that instead of making lanes, the police should open all roads for cyclists. That would be a better promotion of cycling, they felt. The unnecessary harassment of cyclists for riding on an arterial road must be stopped, they said. “I was stopped on Park Street on a Sunday recently. There is no logic behind not allowing a cyclist on Park Street. Even if there is logic, the police never say that in clear language. Respect a cyclist. Most cyclists ride along the side of a road, fearing for their own safety. It is a complete lie to call cyclists nuisance,” said Sudipto Roy, a private company executive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-302
18-09-2020||Calcutta||Denied slot in London, AI direct flight goes hopping||Air India’s promised direct Calcutta-London evacuation flight on Thursday finally turned into a Calcutta-Delhi-London flight with a four-hour delay in Calcutta for passengers from the city and another three-hour wait in Delhi. Air India blamed Heathrow for refusing a slot for the Calcutta flight at the last moment but aviation industry sources said such things rarely happened with other airlines. An official at the Calcutta airport said airlines usually applied for slots for evacuation and air-transport-bubble flights seven to 10 days in advance. “If the application is submitted well in advance, all airports either give permission for the slots or ask for another date well in advance,” said the official. An official of an international airline that operates out of Calcutta said airport slots and timings were crucial, which are ensured before opening bookings. “Applying for slots is now done one month before because of Covid-19. During regular operations, it is done several months in advance. This needs a lot of planning. Once an airport approves the slot, we open bookings and inform passengers about the timings,” said the official. “If a slot is sought at the last moment, chances are an airport will reject the request. But I don't know what happened with Air India's flight,” said the official. The flight, a Boeing 787 Dreamliner with 234 seats, including 32 in business class, was scheduled to take off from Calcutta at 6.20am. The plane had arrived from London early on Thursday with 14 passengers, 12 in economy and two in the business class. But the flight, with 72 passengers, finally took off at 10.05am. It first landed in Delhi at 11.50am and after a layover of three hours, took off for London around 2.45pm, said sources. At the Delhi airport, 86 other passengers boarded the plane. The flight landed at 6.56pm, London time. Pritha Kejriwal, flying to London from Calcutta to submit her PhD thesis, said she would not have booked a seat on the flight had she known it would not fly directly to London. “AI 1149 was the original flight which was meant to fly directly to Heathrow from Calcutta, which was then changed to AI 111, which is hopping via Delhi and reached London six-and-a-half hours later than scheduled,” said Kejriwal. At 1am on Thursday, she received a call from Air India informing her that the flight would take off at 10am, instead of 6.20am, and would go via Delhi. “They initially said the reason was technical. At the airport, Air India staff told us they did not get a slot at Heathrow. I was shocked,” she said. “At the Delhi airport, we had to sit inside the aircraft for three hours.” Air India had earlier announced a twice-a-week direct flight between Calcutta and London under the Vande Bharat programme (evacuation) till October 24. On Thursday, an official of Air India said he was not sure whether the rest of the flights would be direct. “If we get slots for the Calcutta flight to land in Heathrow, it will be direct. Otherwise passengers would be taken via Delhi,” he said. The spokesperson for Air India said: “Today, due to the last-minute non-availability of slot at Heathrow Airport, which was communicated to us late on September 16 evening, the flight from Calcutta could not be operated directly from Calcutta to London. This was something beyond our control as we had been assured of a slot…. The same aircraft from Calcutta with a brief stopover at Delhi left for London... Slot for this flight from Delhi is available at Heathrow.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-302
18-09-2020||Calcutta||UGC sets October date for results||The UGC has asked the state government to publish the results of end semester/final year exams “preferably” by the end of October so that admissions to the first year of postgraduate/PhD programme “can be completed without any further delay and the next session can commence timely”. UGC’s secretary Rajnish Jain in a letter to the state higher education department on Wednesday set the timeline while accepting the department’s request to extend the deadline for completing the exams till October 18. The previous deadline was September 30. “Accordingly, the final year/terminal semester examinations in colleges and universities be completed by October 18. Further, you are also requested to ensure that the results of these examinations be declared at the earliest and preferably by the end of October so that the admissions…” says the letter addressed to higher education secretary Manish Jain on September 16. Jain had on September 2 sought the permission in a letter to the UGC’s chairman as the Supreme Court had said on August 28 that if any state or Union territory decided that it was not possible to hold the undergraduate and postgraduate exams by September 30, in keeping with the UGC’s July 6 advisory, it could seek an extension of the deadline. An official of the Bengal higher education department said the vice-chancellors of all state-aided universities had been informed about the communication from the UGC. “The publication of results by the end of October can pose a challenge for the affiliating universities like Calcutta University, which has over 140 colleges affiliated to it. But the deadline has to be honoured,” said the official. CU uploaded its exam schedule on Wednesday on its website, www.caluniv.ac.in. Getting the answer scripts from such a large number of students, many of whom lack the facilities to email or WhatsApp their scripts in the PDF format to their colleges within 24 hours of receiving the question papers, could pose a problem, the official said. “CU has to come up with a guideline on how the scripts could be obtained from all students. I believe teachers will have to evaluate the scripts through the Puja vacation to comply with the deadline,” the official said. Repeated calls to CU vice-chancellor Sonali Chakravarti Banerjee went unanswered. “We will try to publish results before the Puja vacation starts,” said an official of Jadavpur University, which will hold exams from October 1 to 10.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-302
18-09-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta couple in financial distress found dead ||A young man who had invested his life’s savings in a car to earn a living as an app cab driver was found dead with his wife at their one-room Chetla home on Mahalaya morning, with police suspecting a double suicide. Officers said Arijit Dutta, 32, had earned hardly anything since the lockdown began and was struggling to repay his bank loan, pay his rent and bear household expenses. Many app cab owners in the city are in financial distress, with the service having been closed between March 25 and end-May and with its recovery since then hamstrung by people’s reluctance to travel in public vehicles. Besides their financial hardship, the Duttas had suffered another tragedy: their four-month-old child died in June. Arijit was found on the floor with one end of a snipped dupatta round his neck, which bore ligature marks, and the other tied to the ceiling fan. Wife Suparna, 30, was hanging from the ceiling fan at the end of another dupatta. “A knife was found at the spot,” an officer from Charu Market police station said. Preliminary investigations suggest that Suparna had found Arijit hanging from the fan and used the knife to cut the noose and bring him down. “It appears that when she realised he was dead, she too committed suicide,” the officer said. The investigators have found a diary, with a pen placed inside as a bookmark, showing a page where a handwritten line said that no one was responsible for the writer’s death. The police believe Arijit wrote it. Relatives of the couple told reporters that bank recovery agents had visited Arijit. The police said Arijit had for the past few months been unable to pay the rent of Rs 4,000 for his fourth-floor room in Chetla Road. Arijit’s landlord, who lives on the floor below him, had come to the terrace in the morning to hang clothes to dry. He found the Duttas’ door shut and the room unusually quiet, he has told the police. When the couple failed to answer his knocks, he peeped through the window and called the police. The door, locked from inside, had to be broken open. Husband and wife were declared dead on arrival at SSKM Hospital. Sources at the Lalbazar police headquarters said that thousands of traders and others in the city who had taken bank loans had been unable to repay their EMIs. They said the number of suicides from financial distress in Covid-hit 2020 seemed higher than those recorded in the same period last year. Many app cab owners are feeling the heat. “I bought two cars against loans in 2019, but I have had no income in the past few months,” a Sonarpur resident who has invested in two Swift Dzires, driving one himself and hiring a driver for the other, said. “My bank has been sending recovery agents, but I haven’t been able to do much apart from requesting them for more time.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-302
18-09-2020||Calcutta||Plea for Chhath at Sarovar rejected||The National Green Tribunal on Thursday refused to hear the Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority’s prayer to allow Chhath rituals on the Rabindra Sarobar premises and told the Bengal government’s lawyers they should feel happy that no cost had been imposed on them for filing such a petition. Tens of thousands of Calcuttans welcomed the order. One of them, Sumita Banerjee, told The Telegraph: “The CMDA is the protector of the place. Now imagine what sort of a protector is it that is asking for a relaxation that would destroy and devastate the place?” The tribunal’s eastern zonal bench of Justice S.P. Wangdi and expert member Nagin Nanda dismissed the review petition filed by the CMDA requesting modification of a 2017 order of the bench that had imposed a ban on Chhath Puja on the Sarobar premises. “We are dismissing the petition,” the bench said once the case came up for hearing. “You should feel happy that we are not imposing the cost.” But the state has not given up. An official said it was likely to move the Supreme Court against the tribunal’s order. Many thought the state’s position was dictated by the electoral necessity to not annoy Chhath worshippers ahead of the Assembly elections next year. There are many on the other camp, too, who value the biodiversity that the spraw-ling south Calcutta lake and the greens surrounding it represent. Author and singer Amit Chaudhuri, who has often fought an unequal battle with the city’s agencies to protect its heritage, told The Telegraph the CMDA’s petition was “in keeping with the tradition of government organs in Calcutta” not doing what they are meant to do. “This is not an aberration,” he said. Last year, thousands of Chhath revellers had broken padlocks on the gate and entered the lake premises, burst firecrackers, lit diyas on the water, played loud music and dirtied the place as police virtually allowed them a free run. The CMDA, in its submission, accepted its inability to comply with the tribunal’s order in 2019 stating that “the worshippers forcibly entered the Sarobar breaking the locks and Chhath Puja was forcefully performed in Rabindra Sarobar”. “We were helpless. The police did not help us (stop the revellers),” said a CMDA official. The ban was based on recommendations of an expert committee set up by the tribunal to assess the environmental status of the waterbody. Environment activist Subhas Datta, whose petition had originally prompted the tribunal to impose the ban on Chhath Puja at Rabindra Sarobar, said after the dismissal of the petition: “We should not stop at this. We have all seen how the ban was flouted last year. We will have to ensure it is implemented this time.” The Telegraph had on September 8 reported that the CMDA, the custodian of Rabindra Sarobar, had filed a review petition at the tribunal seeking a “special permission” to allow Chhath Puja at the Sarobar. A CMDA official said their petition was a “suo motu” action. The official added that the agency filed the petition because the matter involved “the emotion of lakhs of people and the CMDA was not in a position to stop a mob” from entering the premises. The local Trinamul councillor, Baiswanar Chatterjee, echoed: “I am not ready to accept the version of environmentalists as gospel. One also has to acknowledge religious sentiments and the fact that the ritual is being practised for a long time.” Residents of the area disputed Chatterjee’s claim. They said the scale on which the defiling happens started around 2010. Datta said the administration had also failed to implement most of the recommendations proposed by the expert committee, even though they had been turned into a judicial order. Arunabha Majumder, an emeritus professor of Jadavpur University, said an event like Chhath at the lake contributes to water pollution in various ways. “First, the BOD (Biological Oxygen Demand) increases with the increase of organic matter in water with so many people bathing, and fruits and flo-wers being dumped there. Secondly, oil and grease poured into the water as part of puja offerings reduce oxygen transfer in the water, which may affect the lives of aquatic animals.” State urban development minister and CMDA chairperson Firhad Hakim had earlier promised to clear the pollution within a day, which has been countered by the green crusaders. “Cleaning the banks and reducing the pollution are not the same, as the latter has a far reaching impact on the environment,” an activist said. The CMDA should not have filed the review petition. Rabindra Sarobar is like the lungs of south Calcutta. It holds such an important place in terms of the city’s environment. If a precedent is set by allowing Chhath Puja at Rabindra Sarobar, then many more things would have been done using this precedent. Abin Chaudhuri, architect and Lake morning walker There is a tradition of bodies that are meant to protect not doing their job in Calcutta. This is not an aberration, but it should be countered and opposed. People should continue to oppose as long as bodies and government organs that have been entrusted with a certain duty do not do that. As long as they do not realise that it is their job to be responsible for something, we should continue to oppose it. Amit Chaudhuri, author, singer and founder of Calcutta Architectural Legacies (CAL) The CMDA is the protector of the place. Now imagine what sort of a protector is it that is asking for a relaxation that would destroy and devastate the place. The NGT has said that Chhath Puja cannot be organised inside the Sarobar. It is the government’s duty to see that people go to other places. The government is meant to make people obey a court’s order. Sumita Banerjee, a regular at Rabindra Sarobar and an activist fighting for its protection||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-302
18-09-2020||Calcutta||Recovery rate boost for Covid care forum||An initiative started to help Covid-19 patients through free online consultation with doctors in the Bidhannagar assembly constituency area is making a difference within a month of its launch. Now the organisers are spreading the service to non-Covid patients who are unable to reach out for medical treatment, fearing infection. Named Sparsho, the initiative of MLA Sujit Bose is being run in association with a group of doctors called Protect the Warriors. “People lack awareness about Covid-19. Those in home isolation were not getting medical guidance in many cases. Through video conference, we are reaching out to patients,” Bose told The Telegraph Salt Lake. Registration for patients are done Monday to Saturday 12noon to 3pm on the Sparsho helpline while doctors offer consultation from 4pm to 6pm. In the first month since it was set up, doctors in the group attended to 254 patients, 356 were tested free of cost for Covid-19 infection, including 212 at the Bidhannagar Subdivisional Hospital and the rest at the Dakshindari testing facility, 26 critically ill patients were hospitalised while pulse oxymeters were reached to 16 families in isolation which could not afford to buy one. “As we are working in collaboration with Swasthya Bhaban, we have in hand the data on who tests positive when and staying in home isolation. We reach out to all of them in the Bidhannagar area. The panic that existed even in end-July about Covid has subsided to an extent as people now know they will get medical support from Sparsho,” said Abhik Ghosh, a CB Block-based ENT specialist who is coordinating with the member-doctors. Sparsho, he points out, came into being when Bose was hospitalised with Covid himself. “Our organisation, Protect the Warriors, was formed in end-March to support healthcare workers. We had about 25-26 doctors on board. We further escalated our activities and gained prominence after cyclone Amphan, holding health camps in the Sunderbans and East Midnapore. But as our membership increased to 500-plus, we realised that police, vegetable sellers or garbage cleaners were all frontline workers in their own way and deserved support.” At this point, he was visiting Bose regularly in hospital. “One day, he asked me to do something for his constituency. That is how the platform came into being.” The single biggest achievement in the first month, he feels, is the sharp improvement in the area’s recovery rate. “Before Sparsho came into being, the local recovery rate was 62 per cent. Now it has shot up to 90 per cent.” At this rate, he expects the Covid situation in Bidhannagar assembly area (which is different from the municipal corporation area) to be under control in another month. “A crisis of availability of Covid beds is not there any more as most big hospitals in and around Salt Lake have beds to offer to Covid patients. The only shortage is of ICU beds with ventilators.” Adds co-founder of Protect the Warriors Anirban Dolui, a public health specialist who is also the Covid surveillance officer of North 24-Parganas: “Bidhannagar was clocking 100-150 new infections daily from end-May to end-June. The rate remained static through July. Now it has come down to 35 to 50 new cases daily. Both active cases per day and test positivity rate are currently on a downward graph. Better awareness, accessibility of testing and the improved support infrastructure, like what Sparsho is providing, are certainly yielding results.” The rising popularity of Sparsho means having to attend calls at odd hours, sometimes even from outside Bidhannagar constituency. “Three days ago, we got a call at 11.30pm on our helpline. A three-year old’s father from Beleghata was seeking help for his son’s fever. I requested a paediatrician member to reach out. At midnight, the doctor offered him video consultation.” That is why the helpline is now being manned for longer hours than was planned. The platform is also hosting online interactive medical meets. Block committees of localities are informed in advance so that residents of the area can log in. “We have doctors from various fields talking and taking questions. So far, 18 meets have taken place over video conference. We get over 200 live views on an average for these programmes,” Ghosh said. saltlake@abpmail.com Sparsho helpline: (For Bidhannagar Assembly constituency residents)  7439596460 and 7439598338 Registration time: 12noon to 12 midnight Consultation time: 4pm to 6pm. Emergency consultation at any time of the day. Charge: Nil||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-302
18-09-2020||Calcutta||Return of the  app cycles||Love cycling but don’t have a bike? A cycle-sharing app, to be launched in New Town next week, will allow commuters to pick up a cycle from a spot, ride it around and return it when done. And the best part is that for the first half an hour, you can ride for free. Chartered Bike, an Ahmedabad-based company, will start operations in our smart city from September 24. Firhad Hakim, minister of urban development and municipal affairs, will come down for the ceremony. “New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) has built five cycle stands for the service and shall build more later,” said Debashis Sen, chairman cum managing director of Housing and Infrastructure Development Corporation (Hidco) and chairman of NKDA. How to hitch a ride To avail of the cycles one needs to download the “Chartered Bike” on the phone. Activate your account with a minimum of Rs 300. This sum will be a prepaid deposit and charges will be deducted from here whenever you use a bike. The amount will have lifetime validity but in case a customer wishes, he can get his unused deposit refunded by writing an email to the company. Where to get the cycles The service is being launched with 100 cycles spread over five stations — New Town bus terminus, near Reliance Fresh, outside Axis Mall, Novotel and Dongfang Electric (near the Central Mall petrol pump). “Our largest station will be at Axis Mall. There will be space for 40 bikes here plus an additional 20 racks for riders who may have come from different stations on their cycles,” says Araz Khan, project manager of Chartered Bikes. The bikes will be “locked” at the stations but you can hire one with your app. Scan the QR code printed on the bike’s fender or frame lock and it will unlock. You can now take off. Should you halt somewhere mid-way you can get off the bike and click “parking” on the app. You will have to manually turn a lever on the wheel to lock it. Once you return, click “unpark” on the app and continue riding. When you want to return the bike  you have to do so at any of the five stations and click “end ride”. The meter on your phone will stop ticking and the corresponding payment will be deducted from the amount you have deposited in your account. First half hour free “Normally the first half an hour would cost Rs 5 but we are allowing it free as an introductory offer for the first six months,” says Khan. From the 31st to the 60th minute, the rider will be charged Rs 5 plus 18 per cent GST (Rs 5.9). From the 61st to 90th minute, it costs Rs 10 plus GST (Rs 11.8). Thereafter, every hour will be charged Rs 15 plus GST (Rs 17.7). “The final slab is the most expensive as we want to discourage people from keeping the bikes with themselves for too long. That means others are deprived from availing the cycles,” says Khan. E-cycles by year-end Besides 100 cycles now, the company will be introducing 400 e-cycles in the coming months. “An e-cycle runs on a battery that can be recharged like mobile phones,” explains Khan. “One doesn’t really need to learn riding an e-bike. One just starts pedalling and then stops as the vehicle moves automatically thereafter.” The e-bikes would move at a maximum of 25km per hour. Neither would the rider need a licence to ride this nor would the vehicle need a registration number plate. “The parking docks of these vehicles would double as charging stations and would start charging the moment a bike is returned by a rider. The fast chargers that would take an hour to charge completely. They would then travel 40km,” says Khan. Still, if a bike battery slows down mid-ride we have the pedal option. The rider can pedal the bike like a cycle to the nearest station and exchange his e-cycle for a fully charged one.” The rates for the e-cycles have not been finalised but are likely to be Rs 5 to unlock and then Rs 15 per hour. Penalty for vandals The bikes are insured and so in case of any damage in an accident the rider need not pay anything. “But we will levy penalty of Rs 5,000 if someone wilfully damages the bike or keeps the bike for more than 24 hours,” Khan says. “No one would need the bike for that long and so if someone does keep it, he may be trying to steal it.” The bikes have live GPS tracking  and so the backend office would always know where it is. Any attempt to steal the bike would be thwarted. “Our staff would go for daily rounds to work on the bikes’ maintenance. If they find any vehicles missing action would be taken,” says Khan. High hopes Sen is optimistic about the e-cycles. “People love to ride but get weary if the journey is too long. E-bikes can be the solution.” The authorities are working to increase cycle tracks in the township and talks are on to keep aside space for cycles at car parking lots too. There is 17km of cycle track now. Another cycle rental service called Pedl had launched in New Town in 2017 and despite immense popularity, was discontinued. “Their financial model was not sustainable and their docking system wasn’t fool-proof, leading to theft and misuse,” observed Sen. Chartered Bike is operational in Bhopal, Surat and Ranchi and Khan shares an anecdote from their Ranchi launch to show the faith he has in the residents of New Town. “A senior bureaucrat at the Ranchi launch had asked us to offer the cycles free of cost for the first week and we did so but it was a disaster,” he says. “People took the bikes home and used it like their personal vehicles, depriving others the chance to use them. And others, who got angry and jealous, vandalised the bikes. Compared to that, people of New Town are very civilised. All our surveys indicate that. I’m sure residents here will patronise the bike service,” says Khan. saltlake@abpmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-303
18-09-2020||Business||Google removes Paytm from Play Store for policy violation ||Google said on Friday it had removed the Paytm app from its Play Store for violation of its policy on sport betting activities. Paytm will not be available for download now but there will be no impact on existing users of the app, Google has clarified. "The app was blocked for violation of play policies - a clarification of our policy was released earlier today (Friday) ahead of the IPL tournament," Google said in an e-mailed response. Google also said that only the app availability on Play Store was impacted and there was no impact on users. Paytm is a popular app for digital transactions. In a tweet, Paytm said Paytm Android app is temporarily unavailable on Google's Play Store for new downloads or updates. "It will be back very soon. All your money is completely safe, and you can continue to enjoy your Paytm app as normal," it added. In a blog on Friday, Google said it did not allow apps facilitating sports betting and would remove such apps from the Google Play Store. "We don't allow online casinos or support any unregulated gambling apps that facilitate sports betting. This includes if an app leads consumers to an external website that allows them to participate in paid tournaments to win real money or cash prizes, it is a violation of our policies," the blog post said. According to the blog post, these policies are in place to protect users from potential harm. There is often a surge in launches of such apps before major sporting tournaments like the IPL. The latest season of the Indian Premier League (IPL) is scheduled to start from Saturday, September 19 in the United Arab Emirates. Google said when an app violates these policies, it notifies the developer of the violation and removes the app from Google Play until the developer brings the app into compliance. "And in the case where there are repeated policy violations, we may take more serious action which may include terminating Google Play Developer accounts. Our policies are applied and enforced on all developers consistently," the blog post by Android Security and Privacy Vice President Product Suzanne Frey said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-286
18-09-2020||Business||US law firm files class action suit against HDFC Bank||A law firm in the US has filed a class action suit against HDFC Bank, claiming damages for the losses incurred by investors because of “materially false and misleading” representations made by India’s largest private sector lender. The suit by Rosen Legal specifically names the bank’s managing director and chief executive Aditya Puri, his chosen successor Sashidhar Jagdishan and company secretary Santosh Haldnakar, who are the defendants in the suit, according to a copy of the complaint uploaded on the website. The complaint did not mention the exact amount of the damages sought, though it maintained that thousands of investors might have suffered.  HDFC Bank could not be immediately reached for comment. According to the suit, bank officials “engaged in a plan, scheme, conspiracy and course of conduct, pursuant to which they knowingly or recklessly engaged in acts, transactions, practices and courses of business which operated as a fraud and deceit”, resulting in the losses to investors. The allegations pertain to the vehicle finance vertical, where the bank later acknowledged to have found some improprieties which resulted in some executives being acted against. The bank had inadequate disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, maintained improper lending practices in the vehicle financing making the operations unsustainable and all this was likely to have a negative impact on its financial condition and reputation, it alleged.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-286
18-09-2020||Business||GST: Covid ruse to silence automakers||Covid-19 — infamously characterised as an Act of God by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman — has again come in as a handy excuse for a glowering response from the Narendra Modi government to silence the first rumblings of protest from automakers. Some auto firms have had the temerity to suggest that the high goods and service tax (GST) rate has badly stalled recovery in the industry. On Thursday, finance ministry sources sent out a stern message to the automakers: cut manufacturing costs and pare royalty payments to overseas parent firms instead of trying to pressure the government to cut GST rates. The brouhaha over GST rates burst into the open on Tuesday when Toyota Kirloskar vice-chairman Shekar Viswanathan told Bloomberg in an interview that the carmaker had decided not to expand operations in India because of the country’s high tax regime. “The message we are getting, after we have come here and invested money, is that we don’t want you,” Viswanathan said in that interview. In the absence of any reforms, “we won’t exit India, but we won’t scale up”. Viswanathan’s statement resonated with other automakers and the rumblings of dissent over the high taxes started to begin, prompting Union heavy industries minister Prakash Javadekar to say in a tweet later that evening: “The news that Toyota Company will stop investing in India is incorrect. Vikram Kirloskar has clarified that Toyota will invest more than Rs 2,000 core in the next 12 months.” Kirloskar, a minority partner in the car venture, stepped in to try and end the rumpus with his own soothing tweet: “Absolutely! We are investing over Rs 2,000 crore in electric components for the domestic customer and exports. We are committed to the future of India.” The mild damage-control exercise didn’t apparently work as other automakers turned equally restive though they were too scared to issue public statements. The government has now decided to come out with a more aggressive response to quell criticism over its tax regime at a time when it is trying to woo foreign investors to set up shop in India. Driving etiquette says you must not dazzle a flustered car driver in a sudden face-off with a luminous high-beam response — but the government has chosen to do exactly that. “If the regulatory environment was not conducive, it would be hard to imagine new players investing heavily in vehicle-manufacturing facilities like Jeep, Kia Motors and MG Motor, to name a few. Those companies which can feel the pulse of the Indian consumer and deliver accordingly are ruling the roost,” a source said. The suggestion to cut royalty payout to overseas parents is unusually aggressive since the royalty was the real reason the Japanese and South Korean automakers invested in India in the first place. Most pay royalties between 3 and 5 per cent. In the case of small global automakers like Suzuki Motors, this is a critical source of revenue. Maruti Suzuki paid Rs 38.2 billion — amounting to 5 per cent of its revenues — in royalties to its Japanese parent Suzuki Motor in the fiscal year ending March 31, 2020, according to its annual report. Toyota Motor’s India arm paid $88 million or 3.4 per cent of revenue to its Japanese parent, government data showed. Automakers have not responded to the government’s suggestion to cut royalties but maintain that it is becoming hard to do business in India because of the high tax rates. Shashank Srivastava, executive director of Maruti Suzuki India, told The Telegraph: “India’s GDP per capita is low by international standards and because of our demographics profile we have a large number of first-time buyers who buy more value cars. These two factors make for a high elasticity of demand as regards the cost of acquisition of cars. The high sensitivity of buyers to the cost of acquisition makes it imperative to keep the costs low if the industry has to tap the big upside potential that comes from the current low car penetration in our country.” He said automakers try to optimise costs relating to components, labour, productivity, logistics and retailing. But the costs outside their control are regulatory and statutory costs like road taxes, registration taxes, insurance costs, GST, cess, etc. Therefore, the industry often appeals for the reduction of the costs of acquisition arising from these elements. “The government obviously has to take appropriate decisions on these based on the overall economy,” Srivastava said. But an increasingly truculent government is not prepared to listen to any form of criticism and, instead, insists that automobile taxes in India are among the lowest in the world. A finance ministry source said: “The GST rates on automobiles are less than what value-added tax (VAT) and excise duty rates used to be in pre-GST times. The tax policy on automobiles has been quite consistent for the last three decades and we have incentivised domestic manufacturing by providing reasonable protection from imports. Industry has, on its part, also delivered on its side of the bargain. It has contributed by making large investments and increasing employment. “This sudden dissent in some quarters on tax rates on automobiles is surprising. These companies should cut down their costs of manufacturing by cutting down the royalty payments to their parent companies abroad instead of asking the government to reduce GST.” The source suggested the response was coming from frustrated automakers who were unable to stand the heat of competition. The official said that Japan currently imposed three types of taxes on automobiles: once on purchase, then an annual automobile tax based on engine size and, finally, a weight tax at inspections required once every two years. Over and above this, there is GST at the highest applicable rate, the official said. Sources also cited the example of the EU where the base rate for VAT/GST on automobiles ranges from 20 per cent to 25 per cent, with a string of other taxes varying with jurisdiction. “The UK charges vehicle excise duties that vary with car emission norms and has 14 rate slabs varying from zero to £2,175 a year with a surcharge of £325 in the first year and £150 for expensive vehicles,” a source said. “Besides, there are road usage charges. Further, high parking charges are common across the globe. Most of the countries provide certain concessions to electric vehicles. Given this, it would be unfair to claim that the GST rates in India are astounding or a demand dampener.” Ravi Bhatia, president and director, JATO Dynamics, an automotive research firm, said: “It is not wrong for industry to seek a stable policy framework and globally comparable taxation regime. ‘Make in India’ can happen only when the government puts money where its mouth is.” He added: “We have idle capacity and that hurts profitability in a very big way. This sector also has employment generation potential which is not being utilised…. For a country which can economically benefit from improving mobility, the auto sector wants to be seen as a facilitator of economic growth and not a burden or a sin good.” It is hard to say why the dissent has erupted now after months of poor automobile sales. One view is that the carmakers want to head off the possibility of the GST Council tinkering with rates again — especially raising the compensation cess on high-end cars — at a time when the Centre is locked with the states in a battle over unpaid dues and inadequate compensation payouts to make up for the shortfall. The issue is likely to come to a head on October 5 when the GST Council is to meet with the states, which are being asked to vote on two stark and disagreeable options: either borrow a sum of Rs 97,000 crore from a special window to be created by the Reserve Bank of India to meet a small part of the expected Rs 3 lakh crore shortfall in GST collections this year, or raise the entire uncovered sum of Rs 2.35 lakh crore in the form of debt. The GST compensation cess is expected to raise a paltry Rs 65,000 crore this year, creating a gaping hole in the states’ finances. The Modi government has broken a circle of trust after it disclaimed its constitutional obligation to compensate the states for any annual shortfall in tax collections this year. Automakers fear that the compensation cess -- which is levied on cigarettes, pan masala, aerated drinks and cars that are more than 4 metres long — might be raised to meet a part of the dues, which would wreck their operations. The GST Council was supposed to meet on Saturday but will now meet after the end of the current session of Parliament.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-286
18-09-2020||Business||GM Indian plant sale delay to result in hefty unplanned costs||Delays in General Motors’ sale of its Indian plant to Great Wall Motor because of tensions between India and China are likely to result in hefty unplanned costs for the US automaker, people familiar with the matter said. Gaining approval from the Indian government for China-related deals is now expected to take quite some time and although the sale should still happen at some point, GM has not changed its plan to begin winding down the plant’s operations next month, they said. “By next year, it will either be a closed GM site or it will be an operating site with Great Wall,” said one source. GM had planned to use the expected sale proceeds of $250 million-$300 million to pay off liabilities incurred with its exit from manufacturing in India in what a second source said would have been a “no gain-no loss” situation. Although money will come through once the deal is done, it will now have to pay out of pocket for severance pay, some of which would never have occurred had the deal proceeded smoothly, as well as other costs — which could amount to a couple hundred million dollars, according to the second source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-286
18-09-2020||Business||Vodafone Idea Ltd drops faster data speed claims||Faced with regulatory heat on its controversial plan, Vodafone Idea Ltd has dropped faster data speed claims, which formed a prominent part of its pay-more-for-priority-treatment offering, and has filed a revised plan with Trai, a source said. The move assumes significance as the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (Trai) late last month slapped a showcause notice on VIL over its priority mobile plan, saying the tariff offer lacked transparency, was “misleading” and not in compliance with regulatory framework. The source said the company has now submitted a new RedX plan with Trai and claims of faster data speeds — a major bone of contention — has been done away with. The company’s website is also no longer touting claims of faster speeds for RedX plan, which had been under Trai’s scanner over the past few weeks. Instead, VIL’s website is talking of benefits purely in terms of entertainment privileges (Netflix and Amazon Prime), travel privileges, mobility benefits and other privileges. In the new RedX plan, which has now been filed with Trai, the company has withdrawn the claim of “priority 4G network as compared to other Vodafone postpaid plans”, the source added. VIL’s spokesperson declined to comment on the issue. The regulator had, on August 25, issued a showcause notice asking the company “why appropriate action should not be initiated against it for violating the extant regulatory framework by its RedX tariff plan”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-286
18-09-2020||Business||Irdai considering to extend tenure of Covid-specific offerings||Insurance regulator Irdai is considering a plan to extend the tenure of Covid-19 specific products as the vaccine for the disease is likely to take some more time, its chairman Subhash C. Khuntia said on Thursday. The watchdog is also working towards facilitating a standard product for coronavirus, which will be easy to understand and will not require “voluminous policy documents”.  “With regard to extending the tenure of the Covid-19 related products, we are hoping that the vaccine would not be delayed for too long. But now that it appears that it will take some more time, we will take a decision about extending the tenure of the policy at an appropriate time,” Khuntia said while addressing the CII Insurance and Pensions Summit webcast. Corona Kavach, launched on July 10 and is being offered by both general and health insurers, is a standard health insurance policy created to meet the treatment requirements for coronavirus infection. The term of the policy ranges from three-and-a-half months to nine-and-a-half months, with a maximum insured amount at Rs 5 lakh. On new Covid-19 insurance products, Khuntia said, “We are coming out with a standard product which is to be sold by all the companies so that it becomes much easier for the policyholder to pick up that product.” Pandemic pool A working group of Irdai has suggested setting up of a pandemic risk pool with a Rs 75,000 crore backstop guarantee from the government in the initial stages, with a view to help MSME workers and migrant labourers facing loss of income.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-286
18-09-2020||Business||DoT directs telecom service providers to carry out Special Security Audit||Telecom players must do an audit of their network equipment on security grounds amid growing fears of data pilferage by Chinese companies, the government said in the Rajya Sabha on Thursday. State-owned BSNL is heavily reliant on Chinese vendors for its equipment, according to data released by minister of state for communications Sanjay Dhotre in the Rajya Sabha. BSNL has procured 44.4 per cent of its mobile network equipment from ZTE and 9 per cent from Huawei, both Chinese companies. Fellow PSU, Mahanagar Telecom Nigam Limited, has procured 10 per cent of its equipment from the Chinese vendors. “The DoT (department of telecommunications) has directed the telecom service providers i.e. Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited, Mahanagar Telephone Nigam Limited, Reliance Jio Infocomm Limited, Bharti Airtel Limited & Vodafone Idea Limited to carry out a Special Security Audit of their networks by an external agency,” the minister said. The objective of the exercise is to check for any “backdoor” or “trapdoor” telecom network vulnerabilities that may allow foreign agencies to listen or collect data being shared on the network. Under unified licence norms, each operator has to undertake an audit of their networks. “According to condition no 39.6 of Chapter VI of Unified Licence, each licensee has to undertake an audit of its network or get its network audited from a security point of view once in a financial year from a network audit and certification agency,” Dhotre said in response to a question from a lawmaker. The minister’s comments come on the back of a security overhaul by the government where it has banned Chinese apps and has asked operators to complete their audits as well. Reliance Jio Infocomm Limited (RJIL) has not deployed any equipment from ZTE and Huawei in its network, the minister said. Vodafone Idea Limited  follows a multi-vendor strategy and has always been compliant with the various security-related requirements. Bharti Airtel Limited, too, follows a multi-vendor approach with equipment from Indian, American, European and Chinese companies across different domains such as radio, core and transport, Dhotre said in his reply.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-286
18-09-2020||Business||Govt permits FDI of up to 74 per cent under automatic route in defence sector||The government has permitted foreign direct investment (FDI) of up to 74 per cent under the automatic route in the defence sector, according to a press note issued by the department for promotion of industry and internal trade (DPIIT) on Thursday. However, the investments would be subject to scrutiny on the grounds of national security. The government shall reserve the right to review any foreign investment in the sector that affects or may affect national security, the DPIIT said in the note. Under the current FDI policy, 100 per cent overseas investments are permitted in the defence industry — 49 per cent under the automatic route — while beyond that government approval is required. What is FDI under automatic route? Investments that do not require government or RBI approval.FDI in defence up to 49% at present under automatic route What is the rule change? Henceforth, FDI in defence up to 74% will not require any approval. Above 74%, approval will be required According to the Press Note 4 (2020 series): “FDI up to 74 per cent under the automatic route shall be permitted for companies seeking new industrial licences”. The Press Note said infusion of fresh investments up to 49 per cent in a company not seeking industrial licence or which already has government approval for FDI in defence shall require “mandatory” submission of a declaration with the defence ministry in case of change in equity/shareholding pattern or transfer of stake by the existing investor to a new foreign investor for FDI up to 49 per cent, within 30 days of such a change”. The proposal to raise FDI beyond 49 per cent from such companies will require government approval. “The decision will take effect from the date of Fema (Foreign Exchange Management Act) notification,” the note said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-286
18-09-2020||Business||India ranks 116 on human capital index||India has been ranked at the 116th position in the latest edition of the World Bank’s annual Human Capital Index that benchmarks key components of human capital across countries. However, India’s score increased to 0.49 from 0.44 in 2018, according to the Human Capital Index report released by the World Bank on Wednesday. The 2020 Human Capital Index update includes health and education data for 174 countries — covering 98 per cent of the world’s population — up to March 2020, providing a pre-pandemic baseline on the health and education of children, with the biggest strides made in low-income countries. The analysis shows that pre-pandemic, most countries had made steady progress in building human capital of children, with the biggest strides made in low-income countries. Despite this progress, and even before the effects of the pandemic, a child born in a typical country could expect to achieve just 56 per cent of their potential human capital. “The pandemic puts at risk the decade’s progress in building human capital,” said World Bank group president David Malpass.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-287
18-09-2020||Business||Shapoorji Pallonji threatens to file for unquantified damages against Tatas||The cash-strapped Shapoorji Pallonji group has threatened to file for unquantified damages against the Tatas for wrecking its fund-raising plans that has been built on the pledge of a small portion of the 18.4 per cent stake held in Tata Sons. In a legal notice sent two days ago, the Cyrus Mistry camp has questioned the complicity of the $111-billion Tata group’s holding company and the members of its board of directors, individually and collectively, for seeking to block the Mistry family from raising funds against the security of the Tata Sons shares that they own. The latest battle between the Tatas and the Mistry camp erupted after the Shapoorji Pallonji group entities signed a deal with Brookfield — a marquee Canadian investment firm — to raise Rs 3,750 crore as part of the first tranche of its fund raising plans. The group is hoping to raise Rs 11,000 crore to tide over an acute funds crunch precipitated by the pandemic. The Tatas immediately approached the Supreme Court on September 5 seeking to restrain the Mistry group from raising capital against their Tata Sons shares. Through the petition, the Tatas sought to prevent the SP Group from creating any direct or indirect pledge of shares. The Mistry camp has asked the group to respond to its notice “within three working days” of receiving the notice, failing which they will initiate action to stop the Tatas from once again trying to oppress a minority shareholder with a vindictive desire to harm its financial interests. The notice said the company and its directors had been rendered “liable for damages, apart from being responsible for aiding, abetting and fomenting vexatious litigation without basis, and thereby putting at risk the lives and employment of tens of thousands of Indians in dire times of pandemic-induced socio-economic stress”. The Mistry camp sought an explanation from the board members, particularly the independent directors, whether the oppressive action that causes prejudice to a minority shareholder was with their concurrence. An SP Group spokesperson stated that this move was solely intended to inflict irreparable harm on the group. The notice accused the Tatas of seeking to create panic among the lenders to the SP Group entities. “The real objective was to spread panic among lenders and financial institutions and cause our clients colossal damage,” the notice said. It added that the malafide intent was borne out by the fact that after filing an “urgent application” before the Supreme Court and seeking to be heard immediately, the Tatas had started to employ dilatory tactics. “Now the urgency has miraculously evaporated and the application itself has been purportedly kept pending for curing defects,” the Mistry notice said. “Abusing the process of a court, no less than the Supreme Court of India, underlines such malafide conduct you have indulged in,” the notice added. It accused Tata Sons and its board of directors of having acted in a manner detrimental to the interests of the company and its shareholders “especially when the outcome of such a move will also have serious implications on every company in the Tata Group that holds shares in Noticee No 1 (Tata Sons), and the encumbrances they or their shareholders may create from time to time”. It accused the independent directors of failing in their statutory duty to “protect the minority shareholders and have acted as a mere rubber stamp to implement the majority shareholders’ decision without weighing its consequences on minority shareholders”. “We have no comment to offer,” a Tata Sons spokesperson told PTI.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-287
18-09-2020||India||Can media target whole community, SC asks Sudarshan TV||The Supreme Court on Friday questioned Sudarshan TV over its 'Bindas Bol' programme, whose promo had claimed that the channel would show the 'big expose on conspiracy to infiltrate Muslims in government service', and asked whether media can be allowed to target whole set of communities . The apex court, while hearing a plea which has raised grievance over the programme, said the channel is entitled to break story but it cannot brand the entire community and alienate them by doing such kind of stories. "This is the real issue. Whenever you show them joining civil services, you show ISIS. You want to say that Muslims joining civil services is a part of a deep-rooted conspiracy. Can the media be allowed to target whole set of communities?" a bench headed by Justice D Y Chandrachud asked. Painting all candidates as carrying out an agenda shows a kind of hatred. This is the element of concern, said the bench, also comprising Justices Indu Malhotra and K M Joseph. "Here free speech becomes hatred. You can't brand every member of the community. You alienate the good members too by divisive agenda, it said. The bench told senior advocate Shyam Divan, who was representing Sudarshan TV, that the court has no problem with the story on investigative journalism on funding from terror linked organizations but it cannot say that Muslims are carrying out some agenda by going for UPSC services. "Let a message go to the media that a particular community cannot be targeted. We have to look after a nation of the future which is cohesive and diverse, the media should know that the country cannot survive with such an agenda. "We are a court and after seeing what happened during the emergency, it is our duty to see that human dignity is preserved", said the bench. Divan referred to the affidavit filed in the apex court by Suresh Chavhanke, Editor-in-Chief of the channel. In the affidavit, the channel has defended its programme saying it has used the term 'UPSC Jehad' based on information that 'Zakat Foundation' received funds from various terror-linked organisations . Zakat Foundation provides training and study materials largely to Muslim students who aspire to join civil services. During the hearing conducted through video-conferencing, Divan said the channel has no problem with any individual from any community joining the civil services on merit. "The channel wants to complete the broadcast. We are not running away anywhere. If the four episodes are seen as whole then a cuss word here and there should not ignite the jurisdiction of this court to impose a pre-telecast ban", he said. The bench observed that some of the offensive contents should be taken off. Divan told the bench that the channel would file an affidavit with regard to the alleged offensive content of the programme as pointed out by the court. "We know how an injunction order will be looked like. I am afraid that there will be injunctions galore and we don't want that to be the law of land. We want to give your client a good faith option." the bench observed, Earlier in the day's proceeding, the bench asked Zakat Foundation, an NGO which provides training to largely Muslims students aspiring for civil services, whether it wanted to intervene in the case following allegations of foreign funding from some terror linked organizations to its Indian set up. The bench told senior advocate Sanjay Hegde, appearing for Zakat Foundation, that the affidavit of Sudarshan TV has allegations of foreign funding against his client. Hegde said his client is a charitable organization and has been supporting non-Muslims as well and this kind of social service is not known even in government circles. The channel has also filed an application in the apex court seeking live telecast of the hearing in the matter. On September 15, the top court had restrained the channel from telecasting the episodes of "Bindas Bol" programme till further orders, saying that "the intent" of the episodes "prima facie" appeared to "vilify" the Muslim community.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-660
18-09-2020||India||Farm bills a 'protection shield' for farmers, says PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday stoutly defended farm sector reform bills, asserting that they will act as a "protection shield" for farmers and accused those opposing the measures of standing with middlemen and "deceiving" and "lying" to peasants. With opposition parties dubbing three bills, passed by Lok Sabha and now to be tabled in Rajya Sabha, as "anti-farmers" and the BJP ally Shiromani Akali Dal quitting his government to protest them, Modi refuted their criticism while speaking via video-conference after the launch of a railway bridge on river Koshi in Bihar. He said these laws will unshackle farmers by allowing them to sell their produce anywhere by negotiating a better price. He asserted that the government purchase of farm produce will remain, adding that the mechanism of minimum support price will continue in the same way it always has. At a virtual event to launch several rail projects in Bihar, Modi said his government is committed to providing farmers appropriate price through the MSP, and asserted that no government has done as much for the farming community as the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance in its six years in power since 2014. Farmers of the country are aware and can see who are standing with middlemen, who "pocketed"profits meant for them, and opposing new opportunities being provided for them through these measures, he said. The prime minister said the Congress had also promised in its manifesto what his government has now done through these bills, as he attacked the opposition party for fanning protests against these proposed legislations. Without naming it, he launched a blistering attack on the Congress, saying those who remained in power for decades are trying to "mislead" farmers and "lying" to them on the agriculture bills. Lok Sabha had passed two bills on Thursday and another bill earlier with the government asserting that they will open new avenues for farmers by unshackling them from existing mechanism and allowing them to enter into agreements with private parties to sell their produce.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-660
18-09-2020||India||Delhi HC directs schools to provide gadgets, internet pack to poor students||The Delhi High Court Friday directed private as well as government schools to provide gadgets and an internet package to poor students for online classes, saying the absence of such facilities prevent children from pursuing elementary education. A bench of Justices Manmohan and Sanjeev Narula said private unaided schools "shall be entitled to claim reimbursement of reasonable cost for procurement of the equipment and internet package from the State under the Right to Education (RTE) Act, 2009, even though the State is not providing the same to its students". The bench directed constitution of a three-member committee, comprising education secretary from the Centre or his nominee, Delhi government's education secretary or his nominee and a representative of the private schools, to expedite and streamline the process of identifying and supplying the gadgets to poor and disadvantaged students. The court said the committee shall also frame standard operating procedures (SOPs) for identifying the standard of the equipment and internet package to be supplied to the poor and disadvantaged students. This would ensure uniformity in the gadgets and internet package being used by all the poor and disadvantaged students, the bench said. The judgment came on a PIL by NGO Justice for All, represented by advocate Khagesh Jha, seeking directions to the Centre and the Delhi government to provide free laptops, tablets or mobile phones to poor kids so that they can access classes online during the Covid-19 lockdown.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-660
18-09-2020||India||Almost one lakh cases in a day, Covid tally touches 52 lakh||India's Covid-19 tally raced past 52 lakh with 96,424 people testing positive in a day, while the number of people who have recuperated from the disease rose to 41,12,551 on Friday, according to the Union Health Ministry data. The country's recovery rate stands at 78.86 per cent. The total coronavirus cases mounted to 52,14,677, while the death toll climbed to 84,372 with the virus claiming 1,174 lives in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed. The Covid-19 case fatality rate due to the coronavirus infection has further dropped to 1.62 per cent. There are 10,17,754 active cases of Covid-19 in the country which comprises 19.52 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and it went past 50 lakh on September 16. According to the ICMR, a cumulative total of 6,15,72,343 samples have been tested up to September 17 with 10,06,615 samples being tested on Thursday. Of the 1,174 new deaths, 468 are from Maharashtra, 93 from Karnataka, 81 from Uttar Pradesh, 72 from Andhra Pradesh, 60 from West Bengal, 59 from Tamil Nadu, 54 from Punjab,38 from Delhi, 33 from Madhya Pradesh, 24 from Haryana, 19 from Jammu and Kashmir, 17 each from Assam and Chhattisgarh, 14 each from Gujarat and Rajasthan and 13 each from Odisha, Puducherry and Uttarakhand. Eleven fatalities have been reported from Jharkhand and Telangana, nine from Kerala, eight from Goa, seven each from Bihar and Himachal Pradesh, six from Tripura, five from Chandigarh, three each from Manipur and Sikkim while Meghalaya has registered one new fatality. A total of 84,372 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 31,351 from Maharashtra followed by 8,618 from Tamil Nadu, 7,629 from Karnataka, 5,177 from Andhra Pradesh, 4,877 from Delhi, 4,771 from Uttar Pradesh, 4,183 from West Bengal, 3,270 from Gujarat, 2,646 from Punjab and 1,877 from Madhya Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-660
18-09-2020||India||IMA denounces failure on Covid warrior data||The Indian Medical Association, the country’s largest body of doctors, has accused the Narendra Modi government of “hypocrisy” for describing healthcare workers on the frontlines of the coronavirus epidemic as “warriors” but not caring to count Covid-19 deaths among them. The IMA said 382 doctors had died from Covid-19 and decried the Union health ministry’s assertions in Parliament that health was a state subject and the Centre did not maintain data on Covid-19 infections or deaths among healthcare workers. Senior doctors not associated with the IMA too have expressed surprise that the Centre is not tracking deaths among healthcare workers, saying that is tantamount to a nation at war not counting casualties among its soldiers. Union health minister Harsh Vardhan had in a statement in Parliament earlier this week acknowledged healthcare workers’ contributions during the pandemic. However, the health ministry, replying to parliamentary questions, had said it does not collect data on infections or deaths among healthcare workers but maintains a record of insurance claims received from their families after deaths among them. The IMA has said in a sharply worded statement that any attempt to pretend that information about infections and deaths among healthcare workers does not merit the attention of the nation is “abominable”. “If the government doesn’t maintain the statistics of the number of doctors and healthcare workers infected by Covid-19 and statistics of how many sacrificed their lives… it loses the moral authority to administer the Epidemic Act, 1897, and the Disaster Management Act,” the IMA said. The Centre had earlier this year invoked the two acts, empowering itself to enforce epidemic-related advisories. The IMA said the Centre’s attitude “exposes the hypocrisy” of calling healthcare workers “corona warriors” and yet denying them the status of martyrdom. Earlier, the Centre had declared that it maintained no data on the deaths of migrants, another segment of the population that has suffered heavily because of the pandemic and the lockdown. “There is a reluctance to admit that healthcare workers have sacrificed their lives,” R.V. Asokan, IMA general secretary, told The Telegraph. “The Centre is enforcing coronavirus advisories in all states, but they do not consider it necessary to count casualties among healthcare workers.” Doctors have underlined that healthcare workers represent precious resources, especially during pandemics. Several countries such as Italy and the US have since the beginning of the pandemic maintained records of Covid-19 infections and deaths among their healthcare workers. In the US, for instance, the Centres for Disease Control and Prevention have recorded 156,306 infections and 690 deaths among healthcare professionals. “Tracking such numbers is important because any unusual increase can alert authorities about the need for interventions,” a senior physician at a central government hospital in India, who requested not to be named, told this newspaper. “Infection and death counts among healthcare workers also serve as measures of the effectiveness of the personal protective equipment.” The health ministry and the Indian Council of Medical Research, along with the states, maintain records of all those who were tested, all those found positive and all those who died. “It should not be difficult for the Centre to get this data (about healthcare workers) on a regular basis from states,” a senior doctor at a government hospital said. The IMA had until Thursday documented 382 Covid-19 deaths and 2,238 infections among doctors across the country. Asokan said the association collected information daily from its state branches, which rely on around 1,700 local town branches to gather data on deaths and infections among doctors. The 382 doctors who have died include 42 each from Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka, 39 from Gujarat, 36 from Maharashtra, 28 from Bengal and 23 from Bihar. General practitioners and family doctors have disproportionately high infections, Asokan said. “General practitioners and neighbourhood doctors are at particularly high risk of exposure because they remain the first port of call for most patients, including those with respiratory symptoms. Patients do not go directly to Covid hospitals,” he said. Asokan said the data the IMA had collected suggested that doctors, who are at a greater risk of exposure than the general population, also have higher mortality levels. The IMA’s own database, albeit incomplete, has counts of 2,238 infections and 382 deaths — implying a fatality rate of 17 per cent, which is more than 10 times the national Covid-19 case fatality rate of 1.6 per cent. Senior IMA officials concede that a comparison based on incomplete data is inappropriate. “We want to be proved wrong. We hope that the government counts the deaths among doctors and other healthcare workers and proves us wrong,” Asokan said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-660
18-09-2020||India||Job data hard to gulp? Shut eyes||The Centre has said it does not accept survey data provided by “non-government agencies”, the assertion coming at a time independent agencies have reported enormous job losses in the country while the government has sat tight on its own survey findings. For instance, the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE) has estimated the loss of 21 million salaried jobs between April and August, weeks after suggesting that 18.9 million salaried jobs were lost between April and July. Labour minister Santosh Gangwar told the Rajya Sabha on Wednesday that government policies use only official data. “For framing government policies only official data are used, and data captured by non-government agencies are not referred (to),” he said in a written reply to a question from Samajwadi Party member Ravi Prakash Verma. Verma had asked whether the government was aware of the CMIE’s finding about the loss of 18.9 million salaried jobs. Others too have pointed to an unemployment crisis. The International Labour Organisation and the Asian Development Bank released a report last month saying 41 lakh youths in India had lost their jobs in the first three months of the lockdown. A survey by the Azim Premji University has found that two-thirds of the country’s informal-sector workers lost their jobs during the lockdown. CMIE managing director Mahesh Vyas told The Telegraph that the government was “free to take a view” on whether to take the organisation’s findings into account. Labour economist and former JNU teacher Santosh Mehrotra, currently a visiting professor to the University of Bath in the UK, agreed that it was the government’s prerogative not to use NGO data for policy-making. But, he said, the government should release its own data punctually. “If the government does not accept NGO data, it should release its own data regularly. But several survey reports by the National Statistical Office (NSO) and the Labour Bureau have not been released despite having been ready long ago,” Mehrotra said. The Periodic Labour Force Survey (PLFS), conducted by the NSO, is supposed to release its findings every quarter but has not done so since July 2019. “The CMIE survey uses a larger sample than the PLFS. It covers both the organised and unorganised-sector workers, and both the rural and urban areas,” Mehrotra said. “It is reliable data. If the government does not accept it, it should explain why not.” The NSO is yet to release the Time Use Survey, for which data collection had concluded last December. This survey ascertains what people do from 4am through the rest of the day, thus reflects what proportion of the workforce has jobs. The ministry of statistics and programme implementation has decided to not release the 75th Consumer Expenditure Survey, citing a wide divergence from the data sent in by district administrations across the country. The Business Standard newspaper has reported that the survey, conducted between July 2017 and June 2018, found a fall in consumer spending for the first time in more than four decades. The Labour Bureau, which operates under the labour and employment ministry, has failed to release the last four reports of the now-scrapped Quarterly Employment Survey (QES), and the latest report of the Employment and Unemployment Survey, conducted for 2016-17.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-661
18-09-2020||India||Job protests spoil Modi birthday party||From Twitter trends to street protests, the subject of joblessness received more traction on Thursday than celebrations of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s birthday. On Twitter, #17Baje17Minute, #NationalUnemploymentDay and #RashtriyaBerozgariDiwas were the most trending hashtags in India, cumulatively accounting for almost 40 lakh tweets by 7.30pm. (#17Baje17Minute was a call for protests at 5.17pm on Thursday.) #HappyBirthdayPMModi and allied tags such as #RespectYourPM had by then registered just over 5 lakh tweets. Thursday’s development came amid a 23 per cent unemployment rate — higher than pre-lockdown levels — and a contraction in India’s GDP, for the first time in four decades, by 23.9 per cent. Groups of students and civil service aspirants were the first to give a call to rebrand Modi’s birthday at a time when the BJP was observing “Sewa Saptah” or service week to celebrate it. Workers and frontal organisations of the Congress were heavily involved in the protests, while Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra tweeted unemployment data and visuals of the demonstrations. In Delhi, BJP members planted trees, donated blood, distributed sports equipment and fruits in slums and cut a large cake made of laddus. The Congress and Left protests, however, were spread across many cities, with the police forcibly dispersing youths chanting slogans against unemployment in Lucknow and Allahabad. Marches with fire torches were held in the evening in several cities. In Delhi, the Youth Congress hung banners on several flyovers mocking the Prime Minister over the unemployment crisis. Rahul tweeted a news report about purported labour ministry data that said only 1.77 lakh jobs were available in 20 key sectors while 1.03 crore people were looking for jobs. “Massive unemployment has forced the youth to call today #NationalUnemploymentDay. Employment is dignity. For how long will the Govt deny it?” Rahul said. The government has failed to release employment data provided by various surveys while independent agencies have painted a dismal picture of job losses. Two external members of the National Statistical Commission quit last year after the government withheld a job survey report. CPIML Liberation general secretary Dipankar Bhattacharya tweeted pictures of protest rallies from across Bihar. “Salute Young India for storming Modi’s birthday party with their torchlight processions against unemployment and the non-performing and treacherous Modi government,” he said. On March 6, 1930, the Communist International had marked an International Unemployment Day during the Great Depression in the United States and Europe, which eventually led to the suppression of communists in the US.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-661
18-09-2020||India||India-China standoff: Rajnath admission on LAC patrol||The Centre told Parliament that China is stopping Indian troops from patrolling some of the areas they used to along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), identifying this as the main reason for the ongoing face-off. This was said in the Rajya Sabha on Thursday by defence minister Rajnath Singh in response to a clarification sought by Congress MP A.K. Antony on his statement on “the developments on our borders in Ladakh” that was tabled in the Lok Sabha on Tuesday. “Antony sahab... ne yeh kaha ki China patrolling karne se Bharat ko rokta hai. Mein yah spasht kar dena chahta hoon ki ladai bhi toh isiliye ho rahi hai, fasaad toh isliye hota hai (Mr Antony... said China stops India from patrolling. I want to make it clear that the fight is happening because of this, this is the cause of the dispute),” Rajnath said. He did not divulge any further details, asserting that the patrolling pattern that Antony — himself a former defence minister — had referred to was traditional and well-defined. “No force on earth can stop Indian troops from patrolling these areas. It is for this that our soldiers made the supreme sacrifice. There will be no change in the patrolling pattern,” Rajnath said. Antony had said the army and the ITBP must be allowed to patrol till the points that “we used to patrol”, stressing that Indian troops were not being allowed up to Finger Point 8, which they used to patrol. While Rajnath was drawn into commenting on the patrolling, he sidestepped questions from Antony and party colleague Anand Sharma whether the restoration of status quo ante would remain a non-negotiable and final objective for India. Antony was persistent. “The defence minister promised the House that the government will do everything to protect the sovereignty of the country. What does it mean? You have to clarify if ‘sovereignty’ means status quo ante as in mid-April. That is the meaning of protecting sovereignty — status quo ante as of April.” Referring to his statement in the context of the questions posed by the two Congress members, Rajnath said: “I have clarified it completely in my statement.” His statement, however, did not mention “status quo ante” even once. What it did was repeatedly assert that neither side should unilaterally alter the status quo. Patrolling points are designated spots on the LAC that are patrolled according to a pre-determined schedule by the security forces. They are a way of asserting India’s claims along the LAC, which is yet to be delineated. In the Fingers area of the Pangong Lake, flashpoints emerge when the patrols of the two armies end up at the same point around the same time — a possible fallout of the claim lines going beyond the areas physically held. Commenting on the day’s proceedings, Jairam Ramesh, the Congress chief whip in the Rajya Sabha, tweeted: “Raksha Mantri’s statement this afternoon in the Rajya Sabha drew the support of all political parties. But sadly we are none the wiser on the PM’s claim of 19th June. Was that deliberate or was it a slip-up? Was it a ploy or a mis-step? Whatever it was, it continues to haunt India.” Given the questions and doubts that persist about the situation along the LAC and the Chinese intent — about which even external affairs minister S. Jaishankar has admitted “we are at a loss to know why” — Rajya Sabha Chairman Venkaiah Naidu suggested to Rajnath that he privately brief leaders of the Opposition parties on the situation. Later, briefing reporters, external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said: “The Chinese side should sincerely work with the Indian side for complete disengagement at the earliest from all friction areas including Pangong Lake as well as de-escalation in border areas in accordance with the bilateral agreements and protocols on maintenance of peace and tranquillity in border areas. We hope the Chinese side will strictly respect and observe the LAC and not make further attempts to unilaterally change status quo.” Earlier in the day, the Chinese foreign ministry had articulated a similar expectation from India, asserting that China had strictly adhered to all border agreements. “What is pressing now is that the Indian side should immediately correct its mistake, disengage on the ground as soon as possible and take concrete actions to ease the tension and lower the temperature along the border,” Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Wang Wenbin said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-661
18-09-2020||India||‘Obsessed’ parent in school toy gun drama||A senior police officer’s wife has been arrested for allegedly pointing what turned out to be a toy pistol at the principal of her daughter’s school in Ghaziabad to force her to continue their “friendship” and slitting her own wrist with a blade. Meenakshi Devi, the wife of a deputy superintendent-rank officer posted in Lucknow, has been dubbed “obsessed” by the police and charged with threatening to kill the principal and trying to commit suicide. Police sources said the woman had told them that she considered Sister Savidha, the principal of St Teresa’s Convent School in Sarvoday Nagar, her “sister”. Sister Savidha said she used to entertain Meenakshi as her daughter studied in the school. “She used to visit the school frequently and meet me. Gradually we became friends. But I realised after a few meetings that she didn’t have good habits. So, I started avoiding her. One day, she sent me the picture of a revolver on WhatsApp. After a few days, she wrote my name on her arm with a blade and sent the picture to me. On Wednesday, she barged into the school premises and also entered my house. She continued the drama for about four hours before we finally decided to call the police,” Sister Savidha has told the police. Devendra Singh Bist, the SHO of Vijay Nagar, said: “We got a call from the school at 9pm about the incident and brought the woman to the police station. She has been sent to jail after being booked for trying to commit suicide and threatening to kill the principal.” “The woman is obsessed. She told us that she treats the principal as her sister but the principal doesn’t treat her the same way.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-661
18-09-2020||India||Hindu Yuva Vahini leader killed||A leader of the Hindu Yuva Vahini, a private militia formed by Yogi Adityanath a decade and a half ago, was stabbed to death early on Thursday morning in an apparent fallout of personal enmity. Sanjay Singh, 45, a medical doctor who ran a small hospital in Bareilly town, was sleeping on a cot in front of the building when three men attacked him around 3am, his staff have told police. He died on the spot. Singh, the Vahini’s district vice-president in Bareilly, western Uttar Pradesh, is among a dozen Hindutva activists and leaders to have been murdered in Uttar Pradesh since Adityanath became chief minister in March 2017. Most of the murders have been attributed to personal enmity or faction feud. Adityanath had founded the Vahini when he was Gorakhpur MP, ostensibly as a way of involving the youth into social service. The militia, however, mostly helped organise Adityanath’s policical meetings and helped him win elections. Its members have been accused of intimidating voters and assaulting people, particularly Muslims, but have seldom been booked and hardly ever punished. Since becoming chief minister, Adityanath has ostensibly been trying to dissociate himself from the militia. Police quoted a hospital employee as saying Singh had been receiving threat calls for the past two years. “We have identified the killers from CCTV footage and are trying to arrest them,” Bareilly senior superintendent of police Rohit Singh Sajwana said. He said the murder motive was unclear. However, a Bareilly-based businessman has been taken into custody on a complaint from Singh’s family who live in a village, Anandpur, in the district. Vahini district president Anuj Pratap Singh suggested “personal enmity” as the motive while trying to shield Adityanath against charges of poor law and order. “Sanjay Singh was active in social work. The law-and-order situation is better these days in Uttar Pradesh but we can’t stop crime because of personal enmity among people,” he said. Among the Hindutva leaders killed in Adityanath’s watch are Sanjay Khokhar, RSS member and former BJP president for Baghpat, who was shot on August 11. Ranjeet Bachchan, Vishwa Hindu Mahasabha president, was shot by motorcycle-borne assailants in Hazratganj area of Lucknow on February 2. Kamlesh Tiwari, leader of the Hindu Mahasabha and national president of the Hindu Samaj Party, was shot in his office in Lucknow on October 18 last year. His death spawned many conspiracy theories, including one with a communal and terrorist angle.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-661
18-09-2020||India||Happy birthday, Narendrabhai||Happy b’day, Narendrabhai, on your 70th (or is it 71st?) anniversary. I ask because ordinary mortals like humble me are given only one year of birth, thou art born twice for you are the Lord’s special bhakt. He has sent you twice over to this benighted nation to make Bharat Congress-mukt. You have opened the way to making of India a Hindu Rashtra. We celebrate your birthday/s because we were unable to celebrate the swayamvara at which you broke the bow of godless sickularism. And then, true to the vow you had made to yourself, you rejected the mundane pleasures of a “grihasti” to prepare your soul for the greater tasks to which you had been called. Has there been a nobler exile than yours since the Maryada Purushottam exiled himself to the pitiless jungle for 14 years? He, of course, went with his new bride. You, Courageous One, went all on your own. Future generations will reverence you with cries of, “Jai, Shri Modi”. We could not attend your convocations either, neither at Delhi University nor at Gujarat University, not because convocations were not held but because only those who had attended classes, taken tutorials and passed exams were included in academic processions (wearing funny hats on their heads). Ordinary once-born human beings do so to adorn themselves with a piece of paper that certifies to their being “educated”. What need had you of such meaningless certificates when you had procured your credentials meditating in the deep caves of the High Himalaya? Others with such qualifications become Godmen. You had a larger destiny as a Leader of Men. So, you placed your saintliness at the feet of Balasaheb Deoras and Guruji Golwalkar and Dr. Hedgewar and the noble Veer Savarkar himself. They raised you and placed your feet on their heads — for they had been sent only to talk; you had been sent to act. And, so, your administration transported the bodies of 60 Hindu martyrs from Godhra to Ahmedabad, thus setting ablaze a thousand descendants of those who had violated Bharat Mata for a thousand years. And the gods in the heavens sent Raghava (to whose holy name these wretched anti-Hindi Madrasis needlessly attach an ‘n’) to rescue you from the shaitans who were trying to taint you. The Lord rewards those whom He loves — that is ancient Truth (on par with our ancients’ discovery of plastic surgery, aerodynamics, gravity, and their revelation to you alone, Great One, of radar not being able to penetrate cloud cover). It is you, Narendrabhai, who have brought all this to our knowledge, which had been hidden from our eyes by these wretched Nehruvians (chhihchhi, even to mention that name soils our tongue despite your having spent thousands of crore getting the Chinese to build the Statue of Unity under your “Make in India” programme to wipe the very thought of the Evil “Pandit” from our collective memory). You invited the US President, Do-naaldbhai Trumpbhai, to come to our praachin dharti although the WHO had notified a global health emergency three weeks before Trump kicked off his 2020 election campaign in Ahmedabad. The two of you are nothing if not the Embodiment of Courage. So, you lined up a lakh of people, standing cheek by jowl, to welcome Trumpji, and another 125,000 to greet him in the world’s largest cricket stadium, packed like sardines into the stands, even if that meant Ahmedabad would become for months thereafter the worst Corona-hit city of its size in India. We have now gone forward arm in arm with Do-naaldbhai, to become, respectively, the world’s Number One and the world’s Number Two in Covid infections. There is no limit to bhaichara. We have shown America that whatever the risks to our people and whatever the sacrifices of life we have to make, we Bharatis would say “Howdy” to anyone who said “Howdy, Modi”! We have also thus shown the Chinese that Trumpji and Modiji are like two mattar in a pod. So, the Chinawallahs dare not take an inch of our territory. They crept like thieves into Ladakh under cover of darkness even though we had paid them every naya paisa for their contribution to the only statue in the world that dwarfs the Statue of Liberty. That was under your clarion call, “Make in India”. We showed them that meant “Contract in India”. Yet, it did not deter them from sneaking into our territory without informing our Narendrabhai. Which is why he told the nation on nation-wide TV that the Chinese had not entered our territory at all and were nowhere to be seen on our pavitra bhoomi. How could they dare come in without the permission of our Leader? Provided we bang all our pots and pans and light all our diyas when the Leader orders us to, we can always drive away both the Chinese and the Covid which they exported globally from the very city, Wuhan, where Xiji and Modiji walked hand in hand. Our economy is on a downward slide because we are being tested by Heaven to see whether we are fit to be His bhakts. We should tighten our belts, hold in our breath and meditate when we want to eat to show that under Modiji’s Raj, we can all walk home hundreds, even thousands of kilometres, to show our enemies our true grit. Our true enemies are not only those on our borders. They are among us. You can tell by the clothes they wear, Pakistanis all, hiding, as Amitbhai said before he went to hospital, like “termites” in the nation's woodwork. That is why Kapil Mishraji threatened the police that if they did not act on his instructions, they would be dealt with after Trump left as they deserved to be. And Anurag Thakurji, noble son of a noble father, coined his evocative Gandhian slogan, “Golimarosaalon ko”. It made the Mahatma proud! Instead of celebrating our dear Leader’s birthday, these anti-national deshdrohis are crying like babies over Mishraji and Thankurji not being taken into custody. Why should such patriots, such ardent nationalists be interrogated? That is why, instead of them, hundreds (thousands?) of ghuspathias are being rounded up. After all the missed opportunities of the past, thank you, Narendrabhai, for giving us such a generous choice of birthdays to celebrate. Bharat Mata ki Jai! Vande Maataram! Jai Siya Ram! A former Congress MP, Mani Shankar Aiyar says he is called Manibhai Shankarbhai by his friends and acquaintances in Gujarat||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-661
18-09-2020||India||Birthday etiquette view in Congress||The Congress on Thursday joined a social media campaign to observe Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s birthday as “National Unemployment Day”, overruling reservations from within about getting involved in something that could set a distasteful precedent and deciding to sacrifice sobriety at the alter of an unprecedented crisis. While the Youth Congress has been running a “Rozgar Do” (Give us Employment) campaign for the past few months, the parent party decided to also support the “National Unemployment Day” movement that social media activists ran on the birthday of Modi, who turned 70 on Thursday. The Congress had been divided over joining the campaign, with many senior leaders feeling that this would trigger an unseemly trend of spoiling birthdays of leaders and other important occasions while the younger crop averring that it would be prudent to align with what appeared to them to be youths’ sentiments and also pointing to the need to counter the BJP’s brand of politics. “There was no need to link this with the Prime Minister’s birthday even as we highlight the problem of unemployment with full force. Making a point doesn’t mean we cry down other’s pleasures. Linking the protests with the Prime Minister’s birthday is getting personal. Trust the BJP to hit back hard; we can’t match them in low-level tactics. If this was happening on social media, we could have quietly enjoyed it,” said a senior Congress leader who described the decision as “juvenile”. But this was indisputably the minority opinion, held mostly by conservative leaders who care for etiquette in public life. Younger leaders think differently and they passionately supported the idea of joining the “National Unemployment Day” campaign, arguing that the BJP had demolished every established norm of sobriety in politics and pointing out that the general public expected a “befitting reply”. Siblings Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra lent their support to the Twitter campaign that trended globally through the day. By evening there had been over 4 million tweets using the hashtag “NationalUnemploymentDay” and two other similar hashtags. Days earlier, there had been a youth-fuelled campaign to “dislike” social media content featuring the Prime Minister, with people decrying the lack of jobs and the government’s decision to go ahead with the engineering and medical entrance exams amid the pandemic. Several Congress leaders, including Rahul, had supported the campaign. The “National Unemployment Day” movement flummoxed the BJP’s famed social media army as well, leaving party supporters to begin campaigns with hashtags such as “HappyBirthdayNarendraModi”. While the Youth Congress had decided to observe Modi’s birthday as “Unemployment Day” much earlier, former party chief Rahul lent his support on Wednesday morning by tweeting: “Massive unemployment has forced the youth to call ‘National Unemployment Day’. Employment is dignity. For how long will the government deny it?” However, Rahul avoided explicitly linking it to Modi’s birthday. He also took care to wish the Prime Minister, who replied by thanking him. Priyanka, the Uttar Pradesh Congress chief, also avoided directly linking Modi to the campaign, saying that youths wanted jobs and timely examinations, results and appointment. Senior leaders such as Ahmed Patel, Anand Sharma, Ashok Gehlot, Amarinder Singh and Bhupesh Baghel tweeted wishing Modi on his birthday. But many other leaders posted video messages justifying why this particular date had been chosen to mark “National Unemployment Day”. Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate said: “We want to gift Modiji (a pair of) spectacles on his birthday so that he can see the jobless. There is no hope for the youth because the economy is in ruin. Be it big business, MSMEs, self-employed or daily-wage earners… everybody is in trouble. Worse, this government doesn’t understand the crisis. Modiji, before you cut your birthday cake, think of the parents who went hungry to educate their children, think of those educated youths who don’t have jobs.”Another spokesperson, Gourav Vallabh, said: “Why ‘Unemployment Day’ on PM’s birthday? Because the youths, farmers, businesses and the middle class had in 2014 supported Modiji, who had promised to create two crore jobs every year. Modiji gave them unemployment in return. Two crore salaried people have lost their jobs in the last five months. Students fill up forms but exam dates are not announced. Students clear exams but results are not declared. Those selected don’t get appointment letters. Crores of youths are waiting for jobs.” Congress spokesperson Ragini Nayak said: “Modiji turns 70 today. He has completely mismanaged the economy. Around 90,000 youths have committed suicide in the last one year — because of joblessness, because of loss of livelihood, because of closure of industries. They don’t know how to run the economy and now want to shift all the blame on corona. The truth is that the unemployment rate had peaked much before corona struck. The government was hiding data on employment.” Another spokesperson, Pawan Khera, said: “Modiji, this is happening because you betrayed the trust reposed in you by the nation. The youth know you are very touchy about your image on social media and hence this trend on unemployment to open your eyes.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-661
18-09-2020||India||Plea to President Kovind for Delhi riot probe||Leaders of five political parties on Thursday sought President Ram Nath Kovind’s intervention in getting the government to order an inquiry into Delhi police’s investigation of the February riots, including their “fishing expedition” against protesters against the new citizenship matrix. In a joint letter, leaders of the Congress, CPM, CPI, Rashtriya Janata Dal and the DMK urged the President to call on the Centre to institute a probe under the Commission of Inquiry Act, 1952, headed by a sitting or retired judge. Like many others before them, the signatories have alleged bias in the Delhi police’s probe, which has ignored provocative speeches by BJP politicians while accusing the riot victims of incitement and violence and booking activists and students who had protested against the Citizenship Amendment Act. “The investigation cannot be allowed to become a fishing and roving expedition aimed at causing a chilling effect on dissent and protest in the country,” the letter, submitted to the President in person, said. “There are, however, serious questions about the role played by the Delhi police itself during the violence and also the manner in which the police is harassing and attempting to falsely implicate activists and young people who took part in the anti-CAA/NRC/NPR movements as the perpetrators of violence,” Thursday’s letter said. It cited accounts and videos that suggested the police were complicit in the violence, directing the stone-throwing mobs or looking the other way when rioters were on the rampage. The letter highlighted the police’s recent effort to “falsely implicate” political leaders including CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury –a signatory to the joint letter – in a supplementary chargesheet.It also flagged the “notable silence in the chargesheets on the role of leaders associated with the BJP who gave inflammatory speeches”, and said this raised concern about the probe’s impartiality. “In fact even when people have courageously filed complaints against BJP leaders – Kapil Mishra, Anurag Thakur, Parvesh Verma, Satya Pal Singh, Jagdish Pradhan, Nand Kishore Gujjar and Mohan Singh Bisht – accusing them of participating in or orchestrating the violence, there has been no action by the Delhi police,” the letter said. It contrasted this with the way the police had tried to criminalise the protests against the new citizenship regime and portray the countrywide agitation against it as a conspiracy._“The FIR (59/2020) regarding this ‘conspiracy’ being investigated by the (police’s) Special Cell, in which the draconian Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) has been invoked, is being used to carry out a fishing and roving inquiry against activists and young persons who were involved with the protests,” the letter said. Besides Yechury, the signatories were Ahmed Patel (Congress), D. Raja (CPI), Manoj Jha (RJD) and Kanimozhi (DMK).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-661
18-09-2020||India||BJP ally Akali Dal’s Harsimrat Kaur Badal quits ministry over ‘anti-farmer’ bills||BJP ally Shiromani Akali Dal’s lone Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal resigned on Thursday to protest the Centre’s farm sector reforms, calling the Narendra Modi government “anti-farmer” on a day the ruling party marked the Prime Minister’s birthday by projecting him as a messiah for peasants and the poor. That Harsimrat, the food processing minister, would resign was announced in the Lok Sabha by her husband, Akali chief Sukhbir Singh Badal, when two of the bills were being debated in the Lok Sabha. Harsimrat, who was in the House, tweeted after former Punjab deputy chief minister Sukhbir’s announcement: “I have resigned from Union Cabinet in protest against anti-farmer ordinances and legislation. Proud to stand with farmers as their daughter and sister.” She told reporters outside Parliament later: “Thousands of farmers are on the streets. I do not want to be part of the government that got the bills passed without addressing the apprehensions of farmers.” During the debate, Sukhbir, whose party is primarily based in the agriculture-rich Punjab, said the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill and the Farmers’ (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill would “destroy” the 50 years of hard work put in by successive governments in the state and farmers to build the agriculture sector. He recalled Punjab’s massive contribution in making India self-sufficient in food grain production as he vehemently opposed the bills. Sukhbir, however, made it clear that the Akali Dal would extend outside support to the Modi government. The Akali Dal has two members, Sukhbir and Harsimrat, in the Lok Sabha and three in the Rajya Sabha. The two bills were eventually passed in the Lok Sabha by voice vote, with the Congress and some other Opposition parties staging a walkout. Harsimrat, however, sat quietly when the bills were passed. Sukhbir told reporters outside Parliament that the Akalis would “do anything” for farmers. A third, the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, had been passed in the Lok Sabha on Tuesday but the other two had been held back because of the Akali Dal’s opposition. BJP president J.P. Nadda had tried to pacify the Akalis by saying that the government would look into their concerns. Sukhbir refuted suggestions that his party had initially supported the three ordinances, which the government has replaced with bills that it wants passed in Parliament, and asserted that Harsimrat had expressed her concerns at the cabinet meeting where they were discussed and also written to agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar highlighting “flaws”. Harsimrat’s resignation would make no material difference to the Modi government but it’s political impact could be substantial. The Akali Dal is the BJP’s oldest ally now that the Shiv Sena has severed ties with the ruling party at the Centre. The BJP is yet to react to the resignation. The psychological blow of the snub can’t be wished away by the BJP either as it came on Modi’s 70th birthday. Although the government and the party had proclaimed that there would be no celebrations in view of the pandemic, massive efforts were made to project Modi as a messiah of the poor and the farmers. Modi tweeted after the bills were passed: “The passage of the historic agri-reforms bills in the Lok Sabha marks an important moment for the country’s farmers and agri-sector. These bills in the true sense will liberate farmers from middlemen and all kinds of impediments.” The proposed laws have triggered intense protests by farmers in Punjab, Haryana and parts of Uttar Pradesh. The farmers, and the Congress, have said the changes would deprive peasants of minimum support price and help corporates take over the agriculture sector. In Punjab, chief minister and Congress veteran Amarinder Singh is playing a key role in the protests. Amarinder tweeted on Thursday night: “Harsimrat Kaur’s decision to quit Union Cabinet is another in the long chain of theatrics being enacted by @Akali_Dal which has still not quit ruling coalition. It’s motivated not by any concern for farmers but to save their own dwindling political fortunes. Too little too late.” Although the Centre has been claiming that MSP would in no way be affected, the farmers’ outfits are not convinced. They have called a strike on September 25 and threatened not to allow the MPs who would support the legislation enter their constituencies. The Congress and some other parties have been firmly opposing the bills and the government could find it difficult to pass them in the Rajya Sabha, where the Opposition is better placed than in the Lok Sabha in terms of numbers. The Opposition on Thursday termed the three bills a “toxic triangle” and claimed that by deregulating the agri-markets and allowing contract farming, the government was allowing big corporates to exploit the farmers. “It will lead to proleteriatisation of the peasants,” RSP member N.K. Premchandran, who moved a number of amendments, said. Agriculture minister Tomar pleaded the House to support the bills, claiming they would prove to be a “life-changer” for farmers. He said the bills would open more avenues for farmers to sell their produce in addition to the government-regulated agriculture produce marketing corporations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-661
18-09-2020||India||Supreme Court order on September 21 on law exam||The Supreme Court on Thursday said it would pronounce its order on September 21 on a plea that has challenged the decision of National Law School of India University (NLSIU), Bangalore, to conduct its separate entrance examination NLAT-2020. The plea was filed by former NLSIU vice-chancellor professor R. Venkata Rao and a parent of an aspirant. The apex court on September 11 had given its go-ahead to NLSIU to hold its separate exam, which was to be held on September 12, but restrained it from announcing the results and admitting any student.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-661
18-09-2020||India||I am being cursed and a false binary is being created: Kanhaiya ||CPI leader Kanhaiya Kumar has explained his uncharacteristic silence on social media for almost two months: he finds it vulgar to tweet about how he has helped people. “I don’t want to tweet pictures of relief work to promote myself and embarrass those who have received help. My tweets in the past too were only about the movements and causes I was working for and not personal publicity,” Kanhaiya told The Telegraph on Thursday. On Wednesday, he had been absent from a news conference held in support of Umar Khalid, who was recently arrested in a Delhi riot case and with whom Kanhaiya had been jailed in 2016 when both were JNU students. It led to murmurs of “ditched by Kanhaiya” at the Press Club of India. But the CPI leader told this newspaper: “The Left has been clear that the police probe is a sham. It has protested (to press) for the prosecution of BJP leaders (who made incendiary speeches ahead of the February riots) from Day 1. “Yet why am I being personally held accountable for not attending a press conference? Are such questions asked of members of other Opposition parties?” He added: “I’m being cursed whether or not (I do something), and a false binary is being created by some over (the act of) speaking about one political prisoner more than the other. We have been fighting for the release of all political prisoners, be it Sudha Bharadwaj or Anand Teltumbde or Umar.” Kanhaiya said he couldn’t attend the news conference, held to protest the arrests of anti-CAA activists on terror charges in connection with the Delhi riots, because he had been held up at an MP’s home over a meeting related to the upcoming Bihar elections. Now a member of the CPI’s national executive, Kanhaiya has been a rage on social media for his satirical comments targeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi, his government’s failures and the alleged crimes of the BJP-RSS. But his social media accounts had been silent since the end of July. On Wednesday, he broke the silence with a long Facebook post on the media trial of political prisoners like Umar amid the havoc the pandemic has unleashed in the country. His comment boxes are now filled with jibes about his waking up after a “long slumber”, and questions about why he has chosen to speak out now and where he was when his “karmabhoomi” (workplace) Bihar was ravaged by floods. Kanhaiya told this newspaper that he had come to Delhi on March 15 to consult lawyers for the first hearing of his sedition trial, which was expected to begin in April. He has stayed mostly in Ajoy Bhawan, the CPI headquarters. Since then Covid-19 has claimed his uncle, a former teacher he was close to, and the CPI’s Bihar state secretary Satyanarayan Singh, a father figure to Kanhaiya. Four members of Kanhaiya’s family have been infected. The parents of three close friends have died from Covid-19, including one whose passing was communicated to him while he was speaking to this newspaper. “I couldn’t go to their cremation because of the lockdown. This entire time I have been on the phone trying to connect people in need to our comrades and others who could help… I’m not in the frame of mind to tweet satire,” Kanhaiya said. “I can’t even go home as we have a one-room house, where I would be putting my aged mother at risk. In Bihar, more than 50 people travel with me because we are always at risk of being attacked. I can’t do that now as I can’t put the families of these people at the risk of exposure to Covid.” He continued: “We don’t have a huge organisation, neither am I from a rich family. Yet we have tried to help whoever we can, with people sitting in Delhi, Patna and Begusarai coordinating with people across India. “We have arranged for 13,000 workers to be fed by the All India Trade Union Congress (of the CPI) in Coimbatore. We have fed artistes who were hungry for three days, given ration kits and clothes to flood-hit families in Bihar. There are good journalists out of work who can’t pay rent. We’ve tried to help them too. “Not just the CPI comrades but many others helped us, including an MP and an MLA from the Aam Aadmi Party in Delhi. After the lockdown was relaxed, I have travelled to five states in the north for both relief and political work.” Kanhaiya said he was now focused on poll-bound Bihar although he would not contest. “I will be moving to Patna where I shall do whatever election work the party gives me. We need a narrative that speaks of livelihood issues and breaks this discourse of Hindus versus Muslims,” he said. “The BJP must be defeated in the state that has the highest number of migrant workers. People who question my commitment because I don’t want to contest should be concerned more with how we need to build unity among the Opposition parties.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-662
18-09-2020||India||Order to file case against Arun Shourie over hotel sale||A special court here has asked the CBI to file cases against former Union minister Arun Shourie and the then disinvestment secretary Pradip Baijal over the sale of an ITDC hotel, allegedly at a loss of Rs 244 crore. The CBI court also directed the filing of cases against three others associated with the sale two decades back of Laxmi Vilas Palace Hotel in Udaipur, during the term of the Atal Bihari Vajpayee government at the Centre. Shourie was the minister in charge of divestment when the property, owned by the public sector ITDC, was sold to Bharat Hotels Ltd, a private company. The court recalled Shourie’s background as a journalist who has spoken against corruption in debates and interviews. “This proved his double standards on the issue of corruption,” special judge Puran Kumar Sharma said. In Wednesday’s order, Sharma rejected the closure report submitted in the case by the CBI in August 2019, and asked it to reinvestigate it. He  ordered immediate attachment of the hotel by the Udaipur district magistrate and it will remain under the state government’s custody until the matter is disposed of. The court ordered the registration of cases against financial adviser Ashish Guha, MD of Lazard India Ltd, valuer Kantilal Karamsey and Jyotsana Suri, director of Bharat Hotels Ltd.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-662
18-09-2020||India||Mother beaten to death by minor sons in Bhubaneswar||A 40-year-old woman was allegedly beaten to death by her two minor sons with a crowbar in an apartment here on Wednesday night. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Bhubaneswar) Umashankar Das told reporters, “The lady identified as Binodini Mishra was murdered in an apartment under Air Field Police station area. She was killed around 11.30pm on Wednesday. “Police reached the spot and started investigation. Her two minor sons were involved in the incident. We have detained them. Family dispute is one of the major reasons for the crime. We have seized the weapons used in the murder.” Police sources said Binodini was living with her sons, aged 13 and 14, in an apartment after being separated by her husband. While the elder son was studying in Class X, the younger one in Class IX. “Binodini came to the area a few months ago. She used to beat the two children after getting drunk. “On Wednesday when she started beating them, the two sons suddenly lost their temper and attacked the mother with a crowbar.  The mother died on the spot,” said a senior police official. Sources said after committing the crime, the boys locked the door and fled. Later they informed the security guard someone entered their house and attacked their mother. The security guard of the apartment discovered the body of the woman lying in a pool of blood in her flat. He informed the police. The police detained the boys who were hiding in a nearby apartment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-662
18-09-2020||India||Bihar seat-sharing deal by September 25: BJP||The BJP on Thursday refused to react to the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) suggestions to lead the alliance and contest more seats than Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal United (JDU), leading to more speculation about the future of the National Democratic Alliance in the state. The BJP, however, said that the seat-sharing talks would be completed by September 25. “I will not say anything on the issue. It is between those two (Chirag Paswan and J.P. Nadda). I cannot say anything about it,” Bihar BJP president Sanjay Jaiswal told The Telegraph over phone. Jaiswal on Thursday donated plasma at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Patna. “The seat-sharing talks between the allies will be completed by September 24 or 25,” he said, indicating that a clearer picture will emerge by then. LJP president and Lok Sabha member Chirag Paswan had met BJP chief J.P. Nadda late on Tuesday night and requested that the BJP should lead the NDA in the upcoming Assembly elections instead of the JDU. Chirag had also asked Nadda that the BJP should contest more seats than the JDU in the current situation, as it will benefit the alliance. However, the refusal of the BJP leaders to comment on Chirag’s suggestions or asking him not to make comment that may drive a wedge in the alliance in the run-up to the polls lends credence to the belief in political circles that the LJP’s belligerence is being provoked and patronised by the BJP in order to keep the Bihar chief minister in check. “The statements of Chirag leave no doubt about this. We have an NDA government in the state, but he is singling out Nitish and our party for criticism, while praising the BJP or asserting that he will abide by whatever it decides. Anybody can see what is happening,” a senior JDU leader said on the condition of anonymity. The JDU leader asserted that Chirag’s “antics are not just aimed at getting a bigger piece of the seat-sharing pie. It is aimed at discrediting and dislodging Nitish as the chief minister”. It is not that the JDU has kept quiet on this front. It has deployed Hindustani Awam Morcha Secular (HAMS) leader and former chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi, a Dalit leader, to counter Chirag and his LJP, who claim to champion the Dalit cause. Meanwhile, Chirag has asked his party leaders to prepare a list of candidates for 143 seats out of the total 243 in the state and be ready to go solo in the polls. The seat-sharing deal that is expected to be announced later this month will chart out the future course of the NDA in Bihar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-662
18-09-2020||West Bengal||Coronavirus pandemic puts off Bera festivities||Murshidabad’s 300-year-old Bera festival, celebrated on the last Thursday of the Bengali Bhadra month, has fallen victim to the pandemic as district authorities and the Murshidabad's royal family have postponed it indefinitely to stick to the new normal of social distancing. Traditionally celebrated at midnight with a nightlong festival on the Bhagirathi river bank adjacent to the Hazarduari palace, lakhs gather for the annual festival commemorating the launch of a river float that carried state taxes to Mughal courts in north India in the 17th and 18th centuries. “We are postponing the festivities with a heavy heart but there is no other way out,” said an official at Murshidabad Estate, a government body that oversees the festival with royal family members. Usually, the festival starts with the launch of a cloth-and-candlelit river float, followed by a carnival and food stalls near the palace. The float, illuminated with gold and silver lamps, draws lakhs of visitors every year from Bengal and beyond. “This is a 300-year-old festivity that celebrates our local heritage and links with the Mughal period. The Nawab of Bengal Murshid Quli Khan had begun this tradition in the 1700s. The nawab had started the Bera festivity, a tradition of appeasing the river, so that the vessels carrying taxes to north India reached safely,” said a local historian, adding that the festival usually falls in the same week as Muharram. Local sources said businesses and traders have already suffered a huge setback in the wake of the Covid-19 related slump. Bera’s postponement added to their woes. Hoteliers’ association sources said losses this year would be “incalculable” in Behrampore during Bera. Secretary of the Murshidabad City Traders’ Association, Swapan Bhattacharya, said: “It has been several months that tourists have stopped coming to the city. We were looking forward to Bera for tourists to finally earn something. Its indefinite postponement was the last thing we expected.” Jayanta Mandal, manager of Murshidabad Estate, said: “Covid protocol of the state government prohibits large gatherings. This (Bera) is a sentimental issue but the step has been taken for everyone’s safety and well-being."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-370
18-09-2020||West Bengal||Bengal government to start housing scheme for tea belt||The Mamata Banerjee government will soon initiate a housing scheme for tea workers of north Bengal, state labour minister Moloy Ghatak hinted on Thursday. Ghatak, who was at the Mujnai tea estate in Madarihat block of Alipurduar district to attend a government even, said: “Under the ‘Chaa Sundari’ scheme, the state government will construct houses for 792 families who dwell in this tea estate. The state has taken a number of other initiatives for the tea population, which include distribution of ration to the workers at subsidised rates.” In February this year, Amit Mitra, the finance minister of Bengal, announced the “Chaa Sundari” scheme while tabling the state budget of the current fiscal (2020-2021). He had said that during the next three years, the state would give funds for construction of houses for all permanent workers of tea estates without a house of their own. A sum of Rs 500 crores was allocated for the project in the current fiscal. The labour minister’s announcement comes at a time Trinamul is trying to revive its support base in north Bengal, keeping in mind the 2021 Assembly elections. In 2019, BJP had managed to wrest seven of eight Parliament seats in the region and could secure a lead in almost all the Assembly segmentsin the tea belt. “It is evident that the state is playing the development card again, this time through the housing scheme. If the state initiates this project, it would be a poser for the BJP” opined an observer. Ghatak also referred to hike in tea wages since 2011 after Trinamul came to power. “When the Left Front government was there in the state, tea workers used to receive Rs 67 as daily wages. We could increase it to Rs 176. Soon, the wage is likely to be revised again,” he said. The minister asked the workers to understand who is working for them. “You should realize whom you will support for your betterment and who can work for you. Here in Bengal, BJP shouts for minimum wage but in the neighbouring state of Assam, where the party is in power, no such wage has been fixed so far. The Trinamul government is doing a lot for you but you are voting for the BJP. We feel if Trinamul does not stay in power in the state, conditions of tea estates will deteriorate,” said Ghatak. A senior Trinamul leader, who also heads the tea trade union of the party, said the state has taken the task to facilitate reopening of three closed tea estates in the Dooars. “We have information that the state finance department has approved reopening of shut Madhu, Bundapani and Surendranagar tea estates which are close for years now. The state cabinet will soon make a decision and then prospective investors would be selected for these gardens,” said Mohan Sharma, chairman, Cha Bagan Trinamul Congress Mazdoor Union.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-370
18-09-2020||West Bengal||Vigil beefed up in Jungle Mahal ahead of CPI (Maoist) events||Police and paramilitary forces have started combing operations and raids in Jungle Mahal districts ahead of the CPI (Maoist)’s weeklong programmes from September 21 as part of its foundation day celebration. Sources said vigil had been intensified in pockets known for Maoist influence in the districts of Jhargram, Bankura, Purulia and West Midnapore as there had been intelligence reports that the Left extremist groups had been trying to regroup for the past two months. CPI (Maoist) — a party that believes in overthrowing the government through people’s war — was founded on September 21, 2004, through a merger of Communist Party of India (MarxistLeninist), People’s War (People’s War Group) and the Maoist Communist Centre of India. Till 2012, the Maoists used to increase activities in their strongholds on the occasion of their foundation day week but the banned outfit’s operations had been on the wane since then. The decreasing activities almost coincided with the Trinamul Congress coming to power in Bengal in 2011. “Police and paramilitary forces have been deployed in Jungle Mahal areas. Our forces are always aware of any kind of suspected activities. We are collecting intelligence inputs regularly,” said a senior police officer in Jhargram and added that the police were always on the alert during the foundation day celebrations of Maoists. “This year, it is important as there have been quite a few incidents of Maoist activities in the Jungle Mahal districts. We have raised the level of alert this year,” said a police officer in Purulia. Sources said several Maoist posters had been seized in various pockets of the Jungle Mahal, including Belpahari and Lalgarh, in the past few months. The sudden reappearance of Maoist activities has alarmed state police and sleuths. “We have already started patrolling and combing operations in the Jungle Mahal areas of our districts. We are always connected with intelligence inputs. However, we are yet to receive any specific report,” said Bankura district police chief Koteswara Rao. S. Selvamurugan, the Purulia district police chief, said: “We can’t disclose everything on our strategy for security questions. But we have taken every measure to keep a close vigil in our areas.” Sources in the state home department said Maoist activities were causing concern for the Bengal government with reports that the banned outfit was trying to regroup in the Jungle Mahal by crossing over from neighbouring Jharkhand. As the state is headed for Assembly election next year, there are chances that the Maoists would try to make their presence felt through subversive activities, said an intelligence source. “We have already got inputs of Maoists holding secret meetings and they have started the process of regrouping. The activities have been reported in the pockets of Jharkhand bordering areas. We have inputs that they would try to utilise the foundation day occasion this year,” said a source in the state intelligence department. According to intelligence reports, on September 3, some tourists noticed a group of seven suspected Maoists, including three women, near Dhangikusum village in Belpahari. The suspected Maoists were reportedly carrying firearms and had their faces covered. Virendra, directorgeneral of police, visited Jhargram on September 5 to take stock of the ground situation. However, a police officer in Jhargram claimed that it had been staged. The Union home ministry had sent three battalions of the Central Reserve Paramilitary Force (CRPF) to the Jungle Mahal and informed the state government that more teams would arrive soon. Sources said the measures were a result of rising activities of the Maoists.  Sources said Maoist activities had been reported in Purulia’s Ayodhya hills and pockets of West Midnapore also. A source in the CRPF said: “They have already started combing operations in the Ayodhya hills and areas bordering Jharkhand as there is a chance that Maoist cadres might try to cross over from the neighbouring state to regroup with their counterparts in Bengal.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-370
18-09-2020||West Bengal||Mahalaya: Holy dip amid coronavirus pandemic||At least 1,500 people in Kalna, East Burdwan, took a holy dip in the Hooghly on the occasion of Mahalaya on Thursday to perform tarpan rituals as a tribute to departed ancestors. Mahalaya this year is unusual for two reasons, the Covid-19 pandemic, and the fact that Durga Puja will start over a month later because of the mala mash, or a lunar month with two new moons. Like in many other places, the crowd in Kalna violated physical distancing norms during the tarpan. On Wednesday, officials of police and administration campaigned in the town requesting residents to maintain Covid protocol while performing tarpan, but on Thursday, the police admitted that they could not ensure the safety protocol.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-370
18-09-2020||West Bengal||Villagers in Malda pit self-help against river erosion||An instinct for self-preservation has prompted residents of Sahebnagar-Kanchantola, a village in Manikchak block of Malda district on the banks of Kalindri river, to team up and prevent erosion caused by the river, without waiting for measures by the state irrigation department. Though officials of the department have promised necessary steps to combat the erosion caused by Kalindri, an apparently calm rivulet that suddenly turned destructive, villagers said they would rather trust themselves to save houses near the river and a high school with around 850 students. Since Tuesday afternoon, erosion started in the village, they said. “The river has already devoured a vast yard measuring around 100 metres long and 40 metres wide, and a stretch of a village road,” said Mozaffar Rehman, a resident. Such a situation, he said, made villagers convene an informal meeting where it was decided that they would pile bamboo sticks and dump sandbags to prevent the river from gobbling fresh stretches “This is called the dip-tree method. We are also arranging sandbags to check erosion. We sought help from villagers and they spontaneously came forward,” said Ainul Haque, another villager. The villagers, sources said, were robbed of their sleep as the rapid erosion left around 25 houses vulnerable. “We could not wait for the formalities of the state irrigation department. It would take time for them to start the work as they will visit the site, assess the damage and then start anti-erosion work. The threat is imminent. By the time they start work, some of these houses would be swallowed by Kalindri,” a resident said. They also expressed strong discontent over the quality of anti-erosion work done by the irrigation department in the area. “Merely three months back, the department carried out anti-erosion work here. We fail to understand how erosion can start afresh then,” a resident said, indicating quality was sub-par. On Wednesday, some officials of the department went to the village only to be snubbed by the disgruntled villagers who asked them to leave and said that they could take care of themselves. As the news spread, the sabhadhipati of Malda Zilla Parishad and the district magistrate asked the irrigation department to immediately take up the work. Accordingly, the department started anti-erosion work near the village on a war-footing from Thursday. “The water level of Kalindri depends on Fulhar river. The abrupt rise and fall in water levels of Kalindri causes trouble without a hint. Our officials have taken stock of the situation. We have appraised the district administration and from Thursday, anti-erosion work has started,” said Pranab Kumar Samanta, an executive engineer of irrigation department in Malda.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-370
18-09-2020||West Bengal||TMC worker hacked to death, party blames BJP||A 38-year-old Trinamul worker, Ganesh Sarkar, was hacked to death at a village in Mathabhanga subdivision of Cooch Behar on Wednesday night, his party blaming the BJP. Another Trinamul worker, Bimal Sarkar, assaulted in the same locality, has been admitted to Cooch Behar Government Medical College & Hospital and is reported critical. While Trinamul alleged that BJP supporters were behind the murder, BJP blamed “infighting” in Trinamul. Alijar Rehman, a TMC leader in Mathabhanga and district secretary of Inttuc, said that for past few days, some BJP supporters were threatening Ganesh, a Trinamul worker from Balashi village under Hajrahat panchayat of Mathabhanga. “On Wednesday night, a group of BJP supporters with sharp weapons entered his house and attacked him. He tried to escape but fell in a paddy field. There, he was hacked to death. When family members raised an alert, some villagers came out, andthe attackers fled,” said Rehman. The attackers, he said, also assaulted Bimal. On Thursday, Partha Pratim Roy, district Trinamul president,  met Ganesh’s kin. Sanjoy Chakraborty, a district secretary of BJP, said: “Everybody knows there are two lobbies of Trinamul in Hajrahat and they clash.” “What happened on Wednesday is unfortunate but it is the fallout of Trinamul’s internal rivalry. Some party leaders are trying to tarnish the BJP,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-371
18-09-2020||West Bengal||Bangladesh conveys onion export ban ‘concern’||Bangladesh has officially conveyed its “deep concern” over India’s ban on export of onions without due notice. “The latest abrupt announcement of the Government of India on September 14, 2020 undermines the discussions that took place in 2019 and 2020 between the two friendly countries on the matter and the understanding shared,” read the foreign ministry letter sent to India through its high commission in Dhaka. The letter requests the Indian high commission to convey the message to authorities in New Delhi and take necessary measures to resume onion exports taking into consideration the excellent ties between the neighbours. In the letter, Bangladesh expressed its “deep concern” as the “sudden announcement” directly affects the supply of essential food items in Bangladesh market. It pointed out that a secretary-level meeting between the commerce ministries of the two countries in January had requested India not to impose export restriction on essential food items required by Bangladesh. Earlier in the day, state minister for foreign affairs Shahriar Alam said Dhaka had requested New Delhi to revoke the ban on the onion export in line with an “unwritten” understanding. Even if, he said, India was required to take such a decision, New Delhi would inform Dhaka beforehand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-371
18-09-2020||West Bengal||North Bengal forests to reopen next week||The state forest department has decided to reopen national parks and wildlife sanctuaries of north Bengal to visitors from September 23. “At a meeting on Wednesday, it was decided to reopen the forests to visitors from September 23 with a set of guidelines forCovid-19 safety. On Friday, forest minister Rajib Banerjee will release the guidelines,” said Ravikant Sinha, the head of the forest force in the state. Every year, reserve forests are closed from June 16 to September 15, but this year the pandemic scuttled the calendar. That’s why the decision to reopen forests comes as a major boost to tourism. Among the places scheduled to reopen are Gorumara, Jaldapara, Singalila and Neora Valley national parks, Chapramari and Mahananda wildlife sanctuaries, and Buxa Tiger Reserve. Resort owners, transporters and tour operators said got queries from tourists on visiting the region during Durga Puja and Diwali. But confirmations were few as tourists invariably asked when forests would reopen. “Now, we believe we will receive more confirmations,” said a resort owner in Madarihat, at the entry to Jaldapara National Park. Stakeholders of the tourism industry, both in the plains and hills, have sought an appointment from chief minister Mamata Banerjee who will be in Siliguri next week to attend review meetings of some north Bengal districts. “We want to meet and update the chief minister about the hardships faced by the industry and its ancillary sectors. Also, we would like to hand over an appeal to her,” said Samrat Sanyal, general secretary, Himalayan Hospitality & Tourism Development Network. He added they had sought help from state tourism minister Goutam Deb for getting the CM’s appointment. On Wednesday, the stakeholders met at a resort in Darjeeling to discuss problems faced by the industry in these days and identified the issues for which they need to approach state and central governments, such as waivers on power bills, GST, other taxes and fees, financial stimulus on working capital, insurance of employees associated with the sector and higher moratorium of loans. “A committee comprising members (representatives) from hotels, homestays, transport, travel agency, rafting, adventure tourism, paragliding and others will be formed, which will submit a memorandum to the chief minister,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-371
18-09-2020||West Bengal||Heavy rainfall incurs Rs 138cr loss for Bengal farmers||A report by the agriculture department has revealed that heavy rainfall that lashed 226 mouzas spread across three subdivisions in West Midnapore over a period of 10 days in August caused irreparable damage to farmers who were already reeling under the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. According to the report, a total of 14,430 hectares of vegetables, flowers and paddy were submerged and the agricultural produce suffered an overall loss of Rs 138 crore. “Of the 14,430 hectares, nearly 50 per cent were used for vegetable cultivation. The remaining plots had flowers and paddy. The total damage has been estimated to be Rs 138 crore,” said a senior district official. Sources in the agriculture department said they had received the damage report from the district and it would be placed before the top brass of the government for taking a call in this regard. “A policy decision has to be taken before announcing compensation for the affected farmers,” said an official. The sources said the vegetable farmers could be the worst hit as a majority of them couldn’t insure their crops. “This is because insurance companies don’t show interest in providing insurance coverage for vegetables which are vulnerable to even mild weather change,” sad a source. A senior government official said: “Now, hundreds of farmers have to depend on the state government with a hope that they get some compensation from the state government for crop loss.” The rain destroyed agricultural fields in East Midnapore also. Ramaprashad Giri, the krishi (agriculture) karmadhyaksha of West Midnapore zilla parishad, said the farmers who had crop insurance would get compensation according to the procedure. “But for those who don’t have the crop insurance, we will request the state government to release funds to compensate for their loss,” said Giri. The loss of production has already cast a shadow in the local markets as prices of vegetables and flowers have shot up. “Genda (marigold) flowers were sold in retail markets for Rs 50-100 a kg during the Vishwakarma Puja week last year. This year, they were sold for Rs 200,” said a retailer in Ghatal’s Chandrakona village. The picture is the same for vegetables as cucumbers and ribbed gourds are being sold at Rs 50 to Rs 60 a kg while the average price has always been around Rs 20 a kg. A source in the agriculture department said the rise in the prices didn’t result in any good for the farmers as the middlemen use the demand-supply mismatch and corner the benefits from the higher rates. The situation is also causing problems for ordinary buyers as prices have gone up throwing kitchen budget haywire. “The problem is that West Midnapore supplies vegetables to a large part of the state. If its production is hurt, the entire state would feel the pinch during the pandemic when many people lost their livelihood,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-371
18-09-2020||West Bengal||Bengal’s Covid cases 3,197, toll 60 in a day||Bengal on Thursday logged 3,197 new Covid-19 cases, and 60 deaths, 22 of which occurred in Calcutta and 18 in North 24-Parganas. Bengal also saw 2,948 recoveries, with the state’s recovery rate rising further to 86.77 per cent, over 8 per cent higher than the national rate. With this, the state has over 2.15 lakh infections, including over 1.87 lakh recoveries and 4,183 deaths. Calcutta and North 24-Parganas districts have contributed 60 per cent of all Covid-19 deaths in the state. The state’s mortality rate remained 1.94, still behind the national rate of 1.61 per cent. Of the total toll of 4,183, the state government reported 3,587 (85.8 per cent) as deaths with co-morbidity “present”. There have been, over a month, 1,710 deaths of Covid-19 patients in Bengal of which 1,398 were reported comorbid. Bengal ranks sixth among states with the most deaths and high mortality rates. In Covid-19, comorbidities are underlying health disorders, such as high blood pressure, diabetes, cardiovascular disease or kidney ailments. Most pandemic deaths around the world have been of infected persons with comorbidities. In Bengal, hypertension has taken around a fourth of the lives of the Covid-19-infected persons, followed by diabetes, which claimed around a fifth, and cardiac ailments, which took around one-tenth. “While the larger picture is unchanged over a month, a closer look reveals some shifts. For instance, the share of deaths attributed directly to Covid-19 has increased from 11.5 per cent to 14.2,” said a minister. Mortality rate among infected males improved in a month from 2.23 to 2.15 per cent, and in infected females from 1.73 to 1.57. Though the 75-plus age group remains most susceptible to Covid deaths with a mortality rate of 13.4, compared to the age group of 61-75 years, at 6.29 per cent, it is the 61-75 age group that has seen the most deaths in absolute numbers from the pathogen. “Of the comorbid deaths, over 80 per cent were of persons between the ages of 61 and 75. That bracket accounts for 70 per cent of all Covid-19 deaths,” said the minister. On Thursday, the state also reported 45,536 tests, which took the total past 26.54 lakh, at 29,490 tests per million people. Steady rise in testing, coupled with relatively lower cases being found has improved the positive confirmation rate from 8.9 on August 23 to 8.12 per cent. A decreasing positive confirmation rate is indicative of reducing levels of Covid-19 spread. The state reported 33.39 per cent occupancy in the 12,675 beds earmarked for Covid-19 in the 92 dedicated hospitals for the pandemic. Over 2.21 lakh telemedicine consultations have been provided, including 4,311 in the past 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-371
18-09-2020||West Bengal||Onions rot on India-Bangladesh border ||Around 25 per cent of Bangladesh-bound onions — stranded along different land ports in Bengal since Monday because of the Centre’s ban on the export of the bulb — have started rotting, forcing the exporters to dump the perished produce and bring back the rest of the consignments for sale at wholesale markets in the state. The exporters had been waiting anxiously for the past four days and kept the onion-loaded trucks parked at the land ports and the adjacent parking lots as there was a buzz that the Centre would allow the export by raising the produce’s price. “However, there hadn’t been any rethink by the Centre, at least till this evening... Onions have begun to perish in hot weather conditions and at least 25 per cent of the consignments have got rotten. Further wait will damage the entire consignments,” said Mihir Ghosh, an exporter at Ghojadanga land port in North 24-Parganas. According to him, some exporters and clearing agents inspected the condition of the sacks on Thursday morning and after realising that 25 per cent of the onions had already been damaged, they unloaded the trucks, removed the rotten ones to save the good stock. “Most of us have decided to sell the consignments at major wholesale markets like Posta, Sealdah, Dhulagarh, Sheoraphuli, and Siliguri to minimise the loss,” Ghosh, who is a member of the Ghojadanga Foreign Trade Organisation, said. A few exporters like Ranabir Dutta did not wait till Thursday to divert trucks to wholesale markets. On Wednesday night, Dutta diverted 100 tonnes of onions from Ghojadanga port to a wholesaler in North 24-Parganas. “I took the decision quickly apprehending that indefinite wait for the Centre to roll back its ban will become suicidal as onions perish very fast,” Dutta told The Telegraph. On Monday, the Centre had banned the export of onions of all varieties (except Bangalore rose and Krishnapuram) to contain the spike in price in the domestic market and to increase availability. An official of the Union ministry of commerce and industries had indicated the abnormal increase in the price of the Nasik variety of the onion by over 100 per cent (Rs 3,000 per quintal) during the first week of September had led the Centre to impose the ban. Estimates from exporters suggest trucks loaded with about 3000 tonnes of onions have already secured the shipping bills — clearance from the customs to cross over — and are waiting at the land ports. The cargo cannot enter Bangladesh because of the Directorate General of Foreign Trade, a wing of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, order. If the trucks waiting outside the land ports and the rakes are taken into account, another 7,000 tonnes of onions are ready for export. “It is an illogical decision. A highly perishable commodity like onion cannot be banned for export without any prior notice. The Centre can definitely ban the export of onion, but it should have made alternative arrangements for consignments stranded at the border,” said Kartick Chakraborty, the secretary of Petrapole Clearing Agents’ Staff Welfare Association.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-371
18-09-2020||North East||Centenarian beats Covid in Assam||Her age may have posed a challenge but 100-year-old Mai Handique’s battle against Covid-19 was won by her positivity, doctors said on Thursday. Handique, Assam’s oldest Covid-19 patient, was discharged from the Mahendra Mohan Chowdhury Hospital in Guwahati on Wednesday, they said. A resident of the Mothers’ Old Age Home, she was admitted to the hospital 10 days ago after testing positive for Covid-19. The doctors and nurses who were treating her held a small celebration before she was discharged. Handique, who was beaming with excitement, joined the party singing several Assamese songs in her full-throated voice. Handique, called Aita (grandma) by all at the hospital, told reporters that she enjoyed her stay and the food. “We were given fish or meat on most of the days while egg and banana were given daily. We were also given ‘ruti-bhaji’ (chapatis and vegetables) which I enjoyed the most,” she said. She also thanked all those who treated her, saying, “The girls (the nurses) and the doctors took very good care.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-44
18-09-2020||North East||Arunachal Pradesh folktales travel to Rajasthan ||Folktales of the Nyishi community of Arunachal Pradesh will soon feature in the curriculum of government schools in Rajasthan. Arunachal Pradesh chief minister Pema Khandu shared the development through a tweet with pictures of author Jamuna Bini and cover of the book, Uiimok, a collection of 21 Nyishi folktales in Hindi. About five to six folktales from this book are being shortlisted by the National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT) and will be included as part of Hindi textbooks of upper primary classes (V to VIII) in Rajasthan government schools, Bini told The Telegraph. Khandu tweeted on September 13: “Happy to know that folktales from Nyishi tribe of Arunachal from the book ‘Uiimok’ will be introduced in Rajasthan’s govt schools under #EkBharatShreshthaBharat. Thank you Dr Jamuna Bini, author of this Hindi book for sharing us this wonderful news.” Khandu, who tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday, has tagged the Prime Minister’s Office and the ministry of culture in his tweet, which has received over 200 retweets, over 1.9k likes and over 38k views. Bini, an assistant professor of Hindi at Rajiv Gandhi University in Itanagar, said it was a great honour and an encouragement to share the “stories of our land with the world”. A senior NCERT official contacted her early this year seeking her “consent” to include some of her stories for the upper primary classes in Rajasthan. Uiimok was published and released by Indira Gandhi Rashtriya Manav Sangrahalaya during the Tribal Litfest held in Bhopal last November. Located in Bhopal, the Sangrahalaya is one of the largest and leading anthropological museums in India under the ministry of culture. “It is also a befitting tribute to my ancestors and all Nyishi elders who have passed on these folktales generation after generation. I just documented these tales. I would also like to thank the illustrator (Jene Hai) of my book Uiimok. All 21 tales carry an illustration for the right visual effect,” Bini, who belongs to the Nyishi community, said. Uiimok, according to Bini, means the land of the dead. “It is the first story in the book. We Nyishis believe in life after death. It is a touching story of a girl who chases the soul of her dead father. The book was well received in the Hindi belt where talks and symposium were also held on the book. One thing I have realised is that despite being a multi-cultural and multilingual country, our soul is one,” she said. Referring to two instances about the oneness, Bini said, “Nyishis don’t hunt tigers as we consider them as our brothers. A tribe in Sikkim shares the same belief. There is a tale about why crows are black in Nyishi. There is a similar tale in the Bhojpuri belt. This all proves how similar we are despite our diversities.” Of the 26 major tribes and 100 sub-tribes in the frontier state, the Nyishis are the leading tribe according to population. The lingua franca of the state is Hindi because of the massive army presence and the inflow of labour and traders from the Hindi heartland after the1962 Chinese incursion. Bini’s literary offerings in Hindi and mother tongue Nyishi have been translated into many Indian languages, including Santhali, Assamese, Malayalam, Punjabi, Rajasthani, and even in Turkish. Her poems are included in the MA curriculum of Allahabad University. The recent honour, Bini said, has only made her “more determined” to write more about her land.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-45
18-09-2020||Opinion||Head in the sand: Unorganized sector database||The Centre has announced its intention to create a national database for the unorganized sector that will also include migrants. This decision must be welcomed. But it must also be ensured that the Bharatiya Janata Party-led government at the Centre does not renege on this pledge. The caution is not unwarranted. The labour minister’s announcement comes in the backdrop of the government’s shocking admission that it did not have any data on the death of migrant workers and the scale of their unemployment that coincided with the imposition of a hasty, ill-planned national lockdown in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. This in spite of the fact that the Inter State Migrant Workmen (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Services) Act, 1979 makes the registration of migrant workers mandatory. In June, the Supreme Court, in a belated response, had also directed the Centre to identify, register and transport migrant workers who were willing to return home. The government’s defiance of legislative imperatives as well as its indifference to the wisdom of India’s highest court is being correctly interpreted as an ingenious attempt to wriggle out of its commitment to compensate the adversely affected constituency. The families of migrant workers from Bengal who died in an accident in Uttar Pradesh have, for instance, given up hope of receiving the relief on account of the Centre’s disclosure of the absence of data on such deaths. It is not as if collating such information is impossible. The Stranded Workers Action Network has registered nearly 1,000 cases of death among migrants whose causes range from starvation, financial distress, absence of medical care, accidents and so on. The Centre, which commands a formidable data-collection apparatus, surely could have done better. The absence of political will is only a partial explanation for such a lapse. This regime dreads accountability. Joining the dots of such data would reveal the Centre’s pitiful failure to address the massive scale of India’s economic crisis — it preceded the pandemic — that has pulverized the informal sector. The repeated demands of the Opposition led by the Congress for some kind of direct financial compensation to this vast, unaccounted for segment has fallen on deaf ears. Narendra Modi’s apathy towards those on the margins is ironic. It is the support of the aam aadmi that has put the prime minister on his influential seat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-146
18-09-2020||Opinion||Without care: Absence of govt data on migrants||Sir — The vacuous response of the Union labour minister, Santosh Gangwar, to a written parliamentary question seeking details on the number of deaths of migrant workers and the compensation offered to them shows the government’s utter callousness and indifference to the plight of these workers (“Migrant deaths govt won’t see”, Sept 16). The minister replied that the government had no data on how many guest workers had died or were injured on the long trek back home during the lockdown. The minister also said that the government had no information on how many migrant labourers had lost their jobs on account of the Covid-19 crisis as no such survey had been conducted. One wonders how an elected government can shrug off its responsibilities towards its people with such ease and trivialize their suffering, especially when it was its own rash decision to implement the lockdown at a short notice that inflicted such hardships on them. The agonizing images of the exodus of thousands of India’s guest workers — possibly the largest migration in the nation’s history since Partition — cannot be forgotten. Rendered jobless by the sudden lockdown, many labourers died of starvation, exhaustion, dehydration and other ailments as they walked homewards. Several of them were crushed to death on the way. The fact that the government never documented these deaths reveals its lack of empathy. The State must take measures to mitigate the sufferings of the migrant labourers and compensate them for their losses adequately. Venu G.S.,Kollam, Kerala Sir — The opening day of Parliament’s monsoon session made it evident why the Narendra Modi-led government was keen to avoid answering questions raised by members on the floor of the House. The government’s written response to a question about the number of migrant labourers dying on the way during the lockdown betrays its sheer callousness and insensitivity towards a great human tragedy. As the government has no data on the matter, no compensation was paid to the families of the deceased. The labour minister had a similar response to a question about the number of labourers who had lost their jobs on account of the pandemic. In spite of displaying such unfeeling attitude towards its own people, the Centre could get away with it because the response was laid on the table of the House and the minister did not have to face follow-up questions afterwards. Earlier, the attorney-general had tried to mislead the Supreme Court by saying that no migrant was walking on the road, when many news channels were featuring live programmes on how these labourers were collapsing on their way home, fighting exhaustion and hunger, besides withstanding police brutality. Both these instances point to a case of wilful ignorance. Is it because the government does not want to be held accountable for these deaths caused by its own criminal negligence or is it simply trying to avoid having to pay compensation? S.S. Paul,Nadia Sir — It is unfortunate that the government does not have the details on the deaths of migrant workers who were forced to hit the roads to their faraway native places on account of the lockdown and the consequent loss of livelihood. The same government, however, earlier acknowledged that over one crore migrants had been shifted. This staggering count itself shows the pathetic condition of the workers in the informal sector, which employs nearly 90 per cent of the total workforce of India. These labourers work without being offered adequate social security. Now it is evident that even their deaths do not figure in official counts. The workforce of the informal sector deserves better treatment. D.V.G. Sankararao,Nellimarla, Andhra Pradesh Sir — According to researchers, nearly 1,000 migrants lost their lives on their way back home after the lockdown commenced. How can one forget the 16 migrant workers who were run over by a train as they had fallen asleep on the railway tracks while walking home? Like them, several others succumbed to fatigue on their way back to their hometowns. The difficulties suffered by the migrant workers are a shame on civilized society and a welfare nation. But it was well-anticipated that the Central government would turn a blind eye towards them. While pilgrims stranded elsewhere were taken care of, a number of migrant labourers were left neglected and untested. Is it any wonder then that many of them would turn out to be Covid-19 positive? Raghunath Pramanik,Howrah Fragile links Sir — Even the smallest disturbance in the natural order can wreak great havoc. A recent study has shown that a sharp dip in the population of Aleutian sea otters has led to the crumbling of the entire marine ecosystem in Alaska. With the decrease in the number of sea otters, there has been a steep rise in the population of sea urchins, the population of which was kept in check by otters. This is, in turn, is threatening coral reefs in the region as sea urchins in search of food are unwittingly destroying them. Coral reefs play a major role in maintaining marine biodiversity. Swift action is needed to restore the ecological balance. Arpit Guha,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-147
18-09-2020||Opinion||Safe seat: Pending cases against legislators||Accusation in a criminal case is not guilt. And in the unceasing scramble for votes in Indian politics, false accusations against political rivals are far from unknown. At the same time, it is understandable that the Supreme Court should reportedly be “shocked” at the number of pending cases against sitting and former legislators in Parliament and the state assemblies. Even if these members of parliament and members of the legislative assembly are to be found innocent by the courts, the fact that cases have not begun against them or chargesheets framed, suggests a motivated apathy shared by political parties. The numbers indicate the scale of this unwillingness. According to a report submitted to the Supreme Court, 2,556 cases are hanging over sitting legislators in 22 states, which become 4,442 when former legislators are included. Yet the Centre had set up 12 special courts in December 2017 exclusively for hearing cases against legislators. Cases dating back almost 40 years have not yet been heard. West Bengal, which has a special court, has a pending case from 1981 and 131 yet unheard charges against legislators. In numbers, however, Uttar Pradesh takes the lead with 1,217 cases, of which 446 are against sitting legislators. What is most alarming in this culpable reluctance to pursue cases is that a large number of the charges against legislators are for serious crimes, punishable with death or life imprisonment, and there are also charges which, if proven, would demand a penalty of seven years or more of jail time. This is a telling example of the double-speak routinely practised by the government and its agencies — there is constant deploring of the criminalization of politics that does not stop the nomination of allegedly tainted candidates at election time. Conviction would lead to a ban on contesting or sitting in a legislature, hence no case is pursued, unless it is done by an overwhelmingly powerful rival party which can protect its own. The Supreme Court has now directed the creation of special courts for cases against MPs and MLAs in every district and a system has been put in place that would also activate, among other things, the witness protection scheme. If this works, it may become the first step in freeing the legislatures of suspicion and taint.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-147
18-09-2020||Opinion||Plug the gaps: Aadhar and MGNREGA||India’s economy is going through an unprecedented crisis of unemployment. In these times, the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Programme and other welfare programmes are beacons of hope for India’s large rural population. However, the delivery of welfare has traditionally suffered from leakages. Thus, in 2015-16, the Government of India started linking these programmes with the Aadhaar — ostensibly to reduce leakages by deleting duplicate, fake or ghost beneficiaries. According to the GoI, till December 2019, this verification and deletion led to savings of Rs 24,162.09 crore in MGNREGA alone. But this linkage with Aadhaar involves a trade-off — the effort to reduce leakages can result in the exclusion of genuine beneficiaries. What has been the overall impact of this linking process? We sought this answer through a recent study of MGNREGA in Jharkhand supported by the Digital Identity Research Initiative at the Indian School of Business. We surveyed 2,907 workers in eight villages, three blocks and three districts of Jharkhand from May 2019 to February 2020. In our sample, the job cards of over 40 per cent of the workers had been deleted. The study revealed some shocking findings. Out of the cards that were deleted, 57 per cent belonged to genuine workers who were alive, living in the village, without any other job card, and willing to do manual work under MGNREGA. In fact, 48 per cent said they were keen on working and wanted their job cards renewed (many of the remaining had already got new job cards made). Finally, nearly 85 per cent of the workers whose job cards were deleted were not even aware of it — they were never informed, let alone asked for consent, before their job cards were deleted. Out of the 1.22 crore workers registered under MGNREGA in Jharkhand, 35.15 lakh were deleted by July 2020. Since 57 per cent of these belonged to genuine workers, more than 20 lakh of the valid job cards were deleted. This is more than the combined population of three districts of Lohardaga, Khunti and Simdega in Jharkhand. The increase in exclusion error (excluding genuine workers) is clearly higher than the reduction in inclusion errors (including non-genuine workers). Further, the benefits from the deletion of non-eligible job cards are uncertain since having a job card does not mean money is being spent on it — one needs to show work to get paid. Conversely, the cost of deletion of eligible beneficiaries could be massive; workers who are denied the right to work were unable to access work when they most needed it. The question is why were so many job cards deleted? While deleting a worker’s job card, the official is supposed to choose a reason from various options such as ‘Fake Job Card’, ‘Family Shifted’, ‘Duplicate Applicant’ and so on. Yet, the most common reason mentioned is “Others” (in 62 per cent of the cases where job cards were incorrectly deleted). According to a government official, this mass and erroneous deletion of job cards happened owing to the pressure to achieve 100 per cent Aadhaar linkage within a stipulated time. Strikingly, during our survey, we found that people whose job cards were incorrectly deleted were mostly those from the marginalized and remote communities that depend most on MGNREGA. For instance, in Palamu, we found a remote hamlet of people belonging to particularly vulnerable tribal groups where job cards of nearly all residents were incorrectly deleted. If the bureaucracy can make such errors in a simple exercise of matching job cards to Aadhaar cards, imagine the errors that can be expected from a mammoth exercise like the NPR or the NRC. If we extrapolate these error percentages, exclusion errors of 22.43 per cent would imply 30.3 crore Indians with proper documents would be denied citizenship simply owing to bureaucratic errors. While we strive to reduce leakages, it is important that we also strive to reduce exclusions. Given the importance of MGNREGA today, these exclusions must be addressed immediately so that the most marginalized people are able to avail of their right to work and live with dignity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-147
18-09-2020||Opinion||Triple tragedy||A sense of theatre was always a part of Indian politics. To it, one can add the quality of storytelling, emphasizing the power of orality and a taste for epic morality. Good and evil had to battle it out to satisfy the moral imagination of the audience. Commentary and spectatorship were equally important, and an event was not an event till it was discussed threadbare. Reading the newspapers and watching what masquerades as TV, I sensed the missingness of such an involvement. Both passion and analysis seem to have flown out of the window. Indian politics, which once provided a perpetual sense of democracy at work, has lost its way. A friend of mine, a well-known semiotician, told me, “Politics in India has failed thrice. It is this three-in-one tragedy that one has to confront.” He labelled the first as the politics of inanity. It referred to the recent Congress meetings. The second involved the Covid chorus, which revealed the politics of banality. The third evolved as the crisis in Bollywood inevitably enveloped in hysteria. The three events together contributed to the death of politics as an imagination. The three linked together show that India stands between Kafka and Alice. We now do not need an Arendt, or a Marx or an Adorno but the surreal genius of Ionesco to understand this. My friend claimed the surreal as macabre haunts the emptiness of Indian politics. Consider the Congress Party as the first case study. One realizes it has gone beyond tragedy. The Congress has lost its iconicity, the grandeur of figures like M.K. Gandhi, Jawaharlal Nehru and Vallabhbhai Patel. There’s no message, no sense of ideals, the sheer captivating power of the rhetoric. The party has lost both the sense of myth and magic, emasculating its own history. To think that the legacy of the party rests on one man is ridiculous. It’s like Pinocchio succeeding the epic heroes. Rahul Gandhi murmurs inanities, which he treats as proverbial wisdom. Watching him, one feels pity because he reduces his mother and sister to the same level of mediocrity. The Congress, which once celebrated itself as a coalition of differences, now insists on loyalty to the family as its critical Covid test. The fact is not that a great mass party has been reduced to a family but that the best in the party behave like retainers. Rahul Gandhi does not know the difference between a great party collapsing out of ridicule and a parent-teachers’ meeting where he plays the junior principal. Mr Gandhi has added to Marxist insight of history that history repeats itself twice, first time as tragedy, second time as farce. Rahul Gandhi goes one better and produces an assembly line of farces that emasculates a great history. The whole plot is so inane that one has to look for comic relief and, for once, the Tharoors and the Jairam Rameshs proved to be poor stand-ups. One wants to weep even as one watches the slapstick nature of the act — a party known for its dissenting imaginations now performs with autistic idiocy. If the Congress is inane, the Covid crisis has turned the regime into sheer banality. As political utterance or policy outputs, one senses an epidemic of mediocrity confronting the sheer power of the crisis. Tossing words like lockdown and new normal adds little to the power of the play. There is no language to look at the poignancy of suffering and the drumbeat of body counts, which pretends to be testimonials to the regime, hardly create a sense of mourning. It is as if death and suffering do not matter. The drama lies in the exponential growth of models, and there is little about moral choice, sacrifice or martyrdom. Doctors who tried to follow their vocation were denied the decency of burial. For once the politics is autistic. Even in his August 15 speech, the prime minister sounded like a salesman rather than a statesman. History has reduced him to a bit-actor. The regime stands depleted and deflated but with the moral luck of a party without any real opposition. The regime behaves like a bunch of extras content that they have another season in front of them. The sheer banality of the acts sans ethics, sans poetics, creates a moral emptiness, which is unbearable. Sadly, the pictures of migrants being sprayed, or a child playing with a blanket oblivious to the dead mother on the platform, remain mere video clips. They add little to the possibilities of the moral imagination. At a time when politics at the party level and in the realm of governance empties out, you would expect myth to rescue it. But the collapse of Bollywood has combined with the collapse of politics. Bollywood’s power stemmed not from the theatrics of its legendary actors but from the myths of modern India it sought to sustain. Bollywood sustained politics through a resolution of the contradiction between the values of town and country, family and public life, violence and the proprieties of law. Yet, of late, Bollywood lacks the politics of myth. It has died out as poetry and it senses this itself. It has run out of aesthetic steam. In its attempt to fall back on biopics or historical drama, its magic has become futile. History as a costume ball does not quite acquire the stature of myth. Bollywood’s ability to contain hysteria and order, family duty and freedom, was challenged from within through the unravelling of the Sushant Rajput story. A presentable young man, decent but a recent success, still new enough not to savour success or its ironic icing immediately. The story goes that he committed suicide and a whole inquisition of enquiry followed it. It is not the forensics of the story that capture interest; it is the sheer melodrama of a runaway script, which changed directions every week, that took over. It made Bollywood look silly as Kangana Ranaut and Ankita Lokhande ran riot, demanding the lines that Deepika Padukone should have spoken in a formal movie. It was as if Bollywood was tired of its own myth and had turned it into a farce with Mahesh Bhatt playing a bit-actor repeating the same role he had with Parveen Babi but now with Rhea Chakraborty. It was a plot gone berserk, and Bollywood realized that its own plots wild in the beginning acquired order and resolution after the interval. But what one witnessed was a sheer hysteria with a so-called dialogue turning into the cannibalism of social media. As a plot, the Rajput episode went berserk. It was not the poignancy of the actor committing suicide, it was now the bigger picture — the plot of a myth cannibalizing itself. The everyday hysteria of the Rajput story even put the crisis of Covid into an occasional shade. It was the public unravelling of a symbolic myth that desperately needed to be decoded. Many friends who were adept at symbolism saw these events as a triptych — a three-in-one weave which had to be understood together. They claimed each brought out the emptiness of politics in an individualistic way. The Congress imbroglio captured the politics of inanity revealing a party which was autistic, even amnesiacal, before its own history. The Covid drama showed that while nature can be dramatic, a regime without inspiration can, at best, resort to a banality, confronting a moral crisis with a clerical repertoire. Thirdly, instead of watching politics collapse, we went one step further and watched the myth of political modernity — Bollywood itself — collapse in sheer hysteria. As one watched the emptiness of the triptych, one sensed that politics has lost its creativity as metaphor, as epic, and as language. If the first was a failure of history, the second of governance, the third represented the myth eating itself. More than an epidemic, what we confront is a civilizational crisis presented as three mediocre tableaus. The challenge now is this: can culture with its resilience recreate the poetics and the energy politics has lost? Sadly, the jury is still out in some adda seeking the clues of future resolution. The author is an academic associated with Compost Heap, a network pursuing alternative imaginations||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-147
18-09-2020||Jharkhand||Social group delivers free oxygen cylinders to Covid patients ||Marwari Sahayak Samiti, a social organisation, has begun an initiative to offer free oxygen cylinders to Covid patients in home quarantine. Suresh Chandra Agarwal, one of the advisers of the samiti, said they started this drive about 10 days ago by gathering funds from members of the Marwari Samajh with the aim to assist anyone in need in times of the pandemic. “Initially, we began with two-three cylinders but as the initiative spread through word of mouth, likeminded individuals and a few more social groups donated funds to support our work. Today, we have managed to procure 35 cylinders in our stocks,” said Agarwal, adding that their service is open for all class of people irrespective of their social status. “It is because the virus doesn’t discriminate between caste and creed and hence, it is time for everyone to unite to defeat the pandemic. That is the motto with which we rolled out our service,” he said, adding that handsome donations have equipped them with enough resources to increase their inventory of cylinders as per the demand. Home isolation is allowed for those who are asymptomatic or have mild symptoms and doesn’t require hospitalisation. According to the health department’s standard operating procedures, it is mandatory for the patient to routinely monitor their oxygen saturation levels, which should consistently remain at least above 90%. Anything below this could be lethal. Agarwal, a businessman and social worker, said that during the initial days when the district administration implemented home isolation rule, many asymptomatic people struggled with poor oxygen levels and had to be rushed to hospitals. “Arranging private oxygen facilities wasn’t easy as many hospitals even didn’t supply it readily due to various issues. That’s when our outfit decided to rollout this service to help the people,” he said. Manish Lodha, one of the nodal persons taking care of the day to day operations, said that on an average five to six fresh requests are coming to them. “We are open 24X7. Anyone requiring help with the cylinders can contact 7004702476/9430142321/7004501709,” he said. A beneficiary however has to submit a mandatory refundable deposit of Rs 5000. Agarwal added that only in exceptional cases they relax the mandatory refundable deposit rule but try not to deny service to anyone. A similar initiative was started in Jamshedpur over a week back by another social unit the Marwari Yuva Samit. A community of Jains too is considering a similar service in Ranchi while another social outfit is looking into the possibility to start it in Dhanbad soon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-296
18-09-2020||Jharkhand||1,500 quintals of foodgrains seized from unauthorised warehouses in Jamshedpur||Police and supply department officials, acting on a tip-off, seized over 1,500 quintals of rice and wheat after raiding two unauthorised warehouses in the Sakchi and Golmuri police station areas on Friday. The seized foodgrains were meant for distribution among people in the below poverty line (BPL) category under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana scheme and had been brought to the steel city from Food Corporation of India (FCI) warehouses in Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Delhi. One of the warehouses is situated behind the Kerala Samajam Model School in the Sakchi police station area, while the other is located near Howrah Bridge along the Kalimati Road in the Golmuri police station area. Special officer (rationing), East Singhbhum, Naveen Kumar who led the raids said both the warehouses belong to Sanjay Mohnani, who is absconding. “At the warehouse in Sakchi, there were 1,100 sacks, mostly of rice. At the Golmuri warehouse, the quantity of rice and wheat could not be ascertained as the foodgrains had been piled up loose. We have sealed the Sakchi warehouse and are in the process of sealing the one at Golmuri,” Kumar told The Telegraph Online. He pointed out that from both the warehouses, the authorities had seized a large number of stickers that had been removed from the government-supplied wheat and rice. “The stickers mention details of the FCI warehouse from where the foodgrains had been brought and the quantity. We have seized the stickers for making further investigation into the racket,” Kumar said. During the raid which started around 1pm on Friday, the supply department team nabbed two associates of Mohnani. One of associates told the Sakchi police that Mohnani was running the racket for the past decade, but business had picked up in the last three months. One of Mohnani’s staffers, who is yet to be formally arrested, said: “He would collect foodgrains provided by the government at subsidised rates for people belonging to the BPL category and sell them in the open market. He had taken the two warehouses on rent only three months ago after the Centre started giving people belonging to the category rice and wheat at a subsidised rate of Rs 1 per kg when the pandemic began spreading.” Kumar said he would lodge two FIRs with the Sakchi and Golmuri police stations and hand over the two associates, who are now in the administration’s custody, to the police for further investigation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-296
18-09-2020||Jharkhand||Hemant govt tables Rs 2,584 cr supplementary budget on Day One of monsoon session||The Hemant Soren government tabled a supplementary budget to the tune of Rs 2,584.83 crore on Day One of the monsoon session which commenced on Friday amid heightened safety protocols in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. State finance minister Rameshwar Oraon tabled the budget amid protests by members of the Opposition over the Jharkhand Land Mutation Bill, 2020, which had not been tabled in the House. The bill, that critics say seeks to unfairly shield officials and bureaucrats in case of wrongdoing, is now unlikely to be tabled during the monsoon session as several MLAs of Congress, which is a partner in the ruling alliance, have also demanded changes in the draft okayed by the cabinet. The supplementary demand for grants for 2020-21 fiscal included Rs 912.34 crore for home, jail and disaster management departments, Rs 548.87 crore for the rural development department, Rs 363.00 crore for the urban development department and Rs 312.26 crore for the women and child development department. Four ordinances were also tabled. These were the Jharkhand Motor Vehicles Taxation Ordinance 2020, Jharkhand Mineral Bearing Lands (Covid-19 pandemic cess) Ordinance, Jharkhand GST Amendment Ordinance 2020 and the Jharkhand Value Added Tax (VAT) Amendment, 2020. The House was adjourned after an hour’s business before lunch till Monday after chief minister Hemant Soren’s speech to condole the recent demise of several leaders, including former president Pranab Mukherjee and Bermo MLA Rajendra Prasad Singh. The monsoon session, the first sitting of the House since the coronavirus outbreak in March, was held amid various safety precautions, including mandatory distancing among MLAs as they were seated. While all wore masks, many even put on face shields for added precaution. Assembly sources maintained that hand sanitisers had been kept at all key places within the premises while everyone was allowed entry after thermal scanning. The 81-member House now has an effective strength of 79 MLAs. In all, 70 MLAs were in attendance on Friday. Among the absentees, at least three MLAs —two of Congress—Amba Prasad (Barkagaon) and Naman Bixal Kongari (Kolebira) _ and one BJP _ Neelkant Munda (Khunti) _ are in isolation after having tested positive for Covid-19. Before the start of proceedings, chief minister Hemant Soren appealed to all for the smooth conduct of the House in the interest of the state. “The monsoon session is beginning from today amid the ongoing pandemic. I am hopeful that all MLAs will contribute positively for a healthy session to provide new direction to the state,” he tweeted. Health minister Banna Gupta said the state government would welcome constructive criticism but appealed to the Opposition to refrain from creating a ruckus. On issues like the land mutation bill and law and order, he said, “We won’t shy away from taking questions as discussion is the basis for a healthy democracy. We will try to answer every MLA’s queries and concerns in a civilised manner. We are expecting the same in return.” Speaking to reporters briefly after the session, BJP’s Babulal Marandi criticised the state government for poor handling of the Covid-19 pandemic and giving criminals a free run. He also took a dig at the Hemant Soren government for trying to safeguard babus and land sharks by introducing the land mutation bill. “This government is continuously exposing its anti-poor, anti-tribal and anti-people face,” he alleged.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-296
18-09-2020||Jharkhand||Jamshedpur FC set to let go of tiki-taka||The tiki-taka (short passes) style of play will be missing when Men of the Steel City take the field in the upcoming Indian Super League (ISL) 2020-21 season. Jamshedpur FC’s dependence on Spanish magic has become a thing of the past as is evident when one looks at the composition of foreign recruits in the current Jamshedpur FC squad. The Tata Steel-owned club has just two Spaniards in Aitroy Monroy and David Grande in the squad  vis-à-vis 6 in the last season. Both Monroy and Grande have a year left in their contract with JFC. Jamshedpur has a huge fan following and the club is no mood to disappoint its supporters who always come in numbers to pitch for the team whenever a home match is played at the JRD Tata Sports Complex in Jamshedpur. Moreover, the club wants to move forward by making it to the play-offs and beyond. Foreign players have been drafted in keeping this key aspect in mind. Needless to say, JFC is yet to qualify for the knock-outs ever since making its debut three seasons ago. The Spaniards who were the fulcrum of the squad last season and have been not signed this season include Jose Luis Espinosa Arroyo (Tiri), Francisco Medina Luna (Piti), Noe Acosta and Sergio Castel. Even head coach Antonio Iriondo’s services has not been availed. Dependence on Spanish players has been the trend for at least the past two seasons. Besides the players, JFC had also experimented with Spanish coaches in Cesar Ferrando and Antonio Iriondo. However, the team did not derive the expected benefits, forcing it to look beyond Spain this time. To top it all, bringing in Scottish-born Owen Coyle as head coach was an indication that Jamshedpur wants a complete change in its style of play. Selection of foreign and Indian players has been done in consultation with Coyle who helped Chennaiyin FC qualify for the final the last season. Coyle has done special homework when it came to selection of foreign players, a member of the JFC team management revealed .  “He (Coyle) will also adopt his own style of play,” he pointed out. As per ISL guidelines, a franchise can select a maximum of seven foreign players, including one from the AFC-affiliated nation. JFC has already signed four foreign players in Nerijus Valskis  (Lithuania), Peter Hartley (England), Stephen Eze (Nigeria) and Alexandre Monteiro de Lima (Brazil). Monroy and Grande are already in the squad. Only one foreign player from an Asian nation is left to be signed. Jamshedpur FC Mukul Choudhari said they have tried to form a strong side which is expected to perform as per expectations. Asked about Spanish recruits, he said: “It is not the question of Spanish players. We have not looked at a particular country for signing players this season but have tried to pick the best with a proven track record.” The cash-rich tournament will unfold in Goa in November . JFC finished fifth under Ferrando and eighth when Iriondo was in charge last season.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-296
18-09-2020||Jharkhand||For steel city’s Virat, fingers crossed for Monday’s IPL tie||Days spent in a bio-bubble may have tested his patience but Virat Singh is ready for the 13th edition of Indian Premier League (IPL) beginning in Dubai on Saturday. The 23-year-old southpaw from Jamshedpur has also picked up some vital lessons from well-established batsmen. It’s a key element for an IPL debutant when someone like New Zealand skipper Kane Williamson tells him how to go about it in the nets. “The six days in bio-bubble was difficult. But all of us in Sunrisers Hyderabad were on the same boat. Our bio-bubble routine comprised doing shadow practice, working on dumbbells and watching movies and cricket series on Netflix. I was holed up in my hotel room and food used to be kept at the door for me to pick it up. After all, it was a Covid protocol which all the teams had to follow,” Virat said. Speaking to The Telegraph Online over telephone from Dubai, he said the three-week camp (after the bio-bubble period was over) was of great help. “We worked out well at the nets. I was glad to pick vital tips from Williamson who advised me to not focus or try many shots. He told me to focus on only two shots. Talking to such a great batsman was valuable and an awesome feeling,” Virat recalled. The Jharkhand Ranji batsman said he was not sure if he would be able to make it to the XI in the first match against Royal Challengers Bangalore on Monday (September 21). “To be honest, I am not very sure as no one in the team management has spoken to me about it. Moreover, the final XI is announced before the start of the match. I am keeping my fingers crossed,” Virat said. According to him, he has been feeling good ever since he landed in Dubai last month. “I would like to grab the opportunity with both hands if given a chance to perform. I just need a solid knock to get going. I am really looking forward with confidence and want to use the opportunity to the fullest,” Virat added. The left-hander said he was in touch with his family in Jamshedpur. “Yes, I regularly talk to my parents and siblings to know about their health. I feel good talking to them,” Virat said. Asked if has met his Jharkhand mates – Saurabh Tiwary, Varun Aaron, Shahbaz Nadeem, Ishan Kishan, Monu Singh and Anukul Roy – who are also in Dubai for the IPL, Varun said barring Varun he has not been able to meet the rest. “I met Varun briefly in Dubai the other day,” Virat added. Virat, a talented batsman, was picked up by Sunrisers Hyderabad for Rs 1.90 crore during the auction in Calcutta last year. Virat has led Jharkhand under-19 team with aplomb. He is known for his quick reflexes and excels in crunch situations, key aspects in a tournament like IPL. He stays with his businessman father Binod Singh, homemaker mother Renu and brothers Vivek and Vishal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-296
18-09-2020||Jharkhand||Monsoon revs up, heavy rains likely from Sunday onwards||The prevailing dry spell is likely to get over soon with IMD forecasting heavy rain in Jharkhand for three days from Sunday, September 20. " A low-pressure area is developing over north-east Bay of Bengal. Due to the influence of the low-pressure several parts of Jharkhand are expected to get heavy rain from Sunday. The intensity of rain will be more in central and southern Jharkhand,” deputy director of IMD's Ranchi Meteorological Centre Abhishek Anand said on Friday. According to Anand, the low-pressure area will help revive the monsoon in Jharkhand even as it moves towards the west and impact West Bengal, Jharkhand and Odisha. A dry spell was prevailing in Jharkhand as the monsoon had become weak. In the absence of rain, the deficit figure rose to 15 per cent in Jharkhand. Met statistics revealed that so far, the state has received 829.8 mm rain against a normal of 976.1 mm, which is a deficit of 15 per cent. Due to limited rain during the past two weeks, as many as 18 districts find themselves in the deficit list, except for Dumka, Latehar, Palamau, Pakur, Koderma and East Singhbhum which experienced surplus rain. Weatherman at IMD's Regional Meteorological Centre at Alipore in Calcutta also predicted heavy and widespread rain in Jharkhand from September 20 due to the impact of the low-pressure. "We are expecting a good spell of rain in Jharkhand for the first time in September due to the formation of the low-pressure over the Bay of Bengal. Apart from central and southern Jharkhand, heavy rain is also expected in some districts of north eastern Jharkhand, " said a duty officer. He said that as on Friday, the western end of the monsoon trough was running close to the foothills of Himalayas while the eastern end was passing through Bareilly, Faizabad, Patna Bhagalpur and Malda. The north-south trough was running close to Bihar and interior Odisha across Jharkhand, extending up to 1.5km above mean sea level. This will also help Jharkhand get rain.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-296
18-09-2020||Jharkhand||Plasma therapy on offer in Dhanbad from next week||Plasma therapy for Covid-19 patients is likely to be introduced at Patliputra Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) here from next week as all preparations have been completed and lab technicians are on the verge of finishing their training in Ranchi. As for necessary equipment, a Corno Antibody IgG testing machine has been installed at the biochemistry department of PMCH. An aphaeresis machine, required for separating plasma from blood, was installed at the PMCH blood bank last week. In-charge of PMCH blood bank Dr A.K. Singh said, “Some primary steps for obtaining a license for carrying out plasma therapy has also been completed and with the completion of a week’s training of the workforce next week, we will be in a position to launch plasma therapy.” Singh said the lab workforce, being trained at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Ranchi, would return to Dhanbad on Monday. Those who are undergoing training include a doctor, two GNMs and two lab technicians. “Although we have one trained technician at the laboratory, we decided to have at least three trained technicians to work in three shifts. Hence, we decided to organise training of two more technicians,” he said. Singh said a plasma donor would have to undergo an antibody test which would be conducted at the biochemistry department. Head of the department of PMCH biochemistry department Dr Sunil Kumar Verma said the newly installed machine can carry out 12 tests in one hour. “We are in the process of launching another bigger machine which can carry out 24 tests per hour. The antibody test is crucial for the launch of plasma therapy as the utility of a donor’s antibody can be ascertained only through such a test,” he explained. President of PMCH Teachers’ Association Dr D.P. Bhadani expressed his satisfaction at the preparations. “Plasma therapy will prove quite beneficial to serious Covid patients,” he said. Dhanbad based NGO Shubh Sandesh, engaged in providing counselling services to persons suffering from lockdown induced depression, has been entrusted with the task of encouraging plasma donations by those who have recovered from Covid-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-296
18-09-2020||Jharkhand||BJP to target JMM govt on mutation bill, poor law and order||The Opposition BJP has decided to take on the JMM-led state government over the proposed Jharkhand Land Mutation Bill, 2020, and deteriorating law and order when the Assembly reconvenes on Monday for the monsoon session. Leader of the BJP legislature party and Dhanwar MLA Babulal Marandi has set the tone for the Opposition’s stance in the House following a meeting with party MLAs at his residence on Friday. After the meeting, BJP’s Sahebganj MLA Anant Ojha said, “All party MLAs are on the same page over the controversial land mutation bill. The party has decided to go all out to corner the government on this anti-people bill. The party will hit the streets with full force to block this bill, if the government still decides to table it without bringing in required amendments.” Notably, the Congress, an ally in the ruling dispensation, has also developed cold feet over the bill and is now calling for amendments to strike out a clause which offers protection to land and revenue officials from civil or criminal cases in case of wrongdoing. Ojha said that all party MLAs were equally concerned about the state’s deteriorating law and order ever since the Hemant Soren government was sworn in. At least two BJP leaders—one in Dhanbad and another in Palamau were killed in the last six months. “Almost every day, one can hear and read news regarding rape, dacoity, police excesses and so on. The situation is such that there is now a feeling among people that criminals and Naxalites have got a free hand to operate under the current regime,” said Ojha. He said BJP leaders have met the governor over the law and order issue twice, but the state government seemed indifferent. BJP is currently without a leader of the Opposition even though it is the single largest Opposition party in the state assembly with 26 MLAs. While BJP has chosen Marandi, Jharkhand’s first chief minister who had merged his JVM-P with the BJP after the Assembly polls as leader of Opposition, the appointment is yet to be okayed by the Speaker. Ojha said the BJP would raise the issue in the House on Monday. “Election Commission of India (ECI) has recognised Babulalji’s merger with BJP and by virtue of it, he was included in the BJP’s voter’s list during the Rajya Sabha polls held in June this year. But despite this, his formal appointment as leader of Opposition in the Assembly is not being endorsed by the Speaker at the behest of the state government,” said Ojha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-296
18-09-2020||Jharkhand||Coal worker killed in accident during morning walk||A coal worker of Mukunda Open Cast Project area of BCCL died after she was hit by a BCCL water tanker. The deceased, Arti Devi, was the sole bread earner of her family. She is survived by her husband, Baliram Rajbhar, sons Raja (10), Amit (8), Deepak (5) and daughter Khusbu (12). The local residents of MOCP and North Tisra area blocked the North Tisra- Jeenagora road for more than one hour, demanding compensation for the family. The family members of Arti Devi said she used to go for morning walks everyday towards the Gokuldham part, about 2 kms from her colony. The blockade was lifted around 9am when a police team led by officer in charge of North Tisra Police station, Chandraketu Singh arrived at the site and held talks with the protesters assuring them that compensation will be sought from BCCL authorities. “We have sent the dead body for post-mortem at PMCH and will initiate investigation on the basis of statement of the family members of the deceased after lodging a case”, said Chandraketu Singh. Ramgarh district’s police administration has issued a high alert on active bookies during the Indian Premier League fixture. The IPL commences from September 19. SP Prabhat Kumar said, “We are constantly getting information that bookies are active in the district. Bookies are consulting to gamble crores through mobile Apps and software”. Punters are present on every street to bet on the matches. The SP urged parents and young people to stay alert and not fall prey to the gambling system which sometimes has a fatal end. Emergency numbers 100 and 9162388444 have been issued. Anyone who has information about the bookies can inform the police. An attestation parade of 404 trainees was organised by The Punjab Regimental Centre on Thursday at Kilahari Drill Square, Ramgarh Cantt. The young soldiers took oath after nine months of training. Reviewing officer congratulated all newly inducted soldiers on the successful completion of their training. He presented medals and awards to the outstanding young soldiers for their performance during the training. Dhanbad police, arrested a car driver, Lalan Kumar Das in connection with the September 4 murder of BJP leader Kendua Mandal. Four more persons, including three of Baliapur and one person of Damodarpur, were arrested from Baliapur. Dhanbad SSP, Asim Vikrant Minz, said that police raided a hideout in Baliapur on the basis of information obtained from the interrogation of Lalan Kumar Das arrested the four criminals while raids are on to arrest more persons. He said that the murder plot was hatched by Vikash Singh, a noted criminal of Dhanbad in association with another criminal, SatIsh Kumar alias Samir who are still at large. Police also recovered a 7.62 mm country made pistol, a live catridge, a magazine, two motorcyles and a mobile phone from the arrested persons. Satish Singh, a close aide of the Dhanbad MLA was killed on the Dhanbad Bokaro road in Matkuari area at 3 pm on August 19 when he was walking to Vikash Nagar after disembarking from a SUV. Cash and properly worth over 6 lakh was stolen from the house of a resident of Barapandeydih locality under Baghamara Police station on Thursday. Ajay Pandey who lodged a case in this regard at Baghmara police station claimed that around 10 armed criminals entered his double storey house, held his family at gun point, stole jewellery and cash and then fled. Police recovered a mobile from Topchanchi area. Dhanbad based Central President of Commerce wing of Jharkhand Mukti Morcha, Amitesh Sahay, met Littipara JMM MLA, Dinesh Marandi during his brief stay at Govidpur and handed him a memorandum to resolve traffic congestion on the main road connecting Dhanbad to Santhal Pargana. According to the memorandum, Sahay urged Marandi to look into the demand for construction of four flyovers and resolve the power crisis in Dhanbad. Inauguration of a power grid substation in the district has been delayed by environmental and lockdown related factors. Once functional, the district will get uninterrupted power supply. An NOC is required for cutting down trees that fall under the newly erected transmission lines. The lockdown delayed the formal procedure. Executive engineer of Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited, Chandramohan Sharma said,“ Work has been completed and there is some issue at Latehar side which will be sorted out at the earliest”. He claimed that it’s a matter of few months when Chorkari power sub grid will start working by January 2021.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-296
