19-09-2020||Calcutta||Online parent-teacher meetings offer relief||Many parents are relived that parent-teacher meetings are taking place online because it has reduced the waiting time to meet a teacher at school. Several schools are allocating specific time slots to parents to meet the class teacher or the subject teachers. Parents, when they would visit school to meet the teachers, would also get annoyed waiting for their turn as many of them had to rush to office, to keep an appointment at work or even go back home to attend to an elderly patient. On many occasions the queue would be largest when it came to the science or the math teacher, heads of at least two city schools said. By default the system has become more “time bound” and “forcibly streamlined”, head of a school said. “Since parents are being given specific slots it is saving time because they have to stick to that particular time. Some parents would take a long time with the teacher that would annoy the next parent, who is kept waiting,” said Meena Kak, principal of Lakshmipat Singhania Academy. Some schools are giving 10 to 15 minute slots and some of them about 45 minutes to a group of parents. In some institutions, a group of parents is entering an online platform and they are requesting the host, who is usually the class teacher, as to which subject teacher they want to meet and are being shared the link. Some schools are giving separate days to meet the class teacher and the subject teachers. “In school, parents would not want to come on multiple days. On the day of the meeting they would go from room to room to meet the different teachers, which would increase their waiting time,” said Amita Prasad, director of Indus Valley World School. “Even if schools tried to stagger the time according to roll numbers but inevitably there would be some parents who would leave without meeting some teachers,” she added. G.A. Rahaman spent only an hour talking to seven of the teachers at The Newtown School. “I was keen to talk to all teachers because my son will appear for board exams next year. It took me an hour . Had I met them in school, it would taken the entire morning and even then I would have to skip some teachers. There was hardly any waiting time at the online meeting,” said the father. Schools are also noticing better attendance of parents in the online mode unlike in school where there were more number of absentee parents especially in senior classes. “Now, in the online mode we noticed that 95 to 98 per cent parents are present for the meeting, which would vary from 65 to 75 per cent in senior classes,” said Basanti Biswas, principal of Calcutta Girls’ High School. “We have our meetings three weeks before the exams always so as to tell parents which are areas the children need to focus on.” Parents now have the freedom to log in from their workplace also and it is easier for them to maintain the time if they have a prior intimation, which is usually provided. Heads of schools felt that the online mode has “shortened” the entire interaction and is now “more to the point”. “Some parents would deliberately prolong the interaction but now it is more to the point. Some of them would repeat a question after they hear other parents asking it because they are in the same room,” said Satabdi Bhattacharjee, the principal of The Newtown School. “The new system in our school is also giving parents the comfort of more private and open interaction with the teacher where no one else can hear them,” she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-299
19-09-2020||Calcutta||IIT Kharagpur to open on September 21 with ‘curbs’||IIT Kharagpur, which has remained closed since September 6 to stop the spread of Covid-19, will reopen on September 21 “with some restrictions as notified from time to time”. A notice signed by the institute’s registrar, B.N. Singh, announced the lifting of the closure but mentioned that “the faculty, staff and others who are staying in the campus are strictly advised to refrain from the movement out of the campus/ city/ town considering the recent increase of number of cases in the campus unless there is an emergency/exigency”. The heads of the departments/centres/schools have been asked to evolve mechanisms to restrict the entry of employees, especially those who are coming from outside the campus and staying in Covid-affected areas, after assessing the situation. “They may be asked to work from home if required,” says the notice. A blanket ban on entry into and exit from the campus, put in place on September 6, has been withdrawn, said an official. “Improvement in the situation led to the withdrawal of the closure, but a slew of safety measures will still have to be followed,” registrar Singh told The Telegraph.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-299
19-09-2020||Calcutta||Need three years to solve water problem: Firhad Hakim||A borough chairperson of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation complained about scarcity of water in Tollygunge at a meeting of ward coordinators on Friday, but board of administrators’ chairman Firhad Hakim sought three years to solve the problem citing funds crunch. Broken trident lamps and uprooted trees lying unattended since Cyclone Amphan struck on May 20 came up for discussion, too. The poor condition of some roads was another issue. This was the first time that the coordinators of all 144 wards met since April. “In the last one month, a severe potable water crisis has broken out in several wards of Tollygunge, in Borough X. The water pressure has gone down many times,” Tapan Dasgupta, the outgoing chairperson of Borough X, told Metro after the meeting. “In my own ward, places like Azadgarh, Ashiwinagar, Gandhi Colony and Bikramgarh are facing  a severe water crisis. I have raised the matter with engineers but there is no solution in sight.” Water scarcity during summer is common in pockets of Tollygunge, which still depend on underground water drawn from deep tube wells. But Dasgupta said the recent crisis has emerged in places that get potable water. Pockets of Jadavpur suffer from the same problem. Speaking to reporters after the meeting, Hakim said it would take about three years to solve the water problem of the Jadavpur-Tollygunge belt. “We are augmenting the capacity of the Dhapa water treatment plant. It produces 30 million gallon per day (MGD) now. We are working on increasing the capacity by another 20 MGD. We are also going to build a water treatment plant near Dhalai bridge (in Garia). But it needs hundreds of crores of rupees to build a plant. There is a strain in finances,” said Hakim. “We are trying but we do not know magic. I hope we will be able to provide potable water to the entire area within three years. There is no water crisis. It is that people have to depend on water drawn from deep tubewells. They do not get potable water.” Several coordinators complained about bad roads and broken street lights. Jui Biswas, the coordinator of Ward 81 in New Alipore, spoke about trident lights lying damaged since Amphan. There are damaged trident lights along Pramatha Chaudhuri Sarani.. Broken trident lamp stands can be found along Bankim Mukherjee Sarani, too,” she said. Ratna Roy Majumdar, a ward coordinator from Behala, requested the board to take up repairs of a 2km stretch of Biren Roy Road (West), between Bakultala and Nutanhat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-300
19-09-2020||Calcutta||Sharbari Datta brought fashion to the Indian man||Every time I would drop by her Broad Street residence for an interview, which would more often be a straight-from-the-heart adda lasting hours, she would be seated on one particular intricately carved wooden chair in her home studio, nestling her cup of tea, and urging me to munch on the carefully laid-out platter of snacks in front of me. The chat would essentially be followed up with a lunch, often cooked by her with keen care for my preferences. Hospitable, humble and immensely talented — that was Sharbaridi for me, whom the world knew as the legendary menswear designer Sharbari Datta. Rightfully credited to have introduced the Indian man to the world of fashion, Datta started her journey in designing rather informally in 1991 with a small exhibition that received unexpected commercial success. One exhibition led to another and the Sharbari brand was born. The first Indian fashion brand that solely focussed on men’s clothing. “I always felt that Indian men were very inhibited when it came to dressing up. Due to the colonial hangover, the British influence, we always considered grey, pale blue or navy blue as the masculine colours that make for smart outfits. But nowhere else is it so. Be it Japan or Africa or Afghanisthan or Pakistan… the men always dress in bright colours… so are they feminine? I wanted to prove that there’s no clash between masculinity and bright colours. Our Indian tradition in menswear is of bright colours and nakshas. So why have we ignored it completely? A three-piece suit is not the only fashion statement for an Indian man. He can also make a statement in traditional Indian clothes,” she had told The Telegraph in an earlier interview, when asked about her bold decision to tread uncharted territory. With hand-embroidery over hand-sketched motifs that drew inspiration from rustic and folk cultures as the mainstay, the Sharbari Datta school of design became the go-to for the Calcutta man for his wedding outfit, who even dared to don the brightly coloured dhoti that she introduced, breaking the norm of the beige or white piece of traditional drape. Not just Calcutta, her unique aesthetics drew men from all parts of the country — from Ismail Merchant (among her first celebrity clients) to Sunil Gavaskar, Imran Khan, Sachin Tendulkar, Shoaib Akhtar, Sourav Ganguly, Leander Paes to Abhishek Bachchan and many other Bollywood and Tollywood stars, they have all proudly worn a Sharbari creation. But the artist in her was always that wee bit more excited when somebody from the art world would choose to wear her creations. “I feel extra special when artists buy my work. Since I consider my work as artwear, I have felt that my work has been certified when people like M.F. Husain, Ganesh Pyne, Manjit Bawa, Paresh Maity and Bikash Bhattacharya have bought my clothes,” Datta had told us. Datta was the daughter of famous poet Ajit Datta. Showcasing her work in exhibitions across the world and winning innumerable awards — including The Telegraph She Awards in the Creative Art category in 2016 — Sharbari became a name to reckon with in the Indian fashion fraternity. Conquering the world from her home studio, she resolutely refused to expand into other areas of design, keeping her focus firmly on menswear for the most part of her career. “I have always refused to diversify into other areas. I have always been very focussed. Menswear is a very difficult area because men are difficult to deal with when it comes to fashion. Most of them are rigid and not adventurous. Women are much more open and receptive, so that’s a much easier area,” she would tell us. In 2017, Datta distanced herself from her brand Sharbari Studio, which she co-owned along with her son Amalin Datta and daughter-in-law Kanaklata Datta. She launched another brand called Shunyaa, along with partners, making the signature Sharbari aesthetics its design DNA. With an opulent store in Hindusthan Park, Sharbari had built a new world for herself. But for me, the picture of Sharbaridi that would remain forever etched in my heart would be of her sitting on that intricately carved wooden chair in her home studio, nestling her cup of tea while chatting her heart out.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-300
19-09-2020||Calcutta||Gang of 4 fires, hurls bombs  at cafe||Four men fired and hurled bombs at a cafe-cum-restaurant on Nasiruddin Road, in the Karaya area, early on Friday in an alleged attempt to seek revenge on the owner over a dispute, police said. None of the bullets fired hit anyone. An employee of Aladdin Reloaded Cafe and Restaurant suffered injuries on his head after being attacked by the butt of a firearm. The incident happened around 1.30am. Police said the cafe-cum-restaurant was illegally open past the permissible time. “The four men, led by Nishat Haider, 23, a resident of Shamsul Huda Road, fired at least three bullets in the air and hurled four bombs. They were looking for the owner of the place, Rahul Singh. The owner was not there. That further angered the men and they started firing in the air. Luckily, no one was injured,” an officer at Lalbazar said. The gang allegedly assaulted Mohammad Amin, the manager of the restaurant, and another employee before fleeing. Police have found CCTV footage that shows the men entering the place and leaving. While leaving, one is seen hurling a bomb at the restaurant and another rushing out with a gun in his hand. During inquiry, the police reportedly found that the attack was the outcome of an altercation that took place a few days ago. “Haider was drinking in a public place when someone protested. Haider had thought that it was the owner of Aladdin Cafe and Restaurant who had protested,” an investigator said. No one was arrested till Friday evening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-300
19-09-2020||Calcutta||UGC nod for open-book test with  3-hour rider||The UGC has told Calcutta University that it is free to hold open-book exams as part of the end semester/ final-year test “so long as they are timed for two or three hours”, an official said. If the institution allows more time, the UGC said, the evaluation will not be categorised as an exam. The UGC letter reached CU on September 16, two weeks after the university had announced that it would conduct open-book exams for final-year undergraduate students and give them 24 hours to upload the answers. The official said the faculty councils for undergraduate and postgraduate studies met on Friday and resolved “to abide by the UGC directive”. “The UGC took note of the CU’s decision and said the open-book assignment can be held so long as it is timed for two or three hours, not 24 hours,” he said. Repeated calls to vice-chancellor Sonali Chakravarti Banerjee went unanswered. She did not respond to text messages from this newspaper either.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-300
19-09-2020||Calcutta||JU allots  Rs 16 lakh to bridge digital gap ||A Jadavpur University committee has allocated Rs 16 lakh out of a corpus Rs 21 lakh to buy students smartphones and data packs this month so no one misses out on digital education and exams, said an official of the institute. A 10-member committee at its second meeting held on Thursday decided that 200 students would be bought smartphones with each set costing Rs 6,000. “While Rs 12 lakh will be spent on buying smartphones, another Rs 4 lakh will go into buying 800-odd students data packs,” said JU registrar Snehamanju Basu, the convenor of the committee. The students will be bought data packs for three months and the university will have their packs recharged after students share details of their service providers. The meeting also discussed the possibility of engaging couriers to send study materials to those who live in remote locations that do not have any Internet connectivity. “The proposals were discussed whether audio and video CDs of lectures could be couriered to those students, considering the extreme constraints they are encountering. We have to see how far this would be feasible,” said Basu.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-300
19-09-2020||Calcutta||Air India London flight to go via Mumbai||Air India, which had promised a direct Calcutta-London evacuation flight, has decided to operate it as a hopping flight with a stopover in Mumbai till the Heathrow airport authorities allot a slot for the non-stop flight, an official of the airline said. Heathrow had refused a slot for the first direct Calcutta-London flight on Thursday. As a result, the flight got delayed by four hours and went as a hopping flight with a three-hour stopover in Delhi. The next flight from London is supposed to arrive in Calcutta on Sunday and take off the same day. Both flights will operate through Mumbai, Air India officials said on Friday. “Till we get the slot for the direct flight, it will continue to operate via Mumbai. We are in constant talks with the Heathrow authorities for the slot,” a spokesperson for Air India said on Friday. “The waiting time in Mumbai is much less compared to Delhi, so we have decided to operate the flight through Mumbai.” The waiting time in Mumbai is less than an hour, the spokesperson said. Air India had announced a twice-a-week direct flight between Calcutta and London under the Vande Bharat programme (evacuation) till October 24. On Friday, Metro had reported how passengers faced harassment and were delayed by six-and-a-half hours to reach London. Air India claimed that Heathrow had cancelled the slot at the last moment, forcing a change in schedule. But an official of an international airline had said slots were booked well in advance. An airline opens bookings only after the slot is secured, the official said. Tour operators have criticised Air India’s decision to convert a direct flight into a hopping one. “Passengers had booked seats for direct flights. Now, they are suffering because of the unprofessional attitude of Air India. They could have booked evacuation flights through Delhi or Mumbai at convenient times,” said Anil Punjabi, chairman, east, Travel Agents Federation of India. “Around 8am on Thursday, I had called a senior Air India official to find out about the status of the flight because someone known to me was travelling. The official said he was at the airport in a meeting and would call me back shortly. That call is yet to come,” Punjabi said on Friday evening. Calcutta airport officials said flights operated by Emirates and SpiceJet under the air-transport bubble agreement were operating according to schedule. Both airlines are operating flights between Calcutta and Dubai. Under the arrangement, a select number of commercial flights are allowed between two countries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-300
19-09-2020||Calcutta||Zoos in Bengal to reopen on October 2||Zoos in Bengal, shut since March 17 in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, will be open from October 2, the government said on Friday and released a set of guidelines for the reopening. Tickets have to be booked online. “The zoos will have to work out the number of visitors they can allow according to their area and infrastructure,” said V.K. Yadav, the chief wildlife warden of Bengal. Officials at the Alipore zoo said they were planning to cap the daily visitor count at 5,000. An official said “the cap will be revised in the peak months as the Covid situation is dynamic”. The Padmaja Naidu Himalayan Zoological Park in Darjeeling and Bengal Safari Park in Siliguri are also set to open from October 2. Bengal has around a dozen zoos. The guidelines state everyone on the premises has to wear a mask and the footfall in the cafeterias cannot be more than 30 per cent of the capacity. The guidelines also include Covid-19 protocols that have to be followed in forests, national parks and sanctuaries, which will be open for visitors from September 23. All tourist vehicles will have one seat vacant between two passengers and the number of visitors on a watch tower in a forest will not be over 20. For now, elephant safaris are banned.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-300
19-09-2020||Calcutta||Virus break in rajbari tradition||This will be the first time since Maharaja Naba Krishna Deb started Durga Puja at his chhoto rajbari in Sovabazar more than 200 years ago that visitors will not be allowed to witness the puja. Reason: Covid-19. Family members said maintaining social distance and other safety norms would be impossible if visitors are allowed on the premises during the puja. Naba Krishna had started Durga Puja at his palace in Sovabazar in 1757, the year of the Battle of Plassey. He had adopted Gopi Mohan, his brother’s son, as his son. Later, when his son Raj Krishna was born, Naba Krishna built a second palace in Sovabazar and started performing Durga Puja there in 1790. The second palace — 36 Raja Naba Krishna Street — is known as chhoto rajbari. “For the first time in the 230-year-old history of our puja at chhoto rajbari that visitors won’t be allowed,” said Tirthankar Deb, a descendant of Raj Krishna. “The rituals will remain unaltered but it will not be possible to welcome guests. It will then be impossible to maintain the safety norms,” Deb added. The Debs will issue identity cards to the over 350 members of the family so outsiders don’t get to enter the mansion, a heritage structure. In another break with tradition, the idols will be carried on a trailer to the Hooghly for immersion. In previous years, 32 men used to carry the idols on their shoulders from the mansion to the river. “For us the Durga Puja of Sovabazar rajbari means the pujas at both palaces,” said Soumit Narayan Deb, a descendant of Gopi Mohan. “The puja at the first palace will be stepping into its 263rd year this time. Visitors are welcome to the palace but they cannot step on the thakur dalan (the place where the deity is worshipped).”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-300
19-09-2020||Calcutta||Second cut in ISC-ICSE syllabi||The Council for Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) has curtailed the syllabuses for Classes X and XII students who will take their board exams next year after taking into account findings of a survey on the progress of online teaching. The ICSE and ISC syllabuses were first reduced in July. The authorities decided on the second cut in view of the “significant loss” of teaching hours because of the closure of the schools forced by the Covid-19 pandemic. “In view of the continuing pandemic situation and significant loss of instructional hours during this academic year, and based on the findings of the online survey conducted by the CISCE on the Status of Online Teaching and the Extent of Syllabus Covered in its affiliated schools, it has been decided to make further reduction in selected Syllabi at the ICSE and ISC levels for the Examination Year 2021 (i.e. for Classes X and XII),” a circular issued by the council reads. When the syllabus was curtailed in July, many students and teachers had complained that the reduction was not significant. As for the second reduction, some teachers called it “quite significant”. This time the authorities have dropped Act V of Shakespeare’s Merchant of Venice from the Class X English literature syllabus. Students appearing in the 2021 ICSE exams are required to study the play till Act IV. But some teachers said they would advise the Class X students to read the entire play. “A play has to be read in totality and it cannot end abruptly. We will ask students to read the entire play. They must understand the whole context even if they are not tested on a particular portion,” said Joseph Chacko, an English teacher at St James’ School. In July, the council had only excluded one poem and one short story from the ICSE English literature syllabus. One more poem and short story have been left out this time, which means students will have to read eight poems and as many short stories. The revised syllabuses have been posted on the CISCE portal. The council has directed the schools to accept projects students have already completed on subjects that have been left out. The council had last month asked its schools to provide information on the strategies and methods adopted by them to conduct online teaching and the extent of the curricula covered. The feedback from the schools were taken into consideration when the council decided to curtail the syllabuses for a second time, the principal of a Calcutta school said. The council found that many schools, particularly in districts, had not taught the sections they are supposed to by September, the principal of another school said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-300
19-09-2020||Calcutta||Sharbari Datta found dead at home||Fashion designer Sharbari Datta was found dead in the ground floor washroom of her Broad Street home late on Thursday night. She was 78. Police said they would be able to comment on the cause of death only after they receive the post-mortem report in the next three to four days. Police sources privy to the preliminary post-mortem findings said it appeared to be a case of stroke. Officers of Karaya police station have started an unnatural death case. Datta is suspected to have died early on Thursday morning. She was found dead more than 12 hours after she passed away when her daughter-in-law went downstairs to look for her. Before that, Sharbari’s granddaughter had tried in vain to reach her over the phone. While Datta lived in the ground floor, her only son Amalin Datta, daughter-in-law Kanaklata and the couple’s two children stayed in the first floor of the house on  Broad Street. Datta, daughter of renowned Bengali poet Ajit Dutta, was married to Alokemoy Datta who passed away a few years ago. Sources close to the family said Datta and her son had a strained relationship, and she was allegedly “coerced” to give her eponymous menswear label “Sharbari” to him. She had started a new label, Shunyaa, with a sprawling store in Hindustan Park but that business shut down during the pandemic. “… the pandemic made her go into a depression. Her shop had to be closed, her production had to be halted and without any occupation, the loveless situation was gnawing at her,” Ananya Chakraborti, Datta’s friend and chairperson of the  West Bengal Commission for Protection of Child Rights, wrote in a letter to joint commissioner, crime, of Calcutta police Murlidhar Sharma. Datta had not stepped out of her room on Thursday for breakfast, lunch or dinner. Her son and his family said they thought she was not home at all. “This is absolutely a normal practice in our home that she would step out without informing us. So there was no question of getting worried when she did not appear for her brunch or dinner. We thought that since it was Vishwakarma Puja, she was out visiting her units. But when it was quite late and we were about to lock the main gate like we do every day, we called her to ask when she would be back. We made multiple calls which went unanswered,” Datta’s son Amalin told Metro. Amalin said they had a common kitchen in the ground floor. He said he last saw his mother take dinner and retire in her room on Wednesday night. Around 11am on Thursday, one of their household staff apparently saw through an open window of Datta’s room that the bed was empty. “We presumed that she had gone out. Then around 3.30pm, when another staff member reminded my wife that she (Datta) had not come out of her room even for her lunch, my wife had opened the door of her room in the afternoon and seen that the lights were off and the bed was empty, just the way she keeps when she goes out,” Amalin added. He said even when the room was locked, he, his wife and Datta knew a way to turn the handle so that it could open the door without any key. Amalin said they tried calling her thrice in the day but did not receive any response. Several hours later, around 11pm, when it was time to close the main gate, the family called her again. With no response, Amalin’s wife Kanaklata entered Datta’s room. “Kanaklata switched on the lights…. Then my wife found my mother in the washroom,” he added. The family called their physician who advised them to take her to a hospital, Kanaklata said. They called several relatives after that and finally Karaya police station. That call went around 12.40am on Friday. She told the police that her mother-in-law had fallen and that she needed help to rescue her. By the time a team of officers reached her home, Datta had been removed from the washroom and laid in the drawing room, the police said. Datta was taken to the Calcutta National Medical College and Hospital, where she was declared dead. There was a cut on her toe,  which could have been caused by a broken bathroom floor tile where a bloodstain was found, the police sources said. Several questions have emerged surrounding the circumstances of her death and her estranged relationship with her son. In her letter to the police officer, Chakraborti, the child rights panel chief, wrote: “Sharbari Datta was a dear friend…. She had confided in me several times… how they (son and daughter-in-law) had taken away everything from her, her wealth, her property, her brand and was paying her a small allowance… She also said how she had been coerced into signing off everything in the favour of her son and daughter-in-law. While narrating her plight, she would often break down uncontrollably.” She added: “To be oblivious of her state lying unconscious in the same house for over 15 hours speaks volumes about the neglect and emotional abuse that she must have been going through.” Datta’s son said it was a “huge shock” for him to lose his mother and the person with whom he had worked on so many projects. “Last week only we all went to Santiniketan to draw up a plan on how to develop a property. Everyone was so happy to see us together,” he recalled.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-300
19-09-2020||Business||Foreign investments in defence will be subject to scrutiny: Piyush Goyal||The government’s decision to ease the FDI norms in the defence sector will push self-reliance in production and keep national interests and security paramount, commerce and industry minister Piyush Goyal said on Friday. He said the foreign investments would be subject to scrutiny on the grounds of national security. The government has permitted 74 per cent foreign direct investment (FDI) under the automatic route in defence with certain conditions. “Now, FDI is allowed up to 74 per cent through the automatic route and beyond 74 per cent to be permitted through the government (approval) route. This will enhance ease of doing business and contribute to growth of investment, income and employment,” Goyal said in a tweet. “In line with our collective vision of Aatmanirbhar Bharat, amendments will enhance self-reliance in defence production, while keeping national interests and security paramount.” The government has permitted foreign direct investment (FDI) of up to 74 per cent under the automatic route to attract overseas investors, according to a press note issued by the DPIIT. However, the investments would be subject to scrutiny on the grounds of national security and the government reserves the right to review any foreign investment that affects or may affect national security, the department for promotion of industry and internal trade (DPIIT) said in the note. At present, 100 per cent overseas investments are permitted in the defence industry — 49 per cent under the automatic route, while government approval is required beyond that level. The permit for up to 74 per cent FDI through the automatic route was announced by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman in May while announcing the fourth tranche of the Rs 20 lakh crore stimulus package for the coronavirus-hit economy. In July 2018, the government had relaxed the foreign direct investment norms in the defence sector by allowing up to 49 per cent FDI under the automatic route. According to DPIIT data, defence industries have received FDI equity inflows of $9.52 million (Rs 56.88 crore) between April 2000 and March 2020. Under the government route, foreign investors have to take prior approval of the respective ministry/department, while in the automatic route, the investor just has to inform the RBI.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-285
19-09-2020||Business||Govt tightens rule for domestic procurement||Foreign entities of countries which do not allow Indian companies to participate in their government buying will not be permitted to take part in domestic procurement, an official statement said on Friday. The government has also mandated a higher minimum local content from domestic suppliers. The limits for Class I and Class II local suppliers, at 50 per cent and 20 per cent, respectively, will be raised. The changes in the procurement norms would not violate the global trade pacts as India is not a signatory to the WTO’s government procurement agreement and gives ample flexibility for the government to formulate policies, Biswajit Dhar, trade economist with JNU, said. The government has added a reciprocity clause in its Public Procurement (Preference to Make in India) Order, 2017. “According to the Order, entities of countries which do not allow Indian companies to participate in their government procurement for any item, shall not be allowed to participate in government procurement in India for all items related to that nodal ministry/ department, except for the list of items published by the ministry/ department permitting their participation,” it said. The order said this stipulation shall be part of all tenders invited by the central government procuring entities. All procurement on government e-marketplace shall also necessarily have this provision for items identified by nodal ministry/department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-285
19-09-2020||Business||Govt reduces  import duty on masoor dal by 20 per cent||The government has reduced the import duty on masoor dal by 20 per cent till October-end to boost the availability of the lentil in the domestic market during the festive season. The import duty on masoor dal has been reduced to 10 per cent from 30 per cent from countries other than the US. In the case of the US, the duty has been brought down to 30 per cent from 50 per cent. Bimal Kothari, vice-chairman of the Indian Pulses & Grains Association, said the government should have a consistent import policy. He said the duty cut announced in June benefitted foreign farmers and traders as the global prices of lentil rose after India reduced the import duty. The country imported about 25 lakh tonnes of pulses last fiscal of which 8.5 lakh tonnes were lentil. The import of lentil is seen to rise to 10 lakh tonnes this fiscal although the overall shipments might come down to 20 lakh tonnes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-285
19-09-2020||Business||Trai issues rules for publications and ads on tariff plans||Telecom regulator Trai on Friday issued a fresh set of rules for publication and advertisement of tariff plans by telcos, in a bid to boost transparency in mobile offers and to help subscribers make informed decisions. The move assumes significance as telecom subscribers often grapple with issues such as lack of information and vague plan details — a situation that affects subscribers’ ability to make proper choices. Tightening the rules for telcos, the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (Trai) on Friday issued directions on tariff publication and tariff advertisements. “It has been observed that existing measures adopted by telecom service providers are not transparent as they should be and that some of the telecom service providers are not prominently highlighting additional terms and conditions. “They are also collating the terms and conditions applicable to various tariffs on a single web-page and that the relevant information either gets lost in the maze of details or becomes ambiguous and incomprehensible to consumers,” the Trai directive said. Trai has now directed telcos to publish, service area wise — within 15 days — each tariff plan for postpaid and prepaid subscribers, and offer full information to subscribers at customer care centres, points of sale, retail outlets and websites, and apps with requisite disclosures. The “essential disclosures”, mandated in Trai’s directive, include information on units/volume of voice, data and SMS, and its rates, limits of usage rates and speeds beyond entitled use. Telcos will also have to transparently inform subscribers about upfront cost along with details such as advance rentals, deposits, connection fee for postpaid services as well as top-up, tariffs vouchers and others. Trai asserted that “clear, unambiguous and easy to understand” disclosures also have to be made on the validity period of the tariff plan and the last date of bill payment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-285
19-09-2020||Business||Apple to launch online store in India next week||Apple on Friday said it will launch its online store in India next week, offering its full range of products to customers across the country for the first time, a move that will help the tech giant cash in on the festive demand. The online store, which will be launched on September 23, will provide customers with the same premium experience found in Apple Store locations around the world, delivered by online team members who are ready to offer their expertise, Apple said in a statement. In February, Apple CEO Tim Cook had said the company will launch its online store in India later this year, while its first physical retail store will open in the country in 2021. “We know our users are relying on technology to stay connected, engage in learning, and tap into their creativity, and by bringing the Apple Store online to India, we are offering our customers the very best of Apple at this important time,” Apple senior vice-president of Retail + People, Deirdre O’Brien, said. At present, Apple sells its products in India through third-party sellers and online marketplaces such as Flipkart and Amazon. The online store will allow people to shop for Apple products, with online Apple specialists available to help with services like custom-configuring Macs to setting up new devices. Customers can get advice, receive guidance, and learn about new products directly from Apple, both in English and Hindi, the statement said. The online store will  offer financing options and trade-in programmes. All orders from the Apple Store online will ship with contactless delivery.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-285
19-09-2020||Business||Google bars Paytm from play store for violating gambling policy||Google on Friday restored the Paytm app on its Play store after removing it for violating its policy on sports betting activities. The app was back on the Google Play store on Friday evening after the Softbank-backed Paytm removed the “cashback” feature from a recently-launched game on the application. Google had removed Paytm from Play Store for violation of its gambling policies. Paytm’s fantasy sports app — Paytm First Games (PFG) — had also been barred. Incidentally, on Tuesday, PFG had brought in cricket legend Sachin Tendulkar as its brand ambassador as it looked to cash in on the Indian Premier League (IPL) fever. Google’s decision was prompted by Paytm’s move to allow its customers to collect cricket cards linked to their purchases or payments. Once a customer collected five such cards, he or she would earn a cashback. In a blog post, Suzanne Frey, vice-president, product, Android security and privacy, said Google did not allow online casinos or support any unregulated gambling apps that facilitate sports betting. “If an app leads consumers to an external website that allows them to participate in paid tournaments to win real money or cash prizes, it is a violation of our policies. We have these policies to protect users from potential harm. When an app violates these policies, we notify the developer of the violation and remove the app from Google Play until the developer brings the app into compliance,” she added. Paytm, which has more than 50 million monthly active users, sought to assuage its customers saying all their account balances “are 100 per cent safe”. Paytm added that all its services are fully functional. Paytm disclosed that it has temporarily removed the cashback component in an effort to meet the Play Store policy requirements. While it is learnt that Google had notified the developers of Paytm a few days ago, its founder Vijay Shekhar Sharma told a television news channel that while Google’s decision has surprised them, an email was sent only after informing that the application has been taken down. Staff Reporter, Calcutta: Consumers are in favour of the government prohibiting the advertisements of gaming platforms that encourage gambling. According to a survey by LocalCircles, ads from gaming platforms were one area with which most consumers were not happy. When asked if the government should prohibit advertisements from gaming platforms, 77 per cent of the respondents said “yes” while 18 per cent disagreed and a small 5 per cent were unsure about it. This particular poll received 7,293 responses, a statement by LocalCircles said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-285
19-09-2020||Business||Calcutta HC restrains Harsh Vardhan Lodha from holding position in MP Birla Group||Harsh Vardhan Lodha has been restrained from holding any position in the MP Birla Group by Calcutta High Court, handing the Birla family its most significant victory in the 16-year long legal tussle. The trial court judgment on Friday also restrained Lodha from drawing any benefit from the estate of the late Priyamvada Devi Birla. Lodha is the chairman of all manufacturing companies of the MP Birla Group. Lodha is seeking probate of a will of late Priyamvada Devi Birla, wife of Late Madhava Prasad Birla, which handed the control of the group to late Rajendra Singh Lodha, father of Harsh Vardhan. A testamentary suit is being heard in the high court at present. The leash on Lodha will remain till the pendency of the suit, the judgment said, citing the requirement “to prevent apprehended wrong or anticipated mischief”. “Following this order, Lodha has ipso facto vacated his office either as a director, or as a trustee or governing body member from all entities of MP Birla Group, which includes flagship Birla Corporation,” N. G. Khaitan, senior partner of Khaitan & Co and counsel for Birlas, commented. The Lodhas said the order passed by Justice Sahidullah Munshi “does not appear to be lawful”. Debanjan Mandal, partner of Fox & Mandal, advocates for Harsh Lodha, said the orders passed on Friday were not even asked for and will be challenged on this ground. “Our client’s confidence in the system remains completely unshaken and our client will challenge the judgment in the appeal court for immediate and long term relief,” Mandal said. Administrators Even as a three-member committee of administrator pendente lite (APL committee) was appointed by the court in 2012 to oversee the estate of late Priyamvada till the  pendency of the probate matter, a significant disagreement arose in 2019 when the committee asked all investment companies, trusts and societies to vote against the reappointment of Lodha on the boards of Vindhya Telelinks and Birla Cables. This year they again asked, by a majority decision, to vote against Lodha’s appointment in Birla Corporation and Universal Cables. Lodha maintained that the APL Committee must decide unanimously and its direction is limited to only those shares the directly held by the estate. In flagship Birla Corporation, the estate cast its voting rights against only 1,260 shares, while the promoters’ block consists of 62.9 per cent share. Justice Munshi rejected both the Lodha contentions which may have long term impact on not only how the companies are managed but also many public institutions such as schools and hospitals are run. The judgment read: “It is thus apparent that within its power and authority, the APL Committee has the right to exercise all such powers and perform all such acts as late Priyamvada Devi Birla would have exercised had she been alive. “Priyamvada Birla had a controlling share in the investment companies either by direct investment or along with other investment companies.” “This view has been confirmed by both the division and single bench of this court and, in view thereof, the APL Committee is well within its powers to ask all entities which were under the control of Priyamvada Devi Birla to exercise their voting rights with regard to their investment in the share capital of any of the companies which were under the control of Priyamvada Devi Birla, in the manner considered by the APL as beneficial to the interest of the Estate,” it added. “All these entities of the group would have exercised their voting rights in accordance with the directions of Priyamvada Devi Birla had she been alive. “Accordingly, now such entities would exercise their voting rights flowing from their investment in the companies controlled by Priyamvada Birla in the manner to be guided by the APL Committee,” the judgment said. Khaitan said: “It has been established beyond doubt that the majority decision of the Administrators is binding on the Lodhas and their decisions have to be implemented in full. “Justice Munshi has further held that all the companies and entities holding shares of MP Birla Group have to vote in accordance with the direction of the Administrators. This is a path-breaking judgment which was necessary for protection and preservation of the estate.” Decision by majority The judgment suggested that Lodha should have raised his objection to the APL committee taking any decision by majority long ago and by not doing so thus far, he cannot agitate now. “In my view once the parties allowed themselves and they participated in the meeting without raising any objection that its decision if not unanimous cannot be deliberated in the meeting and after resolution has been adopted by majority it is no more open for the plaintiffs to agitate that the APL’s decision ‘by majority’ is not binding on them,” the judgment read. Shareholders’ right The Lodhas said the judgment did not uphold the right of the shareholders. “It has all along been the case of the Lodhas that the probate court examining the validity of a Will has no jurisdiction over any company in which late Priyamvada held shares. Though the inherent lack of jurisdiction was observed in the verdict in respect of the companies, Lodha has been injuncted from holding office of directors in the board of companies which the court itself said was beyond its remit,” Mandal said. All resolutions pertaining to Lodha’s appointment or his remuneration linked to profit in all four manufacturing companies were passed with an overwhelming majority in the AGMs of the companies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-286
19-09-2020||Business||Birla blow to Lodhas in court||The Birlas on Friday clinched a major victory in the 16-year battle with the Lodhas over the control of the MP Birla Group. Calcutta High Court ruled that Harsh Vardhan Lodha — whose late father R.S. Lodha was given control of the group in July 2004 under the terms of Priyamvada Birla’s contentious will — could not hold any office in any of the entities of the M.P. Birla Group. It also restrained him from drawing any benefit personally out of the assets of the MP Birla estate. Justice Sahidullah Munshi, who delivered the verdict, said that the three-member committee of administrators, which had been appointed in 2012 to oversee the affairs of the MP Birla estate, would “exercise all such powers and perform all such acts as the late Priyamvada Birla would have exercised had she been alive”. The court turned down a request made by the Lodhas as for a stay on the court’s order. The Lodhas said they would challenge the order in the appeals court as it “does not appear to be lawful”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-286
19-09-2020||India||Monsoon session may be cut short due to Covid worries||The ongoing monsoon session of Parliament is likely to be curtailed and may end by the middle of next week over fears of a spread of the coronavirus among parliamentarians, official sources said on Saturday.  At a meeting of the business advisory committee of the Lok Sabha, which has floor leaders of all parties besides government representatives and is chaired by the Speaker, most political parties favoured curtailment of the session, which started on September 14 and was scheduled to conclude on October 1.  A final decision will be taken by the cabinet committee on parliamentary affairs.  The Lok Sabha has so far passed three Bills to replace agriculture sector related ordinances. Also, both the Houses have cleared a bill to replace an ordinance for cutting by 30 per cent the salaries of MPs to ramp up funds in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic.  After some MPs, including Union ministers Nitin Gadkari and Prahlad Patel, tested positive for COVID-19 during the session, some Opposition parties had conveyed to the government that conducting the full 18-day session could be a risky affair, sources said.  The government then started thinking in that direction, the sources said.  Several MPs had also tested positive for COVID-19 around the time the session began and they were advised not to attend proceedings.  In order to prevent the spread of the coronavirus within the Parliament complex, reporters and parliamentary staff entering the premises now have to undergo the rapid antigen test mandatorily on a daily basis, according to a new protocol put in place.  Besides, members of both Houses are undergoing RT-PCR tests on regular intervals on a voluntary basis, said a senior Parliament official.  A member of Parliament can undergo the RT-PCR test as many times he or she likes.  Journalists covering the monsoon session from press galleries of Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha also have the option to undergo the RT-PCR test, which is valid for 72 hours.  Since the result of the much reliable RT-PCR test takes time, the antigen test has been made mandatory on a daily basis.  Government officials accompanying their respective ministers during bill discussions also have to show a negative report of RT-PCR test taken within the last 72 hours of their visit to the complex.  The session began on September 14 and is slated to end on October 1. Both Houses are meeting in shifts of four hours each without the customary Saturday-Sunday weekend break.  The Budget Session was truncated in March after the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-658
19-09-2020||India||Don’t impose your will on states, Opposition tells govt in RS ||The Opposition attacked the government in the Rajya Sabha on Saturday, accusing it of crossing constitutional boundaries, interfering in the affairs of states, failing to control private hospitals during the coronavirus crisis, and being unable to protect migrant labourers and the poor. Participating in a debate on The Epidemic Diseases (Amendment) Bill, 2020, Opposition leaders also charged the government with entering into the league of three democracies in the world that promote what they called “ordinance raj”. Derek O'Brien (Trinamool Congress) accused the Centre of interfering in the functioning of states through the Bill. The Bill provides for jail terms up to five years and hefty fines for attack on healthcare workers fighting the coronavirus outbreak or during any situation akin to the current pandemic. "Remember states of Bengal, Punjab, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Kerala, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh and Rajasthan rejected you. Chief ministers there have been elected to run the states. You cannot cross constitutional bars. There are sinister provisions in the Bill. The States must be authorised to take decisions," the TMC MP said, according to PTI. "The Centre cannot impose its will on states. It is unconstitutional," O’Brien said. The BJP, instead of preaching others to abstain from politics, should not indulge in politics, he said, adding the ruling party wants to take all the credit for schemes despite states contributing to them. Terming the Centre's Ayushman Bharat' Yojana an imitation scheme, he claimed Bengal was way ahead in health schemes and it implemented insurance cover for even allied workers and included mental wellness of healthcare workers in it. "The Centre is paying 60 per cent for the scheme and the state 40 per cent. But when it comes to credit, the Centre wants to take all credit," he charged. He also attacked the government for perpetuating an “ordinance raj”. "There are only three parliamentary democracies in the world in which this ordinance raj is still possible - India, Pakistan and Bangladesh. The emergency ordinance route is dangerous. Root of all ordinances is a 1935 Act. The Viceroy era is gone but the attitude of arrogance still remains with the BJP government,” O’Brien said. Participating in the debate, K. Keshava Rao (TRS) asserted the Centre should consult states before taking decisions on their affairs. On private health facilities, he said a hospital in Hyderabad overcharged a patient who had died. "We need protection from such hospitals. Dead bodies were piling up when I went to a hospital. We need a mechanism for that," he said. He also said migrant labourers faced much ordeal because when they were leaving for their home states, the Centre suspended train services and asked state governments to stop interstate buses. Ram Gopal Yadav of the Samajwadi Party stressed the need for a special provisions in the proposed Act to penalise people and private hospitals thriving on the Covid-19 crisis and using it to further their business. He said there must be a provision to take action against those who sold PPE kits, masks, thermal scanners, ventilators, oximeters and sanitisers at inflated prices. He also demanded to know what action the government was taking against those who claimed cures for coronavirus and fooled people selling drugs. "Moreover, if the sole bread winner of a family has died due to Covid-19, he should be compensated and protected by the government," he said. M. Shanmugam (DMK) asked the Centre: "What action are you going to take against contractors who brought migrant labourers to cities and left them to die?" He said labourers cannot be treated as a commodity and such people (the erring contractors) should be dealt with strictly. He also accused the government of announcing a lockdown without preparations. Among the others who spoke included A. Vijaykumar (AIADMK), Subhas Chandra Bose Pilli (YSRCP) and Saroj Pandey (BJP).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-658
19-09-2020||India||Opposition seeks relief to common man in line with insolvency law||Opposition parties Saturday demanded in the Rajya Sabha that the government waive interest on loans to farmers and individuals for the coronavirus pandemic period on the lines of a pause in insolvency proceedings against defaulting corporates. Participating in a debate, K K Ragesh of CPI (M) said Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman and other members have told the House that the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (Second Amendment) Bill has been brought to save businesses and corporates. "Why the same logic is not applied in the case of farmers? Farmers are also bankrupt. Why is the government not taking any responsibility and any initiative in waiving the farmers' loans?" he asked. Ragesh said the government could have at least considered to "waive the interest on farmers loans during the moratorium period. DMK member P Wilson said, "There is discrimination between common man and corporate. Why is this discrimination? Is the government here for crony corporates?" He demanded the government waive off recovery as well as repayment of all bank loans and credit card bills. Wilson asked for a complete waiver of agriculture term loans. Initiating the debate, Congress member Vivek Tankha said the government should protect only those businesses which are affected by Covid-19 pandemic and not all defaulters. He said the Section 10-A in the Bill states that no application for initiation of the Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process (CIRP) shall be filed for any default, whether Covid-19 related or not, arising on or after March 25 for a period of six months or such period not exceeding one year form such date as may be notified. The Congress leader asked the government whether it was sure that the coronavirus pandemic would end in one year. "When you are suspending Section 7,9,10, I think it's a makeshift solution to a long standing problem. There is no certainty that the economy will revive in one year." He pointed out that Gross NPA of banks went up from Rs 2.63 lakh crore in March 2014 to Rs 10.3 lakh crore in March 2018. "NPA and defaulting problems are pre-pandemic and Section 10-A would only postpone the problem and not solve it," Tankha said, adding the creditors would be in a worst position with likely erosion in the value of assets. "The entire object of IBC Code is compromised by this amendment. The Code aims to prevent wilful default by companies. However, the blanket bar on Sec 7,9,10 will enable many companies which are already under defaulting categories to use the notification as a shield to protect themselves in future proceedings. "Do we want to protect Covid-19 category of industries or all industries irrespective of their performance in the past. Section 10-A does not make distinction between Covid-19 defaults and other defaults," he said. About giving relief under the IBC, Arun Singh (BJP) said, "It was very much needed. It was very difficult to find out which transaction is Covid related....If my friends can tell that these are Covid-related transactions and these are not related to that then I will be very happy. But it is simply impossible." TMC member Dinesh Trivedi said, "The intention of the bill is good. But you are in a hurry to do things without larger consultations. That is why the Bill is hastily drafted and an ill-worded piece of legislation, which would defeat its own purpose." He said, "We have a record level of food stocks. Oil prices are historically low...The need of the hour is to put, maybe Rs 10,000 or Rs 15,000 or Rs 20,000, into the bank accounts of needy people." Trivedi said this would help in creating demand, generating more jobs and more tax revenues for the government. SP leader Ravi Verma was of the view that this Bill will support big corporations and also asked the government about the wilful defaulters who have fled the country. Verma alleged insolvency professionals are charging very hefty fees and generally eat up a large chunk of haircut. Amar Patnaik (BJD) asked the government to improve the quality of debt resolution as well as competence of insolvency professionals. AIADMK leader A Vijaykumar suggested that cooperative societies should not be brought under the insolvency code.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-658
19-09-2020||India||Cong MP urges govt to help poor students attend online classes||Congress' Rajya Sabha MP Ahmed Patel on Saturday demanded that a task force be constituted to frame guidelines for holding online classes for school children and urged the government to help students from weaker sections of the society who do not have access to computers or smartphones. Raising the demand in Rajya Sabha during the Zero Hour, Patel said the Centre must increase spending to provide digital support to poor students. "We demand from the government to constitute a task force to study how online classes are putting severe mental stress on students as well as their families. The central government should come out with national guidelines after consulting states as to what should be the rules under which online classes be held. "Rather than changing education syllabus, the central government must increase spending to provide digital support for poor students," he said in his Zero Hour submission. The Congress MP said schools have been closed for the last six months, and many public and private schools are conducting online classes. At times, this is being done to justify the collection of fees, he said. "This is creating an immense mental and financial burden on economically backward families. In poor homes, either they don't have a laptop or computer and if they do have a smartphone, it is usually shared by many family members. Digital India should not become an instrument for 'digital divide' between the rich and poor," he said. Patel said in some states like Gujarat, Delhi, Kerala and Bengal, some students have taken their lives due to the "stress and stigma" of online classes. He cited the findings of a survey whereby 24 per cent of houses have Internet access and nine per cent of students have access to the Internet. He said according to a Gujarat education department survey, only three per cent students had a laptop or PC and fur per cent students had access to smartphones with unlimited data plans. Similarly, a Delhi government survey revealed that 80 per cent houses do not have any laptop or computers, while a Telangana Teachers' Federation survey says 70 per cent students attending online classes didn't follow anything taught, Patel said. He alleged that access to the Internet in states like Madhya Pradesh, Bihar and Odisha is worse than Goa, Delhi and Himachal Pradesh. Patel said that in 2014, the Narendra Modi government promised to provide broadband connectivity 2.5 lakh village panchayats by 2017, but so far only 23,000 have been connected.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-658
19-09-2020||India||Opp leaders back insolvency law, but warn against misuse||A majority of Rajya Sabha Opposition members Saturday supported a Bill granting interim relief to businesses from insolvency proceedings, even as some expressed fears over its possible misuse, and urged the government to also help the poor during the crisis. The Upper House passed by a voice vote the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (Second Amendment) Bill, 2020', whereby fresh insolvency proceedings will not be initiated for at least six months, starting from March 25, against companies in view of the coronavirus pandemic. Most Opposition members supported the bill, expressing hope that it would help achieve an early revival of the economy. Praful Patel (NCP) said there is nothing in the Bill to object to, but called for relief in the form of interest subvention for tourism, transport and airline sectors as they were reeling under financial stress. "We need to go in for major amendments in the Bill, he said. There is going to be a serious problem even in the post-moratorium period. We may have to think 'out of the box' to help businesses, the way things are. Patel also called for more NCLT (National Company Law Tribunal) benches and said resolution professionals are not yet fully equipped to handle the businesses and there is corruption too. "Going by the business environment, there is a need for a lot of hand-holding. You need to do something more as the country will progress if its economy does well. I urge you to look at some important aspects to support businesses wherever there are problems," he said. Manoj Kumar Jha (RJD) urged Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman to look at the wisdom across the aisle and accept suggestions given by the Opposition. Shiv Sena's Anil Desai said unscrupulous or dishonest corporates should not take advantage of the pandemic situation and siphon off funds that have been made available to them by banks during the pandemic. K K Ragesh (CPI-M) said that banking has become a bonanza for friendly companies and expressed apprehensions this Bill "will push the banking sector into a deep crisis". He said huge concessions have been granted to corporates and more than Rs 3 lakh crore have already been written off through book adjustments which were earlier lying as Non-Performing Assets (NPA) with banks. "Why are huge haircuts being provided to big corporates? Banks are only able to realise less than 50 per cent of advances in many cases," he alleged. Ram Chandra Prasad Singh of the JD(U) supported the Bill, saying it is progressive and will help revive the economy. "I am confident that it will help businesses and help India achieve the target of a USD 5-trillion economy," he said. Narain Dass Gupta (AAP) alleged discrimination among big and small borrowers in providing relief during the pandemic, saying while major ones are being given moratorium on interests for one year, the smaller ones are not. Veer Singh (BSP) asked whether a personal guarantor should be held accountable in case of a default on a loan. Binoy Viswam (CPI) said the Finance Minister should not blame God for the pandemic situation as it is the "greed of the man" which is making them eat into the economy. "This Bill is not touching the real problems. The IBA has come out with a list of wilful defaulters and the government should help get that people's money back, he said. This is people's money. Please help get that amount back," he said, calling for giving money to the poor in these difficult times that will also help revive the economy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-659
19-09-2020||India||NIA arrests 9 al-Qaeda men from Bengal, Kerala||Foiling an attempt by internationally banned terror group al-Qaeda to set up a base in India, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) swooped on its cadres in Bengal and Kerala and arrested nine of them, an official spokesperson said on Saturday. Acting on a tip-off provided by central intelligence agencies, the NIA, with the help of the state police forces, carried out raids in the intervening night of September 18 and 19 at Ernakulam in Kerala and Murshidabad in Bengal and arrested the nine men -- Murshid Hasan, Iyakub Biswas, Mosaraf Hossen from Ernakulam and Najmus Sakib, Abu Sufiyan, Mainul Mondal, Leu Yean Ahmed, Al Mamun Kamal and Atitur Rehman from Murshidabad. Hasan is the leader of the gang and those arrested from Kerala are also originally residents of Bengal, the NIA spokesperson said. A closely-monitored operation of the NIA and other central agencies began on September 11 when the premier investigating agency registered a case to probe the al-Qaeda module. According to the official, crackers were being attempted to be converted into an Improvised Explosive Device (IED) and the NIA recovered switches and batteries from Abu Sufiyan's house during the raids. The group was also planning to go to Kashmir for weapons delivery as it intended to launch terror attacks on vital installations in the country with an aim to kill innocent people, the official said. A preliminary probe revealed that the arrested men were radicalised by Pakistan-based al-Qaeda terrorists on social media platforms and were motivated to launch attacks at multiple locations, including in the National Capital Region (NCR). The module was actively involved in fund-raising and some of its members were planning to travel to New Delhi to procure arms and ammunition, the official said, adding that the arrests have prevented possible terrorist attacks in various parts of the country. Incriminating materials, including digital devices, documents, jihadi literature, sharp weapons, country-made firearms, a locally-fabricated body armour, articles and literature for making home-made explosive devices, have been seized from the possession of the arrested terrorists, the official said. They will be produced before the courts concerned in Kerala and Bengal for custody and further investigation, he added. According to the officials investigating the case, the arrested men are highly radicalised and were getting instructions from foreign handlers, including Pakistan-based al-Qaeda operatives, in cyberspace. The module was planning to target vital installations in India as well as targeted killings. It was in the advanced stage of procuring arms (including automatic rifles and pistols), ammunition and explosives to carry out attacks. Some of its members were trying to develop expertise in IED-making too. Besides, the module was trying to establish a well organised al-Qaeda network in different parts of the country, including the northeast and Jammu and Kashmir, on the instructions of the Pakistan-based handlers, the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-659
19-09-2020||India||Don’t brand a community: SC||The Supreme Court said on Friday that it fully recognised concerns of national security but could not allow a particular community to be targeted and branded anti-national as this would alienate even the good members of the community from the national mainstream. “Let a message go to the media that a particular community cannot be targeted. We have to look after a nation of the future which is cohesive and diverse. We recognise national security but we need to respect individuals, too,” a bench headed by Justice D.Y. Chandrachud said. The judges are hearing petitions against the telecast of a TV programme that alleges a large number of jihadis have infiltrated central government services. The court said the stay it had imposed on the Sudarshan News programme could be vacated only if the channel gave a credible assurance that its further episodes would not result in passions being inflamed against a particular community. “We are very conscious that pre-publication restraint is a matter of extreme recourse. We don’t issue such injunctions readily…. We know it can take us down a slippery slope,” the bench, which includes Justices Indu Malhotra and K.M. Joseph, told senior advocate Shyam Divan, who is appearing for the channel. The bench made the observation after Divan said the channel had done extensive investigations to unearth the “illegal funding” of a foundation by organisations with overseas terror links to achieve the objective of facilitating the infiltration of the country’s civil services. “You are entitled to do so (investigate), if you feel it impinges on national security,” the court said. “But look at Annexure A1, when reference is made to Mr Owaisi (Asaduddin Owaisi of the MIM), the segment starts with flames in the background. Words such as ‘namakharam’ are used. Again while Mohd Imran is quoted, flames are shown.” The bench added: “A chart on the increase in Muslim (representation) from 2011 in UPSC services is shown. A graphic of a skullcap, beard and green skin is shown and again with flames in the chart…. You say, ‘See how they are getting foreign funds, enticing our wives and daughters and doing love jihad’.” The bench said it was concerned that a whole community was being implicated. “This is the real issue. Whenever you show them joining the civil services, you show the ISIS. You want to say that Muslims joining the civil services is a part of a deep-rooted conspiracy. Can the media be allowed to target a whole set of community?” Justice Chandrachud asked. Justice Indu Malhotra added: “I saw one of the episodes and it was hurtful to watch. You need to take down flames and the green shirt, etc.” The bench said it was not in favour of censoring news or laying down what needs to be pulled down, but the media must maintain a certain restraint. “Whenever you are showing a Muslim, you show them in a green T-shirt and skullcap,” Justice Chandrachud said. Divan agreed that the media must not do such stereotyping and that the channel would now know that such acts should be frowned upon. “If you want to investigate Zakat India (the foundation), then go ahead. But, then, painting all candidates as carrying out an agenda shows a kind of hatred,” Justice Chandrachud said. “This is the element of concern where the right to free speech becomes hatred. You can’t brand every member of the community. You alienate the good members too by the divisive agenda.” The court asked Divan: “If we allow the broadcast, what are the assurances that you are willing to give us?” Justice Malhotra said: “The flames, etc, need to be taken off. We cannot depict the pictures of persons wearing skullcaps and green T-shirts....” Justice Chandrachud said: “You have to tell us voluntarily what you will do to assuage our concerns. We don’t want to come in the way of journalism. We know as a court what happened during the Emergency. So, we will ensure free speech and ideas.” Solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, told the court that the existing rules were sufficient to regulate the conduct of such channels. He said all district collectors were empowered to take appropriate action, and that punishment had been prescribed in the law for those violating the norms. The court said the National Broadcasting Association (NBA) was a “toothless tiger” despite having a former Supreme Court judge on its board, as it can impose only a fine of Rs 1 lakh on erring members. It also underlined that Sudarshan News was not an NBA member. “An injunction order from us is like a nuclear missile and we know it. You, solicitor-general, tell us how will you bring in self-regulation? You have to give them teeth,” Justice Chandrachud said. Justice Joseph asked Divan: “You have said that pre-censorship cannot be there till all episodes are over. What are the consequences if you violate the programme code? Can you be convicted under Section 16 of the Cable Networks Act? “You are not a cable operator. You are a broadcaster…. This act applies only to cable operators. You are brought in by the policy guideline of uplinking.” Justice Joseph said that projecting a particular community with skullcaps and green T-shirts “generates hate”. He highlighted that in one episode, Udit Raj, an MP, was badly treated by the anchor. “See how he was treated. You did not agree with him. One of the members of the audience was interviewed and he says Muslims should not get OBC benefits. What kind of attitude are you inculcating by doing this programme?” Justice Joseph said. “All communities want a part of the slice of the power-centre cake. You have put up a cocktail of various factors but at bottom you are maligning an entire community.” During the three-hour arguments, Divan defended the channel and its editor, saying every effort had been made to reach out to the organisations named in the episodes but they had refused to give their side of the story. The hearing resumes on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-659
19-09-2020||India||Techies and teachers take white-collar hit||India witnessed the erosion of nearly a third of its white-collar jobs between May and August, with professionals like software engineers, teachers, accountants and analysts taking the biggest hit, a survey by a data agency has shown. The Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy has found that 5.9 million (32.6 per cent) of the 18.1 million white-collar jobs in the country were lost in these four months. According to the agency, which surveys 1.74 lakh households across urban and rural India every month, this loss has offset the gains the country had made since 2016 in job opportunities for white-collar workers. The CMIE had earlier estimated a combined loss of 21 million salaried jobs from the organised and unorganised sectors between April and August. But the Centre has declared it does not allow survey data provided by “non-government agencies” to influence its policies. The CMIE has been tracking changes in the white-collar job scene since January 2016, when it estimated there were 12.5 million such professionals in the country. The number peaked at 18.8 million during May-August 2019, falling to 18.7 million in the next four months and further to 18.1 million during January-April this year, possibly because of the pandemic-induced lockdown. The sharpest fall came in May-August, with the survey pegging the figure at 12.2 million. CMIE managing director Mahesh Vyas told The Telegraph that white-collar clerical jobs were less affected than professional jobs. “We have sliced white-collar workers into two classes — white-collar professional workers and white-collar clerical employees. During May-August 2020, the former group took the biggest hit among all salaried employees. The latter group has not witnessed job losses in this period,” Vyas said. Professional workers are those who secured their jobs on the basis of their professional qualifications. White-collar clerical employees range from secretaries and office clerks to BPO and KPO workers and data-entry operators. Vyas suggested that most of them were possibly working from home. Vyas said that women had taken a bigger hit than men, making up 11 per cent of all employees in 2019-20 and accounting for 34 per cent of job losses in the first five months of 2020-21. “We don’t see investments picking up anytime soon, so the prospects of job increases are bleak at the moment,” Vyas said. Labour economist and former JNU professor Santosh Mehrotra said the magnitude of the job losses had resulted from India imposing the strictest lockdown in the world for two months, abruptly stopping most economic activities. This left the self-employed and the unorganised-sector workers like casual labourers largely jobless, thereby lowering their demand for consumption. “When the demand for consumption declined, the formal sector started feeling the shock in terms of revenue loss. The formal sector began laying off staff or cutting salaries,” Mehrotra said. He warned that the worst was not over yet: the economy had reopened but activities remained constrained, amid a rise in Covid-19 infections. With close to 1 lakh fresh cases a day, India has been contributing almost a third of the world’s new infections while accounting for a sixth of its population. “It will take a minimum of two years for the economy to bounce back to pre-Covid levels. During this period, it will be difficult to protect the entire 12.2 million white-collar jobs,” Mehrotra said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-659
19-09-2020||India||Army’s admission on killings  in Kashmir||The army admitted on Friday that “prima facie evidence” indicated that powers vested under an infamous indemnity law were “exceeded” when three young cousins were gunned down in Kashmir in June. Disciplinary proceedings will be initiated, the army added. The jargon-riddled admission is expected to bring the attention back on the Armed Forces Special Powers Act (AFSPA), which grants near-absolute immunity to security personnel in “disturbed area” as they cannot be prosecuted in civilian courts without central sanction, which is rarely granted. In a statement on Friday, the army continued to describe the three youths as “unidentified terrorists” although it added that their “involvement with terrorism” was under police investigation. Their families had said they were innocent civilians from Jammu’s Rajouri who had gone to Shopian in Kashmir in search of work. The father of one of the youths had said there were seven retired and serving soldiers in his family, including a Kargil war veteran. “Killing innocent youth and show(ing) them as terrorists is most heinous crime and those involved should be charged for murder,” S.P. Vaid, former director-general of police in Jammu and Kashmir, tweeted on Friday. The killing of the three cousins had triggered an uproar in Jammu and Kashmir and their families had been mounting pressure on the security forces to return the bodies so that they could be given a proper burial. The defence spokesperson in Srinagar, Col Rajesh Kalia, said in the statement: “The evidence collected by the inquiry has prima facie indicated that the three unidentified terrorists killed in Op Amshipora were Imtiyaz Ahmed, Abrar Ahmed and Mohd Ibrar, who hailed from Rajouri.” The spokesperson said the army had concluded its inquiry into the operation. “The inquiry has brought out certain prima facie evidence indicating that during the operation, powers vested under the AFSPA 1990 were exceeded and the dos and don’ts of the Chief of Army Staff (COAS) as approved by the Hon’ble Supreme Court have been contravened,” Kalia said in a written statement. “Consequently, the competent disciplinary authority has directed to initiate disciplinary proceedings under the Army Act against those found prima-facie answerable.” The statement did not clearly say whether the youths had been killed in a fake encounter or whether they were civilians. “Their DNA report is awaited. Their involvement with terrorism or related activities is under investigation by the police,” the statement said. On July 18, the army’s 62 Rashtriya Rifles had claimed to have killed three “unidentified terrorists” near Amshipora village in south Kashmir’s Shopian district. On August 10, three families in Jammu’s Rajouri had identified the three youths, from pictures circulating on social media, as their children who had been missing since travelling to Kashmir in search of work. The families had said the three were killed in a staged encounter after being falsely branded as terrorists. Many drew attention to the jargon employed by the army in its statement on Friday. “#AFSPA is not for killing innocent civilians under label of terrorists. What disciplinary proceedings under the Army Act? Amshipora encounter is cold-blooded murder of 3 innocent civilians of Rajouri. Don’t hush up DNA report. Rule of law must prevail, guilty punished for murder,” a journalist tweeted. Jammu activist Guftar Ahmad, who has been spearheading the campaign for justice for the families, said they were feeling hopeful now. “This has given us hope. The families are relieved. We are waiting for the DNA report after which we hope the bodies will be returned to their families for burial (in Rajouri),” Guftar told The Telegraph. The three are buried in a graveyard at an unspecified location in Kashmir. Guftar said the army had recorded the statements of five family members at an army installation in south Kashmir on Friday and promised that justice would be done. “There will be a court martial. We came here (Kashmir) to record the statement. We were assured 110 per cent that ‘we (the army) will not let them (the accused) off’,” Guftar said. Security forces personnel involved in such crimes are rarely punished in Kashmir thanks to the immunity they enjoy under the AFSPA. The army, however, is under pressure this time as the three men were from families with an army background. Some politicians welcomed the army action but sought transparency in its dealings. “The families of the three murdered men had continued to proclaim their innocence. Disciplinary action initiated by the army would suggest the army agrees with the families. The process must remain transparent & the guilty must face the full weight of the law,” National Conference leader and former chief minister Omar Abdullah tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-659
19-09-2020||India||PM battles spreading farm ire||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday accused the Opposition of spreading “misinformation” on farm bills and appealed to the farmers not to get misled, describing the new measures as historic. Modi’s statement, a day after oldest ally Akali Dal had pulled out its lone minister, was seen as a damage-control exercise at a time the farmers’ agitation was threatening to spread and another ally, the Jannayak Janata Party (JJP) in Haryana, had come under pressure to quit. “Misinformation is being spread that wheat and rice will not be procured by government agencies. This is an absolute lie, completely wrong and an attempt to deceive the farmers,” Modi said while inaugurating another round of development projects in poll-bound Bihar. Despite widespread opposition and the resignation of the Akali Dal minister, the Centre has so far suggested it is determined to push the changes that allow farmers to sell produce directly to bulk buyers and make contract-farming easier. The set of three farm bills has been passed by the Lok Sabha and will be taken up by the Rajya Sabha. The farm bills give legislative heft to three emergency executive orders issued in June by the Union cabinet with the stated objective of reforming the antiquated Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) Act. The act includes a rule that forces the farmers in many states to sell their produce only at regulated wholesale markets. The government says the new farm laws will “unshackle” the farmers and help them get better prices. But many farmer organisations oppose the legislation because they fear that if big buyers start buying directly from the producers, the small growers will hardly have any bargaining power. The government has said the wholesale markets will operate as usual as the APMC Act has not been abolished and the farmers are simply being given an option to sell directly to buyers. But farmer organisations fear that if large buyers are allowed to buy directly, the wholesale markets will gradually disappear. Modi’s angry attack on the Opposition came as the political impact of the farm bills threatened to spread to Haryana where the BJP government is dependent on the support of the 10 MLAs of the JJP, led by deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala. The BJP has 40 MLAs in the 90-member Assembly. Punjab and Haryana have witnessed intense protests by farmers’ organisations against the bills. Chautala’s party, like the Akali Dal in Punjab, draws its support from farmers and has come under pressure to quit the state government after Harsimrat’s resignation from the Union ministry on Thursday. On Friday morning, Chautala was learnt to have met chief minister Mahohar Lal Khattar and then gone into a huddle with his party colleagues. He has not said anything yet about the three farm bills. The Congress sought to taunt Chautala. “Dushyantji, following Harsimrat Kaur Badal you should have resigned at least from the Deputy CM post. You are more attached to the chair than farmers,” Congress spokesperson Randeep Surjewala tweeted. In this backdrop, Modi made an impassioned appeal to the farmers and allies, contending that the bills aimed to liberate the farmers from the clutches of middlemen. “I want to tell my farmer friends, beware of these people (Opposition) who ruled for decades and are now trying to misguide you,” Modi said. He accused the Opposition of trying to protect “middlemen” who “loot” the farmers. Modi used the phrase “yeh log” (these people) for the Opposition and claimed that in their manifesto they had promised to amend the APMC (Agriculture Produce Market Committee) Act, but were now raising objections for political gain after his government had made the required changes. Farmers’ bodies in Punjab and Haryana have been protesting against the bills, claiming that by deregulating the farm produce market, the government would deprive farmers of the minimum support price (MSP) for their produce. Also, they fear that permitting contract farming would allow corporate houses to exploit the farmers. Modi sought to allay these fears and stress his government’s commitment to continuing with the MSP regime, but added that the reforms would open many more options. “Farmers have been given new independence. They’ll now have more options.… They can sell their produce in any market of the country,” he said, emphasising that the new provisions aim to “unshackle” them. Modi said he was sure the farmers would see through the designs of those trying to misguide them. He said the bills would remove middlemen and liberate the farmers so they can secure the best prices for their produce. Modi referred to Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar and said that after coming to power in the state, he had abolished the APMCs. “Now the country will tread Bihar’s path,” he said. Additional reporting by Reuters||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-659
19-09-2020||India||HC alert against ‘digital apartheid’||Delhi High Court on Friday directed private as well as government schools such as Kendriya Vidyalayas to provide gadgets and an Internet package to poor students for online classes, saying not doing so amounts to “discrimination” and creates a “digital apartheid”. To separate such students from others in the same class because of non-availability of a gadget or a device would generate “a feeling of inferiority” that may “affect their hearts and minds unlikely ever to be undone”, the court said. A bench of Justices Manmohan and Sanjeev Narula said if a school decides to voluntarily provide synchronous face-to-face real time online education as a method of teaching, “they will have to ensure that the students belonging to economically weaker section (EWS) or disadvantaged group (DG) category also have access and are able to avail the same”. The court said: “Segregation in education is a denial of equal protection of the law under Article 14 of the Constitution and in particular the Right to Education (RTE) Act, 2009.” The judgment came on a PIL by NGO Justice for All, represented by advocate Khagesh Jha, seeking directions to the Centre and the Delhi government to provide free laptops, tablets or mobile phones to poor kids so that they can access classes online during the Covid-19 lockdown.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-659
19-09-2020||India||Health is still hush-hush||Amit Shah was discharged from AIIMS on Thursday, five days after he was re-admitted for check-up following recovery from Covid-19. Shah, 55, has been hospitalised thrice in the past six weeks. The government has not offered any specific details or regular updates on his health other than Shah himself tweeting about him testing positive for Covid. The government has no right to discuss in public the medical details of  Citizen Shah. But Shah is also the Union home minister and the second most powerful person in the country for all practical purposes. Medical status has always been a sensitive subject in India, if not the entire sub-continent, although modern democracies have evolved precedents that let citizens know whether those who run the governments -– and take decisions that influence their lives – are in the right frame of mind and body to discharge their responsibilities. Public figures often cite the law to point out that there is no binding rule that compels them to reveal the state of their health. Indian law requires politicians to declare only their assets for contesting polls. However, in the US, the President makes public his annual medical check-up report, although no law requires the President or the presidential candidates to make public medical records or information. The UK also follows a similar protocol. Former US President Barack Obama released reports of his physical examinations periodically throughout his presidency and also during his campaign, although he was not legally required to do so. According to a 2018 poll, 80 per cent of voters in the US said a candidate’s health was important for them and many said the public deserved a sense of a candidate’s physical and mental fitness. Last month Japan’s Prime Minister Shinzo Abe had announced his resignation because of ill-health and told the nation about his medical condition. A former CBI director said: “I think politicians and ministers should have a moral responsibility to disclose their medical condition so that the people are reassured that nothing impairs the elected representative’s ability  to serve.” A retired bureaucrat added: “Shah is the second-in-command and a very powerful minister in the government. He holds a very important portfolio and is in charge of the country’s internal security. Shah is known to be diabetic and hypertensive. In September 2019, he underwent minor surgery at a private hospital in Ahmedabad for the removal of lipoma, or a fatty lump, at the back of his neck. Shah was admitted to AIIMS on Saturday night (September 12) for a “routine check-up”, nearly two weeks after he was discharged from hospital. In a statement  on September 13, the hospital said Shah was admitted for a “complete medical check-up before Parliament session for 1-2 days”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-659
19-09-2020||India||Army to Rajnath: Ready for Ladakh long haul ||India’s army is gearing itself to weather the long and harsh Ladakh winter at icy heights as it awaits Chinese confirmation of the fresh talks expected this week, defence minister Rajnath Singh was told on Friday by the military leadership. Rajnath was reviewing the situation along the Line of Actual Control in Ladakh amid a massive build-up by the Indian and Chinese armies at multiple friction points. “We are maintaining high alertness as the Chinese military has not yet confirmed the date for the corps commanders’ meeting,” a defence ministry official said. “Both sides are expected to decide on the modalities to carry forward the disengagement process from the friction points.” Military veterans and security experts say the Chinese may be using the negotiations to buy time and further consolidate their positions as part of a strategy to establish a new status quo in the region. At Friday’s meeting, Rajnath asked the military brass to ensure operational readiness to deal with any eventualities, the ministry official said. “He asked the top brass to keep the army fully prepared for deployment in the harsh winter months in the treacherous terrain in case the standoff is not resolved during the fresh round of talks,” he said. Sources said the army was fully prepared for winter deployment at altitudes of 14,000-16,000ft, and had stocked up on all essentials including food, clothing and fuel. “We have prepared ourselves to maintain the current strength of men and machines at all the friction points. Considering the hostile terrain, where the temperature drops below minus 20-25 degrees Celsius in peak winter, we have made elaborate arrangements,” an army official said. The temperature has already dipped to minus two degrees Celsius on the south bank of the Pangong Lake, the latest confrontation point, he said. Indian and Chinese troops are eyeball to eyeball, but there has been no fresh confrontation since the recent foreign ministers’ meeting.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-659
19-09-2020||India||‘Goli maaro’ minister trains gun on Nehru||Junior finance minister Anurag Thakur launched an attack on the Nehru-Gandhi family while defending the PM CARES Fund in the Lok Sabha on Friday, triggering uproar that led to four adjournments. Thakur’s contention was that the 72-year-old Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund set up by Jawaharlal Nehru, which the Opposition favoured over the newly constituted PM CARES Fund, had been created to favour “one family”. His salvo appeared pre-planned, with finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman stepping aside for her junior while replying to the Opposition’s objections to the introduction of a taxation amendment bill that had provisions relating to the PM CARES Fund. Later, in the din over Thakur’s remarks, Sitharaman successfully introduced the bill. Thakur had provided a glimpse of his knack for provocation during campaigning for the February 8 Delhi elections, when he led a rally in chanting: “Desh ke gaddaron ko, goli maro salon ko (Shoot traitors to the country).” The Taxation and Other Laws, Relaxation of Certain Provisions Bill, 2020, deals, among other provisions, with tax relaxations given to donations made to the PM CARES Fund. Congress and Trinamul members raised several objections, including one against the proposal to bring the PM CARES Fund under the same laws that govern the Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund. Critics say the PM CARES Fund was unnecessary since the PMNRF already existed, and that it reflects an attempt by the Prime Minister at self-aggrandisement. The fund has also faced charges of opacity. After replying to some of the Opposition members’ objections, Sitharaman said Thakur would respond to the rest of the issues raised relating to the PM CARES Fund. She sought the Speaker’s permission and Thakur was allowed to speak. As Thakur began speaking, it was clear he had come prepared to attack the Congress politically, bypassing the technical issues raised against the bill. “They (the Congress) have a problem with everything this government does. They have a problem with PM CARES, demonetisation, triple talaq,” Thakur said. “They (the Opposition) are raising questions about the PM CARES Fund. What about the PM’s National Relief Fund? In 1948, then PM Jawaharlal Nehru had ordered the formation of the PMNRF, which hasn’t been registered yet. How did it get FCRA (Foreign Contribution Regulation Act) registration?” he asked. “How was tax exemption given when the trust was not registered? You made the trust just for one family — the PMNRF had Sonia Gandhi as its member. The country needs to know. All this will be exposed.” As Congress and Trinamul members protested, Speaker Om Birla tried to stop Thakur, saying he could speak in detail when the bill was taken up for passage. By then, however, Thakur had possibly said all he had intended to say.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-659
19-09-2020||India||Congress on farm bills: Not what we promised||The Congress on Friday alleged that Prime Minister Narendra Modi was misleading the nation on the three farm sector bills passed in Parliament and contested the government’s argument that these had been part of the Opposition party’s manifesto. The government has this week passed the Farmers’ Produce, Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, Farmers’ (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, disregarding protests by farmers and the Opposition, who claim these are aimed at helping corporate groups. Former finance minister P. Chidambaram, who headed the committee that drafted the Congress manifesto for the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, said on Friday: “Disappointed with the BJP spokespersons’ distortion of the Congress manifesto statement on APMC (Agriculture Produce Marking Committee) laws. Our manifesto had promised that we would create thousands of farmers’ markets in small towns and large villages. Once that is accomplished, APMC laws can be changed.” Prime Minister Narendra Modi, agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar and BJP president J.P. Nadda have defended the government’s decisions by citing the Congress manifesto. The manifesto had said: “The Congress will repeal the APMC Act and make trade in agricultural produce — including exports and inter-state trade — free from all restrictions.” Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala said: “The Congress wanted to set up mandis within 2-3km of farms while APMC mandis are 60-70km away. The manifesto said, ‘We will establish farmers’ markets with adequate infrastructure and support in large villages and small towns to enable the farmer to bring his/her produce and freely market the same.’” Congress leaders have said the three bills brought by the Modi government together have an impact entirely different from what the party had envisioned. They have pointed out that the Congress manifesto had promised complete loan waiver, a separate kisan budget, and a permanent national commission on agriculture development and planning. Chidambaram said: “The way to liberalise agricultural marketing is to create more accessible markets and choice for the farmer. There will be rules to regulate such markets. The APMC system is indeed a safety net for the farmer but it is a restricted market that is not accessible to millions of farmers. “We need to enlarge the market for agriculture produce while preserving the ‘safety net’ principle through MSP (minimum support price) and public procurement. The laws sought to be passed by the Modi government scuttle the MSP principle and undermine public procurement.” The Congress veteran tweeted that the bills “challenge the three pillars of our still-imperfect ‘food security system’. They are (1) MSP, (2) public procurement, and (3) PDS. The grave flaw in the ordinances is that they do not stipulate that the price which the farmer gets ‘shall not be less than the MSP’. States were not consulted. The passage of the laws is a huge blow dealt by the BJP government to states’ rights and federalism.” Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh contested the Centre’s claim that the states were part of the decision-making. He said that Punjab was not initially included in the decision-making process, and was made part of it only after a protest was lodged. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi tweeted: “The enlightened farmers know the government intends to boost the business of his corporate friends through these farm-related legislations which will attack the farmers’ livelihood.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-660
19-09-2020||India||Govt defends Central Vista and bullet train||The government on Friday defended the proposed Central Vista and bullet train projects as measures to boost public spending and remained non-committal on the Opposition’s demand for the restoration of the MPLADS funds. Parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi, speaking in the Rajya Sabha during the debate on the Salaries, Allowances and Pension of Members of Parliament (Amendment) Bill, 2020, also refuted the charge of lack of transparency in the PM CARES Fund, set up with the aim of tiding over the corona crisis. The bill, which was passed in the Rajya Sabha after being cleared in the Lower House, seeks to cut the salaries of MPs by 30 per cent for a year in view of the pandemic-triggered economic crisis. The Rajya Sabha also cleared the Salaries and Allowances of Ministers (Amendment) Bill, which envisions a similar reduction in the salaries of ministers, and it now awaits the Lower House’s ratification. During the discussion, Congress leader Rajiv Satav said there was no need to spend Rs 20,000 crore on the Central Vista project, which plans beautification and constructions in the capital, including a new Parliament building. The Congress and several other Opposition parties have objected to the project, dubbing it as wasteful expenditure at a time the pandemic had perpetrated an unprecedented economic crisis. The members have not objected to the snipping of their salaries. Satav said the Parliament buildings of the US, the UK, Italy and France were constructed in the 17th and 18th centuries, while the one in India came up in 1927. He argued there is no need to demolish the Parliament complex. Satav also alleged lack of transparency in the management of the PM CARES Fund. He criticised the Centre for the planned bullet train project linking Ahmedabad and Mumbai, and urged the government to halt it as this could not be the priority in the times of coronavirus. Many other MPs such as P. Wilson of the DMK and Manoj Jha of the RJD echoed Satav, pointing to the economy and the massive job losses. Joshi, the parliamentary affairs minister, defended both projects and said the PM CARES Fund was better managed than the way the Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund used to be handled by previous governments. “You are saying everything should be stopped. Stop bullet train, stop Central Vista. What is this? I do not understand this,” Joshi said. “Central Vista does not fall within the scope of this bill (on salary cuts). I can only say that all these things, whether bullet train or anything else, these are all projects. On the one hand you say public spending should be more and on the other you are asking us to stop (the) bullet train (project). What is this?” the minister added. The Opposition leaders also protested the decision of the Union cabinet earlier this year to suspend for two years the Members of Parliament Local Area Development Scheme (MPLADS) citing the pandemic-induced monetary constraints. Under the scheme, each MP receives Rs 5 crore a year to undertake welfare projects in their respective constituencies. The government has decided that the money under MPLADS will for now be used to strengthen the Centre’s efforts to manage the Covid calamity. Leader of the Opposition Ghulam Nabi Azad (Congress), Tranamul Congress’s Dinesh Trivedi, Biju Janata Dal’s Prasanna Acharya, Telangana Rashtra Samithi’s Kesava Rao and YSR Congress’s Vijayasai Reddy demanded the restoration of the MPLADS funds. “MPLADS is money for the poor. This is used for ambulances, construction of road, culverts, etc. There is so much monitoring. The decision should be modified. You should reduce the suspension period to one year and make a provision for 50 per cent funds at least,” Azad said. Joshi replied that the MPLADS suspension was a temporary measure.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-660
19-09-2020||India||Loss of loved ones and loss of their bodies||As Aqib Riyaz Sofi grieved for his mother after she died in alleged security force firing on Thursday, the 25-year-old had another worry to grapple with. Would the police return Kousar Jan’s body? An epidemic of what Kashmiris are calling “lashe choor” (body stealing) has added to the Valley’s misery amid the Covid-19 outbreak and the militancy-related violence. Since April, the security forces have been refusing to return the bodies of slain militants to their families, citing the Covid protocol that prohibits large gatherings — which the rebels’ funerals invariably turn out to be. Most Kashmiris see this as an excuse to pre-empt the galvanisation of public sentiments and pro-azadi protests. The practice has now been extended to several civilians who, like Kousar, are said to have died in custody or from firing by the forces. The families of the slain now face a double trauma — the loss of a loved one and the loss of their body. Kousar, who was in her late 40s, died during a pre-dawn security operation that killed three militants hiding in a house in Srinagar’s Batmaloo locality and left a CRPF deputy commandant critically injured. Aqib said that as part of their daily routine, he and his mother were travelling to their bakery in his car at 4am. “When my mother saw them (the forces), she panicked and asked me to take a U-turn. They let loose a volley of fire from behind and hit my mother,” Aqib said. “I cried out that my mother was dead but nobody came to help. I brought her out of the car and later took the body to the police control room (as is the norm).” Late on Thursday afternoon, a relative of the family said: “It’s been more than 12 hours since she died but we are yet to get the body. The police have promised to return the body by evening; we have our fingers crossed.” A neighbour later called this newspaper at 7pm to say the body had been returned after 15 hours. At a news conference in Srinagar on Thursday afternoon, director-general of police Dilbag Singh had been asked whether Kousar’s body would be returned to the family. “It will certainly be returned. There are no two opinions about it. She is not related to militancy,” the DGP said. Yet the bodies of several civilians who were killed allegedly by the forces in recent weeks were never handed over to their families. The authorities buried them in remote places, away from the media glare. On Wednesday, 23-year-old Sopore shopkeeper Irfan Ahmad Dar, who had died in police custody the previous night, was buried in Sonamarg, around 130km from his home. The police claim he was an “over-ground worker” for the militants but the family vouches for his innocence. When DGP Singh was asked about gaps in the police claim, he looked agitated and asked the journalists not to “dig too deep” since a magisterial inquiry had been ordered. The police claim that Irfan had escaped in the darkness and that his body was later recovered, without explaining how he had died. Irfan’s uncle Noor Mohammad, who was allowed a look at the body in Sonamarg, told The Telegraph the youth had torture marks on his face and head. “Three of his teeth were broken, his face was smashed and he had a head injury. They (the police) killed an innocent man and refused to hand over his body. This is a double trauma,” Noor said. “Around 30 family members went to Sopore and Srinagar yesterday (Wednesday) to plead for his body but we were told he was being buried in Sonamarg.” He added: “When we reached Sonamarg, only around a dozen family members were allowed to see his body and perform the last rites. The rest were not allowed. We could not give a decent burial to him.” In May, the authorities had refused to return the body of a 14-year-old boy with hearing and speech impairment who had died in alleged security force firing. Three men from Rajouri who were killed in a “fake encounter” in Shopian in July were buried in Shopian, around 150km from their homes. Their families have since been trying to secure permission to get the bodies back for a fresh burial.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-660
19-09-2020||India||Mayawati readies for bypoll test||Away from direct public contact and mostly tweeting in support of the BJP governments at the Centre and in Uttar Pradesh, Bahujan Samaj Party chief Mayawati has decided to assess her popularity in the bypolls to eight Assembly seats scheduled to be held by the end of this year. The BSP would not usually contest bypolls in the past. A senior BSP leader told The Telegraph on Friday that Mayawati has finalised the nominees from Tundla (Firozabad), Swar (Rampur), Bangarmau (Unnao), Malhani (Jaunpur), Deoria Sadar, Bulandshahar, Ghatampur (Kanpur) and Naugaon (Amroha) seats. “As the Election Commission is expected to announce the date by next month, Mayawati has assigned her party’s sector in-charges to make public the names of her candidates by the end of this month. Some of the selected candidates have already been asked to start campaigning. For example, Kuldeep Shankhwar, former zonal coordinator of the BSP, is already meeting his supporters in Ghatampur,” a BSP leader said on condition of anonymity. “Although, the BSP generally doesn’t contest bypolls as Mayawati believes that it is wastage of party resources and she should focus on general elections to form her government, she is the first to finalise our party candidates much before the ruling BJP and main Opposition, the Samajwadi Party,” the leader said. “Mayawati had said in a party meeting two days ago that the bypolls would be a warming up for the Assembly elections 2022.” The BJP held six and the Samajwadi held two of the eight seats, which had fallen vacant because of the demise or disqualification of the members. The BJP has 304 seats in the House of 404. The Samajwadi, BSP and the Congress have 48, 18 and seven seats respectively.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-660
19-09-2020||India||Gangtok nurse succumbs to Covid ||Sikkim lost it first health worker to Covid-19 wh­en a 49-year-old nursing assist­a­nt superintendent of the New STNM Hospital near Gangtok passed away from the disease in the early hours of Friday. Health officials said the nurse, who had comorbidities, had been admitted to the very hospital she was serving for the second time on Wednesday and put on ventilator the following day. “She had been discharged from the hospital on Tuesday after undergoing treatment for Covid. She had to be admitted again after her health took a turn for the worst,” said an official. Sources said though the patient had not recovered, she had been discharged because she had already spent two weeks at the hospital. The nurse, who had done Covid duty at the hospital in August, is believed to have contracted the disease at her work place. With her death, the toll from Covid in the state has risen to 24. In all, 2274 persons in the state had tested for the novel coronavirus till Thursday. The Covid warrior’s death has led to an outpouring of grief with people hailing her as a hero. “It is a big loss for our he­alth department. She had done Covid duty in August. I would like to convey my heartfelt co­ndolences to her family. We are in touch with her family. We will talk to the government and see what can be done for her family,” said Pempa T. Bhutia, the director general-cum-secretary of the Sikkim health department. Bhutia also appealed to other health workers not to be discouraged by the tragic loss of a fellow colleague. “We know everyone in the department has been working very hard. We mu­st continue to give our service, but by taking adequate precautions. We must first protect ourselves and then serve others,” he added. The ruling Sikkim Krantikari Morcha mourned the health worker’s death. “We have had to lose one of our frontline warriors in this fight against the coronavirus. Acknowledging her contribution to the people, we would like to pay our rich tributes to her,” the SKM said in a release. Former chief minister and president of the Sikkim Democratic Front Pawan Chamling, too, expressed his condolences. “This valiant daughter of Sikkim gave her life fighting for the rest of us. I salute this lady with all my heart for her selfless service which led to her heroic death. Her sacrifice will not be taken lightly,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-660
19-09-2020||West Bengal||Rabindrasangeet exponent Purba Dam dies at 85 ||Veteran Rabindrasangeet exponent Purba Dam died at her residence in the city on Saturday, family sources said. She was 85. Dam died of cardiac arrest at her Dhakuria residence in south Kolkata this morning, they said. She is survived by her husband and daughter. A true disciple of legendary Rabindrasangeet singer Suchitra Mitra, Dam regaled listeners with her rendition of songs like "Modhur tomar sesh je na pai prohor holo sesh/Bhuban jure roilo lege anando abesh", "Ami phirbo na re" in her distinctive gayaki style and became a known face among the audience in the 80s. Ironically, 19th September also is the birth anniversary of her mentor and guide Suchitra Mitra. Condoling Dam's demise, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee recalled her cordial relation with the singer who was conferred Sangeet Samman by the state in 2013. "Dam got recognition as a prominent Rabindrasangeet exponent in the 80s. Her death created a void in the world of music," Banerjee said and offered her condolences to the bereaved family. Rabindrasangeet exponent Sumitra Sen said in a statement "Purba Dam has gone to the divine world of music, she left behind a rich repertoire of songs." Upon hearing the news, another famous Rabindrasangeet artist Pramita Mullick told Anandabazar.com, "I've known her since her unmarried days. Her Rabindra Sangeet was loved by one and all. I have seldom seen such a down to earth and easy-going artist in my life. Her passing away marks the end of an era."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-369
19-09-2020||West Bengal||3,192 new Covid cases in Bengal||Bengal on Friday logged 3,192 new Covid-19 cases, 59 deaths and 2,960 recoveries, which raised the state’s total caseload to over 2.18 lakh, of which over 1.9 lakh are recoveries and 4,242 deaths. After the 15-day streak of fall in active cases ended on September 8, lowering total active cases from 28,069 to 23,216, the state has now seen a rise for 10 consecutive days in that total, which is now 24,509. Bengal’s recovery rate, however, continued to climb and is 86.86 per cent now, a rise by over 11 per cent in a month. The national rate is 78.95. “Over the past one month, we had 96,000 new cases and 97,000 recoveries. Our recovery rate will rise more if we are able to lower the number of new cases” said a minister. Of the 59 deaths reported in 24 hours, 14 were from Calcutta and seven from North 24-Parganas. The two districts have contributed 60 per cent of all Covid-19 deaths in Bengal. Of the total deaths, 3,637 (85.7 per cent) were reported comorbid by the state government. Bengal’s mortality rate improved to 1.93, but is still worse-off than the national rate 1.61 per cent “Now that comorbidity surveys are being completed and tighter vigil is being put in place for those who need prioritised medical supervision, we should be able to lower our daily death count from 50-60,” said the minister. “Halving the mortality rate has been our foremost priority.” Bengalalso logged 45,229 tests on Friday, taking the total past 26.99 lakh. The state now has 29,992 tests per million people, which was 15,358 a month ago. Steady rise in testing, coupled with relatively lower cases being found has dragged down the positive confirmation rate from 8.9 on August 23 to 8.1 per cent now. The state reported 33.58 per cent occupancy of 12,675 Covid-19 beds in 92 hospitals. Over 2.25 lakh telemedicine consultations have been provided, including 4,251 in the past 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-369
19-09-2020||West Bengal||Scheme for unemployed||The Mamata Banerjee government has launched a new scheme under which unemployed people will be given soft loans up to Rs 2 lakh and incentives to start a manufacturing unit or trade. The Karmasathi Prakalpa scheme is for unemployed people aged between 18 and 50 years. According to the scheme, which was notified about a week ago, the government would ensure a soft loan of up to Rs 2 lakh from state cooperative banks to support an unemployed person. “The banks would provide 80 per cent of the project cost as loans with a maximum cap of Rs 2 lakh. The state government would give a subsidy of 15 per cent of the project cost and the beneficiary has to invest only 5 per cent of the project cost,” said a senior government official. The government would also reimburse 50 per cent of the annual bank interest for a period of three years if the applicant repays bank interests on time. State government officials said they had a target of disbursing loans to 1 lakh applicants every year. “The process has been made easy for the unemployed. They can submit their detailed project reports to the offices of BDOs and SDOs, who will clear the projects if found feasible. Once cleared, the projects would be sent directly to the cooperative banks, which would start the process of disbursing loans at the earliest,” said a source. Senior government officials said the primary objective of the scheme was to create employment opportunities in the state. “The small scale industries are labour intensive. If we promote them, it would create employment opportunities even in rural areas. This was proven when different clusters of handicrafts created in various districts generated more than 50,000 employment opportunities over the past few years,” said another official. Trinamul insiders have said the move could help the party in the Assembly polls at a time the Opposition is attacking the state government for its failure to create jobs. Senior government officials said anybody registered in the employment bank and having a Class VIII pass certificate could apply for the scheme. “We have more than 14 lakh people registered with the employment bank. Many of them are interested in starting their own business in absence of jobs. The scheme would help them fulfil their dreams,” said a senior official. A minister said the timing of the scheme’s launch was a smart one as hundreds of unemployed people would apply for it. “Now, if we can disburse loans for even a few thousand applicants, we can make the younger voters believe that the state government is beside them even if they can’t crack job exams. It will help us in the elections,” said the minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-369
19-09-2020||West Bengal||Student caught in clash killed||A 14-year-old boy was killed by shrapnel when he was caught in a clash in which two alleged factions of the Trinamul Congress fought with crude bombs at Damodar Chowk village near here on Thursday evening. Apart from Sheikh Mazahar, a Class VIII student, Trinamul worker Sheikh Nasim, 42, was also killed in the violence. “The student was struck by shrapnel and was not involved in the clash. He died on the spot, while Nasim succumbed to his injuries at a local hospital on Thursday night,” said an eyewitness. Sources said the clash was between followers of local Trinamul leaders Uttam Tripathi and Sanjay Pan. “The trigger behind the incident was the assault on a Trinamul worker belonging to Tripathi’s faction,” said a source. A district police officer said a murder case had been registered and six persons arrested in connection with the clash. Nasim worked in Mumbai as a weaver and was scheduled to return later this month. Sheikh Tansur, elder brother of Nasim, said his brother had been singled out by members of Tripathi’s group for his allegiance to Pan, who is the former Trinamul block president in Keshpur. Tripathi had succeeded Pan as Trinamul’s Keshpur block chief. “My brother and I have been allied to Pan for years, and Nasim was killed for refusing to ally with Tripathi,” he said. Trinamul MLA Shiuli Saha said “swift justice should be brought to those responsible according to the law”. “I have requested police to ensure justice without considering the political affiliation of the accused persons,” she said. Tripathi said Nasim had been killed by his relatives over a land dispute. “His death has nothing to do with the party. He had been embroiled in a family property dispute for years,” Tripathi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-369
19-09-2020||West Bengal||Partial relief on stuck onions||The Centre on Friday evening partially withdrew the embargo on export of onions as the Customs authorities were asked to allow the movement of the produce handed over to them on September 14 when the ban came into effect. The relaxation was given by the Directorate General of Foreign Trade, a wing under the ministry of commerce and industry. The Centre’s decision, however, did little to assuage the concerns of the exporters whose cargo was left stranded on the Bangladesh border. “Only about 5 per cent of the cargo would be allowed to be exported... This would not solve our problem,” said Mihir Ghosh, an onion exporter in Ghojadanga. Hundreds of trucks and rakes carrying over 10,000 tonne onions have remained stuck along the border. However, the entire produce hadn’t been handed over to the Customs. The Telegraph reported on Friday that 25 per cent of the onions had already rotten. “We have got the communication from the DGFT and will act accordingly,” said a senior Customs official at Petrapole, the most important land port along the India-Bangladesh border. Kartick Chakraborty, the secretary of the Petrapole Clearing Agents’ Staff Welfare Association, termed the DGFT’s decision as “ridiculous”. “Most of exporters will have to incur heavy losses.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-369
19-09-2020||West Bengal||HC panel to look into Mela wall||A Calcutta high court division bench headed by Chief Justice T.B.N Radhakrishnan on Friday set up a four-member committee chaired by Justice Sanjiv Banerjee to look into aspects of the ongoing strife in Visva-Bharati over construction of a wall around Pous Mela ground and find a resolution by involving all the stakeholders. “The committee will look into the different aspects, fundamentally in the mode of mediation and conciliation among different stakeholders and find out ways and means of doing everything that is necessary for appropriate resolution,” the order passed by Chief Justice Radhakrishnan and Justice Shampa Sarkar said. The committee headed by Justice Banerjee will have Justice Arijit Banerjee , advocate general Kishore Datta and additional solicitor general Y.J. Dastoor as members. The bench also appointed advocate Jaydeep Kar an amicus curae to the case. Kar will assist the bench in the matter. The panel will place its recommendation after three weeks when the court will again take up the issue. On August 17, Santiniketan saw unprecedented violence when people demolished a wall that varsity authorities were erecting around the mela ground. Since then, the university town has been on the boil as the varsity authorities have stuck to their stand on fencing, while people supported by TMC resist it. Earlier, advocate Ramaprasad Sarkar of the same court had filed a public interest litigation on the incident and demanded a CBI probe. The bench felt that there was no necessity to take the assistance of the petitioner in the matter and issued the suo motu order.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-369
19-09-2020||West Bengal||Social outfit sows seeds of alternative farming at Mousuni||A social organisation has started an experiment in alternative farming at Kusumtala on the Mousuni Island by encouraging the farming community to use seeds that can withstand salinity of soil. A large number of villages in the Patharpratima, Namkhana and Joynagar 2blocks of South 24-Parganas are regularly flooded by rivers that are linked to the sea and have high saline content. As water from these rivers keep flooding the villages, cultivating rice and several varieties of vegetables have become difficult. Similarly, the increase of salinity in the ponds make farming sweet water fish species, such as rohu and katla, difficult. The odds that farmers in the region face has been the trigger behind the experiment that Rupantaran Foundation, a Calcutta-based organisation carrying out livelihood restoration programmes across the state, has taken up in the region. Tapas Mandal, head (capacity building) of Development Research Communication and Services Centre, a resource and knowledge centre for sustainable agriculture and alternative livelihood, said they had recommended 12 vegetable seeds to Rupantaran based on the soil condition in the region. “Vegetables will be cultivated on raised land, where salinity level has decreased because of rain. As saline water remains locked in low-lying paddy fields, the vegetables will be cultivated on raised land structures that border these fields. These raised stretches of land are ideal for alternative farming because rain has decreased the soil’s salinity level. The use of mustard cake as an organic fertiliser will further reduce salinity in the soil,” Mandal added. According to him, this model will yield good results in areas affected by Cyclone Amphan that devastated large parts of the Sunderbans in May, affecting the livelihood of the people in the region. Amphan-induced surge in the rivers, tidal waves and breach in embankments had led to flooding of large tracts of agricultural land and ponds with saline water. As cultivation of traditional crops has become a challenge in the three blocks following Amphan, Rupantaran took up the problem with agricultural experts who suggested introducing peasants to farming vegetables that can withstand salinity in the soil. Earlier this week, Rupantaran distributed packets containing 120gm seeds each of red amaranthus (laal saak), water spinach (kalmi saak), red spinach, bitter gourd, pumpkin, lady finger, cucumber, yardlong bean, French beans, radish, and coriander, all of which can survive salinity. In the coming days, 4,906 families will be given seeds, along with 5kg of mustard cakes for fertilisation. Soma Ranjit, a widow in Kusumtala with two children who received the seed packets on Tuesday, said: “We have no work since March. In the past few months, we hardly got anything to eat other than boiled rice. I will grow vegetables on the boundary around my land.” Rupantaran’s beneficiary Sankar Dhara, 58, a farmer in Kusumtala, said he had cultivated paddy on his 2 bigha land last year and earned Rs 12,000. But, Amphan had damaged his crops this year. “Amphan has destroyed my livelihood. I cannot grow paddy this year because of high salinity in the soil. At present, I have no income and had to take a loan to run my family. I am banking on the seeds Rupantaran has given us to grow vegetables. We will be able to eat the vegetables and earn as well by selling the surplus produce.” As part of its livelihood support programme, Rupantaran Foundation has identified 6,389 marginal families in the Patharpratima, Namkhana and Joynagar 2blocks. The Amphan victims without a pucca house, betel orchard, boat and land more than two bighas, have been identified for the project. Speaking to The Telegraph, Rupantaran’s founder-director Smita Sen said: “During distribution of relief materials among Amphan victims, we noticed the miserable condition of people in Mousuni (Namkhana block), Gopalnagar (Patharpratima block) and Manirtat (Joynagar 2 block). Those villagers were worst affected as their agricultural land and ponds had been inundated with saline water. This made agricultural activity a difficult proposition and many were beginning to migrate to earn a living. This made us take up a restorative support programme in these areas.” “We spoke to agricultural experts to find out alternative survival means and they suggested farming vegetables since these people were getting free rice from the government. The vegetables will help the families because of their nutritional values and they could earn by selling the surplus produce,” Sen said. Pranab Hazra, a professor at Bidhan Chandra Krishi Viswavidyalaya in Kalyani and an expert in horticulture, welcomed the initiative but expressed doubts about the “salinity tolerance” of some vegetables. “Some of these vegetables can resist salinity to some extent. However, it is true that rainfall helps reduce the salinity level in the soil,” Hazra said. In several phases, these families will be given seeds of 12 types of vegetables that can grow in saline soil conditions. Those who do not have land but own ponds will be given fish like hybrid Telapia that can be farmed in saline water. Those without land or ponds will be given chicks to start poultry farming. The organisation will also train the beneficiaries to grow fish and vegetables in a sustainable way to meet their nutrient needs and sell the surplus in the markets. Hasna Banu Biwi, the chief of Mousuni gram panchayat, said: “I am hopeful the endeavour will benefit the poor families who have been hit hard by Amphan and lockdown.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-369
19-09-2020||West Bengal||Tea bonus cheer||Workers in the tea gardens of the Terai and the Dooars in north Bengal will get their annual bonus at the rate of 20 per cent ahead of Durga Puja this year, higher than last year. The decision was made at a bipartite virtual meeting held between representatives of tea planters’ associations and tea trade unions on Friday. This was the second round of talks held to decide on the bonus rate. “It has been decided that bonus would be paid to tea workers at 20 per cent rate. The gardens will have to disburse the bonus by October 7,” said Prabir Bhattacharjee, secretary general, Tea Association of India. In 2019, tea workers received a bonus at the rate of 18.5 per cent. On September 15, for the first time in the tea industry, a bipartite meeting on bonus was held through video conferencing amid the pandemic. Then, trade unions demanded a bonus at 20 per cent rate but no decision was made On Friday, trade union leaders sounded elated.“Usually, four to five rounds of bipartite talks are held before the rate of bonus is fixed. It is good that this time, after many years, the rate was fixed only after two rounds. We hope tea companies disburse the bonus at the earliest,” said Mannalal Jain, vice-president, Cha Bagan Trinamul Congress Mazdoor Union. He also mentioned that in 2019, 39 tea gardens had asked for concessional rates, citing their financial incapacity to pay the negotiated rate of 18.5 per cent. “Accordingly, lower rates were finalised for each such garden through talks. This year, these gardens will pay at rates which are 1.5 per cent higher than what they had paid as bonus last year,” added Jain. Gopal Pradhan, president of Dooars Cha Bagan Workers’ Union, said that during the pandemic, this bonus will help the workers’ families. “There are many families where people are sitting jobless for months now. The cash they will receive as bonus will help,” said Pradhan. The rate of bonus for the tea gardens of Darjeeling hills – there are 87 tea estates in the hills – however, is yet to be decided. Last year, workers in the hills received a bonus at 20 per cent rate. “A bipartite meeting would be held on Saturday to discuss the issue,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-369
19-09-2020||West Bengal||Bomb to wrest loan||A 24-year-old migrant worker from East Midnapore's Panskura was arrested on Thursday night by police for allegedly planting a bomb at a hardware store. Police said Asanur Aliwas trying to intimidate the store owner into giving him credit. Ali, a resident of Ramgarh village and a migrant labourer who returned home from Hyderabad during the lockdown, was traced through his cell phone. District SP Sunil Yadav told the media that Ali revealed he had got the know-how on bomb assembling from YouTube. Rajat Maity, who owns a hardware godown and shop in Ghoshpur area of the town, called the police on Thursday morning after receiving threat calls that there was a bomb at his store. “I was shocked to find a device looking like an IED inside," he said on Friday, adding Ali called him at least four times on Thursday saying his shop would be blown up. Sources said Panskura police responded to the site with a fire engine, sniffer dogs, and later a bomb squad defused the device at the banks of the Kangsabati river. CID sleuths then collected the device for a detailed inspection. Ali, who worked as a mason in Hyderabad, was charged on Friday under sections 3 and 4 of the Explosive Substances Act (1908) and produced in chief judicial magistrate Nirupam Kar’s court, where he was remanded for 10 days of police custody. “The youth seems to have retaliated because Maity refused him any more credit. He already owes Rs 30,000 to Maity," said additional public prosecutor Safiul Ali Khan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-369
19-09-2020||West Bengal||Covid curbs for zoos, safaris||The state forest department on Friday said it would reopen all zoos and state-run parks to the public from October 2, a day after it said national parks, wildlife sanctuaries and tiger reserves of the state would reopen from September 23. It also came up with Covid safety guidelines for visitors and their employees in these spots. All these areas were closed for visitors since March 17 in the wake of the pandemic. “All those visiting forests, zoos and parks will have to adhere to new safety rules. Our employees will also follow safety protocols,” said Ravikant Sinha, principal chief conservator of forests of the state. Under new norms, the elephant safari won’t be reintroduced immediately. Tourists can avail the car safari in forest areas and in parks and zoos, said a senior official. All bookings have to be done online. In car safari, four persons, and not six, will be allowed in each vehicle. In watchtowers, up to 20 persons would be allowed at a time. Every vehicle has to be sanitised before entering the forest and the temperature of every visitor screened by the forest staff at entry points. In enclosed areas and food centres run by the department and by West Bengal Forest Development Corporation Limited, entry of people would be curbed to 30 per cent of the usual capacity. Employees, have been given specific instructions on the frequency of sanitising places where tourists are paying visits or are staying. Welcoming these, travel trade stakeholders have pointed out some more issues to help the tourism industry. According to representatives of Eastern Himalaya Travel & Tour Operators’ Association, the state should, through the Centre, take up the issue of sustainable development fee that the neighbouring country of Bhutan intends to charge from Indian tourists. They have also asked Bengal officials to speak to counterparts in Sikkim so that people in travel trade not based in Sikkim do not face problems in sending tourists to the state. Himalayan Hospitality & Tourism Development Network has written to officials of NHAI, seeking immediate repairs of NH110 that links Siliguri and Darjeeling, and NH10 that links Sikkim and Kalimpong. On Saturday, state tourism minister Gautam Deb will meet the stakeholders in Siliguri to discuss issues of the sector, said sources.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-370
19-09-2020||West Bengal||Kidnapped boy’s body in canal||Police early on Friday discovered the body of a nine-year-old boy, a Trinamul Congress gram panchayat member’s son, who had allegedly been kidnapped for ransom on the night of September 16 from East Burdwan’s Galsi. The body was found in an irrigation canal of the Damodar Valley Corporation in Galsi’s Sanko village, where the boy lived, said the police. An investigation into a police complaint by the boy’s father led to the arrests of three local youths on Thursday night, following which the body has been seized. The trio — Badsha Majhi, Jayanta Bag and Mangaldip Dolui — are in their early twenties and are labourers. “We have arrested three youths in connection with the kidnapping and murder of the boy. Two of them were directly involved in kidnapping and murder. They had carried out the abduction to earn easy money and we have started a probe to find out if there was any specific motive behind the crime,” said Bhaskar Mukherjee, the East Burdwan police chief. A police source said Sandip Dolui, a student of a primary school at Sanko, was the only son of local Trinamul gram panchayat member Buddhadeb Dolui. Sandip had stepped out to buy firecrackers from a village shop on the occasion of local puja on September 16 evening when Jayanta and Badsha abducted him. The same night, the duo called up Buddhadeb and asked for a ransom of Rs 7 lakh. “After bargaining, the kidnappers agreed to release my son if I paid them Rs 3 lakh. They had warned that if I informed the police, that would endanger the life of my child. As we did not have money to pay the abductors, I informed Trinamul leaders and sought their help on Wednesday. The police were also informed verbally and I lodged a written complaint yesterday (Thursday). I never imagined that they would kill my son,” said an inconsolable Buddhadeb. Police sources said the duo had stolen the SIM card of their friend Mangaldip and used it to make the ransom call. “We first tracked the phone number from where the ransom call was made and arrested Mangaldip on Thursday. Interrogations then led to the two youths, who were arrested last night. They confessed to the crime and said the boy’s body had been dropped in an irrigation canal of the Damodar Valley Corporation. We have seized the body. The boy had been strangled,” said a senior police officer. After the body was found, around 300 villagers ransacked the houses of Jayanta and Badsha with hammers and iron rods. “The youths knew the boy well and killed him for money. This is unpardonable and so we have ransacked their home,” a villager said. A Burdwan court on Friday remanded the arrested trio in 10 days’ police custody.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-370
19-09-2020||West Bengal||Cop kills self, wife cries blackmail||A sub-inspector of state police who was the officer-in-charge at the traffic wing in Balurghat of South Dinajpur fatally overdosed on sleeping pills at home on Thursday late at night. When Sudipta Kumar Das, 49, was rushed to the district hospital in Balurghat, doctors pronounced him dead. His wife Soma alleged that Das took the drastic step as he was being blackmailed for money by a woman civic volunteer with whom he had an affair. Sources said Das, who hails from Malda, got his job in the state police in 1997. Posted in South Dinajpur for years, he worked in the traffic wing and many police stations in the district. After he was posted in Balurghat, his wife and their two children stayed at police quarters in Gangarampur while he stayed alone at Balurghat. But around eight days back, he asked them to come to Balurghat, a source said. On Friday, his family members were supposed to leave for Gangarampur again. But on Thursday night, after he reached home, he spoke to them and then consumed 30 sleeping pills. “His wife tried to contact others, but he dissuaded her. As he fell asleep, his wife called up officers in Balurghat police station and he was taken to hospital but it was too lat,” said a source. Debarshi Dutta, SP, South Dinajpur, said Das was taken to the hospital at 3am where doctors declared him  dead.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-370
19-09-2020||West Bengal||Tea production dates declared for quality check||The Tea Board of India, in back-to back notifications on Thursday and Friday, has announced the last date for production of tea in different brew belts of the country in this year. This is the third year in a row since 2018 that the board has come up with such notifications, a move geared at preventing the production of poor quality teas during the lean period or winter when fresh tea leaves stop coming up in the plantations. In the notifications, it has been mentioned that the last date to pluck tea leaves will be from December 5 to 19 in different tea growing areas of the country. For tea estates of Darjeeling, Sikkim, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand, the last day for plucking is December 5 while the last day for processing the leaves is December 7. On the other hand, for the Dooars, Terai and adjoining areas of Bihar, the dates for plucking and processing are December 19 and 21, respectively. The pair of dates are the same for tea estates in the Cachar area of Assam and the tea industry of Tripura. For the rest of Assam and other Northeast states (except Tripura), tealeaves can be plucked till December 12 and processed till December 14. In the notifications, the board has also stipulated the dates by which teas should be despatched to warehouses and other storage facilities. “Also, each tea manufacturing unit will have to submit a declaration to the tea board that production has stopped at the factory. Any non-compliance would mean violation of the Tea (Marketing) Control Order of 2003. If a tea unit violates the notification, it might face legal steps. The initiative has been taken to discourage tea production during the lean months,” said a source in the Tea Board. “We welcome the initiative as on one hand, it would ensure quality teas, and on the other, help keep a balance in the supply and keep prices stable. There is no point in merchandising teas of low quality which eventually affects prices and the industry as a whole,” said Bijoygopal Chakraborty, president, Confederation of Indian Small Tea Growers’ Associations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-370
19-09-2020||West Bengal||Killer of retired army man and his wife arrested||Tanmay Bar, who had allegedly shot dead a retired army man and his wife in Habra on Wednesday morning, was arrested from a hideout in Barasat’s Nilganj early on Friday. Police said Bar had taken temporary shelter at a friend’s house when sleuths zeroed in on him by tracking the mobile phone numbers of some of his close friends and relatives. He was produced in the Barasat ACJM court later on Friday and was remanded in 10 days’ police custody. Bar, who was accused of kidnapping the ex-soldier’s niece at gunpoint earlier, climbed a coconut tree and landed on the terrace of  Ramkrishna Mandal, 58 and his wife Lila Mandal’s Tunighata-Mandalpara home at Habra in North 24-Parganas. Police sources said Bar shot the couple when he came face-to-face with them after entering the house. Beginning a probe into the murder, the police had formed three teams and begun combing several areas while coordinating with BSF to keep an eye on Tanmay’s movement. In 2016, he had abducted Ramkrishna’s niece and forcefully married her after fleeing to Bangladesh. Bar was arrested when the couple returned to India in 2017. Superintendent of police, Barasat district, Abhijit Banerjee said: “We will interrogate Bar to ascertain the motive behind the murder."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-370
19-09-2020||North East||Power struggle in Manipur NPP||The National People’s Party (NPP) unit of Manipur is headed for a split, according to its expelled president Thangminlien Kipgen. Kipgen, who was expelled by NPP national president and Meghalaya chief minister Conrad K. Sangma on August 26 for allegedly going ahead with the Manipur unit’s election in violation of party constitution, told The Telegraph on Friday that it is in the process of splitting. “There is an elected president and they have nominated an interim president (Manipur tribal affairs minister N. Kayisii),” said Kipgen. There are also two party offices in state capital Imphal, with the new one launched by Conrad on September 12. A former MLA and minister “having” influence in Manipur politics, Kipgen, 67, has responded by expelling Kayisii and then deputy chief minister Yumnam Joykumar Singh, for six years for allegedly indulging in anti-party activities, taking the fight to the national leadership which has expelled him and put in his place an interim president for smooth functioning of the state unit. The NPP’s Manipur unit last hit the headlines in June when four party MLAs, all ministers in the N. Biren Singh-led coalition government, made an attempt to unseat the ruling dispensation along with the Opposition Congress just before the Rajya Sabha polls on June 19. The NPP state unit had “backed” the decision of the MLAs to pull out. They, however, returned to the government fold after meetings with the central leadership of the NPP and the BJP. The four ministers are now with the NPP national leadership. Kipgen, while justifying his action was carried out according to the party’s constitution, is trying to turn the battle for the state unit as a battle to protect the NPP’s legacy. “The NPP president (Conrad) is trying to project his father, former Lok Sabha Speaker late P.A. Sangma, as a founder of the party. He is trying to usurp the NPP’s legacy. This is unacceptable to us and we will not tolerate,” he said. NPP sources said that Kipgen is likely to move the Assembly Speaker against Kayisii and Joykumar requesting to declare them as unattached members. They said that leading state organisations could support Kipgen in his fight to protect the NPP’s legacy. According to Kipgen, the NPP was founded in 1989 by late K. Brajamohan Dev Sharma. It had two MLAs in 1990, one in 1995, three in 2007, none in 2012 and four in 2017. According to Kipgen, Sangma enrolled into the NPP in 2012 and was elected its national president on September 15, 2012. Kipgen said in a statement on September 9 that Conrad was trying to own the NPP by projecting his father as its founder by unscrupulous means. “Now it seems the NPP is the property of Conrad which is unfortunate and a mockery of the people of Manipur as a whole,” Kipgen said. Kipgen said his term as president was to end August 26 and not in April as claimed by Sangma. He said he was issued a showcause notice on August 20 directing him to respond within 15 days but “was expelled unconstitutionally on August 24”. He also said that there is no provision for an interim president in the party constitution and the letter appointing Kayisii was not issued on the NPP letterhead.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-44
19-09-2020||North East||NSCN-IM firm on flag, statute||A joint council meeting of the National Socialist Council of Nagalim (Isak-Muivah) on Friday unanimously adopted a resolution reiterating its stand that the Naga “national flag” and Yehzabo (constitution) “must form a part” of the political solution “in order to qualify” it as “honourable and acceptable”. The meeting also resolved that the Centre and the outfit “must” seek a final pact based on the Framework Agreement of August 3, 2015, an NSCN (I-M) statement said. In his speech on “Naga Independence Day” held on August 14, NSCN (I-M) general secretary Th. Muivah had said the Framework Agreement recognises the sovereignty of the Nagas and “inclusive peaceful coexistence of the two entities sharing sovereign power”. “Coexistence of the two entities... means the two peoples and nations will coexist,” Muivah said. The NSCN (I-M) demand for a separate flag and constitution is proving to be a major hurdle to finalising a solution, according to those familiar with the talks. However, sources indicated both the outfit and the Centre were trying to resolve the twin issues. While a senior Intelligence Bureau team is said to have concluded its talks with the NSCN leadership in Delhi, more clarity is expected once the political-level dialogue takes off, sources said. The joint council meeting at the outfit’s council headquarters at Hebron near Dimapur deliberated on the “historical and political rights” of the Naga people and how the Naga political talks have reached this far, the statement said. The council meeting was held amid reports that the Centre “intends” to conclude talks for a final solution in September. Almost all leading Naga organisations are also holding regular meetings and appealing for an “inclusive, amicable and honourable solution” to end the longest armed resistance in Southeast Asia. The ceasefire started in 1997. The Opposition Naga People’s Front (NPF) recently held talks with the Naga national political groups (NNPGs), civil society organisations and Central Nagaland Tribes Council (CNTC) on the Naga issue and the road ahead. According to the NPF, the CNTC has agreed to support the August 11 stand of the 14 apex Naga tribal hohos of a solution based on the Framework Agreement and the agreed positions of the Centre, NSCN (I-M) and the working committee of the NNPGs, comprising seven organisations, involved in simultaneous talks on arriving at an honourable solution. After a meeting with the interlocutor and Nagaland governor R.N. Ravi in Dimapur last Friday, the NNPGs said the Centre was working on a solution acceptable to all. While the NNPGs have backed Ravi to resolve the Naga problem, the NSCN (I-M) wanted him out of the talks for allegedly misinterpreting the Framework Agreement to which he is also a signatory, among others, pushing the dialogue to the edge. But talks with the IB team seems to have put the process back on track, sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-44
19-09-2020||North East||Clause 6 delay fuels resentment in Assam||The Centre’s revelation in Parliament that the Clause 6 report is still with Dispur is set to trigger a fresh wave of protests by the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act brigade against the BJP-led state and central governments for alleged inaction and insincerity while dealing with issues pertaining to Assam. These protests could only intensify in the run-up to next year’s Assembly polls because the anti-CAA brigade are working on getting all regional forces under one umbrella to unseat the ruling BJP. On Wednesday, in a written response to four queries from Maharashtra Rajya Sabha member Sambhaji Chhatrapati on the status of the Clause 6 report and its implementation, Union minister of state for home G. Kishan Reddy said: “The high-level committee constituted by the ministry of home affairs on Clause 6 of Assam Accord has submitted its report to the government of Assam and its recommendations are under examination of the state government.” AASU chief adviser Samujjal Bhattacharjya tweeted on Thursday, “Planned inaction & reluctance of @mygovindia in implementing Clause VI Committee Report of #AssamAccord is clear. Centre’s claim that @mygovassam is yet to forward report shows hypocrisy & insincerity. Demand safeguard as enshrined in Report alongside fulfilment of PM & HM’s promise.” Bhattacharjya was part of the 14-member committee, led by Justice (retired) Biplab Kumar Sarma, constituted by the ministry of home affairs in July 2019 to suggest measures on how to implement Clause 6 within six months. The committee submitted its report to Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal in presence of his cabinet colleagues on February 25 this year after it could not get an audience with home minister Amit Shah, something which did not go down well with the panel members. However, on August 12, All Assam Students Union president Dipanka Nath, general secretary Lurinjyoti Gogoi and Bhattacharjya made the report public since the government was allegedly sitting on it for five months and there was “public demand” to know about the report and its recommendations. Bhattacharjya told The Telegraph that he wants Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Shah to honour their “ public commitment” vis-à-vis the Clause 6 report. “The Centre’s response reflects its insincerity. The report has not reached the Centre even after six months. The Prime Minister had made a public commitment to implement the recommendations after getting the report. The home minister made a commitment in Parliament to implement the report in toto. We want them to implement the recommendations and warn the government against playing with the report,” Bhattacharjya said. He said that Clause 6 is the right of the Assamese people and it has got nothing to do with the CAA which came into effect in January. According to the 1985 Assam Accord, a culmination of the six-year-long movement against influx, the cut-off date for detection and deportation of illegal foreigners is March 24, 1971. The CAA provides Indian citizenship to non-Muslims who entered from Pakistan, Bangladesh and Afghanistan till December 2014. The anti-CAA protesters feel that the Act is a threat to the identity and culture of the Assamese people. “We have taken the burden of illegal foreigners till 1971 for which we got Clause 6. We won’t accept any more burden. That should be very clear,” Bhattacharjya said. AASU general secretary Lurinjyoti Gogoi and his Asom Jatiyatabadi Yuba Chatra Parishad (AJYCP) counterpart Palash Changmai told this newspaper that the government has left them with no option but to hit the streets to protest against the insincerity and speedy implementation of the Clause 6 report. “We stand vindicated in our decision to release the report. The report is still with Dispur after six months. We will not stay silent,” Gogoi said. Changmai, like Gogoi, said that the government formed the Clause 6 committee to curb the anti-CAA protests which claimed five lives in the state in December last year. “The BJP government is not at all serious about the issues of Assam and the Northeast. It has compelled us to hit the streets seeking implementation of the Clause 6 report recommendations,” Changmai said. Both the AASU and the AJYCP, which have been at the forefront of the anti-CAA movement, are backing the newly-formed Assam Jatiya Parishad, a regional political party formed to work for the interest of the Assamese people, by unseating the BJP in the 2021 Assembly polls. The alleged inaction has provided the new party the right ammunition to attack the BJP-led government’s insincerity. “We have no option but to take the issue to the people. Without democratic protests, our voices are not heard,” Changmai said. BJP leaders had criticised the release of the report because the committee had given two years’ time to implement its recommendations which included defining an Assamese person who has been living in Assam prior to January 1, 1951, and 80-100 per cent reservation of seats from Assam in Parliament, Assembly and local bodies for Assamese candidates, among others. BJP insiders said these recommendations would not be easy to implement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-44
19-09-2020||Opinion||Unfunny words: Modi's reply to Milind Soman||Sir — The reply of the Indian prime minister, Narendra Modi, to the birthday wish tweeted to him by the actor and former supermodel, Milind Soman, would have been amusing had it not been ominous in its context. On the occasion of Modi’s 70th birthday, Soman took to Twitter to send birthday greetings and say that he wished the prime minister a “good and proactive opposition” in the hope that it would push him to do better for the country. In response, Modi said, “Thank you for your birthday wishes and wishful thinking...” Social media users and ordinary citizens have been laughing about Modi’s ‘witty’ response, but few are acknowledging the troubling implications behind such a smug reply. It is no secret that the Opposition to the Bharatiya Janata Party in Parliament is weak. However, it is obvious from Modi’s Twitter reply that he not only knows that the Opposition poses almost no threat to him or his government, but also that he can be complacent in his handling of the nation without the fear of being held accountable. His words might have sounded funny, but they come from a leader who does not care about the people of the country.Tiyasha Ray,Calcutta Sir — It is clear from Narendra Modi’s Twitter reply to Milind Soman’s birthday message that the former believes his government is all-powerful and can do whatever it wants given that it has little to no opposition in Parliament. This attitude has more than amply manifested itself in the way the BJP government under Modi has been ruling the country over the past six years. Not only have lynchings increased exponentially — the victims of such attacks are mostly people who belong to the Dalit community and religious minorities — but women have become more unsafe and the state of the economy has steadily deteriorated. The Centre’s handling of the coronavirus pandemic has been the most bitter indictment of its lack of commitment towards protecting citizens. Bearing testimony to this are the massive plight of migrant workers, the deplorable state of the economy and the fact that the number of infections in India crossed one million recently. The latter indicates how stretched the healthcare infrastructure in the country is and how doctors and healthcare professionals have not received the help they needed from the government to contain the crisis. It is heartening, however, that young people, especially those that have been rendered unemployed on account of the pandemic, are beginning to speak up vociferously against Modi and his government. One hopes that the youth can band together to bring this authoritarian government down. Vaibhav Rungta,Calcutta Sir — The youth of India are increasingly protesting against the Central government for the unemployment crisis and several other problems that it has failed to tackle responsibly. The uncertainty about the future, especially in a pandemic-hit economy, has led to frustration, depression and anxiety in the minds of young people. Wholly responsible for this are the Narendra Modi government and its ill-planned policies. Given the grave situation, it must be asked whether the Modi government ought to be allowed to complete its second term or whether it should step down for the utter mess it has created. Since 2014, India has steadily been going backwards. All sectors of public life are suffering. The anger of the youth might sound the death knell for this government. Bhagwan Thadani,Mumbai Extra mile Sir — It was both heart-warming and saddening to read about the farmer in Himachal Pradesh who sold his cow so that he could pay for his daughter’s online classes. The effects of the Covid-19 pandemic have hit young girls and women especially badly, with their rights and needs taking even more of a back seat than they usually do. In the light of this, it is a rare treat to hear of a person of limited means going the extra mile to keep his daughter’s education going. However, the fact that he had to sell his livestock in order to keep his child in school is indicative of the fact that ordinary people have received little or no help from the government at this time. Mohor Sen,Durgapur||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-146
19-09-2020||Opinion||Farms in ferment: Parliament passes farmer bills||A furious debate has broken out in the political salons of Delhi, corporate boardrooms and the farmlands of the country over the latest wave of reforms that the Narendra Modi government has unleashed with a stack of legislations that professes to free farmers from the tyranny of over 2,000 corruption-ridden wholesale markets where middlemen have robbed them blind for decades. The three pieces of legislation passed in the Lok Sabha have created a framework designed to usher in contract farming in a big way, catalyse the creation of large cold chain storage facilities and logistic networks, and shake off stockholding restrictions that were designed for an era of shortages. The broad contours of the reforms have a seductive appeal: they will remove the fetters on the farmers by giving them the opportunity to plug into a barrier-free common market for agriculture produce. They will ostensibly allow them to secure a fair price without having to worry about an unsold crop and wastage. But the big beef over the reforms is that they have been introduced without any consultative process with the states or the various stakeholders. This is one more instance where the Centre has cocked a snook at the whole concept of cooperative federalism. Agriculture is a state subject, and the states have exercised a measure of control over farm supplies. That is now being broken and replaced by a system where the levers of control will pass to large business houses, which can now buy farm produce in bulk directly from the farmers and not worry about any stockholding restrictions. This could have a huge impact on price discovery and it is hard to say just yet whether it will deliver the desired outcomes. The Centre has tried to sell the idea of reforms by suggesting that the new laws would ensure that farmers will be paid for their produce within three days of the sale — an assurance that the old mandi system could never provide. But questions have rightly been raised about the inadequacy of the dispute resolution mechanism in protecting farmers’ interests in an unequal battle with large corporates. The powers of dispute resolution have been delegated to magistrates and district collectors rather than specially designed agriculture tribunals. There remains a legitimate fear that the entire reform process is a thinly-disguised plan to favour a few crony capitalists while professing to create a brave new world for farmers. The objective is noble and may work in theory but it could well flounder in practice. There is a great danger that New India might be trading in an old, home-grown wheeler-dealer network for a new, swashbuckling bunch of buccaneers, leaving the farmer just as destitute as he is now.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-146
19-09-2020||Opinion||Comic sunshine: India's love for Wodehouse||Why does PG Wodehouse have such a big following in India? This is the question I put to Ben Schott, a 46-year-old British journalist and author who got rave reviews for his first Wodehouse novel, Jeeves and the King of Clubs, and who has just published a second, Jeeves and the Leap of Faith, also written with the blessings of the Wodehouse estate. Schott, who has been spending lockdown in New York, tells me: “I was scheduled to take my very first trip to India earlier this year — to participate in the Kolkata Literary Meet. Tragically, I had to cancel my visit after the death of my father-in-law. I very much hope to make new India plans.” In the first novel, Schott “leads Jeeves and Wooster on an uproarious adventure of espionage through the secret corridors of Whitehall”. In the second, “[t]he Drones club’s in peril. Gussie’s in love. Spode’s on the war-path. Oh, and His Majesty’s Government needs a favour. I say — it’s a good thing Bertie’s back!” The books are perfect for lockdown: “Reginald Jeeves first stepped onto the page in 1915 — in the midst of the First World War. Since then he and his irrepressible master have offered the penicillin of comic sunshine to millions. I wonder if the world has ever needed Jeeves and Wooster more?” Schott explains he is not trying to copy Wodehouse but writing “in parallel with ‘Plum’”. “Nobody uses language like him. He’s got 1,525 quotes in the OED and 23 first usages.” “Indians have a real love of language,” he goes on. “There’s a real sense in which the ludic, playful, fun, slang nature of language plays into an Indian sensibility. A great turn of phrase is a very Indian thing. I personally think it’s about the words and the phrases as much as about the plots. Maybe that’s the link.” Standing out Winston Churchill’s statue in Parliament Square has been attacked for the third time this year. An 18-year-old, Benjamin Clark, will appear at Westminster Magistrates’ Court on October 9, charged with defacing the monument to the great wartime leader with the words, “is a racist”, during the recent Extinction Rebellion demonstrations in London. Churchill was targeted previously by Black Lives Matter, which has drawn up a hit list of more than 70 statues, mostly of people who made their money from the slave trade. Churchill clearly does not fall into that category — indeed most of the older generation think it’s outrageous that his statue needs protection in the country he helped to save from the Nazis. It seems the views of critics like Shashi Tharoor are being absorbed by the young of all races and colours almost by a process of osmosis. This makes it all the more necessary for the complexities of empire to be taught in schools. Precarious balance Janan Ganesh, the political columnist for the Financial Times based in the United States of America, has suggested there will be a price to pay if people insist on working from home when the pandemic is over in the UK. “The death of the office — and our home-working future” was debated during the recent FT Weekend Festival. Ganesh was sceptical about the assertion that “working from home is in the long-term interest of actual working people. At some point, it will dawn on working people that if your job can be done from home, it can be done from Hyderabad. And I can’t stress enough they will not count in UK immigration because there is no juridical problem when it comes to having a staff that is 80 per cent non-UK based — the implications for labour competition really are seismic.” Martin Wolf, the paper’s legendary chief economics commentator, said presence in the office was essential if new recruits were to absorb the corporate culture of a company. “And that cannot happen without physical interaction, without being with other people.” Lucy Kellaway, who quit her job as a FT columnist to become a schoolteacher, appreciated having two selves — one for home and another for the office. “I met my husband at work. It was also such a laugh. I mean, you can’t have a laugh like that when you’re on your own. That’s something that we’re really losing.” However, the anthropologist, James Suzman, who spent seven years working in an office, found “a lot of the work was pointless. In fact, a lot of work people did was trying to make themselves seem important. People have begun to find community again in other completely different new ways. The office ceases to be as much of a social binding force as it was in the past. And I’ve got a feeling that this Covid crisis and working from home has really accelerated the transition that was on the go already.” Stellar player The year, 2015, was a vintage year for Indian tennis at Wimbledon. Sania Mirza won the women’s doubles, Leander Paes the mixed doubles, and a 17-year-old from Delhi the boy’s doubles. His name? Sumit Nagal. It’s no disgrace Nagal, now 23, having won the first round in the US Open, got knocked out 6-3, 6-3, 6-2 this month by the Austrian, Dominic Thiem, who went on to win the championship.Footnote Of the many obituary tributes paid to Diana Rigg — she played Contessa Teresa di Vincenzo Draco who married James Bond (George Lazenby) in On Her Majesty’s Secret Service — was one from Ajay Chowdhury, spokesman for the James Bond International Fan Club: “Rigg was psychologically complex with an exotic hinterland, haughtily beautiful, sexually assertive and hugely capable, athletically and aesthetically.” Many think she was best as the black leather clad Mrs Emma Peel in the 1960s British espionage TV series, The Avengers, opposite a bowler hatted John Steed (Patrick Macnee).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-146
19-09-2020||Opinion||Amoral panic||As our country faces unprecedented economic, health and national security crises, it is engrossed with the lurid demonization of a young film actress. The Rhea Chakraborty affair reveals a society gripped by a series of moral panics. She is the latest devil to be burned every night in newsrooms, accompanied by a surge in audience numbers, and she won’t be the last. Earlier this year, it was the Tablighi Jamaat. For weeks, we were inundated with a spate of ghastly revelations about the Jamaat: how its members deliberately spit on people to infect them, how they molest the nursing staff, how their design to spread the coronavirus is part of a larger jihadi agenda. Before that, the ‘urban Naxals’ posed a grave threat to the morals and the security of the nation: a band of academics and activists who were hard at work plotting to destabilize the nation and even assassinate the prime minister. Similarly, Rhea Chakraborty is just the face of an evil cabal in Bollywood engaged in shadowy, deviant relationships involving drugs, sex and power. Moral panic is a sociological category, which denotes a public scare about a supposed threat from deviants or ‘folk devils’, a category of people who, presumably, engage in evil practices and are blamed for menacing a society’s culture, way of life, and central values. The folk devils are feverishly painted with negative attributes, assigned a vastly exaggerated level of power, and are widely loathed by an enraptured society. Because this demonization is rooted in deeply-held anxieties and fears, they are an illuminating portal to the state of a society. The pioneering work in moral panics was done by the sociologist, Stanley Cohen, who used the concept to characterize the reactions of the media, the public and politicians to youth disturbances — the seaside fights between two youth groups, Mods and Rockers, in the Britain of the 1960s. Cohen showed that the media elevated these petty disturbances to a profound mortal threat by peppering their coverage with loaded phrases such as “riot”, “orgy of destruction”, “battle”, “attack”, “siege”, “beat up the town” and “screaming mob”. These phrases conjured up the image of a besieged town where innocent holidaymakers were being terrorized by a marauding mob, thereby constructing the Mod and the Rockers as the “folk devils” who needed to be controlled. These moral panics are created by “moral entrepreneurs” — “editors, bishops and politicians”, in Cohen’s words, who use this panic for their own sectional interests as well as to ideologically mould the norms and rules of society. While moral panics have always been with us, this spiral of moral panics that has engrossed the country is a new phenomenon driven by three major developments: ascendance of the middle classes, a revolutionized media ecosystem, and the dominance of a populist-majoritarian government. The Indian middle classes have always been one of the pillars of the political establishment, but they have never been as dominant in the political sphere as under the Narendra Modi government. The eminent political scientist, Suhas Palshikar, traced the utter disregard for the Covid-19-prompted lockdown on the concerns of the poor to our “majoritarian and middle-class driven social universe” where the “Politics of and for the poor has become inadmissible.” However, the middle class is still haunted by cultural anxieties, of being looked down upon by the left-liberal cultural and literary elites. These status anxieties morphed into virulent anti-intellectualism and propelled the moral panic around the JNU controversy and gave us the term, ‘urban Naxal’. The crackdown on JNU students as well as on leftist academics and activists arrested in the ‘Bhima Koregaon’ case vindicated the supremacy of middle-class values of patriotism, social order and social harmony. The middle classes could finally thumb their noses at the snobbish academic elites and openly proclaim their stated values of freedom and egalitarianism as little more than a cover for venal and treacherous designs. The American sociologist, Joseph Gusfield, regarded the moral panic-induced Prohibition era of the United States of America as stemming from the desire of the middle classes for enhanced status. The middle classes considered the diversities of lifestyles of industrial America as social and cultural threats to their own “social respect and honor”. The Prohibition-era ban on alcohol, thus, essentially boiled down to the “sober, abstaining citizen [seeking from] public acts through which he may reaffirm the dominance and prestige of his style of life.” The political system obliged because, according to Gusfield, the “politics of status goals” had become the defining dynamic of American politics where various groups competed in the public arena for the validation of their social status. Having established its political dominance, the Indian middle class now seeks to establish its moral and cultural dominance. The nepotism debate in Bollywood that preceded the Rhea Chakraborty affair was less about merit and more about the cultural distance the middle class feels with sections of Bollywood, which expresses itself in distrust and hostility. After all, the middle class is as nepotistic and encrusted in networks of privilege as any Bollywood family. Hence, the only fields where it sees nepotism is where it is largely excluded: Bollywood and politics. Secondly, moral panics have also been closely tied to the rise of mass media, which are instrumental in the construction and the presentation of the threat. The age of 24/7 news channels in India has led to the emergence of a new creature — the television anchor as the ‘moral entrepreneur’, guarding the moral barricades of society through righteous crusades. This is enabled by the steady dismantling of media standards where ratings are now unabashedly the singular goal of television news. Furthermore, the audience has been transformed from passive recipients of news to co-creators, as social media trends often dictate what constitutes news. Social media trends provide a real-time barometer of what people want to see on television stations which, in turn, reinforce those trends with their relentless coverage. This media ecosystem is perfectly suited for moral panics. According to a news report on the Rhea Chakraborty coverage, the “total number of viewers tuning in [to English news channels] has more than tripled in a matter of weeks.” It appears that people view news as an instrument to vicariously battle imaginary threats that make them feel morally righteous, rather than to comprehend the real threats confronting their lives and livelihoods. Delusions, even threatening ones, are often more comforting than reality, particularly when you can switch them off and on at will. Lastly, this succession of moral panics is inevitable under a populist-majoritarian government whose whole politics revolves around an idealized, majoritarian conception of good ‘people’ versus the bad ‘Other’. The patriotic, family-loving citizen must always be shown to be under threat from a variety of ‘folk devils’ — a young freewheeling woman in a live-in relationship, a bearded Muslim preacher, a leftist academic. Majoritarianism as politics only works in the presence of enduring social and cultural threats. Only in such a context can Prime Minister Modi, in this instance, present himself as the social and cultural protector of the nation. Every moral panic runs its course with the full co-operation of the State apparatus — strategic leaks from law enforcement agencies constantly back the media narrative. In turn, the State gets to expand its role, presenting the use of tough laws — NSA, UAPA and so on — as necessary to protect society. Moral panics seem all-consuming at their height, but die a rather quick death. However, they leave indelible scars in their wake in terms of moulding the psyche of the society as well as the more tangible norms and rules that govern us. The author is a political columnist and research associate with the Centre for Policy Research, Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-146
19-09-2020||Jharkhand||Police bust interstate gang of cybercriminals||Police on Saturday busted an interstate gang of alleged cybercriminals when it arrested two persons in Gamharia police station area in the adjoining Seraikela-Kharsawan district, about 10km from here. The arrested persons would allegedly steal cash from ATMs by prying open the machines using forceps after tampering with them. They would target ATMs without guards. Those arrested were identified as Niranjan Kumar Nirala, 32, a resident of Sirsia in Giridih district, and Ravi Ranjan Kumar, 26, a resident of Jamuar in Gaya district of Bihar. Two others, Laltu Kumar and Bipin Kumar, both residents of Gaya, also associated with the ATM heists, managed to escape. The police have seized four cloned ATMs, five ATMs of various banks and four smartphones, besides a car. Seraikela-Kharsawan superintendent of police Mohammed Arshi said that on July 27, Sandeep Kumar who works as a vigilance officer at Ujjivan Small Finance Bank had lodged an FIR with the Adityapur police station regarding a fraudulent withdrawal of Rs 5,000 from the bank’s ATM in Adityapur. “The police obtained footage from a surveillance camera installed at the ATM. The footage showed three persons taking out cash from the machine using forceps. After getting their photographs, the officers alerted the Adityapur and Gamharia police,” Arshi said at a news conference. Arshi said that on Friday night, a patrolling party spotted a white car with four persons near an ATM in Gamharia. The faces of three matched with those in the footage. “As soon as the patrolling party passed on the information about the four suspected cybercriminals, a joint team from Adityapur and Gamharia police stations was constituted. The police team reached the spot, but could nab only two. Later, the police brought the two arrested persons to the Adityapur police station for interrogation. The duo confessed to their crimes and also divulged how they had been operating in Adityapur and Gamharia areas for the past three months,” said Arshi. He said the criminals would target ATMs where no guards were posted. They used to fix the forceps near the cash dispenser clandestinely. “When a customer tried to make a withdrawal at the ATM, the cash would not come out. After the customer left the ATM, they would enter and remove the forceps with the cash. Having taken out the cash, they would fix the forceps once again in the ATM and wait for the next customer,” Arshi said. According to him, the criminals confessed to making such fraudulent withdrawals at Asansol and Purulia in Bengal and in a number of districts, including Seraikela-Kharsawan, in Jharkhand. He said the police were trying to trace the two others who managed to escape. The arrested duo have been sent to Seraikela divisional jail after being produced before a judicial magistrate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-294
19-09-2020||Jharkhand||Teams set up to check oxygen level of home-isolated patients||The Jharkhand government has constituted dedicated teams to go door-to-door and measure oxygen levels of Covid patients staying in home isolation across the state, health officials said on Saturday. The initiative, officials added, was taken in the wake of reports highlighting a sudden drop in oxygen levels of many asymptomatic patients across the country. “Many asymptomatic Covid patients were experiencing a fall in the oxygen level in their bodies, which could prove fatal if not treated on time,” said state health director Ravi Shankar Shukla. Shukla added that the teams were constituted at the panchayat level for rural Jharkhand and ward level in urban areas to keep a tab on patients staying in home isolation. As per the home isolation norms set by the government, patients should have an oximeter at home to keep a check on the oxygen level in their body. However, many patients cannot afford an oximeter, officials said. Inspection teams will identify such patients, who do not have an oximeter, in the first phase of the drive. “The teams will take all necessary precautions as per the protocol during the drive. All members of these teams will wear PPE kits when they visit homes of Covid patients,” said Shukla, adding that oximeters and PPE kits were already provided to the teams in various districts. An oximeter, available in medicine shops, comprises a monitor which contains the batteries and display, a probe, which consists of light emitting diodes, and a light detector called a photo-detector. The probe in the machine senses the user’s pulse. The oximeter measures pulse rate and the oxygen saturation of haemoglobin in arterial blood. Normal readings, according to doctors, range from 95 per cent to 100 per cent. Anything less, and the user should get medical assistance from a doctor. As per latest figures with the health department, there were 13,610 active  Covid-19 cases in Jharkhand. More than half of these patients, sources said, were in home isolation. So far, the state has reported 68,638 cases, and nearly 55,000 Covid patients have recovered. More than 600 Covid patients have died in the state, and a majority of them were suffering from some or other comorbid condition, officials said. While nearly 75 per cent of the deceased were above 50 years, at least 29 Covid victims in the state were younger than 30 years. The government, however, is yet to compile data of patients who died in home isolation. As per government data, around 16.50 lakh people have been tested for Covid-19 in Jharkhand so far, and most of them were from urban areas. Latest figures show that around 3,000 people were battling the virus in Ranchi, while around 2,800 were undergoing treatment in Jamshedpur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-294
19-09-2020||Jharkhand||Church writes to Hemant demanding Sarna code for tribals||Heads of churches have thrown their weight behind a key demand of tribals, asking the Hemant Soren government to pass a bill in support of a separate Sarna code for adivasis during the ongoing monsoon session ahead of the 2021 Census. In a letter to the chief minister on Saturday, Catholic bishops of Jharkhand, under the banner of Ranchi Catholic Archdiocese, reminded him that advisasis had been given special status under the Constitution. “Article 25, 29 and 342 talk about their (tribals) fundamental rights, safety and identity. Therefore, they must be provided a separate Sarna code, guaranteeing the rights of the tribal community to their language, religion, culture and a separate identity,” the letter, signed by Archbishop Felix Toppo on behalf of all missionary heads, said. “We demand the chief minister pass a bill in this connection to safeguard tribal identity and send the proposal to the Union government to formally press for inclusion of the Sarna code in the impending Census,” the letter added. The bishops have also demanded that the state government to pass a resolution not to implement the National Register of Citizens (NRC) in Jharkhand till such time the Centre grants a Sarna code to advisasis. Two days back, JD(U)’s state president and convenor of Adivasi Senghal Abhiyan Salkhan Murmu staged a daylong sit-in to demand a separate code for advisasis in the Census. In January, Murmu had also written to President Ramnath Kovind. According to Murmu, Jharkhand has about 32 tribal groups, of which eight are Particularly Vulnerable Tribal Group (PVTG). A few have converted to Christianity while others worship nature. “Jains and Buddhist are less in number vis-a-vis the tribal population but they have a separate religious code. The tribals are still fighting for it for decades. By denying a separate religious code for tribals, the government wants to put tribals in the category of Hindus, Muslim and Christian category, which isn’t right and logical because of advisasis’ distinct identity,” he said. Murmu said that in the 2011 Census, around 42 lakh people from Jharkhand and about six crore across the country had mentioned their religion as Sarna, which was later included in the “others” section. Notably, the JMM, Congress and RJD had promised to work towards a Sarna code for tribals in the run-up to last year’s Assembly polls. Missionaries were at odds with the previous BJP regime between 2014-2019 after the latter introduced an anti-conversion law accusing the Church of forcefully converting tribals and usurping their land. The former BJP-led government had also initiated probes against several NGOs run by missionaries and put curbs on their foreign funding, accusing them of duping poor tribals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-294
19-09-2020||Jharkhand||Govt will consider ‘genuine demands of police assistants, says minister||The state government will work towards fulfilling the genuine demands of thousands of assistant police personnel, the state’s water resources minister, Mithilesh Thakur, assured them at a meeting on Saturday. After a meeting with the protesters, Thakur told reporters that the talks with the police assistants remained positive. “I have told them that they should not hold any grudges against the current government. At the same time, I assured them that the government will certainly consider all their genuine demands, but it requires time. They seem to have been convinced and should soon end their protest,” said Thakur, who resumed office about a month back after recovering from Covid-19. The protests by police assistants, hired on contract by the former BJP-led  government in 2017, turned violent on Friday after they clashed with police while attempting to march towards Raj Bhavan and the chief minister’s residence. At least a dozen people were injured in the clash. On Saturday, Chief minister Hemant Soren appointed Thakur to hold negotiations after which he headed to Morabadi ground where over 2000 protestors have been camping for more than a week to hear their concerns. Thakur said their key demands included regularisation of jobs. “This apart, they also wanted increased honorarium and facilities at par with regular police. I have noted their demands and will discuss with the chief minister. We should be able to workout an amicable solution, but it will take time,” said Thakur. The minister said generating employment was one of the key mottos of the state government which would explore avenues where these people could be accommodated keeping the police force as the first choice. “But all these are policy decisions and need time,” he reiterated. Till the time of filing this report, the protestors had not called off their stir. Rakesh Minz, a 26-year-old assistant policeman from Latehar, said, “Our leaders will take a call soon after discussing with all stakeholders.” Notably, assistant police personnel were hired on contract in 2017 on monthly honorarium of Rs 10,000 by the former BJP government headed by Raghubar Das. They were then assured permanent reinstatement gradually. However, their contract period ended in August this year, and these have not yet been renewed by the JMM-Congress-RJD government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-295
19-09-2020||Jharkhand||Elephant dies of electrocution in village near Ranchi||An elephant died of electrocution in Ranchi’s Khalari block on Saturday morning after coming in contact with a high-tension wire placed by villagers at a farm to generate power for watering the field, forest officials said. While the residents of Dhelwatand village in Khalari, where the incident occurred, have pleaded innocence terming the death of the tusker, a female of 35, as an accident, forest officials have initiated a probe into the matter to see if the wire was deliberately placed in the field to harm elephants. “The possibility of villagers deliberately placing the wire in the field to harm elephants cannot be denied. However, prima facie, it seems that the wire was placed in the field to power machines used for irrigation,” said district forest officer (DFO), Ranchi, Ashok Kumar Dubey. Forest officials recently chased away a herd of elephants from Dhelwatand village, about 60 km from Ranchi, and the female elephant who died on Saturday is assumed to be a member of the same herd. The elephant came in contact with the naked wire, hanging from a pole, while she was crossing the field, forest officials said. According to the DFO, the naked wire was hanging at a height where it can only come in contact with an animal as tall as an elephant. “This indicates that the wire was not placed there to keep other wild animals at bay,” said Dubey, assuring that the villagers responsible for the incident will be prosecuted. As per records with the forest department, at least three elephants died of electrocution in Ranchi last year. The forest department, however, does not have any data on the total number of elephants that have died of electrocution across Jharkhand. On an average, eight elephants were killed annually in the past decade in Jharkhand. As per the elephant mortality data with the state forest department, 82 elephants were killed from 2009-10 to 2018-19. The man-elephant conflict in Jharkhand has been a concern for wildlife conservationists in the state. Since tuskers often go on the rampage in villages and even cause human fatalities, villagers in many areas of the state take measures at their own level to tackle the jumbo menace, sources said. Under the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, people involved in harming an elephant or even attempting to harm an elephant can be imprisoned for up to seven years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-295
19-09-2020||Jharkhand||Onion prices may cross Rs 50 a kg, fear traders||After potato and green vegetables, onion prices are now pinching consumer pockets. For the last couple of days retail vendors in Ranchi and Jamshedpur are selling onions at anywhere between Rs 35 and Rs 40 a kg depending on the quality. Coal town Dhanbad too is buying this key kitchen ingredient for Rs 38 a kg. Traders in Jamshedpur believe the tear-jerker crop would cross the Rs 50 mark and stay out of reach till October-end when the new crop arrives. “Onion production in Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka was badly hit this year due to heavy rains which has damaged crops. Farmers themselves are selling at a very high rate. How can you expect a price buffer so soon?” said Ranganath, an onion dealer at Sakchi. Pritam Sahu, a wholesaler in Ranchi, said: "The rate would come down only after fresh stocks arrive by the end of October." He said onions, which sold at Rs 20 a kg in the retail market even a week ago, was now dearer at Rs 35 a kg in most markets of the state capital. In the steel city, Dhanbad and Bokaro onions were being sold at anywhere between Rs 20 and Rs 22 earlier this week, while pushcart vendors in some pockets are flaunting a price tag of more than Rs 40 a kg. Sources at Parsudih-based Krishi Utpad Bazaar Samiti (KUBS) said currently onions in most places across the state were supplied from Nashik and Pune. For the last three to four days five trucks have been carrying the consignment from Nashik and other districts of Maharashtra to Jamshedpur. Each truck carries around 25 tonne of onions. A wholesale dealer of onions, Rupesh Kumar Saw of Bistupur market, ruled out hoarding by dealers. "Whatever consignment is coming is getting consumed. Neither there is artificial hoarding nor scarcity. The retailers are to be blamed for jacking up the price, " he said The Union government recently issued a notification banning the export of onions. The trigger for this move was that the wholesale and retail price of onion was witnessing a steady increase. A wholesale onion dealer at Sakchi said, "If the ban on export of onions would not have been imposed, by now the prices would have crossed Rs 60 per kg." Homemakers are crying hoarse over the unfair deal and reluctantly making compromises in the kitchen.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-295
19-09-2020||Jharkhand||Steel City to host football Baby League ||Budding footballers of Jharkhand now have a chance to showcase their talent at the Golden Baby League, a unique event of All India Football Federation (AIFF). The league, to be organised by Jharkhand Football Association (JFA) under AIFF’s banner, will be conducted in Jamshedpur, Ranchi, Dhanbad, Bokaro. Khunti could also be a venue but a decision is awaited. JFA  secretary Ghulam Rabbani said the event for boys and girls will be played from under-6 to under-12 age groups.  Teams from each group will be playing over 30 matches . “The dates will be finalised once the Covid-19 situation improves. We are anxious to organise the matches,” he added. Speaking to The Telegraph Online over phone from Giridih, Rabbani said the Golden Baby League is an AIFF programme aimed at pepping up football at school level. “Some states like Maharashtra and Northeast already have grassroot development programmes. We also have the structure in Jharkhand but the Golden Baby League is a different programme which will be held under AIFF’s supervision and guidance,” he added. According to him, Jamshedpur, Ranchi, Dhanbad and Bokaro have adequate infrastructure and matches can be conducted at these cities without much hassles. The JFA has already started the spadework to efficiently conducted the tournament. Rabbani had chaired a meeting last month to discuss the event and related logistics. AIFF’s consultant Deepak John Nayak, who was present at the meeting via video-conferce, explained the format through a virtual presentation. Matches for the under-6, under-7 and under-8 age group will be spread over 24 minutes while match duration for under-9 and under-10 age section will be of 40 minutes . Participants in the under-11 and under-12 age group will play matches of 50 minute duration. A maximum of 3 matches will be conducted daily. The tournament will go on for nearly four months and matches will be played in the mixed (boys and girls) format . There will no goalkeepers in the matches for under-6,under-7, under-8  categories while it will be optional for the under-9 and under-10 age section. Goalkeepers will be a part in the under-11 and under-12 age group, a JFA office bearer said. A team from the state football outfit will be visiting the four earmarked venues to discuss preparations with their district counterparts. The onus of conducting matches will be on the affiliated districts of the JFA. “It is essential to discuss the tournament with our district affiliates who will be responsible for conducting the matches. We have plans to visit the four venues next month. We want the event to be conduct efficiently," the officer bearer added. JFA will also spot talent from the Golden Baby League and work out training modules for them on regular basis. Tata Football Academy in Jamshedpur has a development programme for the under-12 boys. It also runs 15 football feeder centres across Kolhan. Jamshedpur FC is also developing an ecosystem for football  through its grassroot programmes. The club has started the programme in steel city schools where children are being trained by experienced coaches. Football festival and tournaments are also organised by the Tata Steel-owned club.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-295
19-09-2020||Jharkhand||Single-screen cinemas dying a slow, painful death||Single-screen cinema halls that were already reeling under the impact of high GST and low viewership are now staring at shutting down their enterprises because of the prolonged closure due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown. Owners predict that none of 30 operational single-screen theatres was likely to survive unless the government offered major tax concessions, now that various sectors of the economy were gradually opening up under Unlock-4 guidelines. Prashant Singh, owner of Puja Talkies of Dhanbad, said, “Even if the government allows us to open cinema halls, we are not going to open as we can’t bear the increased expenses of sanitisation, extra staff to ensure social distancing among viewers and renovation since the halls were closed for over six months.” Singh, whose hall has been screening movies for 35 years, said that while the government was not providing concessions, they were being pressured to pay exorbitant holding taxes by the local urban body. Apart from 18 per cent GST, hall owners cited several other factors that were impacting them adversely. These were low occupancy (about 9 per cent), high maintenance costs, fixed electricity charges and staff salaries. As many as 250 cinema halls were in operation in Jharkhand about two decades ago, said owners. Of these, only 30 were screening films before the March lockdown. Among these, six are in Dhanbad. Singh said they were staring at insolvency. “We are not going to take the risk of relaunching cinemas when the Covid scenario in the district is at its peak. We believe only 15 of the 30 cinema halls will survive the pandemic,” he said. “How will we bear the expenses of minimum guarantee sought by film distributors if halls get sealed in the name of violation of Covid norms? The minimum guarantee comes to around Rs 5 lakh for any new movie,” Singh noted. He said single-screen cinemas could not be equated with multiplexes which were the new-found choice of people, adding that the government should come up with a separate policy for promotion of single-screen cinema halls. “Otherwise, all cinema halls will eventually close down,” Singh said. Echoing similar sentiments, Nitesh Sahabadi, owner of Ray Talkies, one of the oldest cinema halls of Dhanbad, said only those who had witnessed the heydays of single-screen cinemas in the 70s,80s and part of the 90s would realise how bad the situation was now. “Any closure of the cinema halls will also affect the fate of our staff and others associated with eateries and stall owners situated in the periphery of  cinema halls,” said Shahbadi, adding that there were talks of slashing GST rates when the lockdown was announced. Gopal Agarwal, owner of Deshbandhu Cinema, said they were apprehensive about increased operational expenses with regard to sanitisation, etc. “Without some concessions, we will not be able to meet the expenses," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-295
19-09-2020||Jharkhand||Covid casualties cross the 600 mark in Jharkhand||Jharkhand's Covid-19 fatalities crossed the 600 mark on Friday with six casualties reported in the past 24 hours. The State's death-count now stands at 602 while the total case load peaked to 68, 578 after 1478 new cases were recorded, state health department's bulletin issued on Friday night has stated. Of the total cases, 13697 are active and 52,807 have been recovered. Ranchi and East Singhbhum continued to report maximum spikes with 494 and 374 cases respectively in the past 24 hours. In terms of casualties, East Singhbhum continued to top among all the 24 districts with a total of nine casualties in 48 hours--six on Thursday and three on Friday. However, Ranchi saw three deaths on Thursday but managed to keep its slate clean on Friday. Ranchi district administration officials said that the spikes in their district has been because of the special drives for covid testing. An official of district covid taskforce said, "We have been focussing on routine drives to screen as many people as we can, hence, figures of infected people is on rise. For example, during a special testing drive between Sep 16-18, we took samples of 9143 people of which 311 tested positive. Drives will contine further." On the other hand, the state's seven days growth rate and seven days doubling rate, still higher than the national average, improved in comparison to the national level with 2.16 percent and 32 days respectively vis-a-vis 1.89 percent and 37 days nationally. With 0.89 percent, state's mortality rate however remains far lower than the national average of 1.60 percent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-295
19-09-2020||Jharkhand||Many protesters injured after clash with police at Morabadi||At least a dozen people were injured in a clash between police and those who had been hired on contract three years ago to help them at Morabadi ground on Friday after an agitation for regularisation of jobs went out of hand. Over 2,000 assistant police personnel, including women, who had come to Ranchi from all parts of the state, have been camping at Morabadi ground for a week to demand proper pay and a permanent job as they had apparently been promised by the former BJP government of Raghubar Das when they were hired on contract in 2017. Despite spending the last few days in the open, braving the hot sun, many of them complained about being ignored by the Hemant government even though leaders of the Opposition parties lent them support. On Friday afternoon, the group had planned a march to Raj Bhavan and the chief minister’s residence. But the protesters were stopped by police around 2pm. Angry protestors, many of whom were with their toddlers, tried to demolish police barricades prompting security personnel to first  lathi-charge them and then fire teargas shells. This escalated into a clash with the protestors then resorting to stone pelting, leading to injuries on both sides. Tension prevailed for about two hours before Ranchi’s senior SP S.K. Jha, SDO Sameera S, among others, reached Morabadi to control the situation. Notably, the state government has banned any gathering or protests in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. SDO Sameera said that situation was brought under control by the evening. “Police was forced to resort to mild lathi-charge to control the crowd that had started moving towards Raj Bhavan and the chief minister’s house. Soon, all of them turned back,” she said. Chief minister Hemant Soren told reporters at Project Building later that his government was open to holding talks to understand the problems of the assistant policemen. But he clarified that the state government would not tolerate lawlessness. “They are free to represent their concerns in a delegation in a peaceful manner. The government will be sympathetic to their cause and will do whatever possible under the law. However, if anyone tries to break the law, then the administration will have to act tough,” he said. Opposition BJP, however, dubbed the police lathi-charge as barbaric. “The incident has exposed the Hemant Soren government’s concerns towards those fighting for jobs, employment. The alliance government had promised one lakh jobs each year. But after coming to power, it has forgotten their poll promise. The assistant police personnel had given their blood and sweat for the state government and all they are getting now are lathis,” said BJP spokesperson Pratul Shahdeo. Notably, assistant police personnel were hired on contract basis in 2017 on monthly honorarium of Rs 10,000 by the former BJP government headed by Raghubar Das. They were then assured permanent reinstatement gradually. However, after their contract period ended in August this year, their contracts have not yet been renewed by the JMM-Congress-RJD government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-295
19-09-2020||Jharkhand||Illegal lubricant factory in Dhanbad busted||A joint team of Dhanbad’s district administration and police busted a nexus operating an illegal lubricant factory in Barmasia area. Four persons were arrested including two operators of the factory. The team seized more than 400 litres of locally made lubricants besides wrappers and stickers of branded lubricant manufacturers like Gulf Oil, HP and Max. Dhanbad, Sub Divisional Officer, Surendra Prasad, said, "We received information about the nexus operating in Barmasia area through one official of Gulf Oil Lubricant Ltd”. “We are in the process of identifying those involved in the illegal business and if during the investigation it comes to light that some of the shop keepers used to regularly purchase the adulterated lubricant from  the factory then we will take against those shop keepers also”, said Prasad. Forest personnel of Palamau tiger sanctuary recovered eighty pieces of high commercial value timber of the sal and bija tree abandoned near Khajuri More under Bhandarya police station on Thursday night. Deputy director of North division of the tiger reserve Kumar Ashish said two police officials were involved in the smuggling. Madgari police picket official P. Singh was involved in the felling of the tress and Bhandarya police station’s officer in charge K. Kumar helped the timber loaded pick-up van to pass through his jurisdiction. Ashish said the DIG and IG of police would be informed about the illegal activities of the two police officers. Six children sustained minor burn injuries from lightning in Peto village around 42kms away from Hazaribagh. The children were playing cricket and had to take shelter under a tree when it started raining. Soon after, lightning struck and they fell unconscious. One of them remained unscathed and immediately ran towards the village calling elders who rushed all to Hazaribagh medical college and hospital. Hazaribagh sadar BJP MLA, Manish Jaiswal ensured all of them were provided treatment. Doctors said the children were out of danger. Petrol pump owners have been directed not to give petrol to customers without masks. The policy will be applied to bikers without helmets too. Subdivisional officer Manish Kumar on Friday chaired a meeting with petrol pump owners, asking them to spread awareness on the importance of wearing masks. The owners were instructed to hand out masks to heavy vehicle drivers if they didn’t wear one. A total of 107 Covid patients were discharged on Friday from different treatment and isolation centers  of Dhanbad including 35 from CMRI Health Centre; 18 each from BCCL hospital at Bhuli and Nirsa Polytechnic; 10 from Sadar Hospital; 14 from Zonal Training Institute of Railway in Bhuli, 10 from Sadar Hospital of Dhanbad, seven from BCCL Central Hospital and five from Wedlock greens. Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner, Uma Shankar Singh said that the discharged patients have been provided health kits and asked to remain in home quarantine for 14 days. He said that 199 persons were discharged during the last two days. 92 were discharged from different Covid treatment facilities of which 55 were discharged from Nirsa Polytechnic; 19 from Sadar Hospital; seven from Wedlock greens; six from PMCH Cath lab; two from BCCL Hospital in Bhuli etc. At present there are only 402 active cases in the district. Dhanbad District Transport Officer Om Prakash Yadav on Friday transferred Rs 25,000 each to the bank accounts of the dependents of three persons who died earlier in three seperate hit and run cases. Chandani Chaubey received compensation in lieu of her husband who died in an accident on NH-2 in Rajganj, Bhagirath Dhivar, husband of Kanchana Dhivar, who died in accident in Sindri and Dilip Ruj whose father Anil Chandra Ruj was also killed in an accident in Govindpur. Voting will be held in 468 polling booths in which polling agents of above 55 years of age will not be deployed while voters who have tested positive can vote through postal ballot. Bokaro DC, Rajesh Kumar Singh held meetings with senior officials and a total of 18 cells including Covid-19 cell and Coordinating Cell have been formed for the election. The administration will appeal to all 3,11,107 eligible electors to exercise their franchise but also ensure that Covid-19 protocols be followed. Sanitization of EVM-VVPAT machines will be ensured. District Social Welfare Officer Manisha Vats has been directed to arrange wheelchairs and vehicles on polling day for physically challenged voters. The Bokaro district industry department has geared up for the revival of sick units in the region known for being one of the investor-friendly hubs of the state. General Manager, District Industries Center, Dipak Kumar Sharma on Friday requested all the industrial associations to provide the list of closed industries. “Every effort is being made by the state government to revive the sick and closed units for the industrial development of the state. We are in process of assessing how many small and medium industries are sick or get closed in this region,” Sharma. He added that they have sought information about the sick industries from Chamber of Commerce and Industries, Jharkhand Tiny Service and Business Enterprises Association, Bokaro Industries Association and others. Sampling of as many as 8400 people has been done through Rapid Antigen Tests. This was the third such mega camp organised by the district administration. The test results will be declared on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-295
19-09-2020||Jharkhand||Couple die in honey bee attack||A couple in their fifties died and a middle-aged woman was critically injured after being attacked by a swarm of honey bees in a forest in Dandai block of Garhwa district in Jharkhand on Thursday evening. Panchayat samiti member Sandeep Gupta said daily-wage earner Nandu Paswan, 57, and his wife Meena Devi, 54, both residents of Jarhi Damar Tola village in Dandai block, had gone to collect firewood for cooking from the nearby Mahudand forest around 3pm. “The couple had gone along with several other villagers to collect firewood. After nearly two hours the villagers sat down under trees to take a break and were eating when they were attacked by a swarm of bees. While the remaining villagers scampered to safety, the two could not escape. “Meena Devi died in the forest itself and was declared brought dead at the Sadar Hospital while Nandu died later in the evening at the hospital. A relative of the couple, Urmila Devi, 35, who was also caught in the bee attack is in a critical condition at the Sadar Hospital,” said Gupta. According to locals, most of those who had gone to collect firewood escaped and informed other villagers after returning from the forest. The villagers then rushed to the spot along with a local medical practitioner to find Meena dead and Nandu senseless. The other woman had somehow managed to flee and collapsed at a distance from the village. The village is around 250km northwest of state capital Ranchi. Jitendra Paswan, 26, the only son of the deceased couple accused the central government for not transferring the domestic gas (LPG) subsidy amount in their bank account as the reason for the death of his parents. “We have a gas connection in the name of my mother under Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana but for the last four months we are not able to refill cylinders as the subsidy amount was not being transferred. We are jobless in the lockdown and my parents had no option but to go to the forest to collect firewood and meet a tragic death,” alleged Jitendra. Garhwa deputy commissioner Rajesh Kumar Pathak said they did not have knowledge about any provision for compensation in case of death due to honey bee attack. “However, if the son gives in writing about the LPG subsidy not being transferred to their bank account lead to their pitiable condition, then we can arrange for some financial aid on humanitarian grounds,” said Pathak. The bodies of the couple were sent by Dandai police for post-mortem on Friday morning before being handed over to the relatives for their last rites.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-295
19-09-2020||Jharkhand||Probe into trauma of disabled undertrial||The state disability commissioner on Wednesday asked the Jharkhand inspector-general of prisons to investigate and submit a report on the alleged mental trauma undergone by a physically challenged undertrial at the district jail in Garhwa. “A social organisation, Jharkhand Viklang Manch, had informed me about the mental trauma suffered by an undertrial in Garhwa district jail in April after the jail authorities allegedly took away the crutches of the victim in the jail. “It is a blatant violation of provisions mandated in the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016, ensuring barrier-free accessibility in government buildings. I have asked the inspector-general of prisons to conduct a probe into the allegation and inform me after undertaking suitable action,” said disability commissioner Satish Chandra. Arun Kumar, president of the Manch, an organisation working for persons with disabilities in the state, had written to Chandra on September 14 informing about the alleged mental trauma suffered by the undertrial. “I came to know from local media reports about orthopedically challenged Koril Kumar, a resident of Palamau, who was lodged in Garhwa jail on April 11 for allegedly circulating communally sensitive messages on social media, was facing mental harassment as his crutches were taken away by the jail authorities,” said the Manch president. “We recently got in touch with Koril, who was released on May 1, and were informed that he is 60 per cent disabled in both legs and had faced severe hardship in doing his daily chores inside the jail for want of crutches. We decided to take up the case and wrote a letter to the chief minister (Hemant Soren) with a copy to the disability commissioner and state director-general of police (M.V. Rao),” the Manch president added. Meanwhile, inspector-general of prisons Birendra Bhusan confirmed receiving the letter from the disability commissioner. “We have received the letter from the state disability commissioner and have already asked Garhwa deputy commissioner (Rajesh Kumar Pathak) to submit a report after a thorough probe into the incident as it is a violation of the provisions mandated for disabled,” said Bhusan. The disability commissioner admitted that they do not possess any statistics on the facilities available for disabled in the the state’s prisons. “At the moment we do not possess data about the facilities provided in different prisons for the disabled undertrials and prisoners. I would soon be writing to the inspector-general of prisons to compile a data about the number of disabled undertrials and prisoners in different jails and the facilities existing in prisons for them,” said Chandra. Jharkhand has seven central jails, 16 district jails, six subdivisional jails, one open jail and a Covid jail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-295
