20-09-2020||Calcutta||Nothing to do with AI slot: Heathrow authorities||Heathrow Airport had “nothing to do” with Air India’s direct evacuation flight from Calcutta to London not getting a slot there, the UK airport authorities have said in email to The Telegraph. Metro had written to Heathrow Airport asking why the slot for AI1149 Calcutta-Heathrow on Thursday (September 17) had been cancelled. The flight had to go via Delhi, and passengers were delayed by six-and-a- half hours and had to remain on the plane for three hours at Delhi airport. “I’ve double checked this with my operational colleagues and this issue had nothing to do with Heathrow,” Delia Williams-Falokun, senior press officer of Heathrow Airport, wrote in response. Asked on Saturday by The Telegraph, an Air India official shifted the blame on the Civil Aviation Authority (CAA), the UK equivalent of India’s directorate general of civil aviation or DGCA. To get a slot at the London airport an airline has to seek permission from Heathrow Airport and the CAA, he said. “Heathrow had given the slot but there was some confusion over getting permission from the CAA. At the last moment, Heathrow pointed out that the necessary clearance from CAA was not available and so they had rejected the slot, earlier given,” the Air India official said. “If Heathrow would have pointed out that the CAA permission had not come, then there could be persuasion from our side.” Officials of several airlines, however, told Metro that getting clearances from the airport and the civil aviation regulatory body was the airline’s responsibility. “We first get the slots at Calcutta airport for a particular flight and the permission from the DGCA before opening the bookings,” an official of an international airline that operates out of Calcutta said. An official of another airline said getting a slot confirmed by the airport and the regulatory authorities was the basic criteria. Every airline has a dedicated team for that. “In the pre-Covid times, slots and permissions were taken months ahead. Now, there are permissions taken at shorter notice and so, the team has to work that extra hard to coordinate with the depart-ments concerned,” the official said. Air India had announced twice-a-week evacuation flights under the Vande Bharat programme till October 24. But the first flight could not go directly to Heathrow and instead had to make a three-hour stopover at Delhi. The flight was delayed by four hours in Calcutta before that. The Air India spokesperson had then said: “Last minute non-availability of slots at Heathrow Airport was communicated to us late on September 16 evening. This was something beyond our control as we had been assured of a slot till the sudden communication of its non-availability by the Heathrow authorities.” On Sunday, the flight will go via Mumbai where the stopover time is less than an hour. “We have already said that Air India could not fly direct to London from Calcutta because of last-moment slot constraints and non-availability of all the permissions. It is hoped that direct flights will operate soon with the green lights from the authorities,” the Air India spokesperson said on Saturday. Till the permission is received, the flight will continue to go via Mumbai, the spokesperson said. “Had Air India told passengers in advance about the fact that all permissions had not been taken, passengers would have had the choice of book-ing other flights with convenient timings,” Anil Punjabi, chairman, east, Travel Agents’ Federation of India, said. “Clear communication was lacking on behalf of the airline.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-299
20-09-2020||Calcutta||Heavy rain forecast ||The city is tipped to get heavy rain between Sunday and Monday under the influence of a low-pressure system over Northeastern Bay of Bengal, the Met office has said. The first half of Sunday is likely to be hot and humid. The sky is set to change colours from the second half. The rain is expected to be accompanied by gusts of wind clocking 30kmph and above as the system crosses over or is close to Calcutta, said a Met official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-299
20-09-2020||Calcutta||Majerhat cable work starts||The work of laying cables for the Majerhat bridge began on Saturday, setting the final stage for the key link in south Calcutta to be thrown open. Eighty-four cables brought from Switzerland will hold the 260m deck slab of the bridge that is coming up at the site where a portion of the previous bridge had collapsed on September 4, 2018. This will be the third cable-stayed flyover after Vidyasagar Setu and Nivedita Setu. If things go according to plan, the new bridge will be ready for use by year end, according to engineers working at the site. Before that there will be a series of complex calculations to understand how the cables are functioning and if there is any major deviation from the expected load-bearing capacity of each cable, a PWD engineer said. The first stage of the cable-laying exercise will involve connecting each to the pylon and the deck slab below and then exerting stress from the top using a stress-imparting machine, the PWD engineer said. The load bearing capacity of the deck slab will be carefully scrutinised under various conditions and the results will be compiled and sent to IIT Bombay and the railways. The response is expected to reach the state government by mid-October. Apart from engineers of the PWD and the Haryana-based firm contracted to build the bridge, a team of Swiss engineers from the company that has provided the cables have reached Calcutta to oversee the installation work. “Beneath each cable sheath will be a cluster of 19 to 43 strands. Only 40 per cent of the total load-bearing capacity of each of the cables will be utilised here,” another PWD engineer said. The PWD is overseeing the execution of the project. “So, bearing vehicular load will never be a challenge even in future,” the engineer said. A cable-stayed bridge had emerged as the best possible solution among all designs proposed for the new Majerhat bridge, a portion of which will be over the rail tracks. The bridge is adjacent to the ongoing Joka-BBD Bag Metro project. After the design was cleared at all levels, the state government had sanctioned an additional Rs 21 crore, taking the total project cost to Rs 200 crore. “We will use the most advanced technology to study the health of each of the cables and each of the strands under a sheath,” the PWD engineer said. “There will be a health monitoring system where one can receive updates regarding the slightest variation in the cable’s load-bearing capacity through mail and text messages.” While the installation of the cables is on, four service roads adjoining the new bridge will be readied by November so that by the bridge can be commissioned by the year end, the engineer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-299
20-09-2020||Calcutta||Dissent to find voice again on Wednesday||The arrest of Umar Khalid. The NIA summons to scientist Partha Sarathi Ray. Pushing a farm bill “inimical” to farmers’ interests. The coronavirus had put the brakes on the massive protests in the city against the new citizenship regime. A series of “anti-people decisions” by the Centre “in the backdrop of the pandemic” has triggered a call to revive the movement against the Centre. A string of organisations, which were at the forefront of the rallies against the Citizenship Amendment Act, the National Population Register and the National Register of Citizens, will have members assembling at the Phoolbagan crossing at 4pm on September 23. The key demands that will be raised at the “Assembly against RSS/BJP” are: ⚫Withdrawal of NRC-NPR-CAA ⚫Immediate and unconditional release of political prisoners ⚫Steps to curb rising unemployment “Under the garb of the pandemic, the government is taking one anti-people decision after another; and in the process, trying to throttle the mass movement against the citizenship thrust,” a statement issued by the organisers said. Representatives of various student organisations and citizens’ forums held a meeting on College Street on September 13 to discuss how to revive the mass movement against the Centre. “Over the past few months, the Centre has used the pandemic to stifle dissent. The perpetrators of Delhi riots are free. People fighting for the Constitution are being jailed,” Soumya Sahin, a political activist who is among the organisers of Wednesday’s assembly, said. Sahin, an assistant professor at the National University of Juridical Sciences, cited how poor students missed the JEE Mains and NEET exams because they were caught in the middle of the pandemic. “This is the politics of exclusion. The same exclusionary tactic is fuelling the citizenship thrust. We have reached a stage where hitting the streets is the only option.” Biplab Bhattacharya of “No NRC” movement said the state exchequer had been “sustaining itself by selling PSUs”. “Unemployment is at its peak. Farmers are protesting against the new bills. And the government is busy with Ram Mandir and vote-bank politics. We have to fight this government with full strength… it can’t be done sitting at home.” Prasenjit Bose, a convener of the Joint Forum Against NRC, said the Centre had made it clear in the past few months that it would use the pandemic to crack down on the Opposition. September 23 will be the “first step” towards a renewed people’s movement, he said. “The protests will be scaled up in the coming days,” Bose of the Joint Forum Against NRC said. Last winter was marked by protests against the NRC-NPR-CAA across the city. The rallies were not marked by political flags but Tricolours and passionate slogans. People from all faiths and various walks of life had joined in the protests “to save the values embedded in the Constitution”. At the forefront of the protests were women, many of them in burqas and hijabs. If Park Circus Maidan — witness to a marathon women-led vigil against the citizenship thrust — was Calcutta’s Shaheen Bagh, mini demonstrations had been held on Zakaria Street, in Kidderpore, Rajabazar and many other places. “It is a moment of extreme empowerment and liberation… especially for young Muslim women and I think it’s just beautiful,” author Arundhati Roy had told a Calcutta audience in January. The protests stopped when the pandemic struck.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-299
20-09-2020||Calcutta||CU to follow UGC exam time directive||Calcutta University on Saturday decided to give two-three hours to final-year undergraduate and postgraduate examinees to answer questions and another 30 minutes to upload the answers, as directed by the University Grants Commission (UGC). The university had earlier said that students would get 24 hours to upload answers. The university syndicate, which is its highest policy-making body, on Saturday decided to change the earlier decision of giving 24 hours to students to upload answers. The UGC had recently said in a letter to the university that it was free to hold end semester/final-year open-book exams but the exams would have to be “timed for two or three hours”. If an institution allowed more time, the evaluation will not be categorised as an exam, the UGC had told the university. The Calcutta University syndicate decided that the final-year undergraduate and postgraduate examinations will be held in accordance with all instructions issued by the UGC. “The final year BA and BSc exams and the BCom end-semester exams will be held following the exact instructions of the UGC. The university will go through the UGC instructions indetail before conducting the examinations,” a member of the syndicate told this newspaper after the meeting on Saturday. According to the UGC instructions, exams can be of two-hour duration for some subjects and three-hour for some, a university official said. Half an hour extra can be given to students to upload the answers in addition to the two or three hours allottedfor answering questions, the official said. The UGC has given some “clear” instructions on what the university shall do if an exam is held for two hours or three hours. The pro-vice chancellorof academic affairs has calleda meeting with principals of its colleges on Monday to discuss how to conduct the exams smoothly while following the UGC instructions. The meeting will be held in two phases on the university’s Rajabazar science college campus, a university official said. The postgraduate departments have been asked tohold meetings with subject teachers and to go through the UGC instructions forconducting the exams. The undergraduate and postgraduate exams will start on October 1 and continuetill October 8. The results will be declared within October 30. The UGC letter had reached Calcutta University on September 16, two weeks after the university had announced that it would conduct open-book exams for final-year students and give them 24 hours to upload answers. The faculty council for undergraduate and postgraduate studies met on Friday and resolved “to abide by the UGC directive”. Calcutta University on Saturday extended the last date of completing the admission of students to its undergraduate colleges from September 25 to October 30. The university took the decision after many colleges said a large number of seats had been lying vacant in various subjects for want of takers. Repeated calls to university vice-chancellor Sonali Chakravarti Banerjee went unanswered. Sukumar Mukherjee, veteran doctor (centre) and Satyam Roychowdhury, the managing director of Techno India Group (right), at the opening of Techno Global Hospital (Salt Lake). The Subodh Mitra Cancer Hospital and Research Centre has been acquired by the Techno India Group and is being “restructured into a multispecialty centre of medical excellence”, an official of the group said. The medical team is being mentored by Mukherjee. The first phase of the institute — a 40-bedded hospital with “urgent care” facilities — opened its doors on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-299
20-09-2020||Calcutta||Lordship in the corner  ||Of the Devi’s squad — the five members of the Durga Family who visit Bengal in autumn — I have always had a soft corner for Kartik. Priests, politicians, Puja organisers, dhaakis et al. fawn over the goddess; matronly women devotees cast longing looks at the portly Ganesh; the forever struggling Bengali businessman prostrates himself in front of Lakshmi; children pray fervently at Saraswati’s feet. But not much fuss is made about Kartik; he stands forlorn, perched on his peacock, in the far-right corner of the pandals. Kartik’s lack of admirers may have something to do with his distinctly non-martial legacy in this part of the world. On reaching Bengal, the fierce Murugan, the stud of southern India, gets transformed into the indolent dandy that was the Bengali babu of the late 19th century. The bhadralok’s condescension for Kartik could also be attributed to the deity’s popularity in the abhadra sphere. Even today, Calcutta’s Kartik Pujas, a handful, remain relegated to the red-light precincts of Durga Charan Mitra Street, Abinash Kabiraj Street, Masjidbari Street and so on. But the god of war seems to have found his redemption about 45 kilometres away from the city — in Bansberia in Hooghly. Calcutta has Durga; Chandannagore adores Jagaddhatri; Bansberia, on the other hand, deifies Kartik. “Approximately 350 Kartik Pujas took place in the month of Kartik,” informed Rana, one of the young members of Milan Pally. The club celebrated its 61st Kartik Puja last year. A local journalist — Hooghly has been his “beat” for years — is convinced that sponsorship and political patronage have played a role in the rise in the number of such pujas as well as public interest in these festivities in recent times. Rupchand Pal, a former parliamentarian and an erudite resident, offered two different strands of thought to explain Bansberia’s veneration of Kartik. The mix of history and myth is evident in both lines of reasoning. “Bansberia is believed to be one of the seven villages that constituted Saptagram, the flourishing port-town in early medieval Bengal. One constituency that patronised Saptagram is thought to be of sailors from Tamil Nadu who were traditional worshippers of Kartik. Another contention is that the tradition in Bansberia, which coincides with the onset of the Raas festival, may have begun under the influence of the festivities in Katwa in neighbouring Burdwan.” A singular aspect of the Kartik festival in Katwa is a ritual known as “Kartik-er lorai”, in which participants play-act the notion of conflict in recognition of the martial roots of the god. Bansberia, unlike Calcutta, is respectful of Kartik’s diverse roops (forms). “Several kinds of Kartik are worshipped here,” Pal pointed out patiently. There is, according to one quip, “General Kartik” — this idol has two sentries on either side. “We also have the Babu Kartik, representing the Bengali landed elite,” Pal added. Apparently, some of the idols portray aesthetic elements that are integral to Kannada sculpture, highlighting another underexplored connection with the land south of the Vindhyas. Recently, Bansberia had surprised even the veteran watcher Pal with a Kartik who sported denims and held a gun. Conversations and interviews with respondents show that much of the history of Bansberia’s Kartik Puja is an amalgamation of urban lore. Ironically, this underscores the paucity of research in some of the Little Traditions that are prevalent in provincial West Bengal. Hearteningly, there are textual sources that are waiting to be mined. “The writings of Munindra Deb Roy, a pioneering figure in the library movement within and outside India, could shed some interesting light since he lived in Bansberia and wrote extensively on such matters,” stated Pal. Of late, gods and goddesses have been falling like nine-pins before the majoritarian wave in India. Maryada Purushottam has already been taken. Could Kartik go the same way, given that Hooghly had chosen the lotus in the last parliamentary polls? Pal disagreed. “Bansberia’s socio-economic texture is an important factor here. It has had a strong working class lineage, given its history as a centre of trade, from jute mills to indigo plantations earlier. It is this communitarian link that acts as a shield against the majoritarian surge in recent times.” Little wonder then that Kartik has, since time immemorial, been perceived as a symbol of unity, serving as a bridge connecting Shaivism, Buddhism and Dravidian theology. He still stands as a sentinel of harmony in a polarised country. Bansberia can vouch for that.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-299
20-09-2020||Calcutta||Basti ki Pathshala||Surojit Sinha lives in Balidweep in Bengal’s South 24-Parganas. His father works in bheris, or fishponds, and fisheries. Some days Surojit fills in for him. But in the long run he wants to become an engineer, wants to “fit” his village with a certain kind of electric line, the kind that will survive super cyclones. He also wants to make mobile phone batteries that won’t discharge too fast. Surojit, a student of Class IX, travels 10 kilometres daily to school and back. But since the pandemic outbreak, school has been shut. Aisha Khatun’s situation is somewhat different from Surojit’s. She is 13, lives in a slum in south Calcutta and attends school. She is in Class VI. She has a constant fear that her father, a rickshaw puller, and mother, a domestic help, will not be able to afford it for long, and will sooner than later marry her off. Even before Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the nationwide lockdown beginning March 25, schools across India had shut down. A couple of weeks down the line some started online classes, but not everyone has access to those. Surojit attends a government school 110 kilometres from Calcutta; Aisha too goes to a government school. No MP or legislator thought to make an alternative arrangement for them. And then, enter Prithibir Pathshala. Prithibir Pathshala roughly translates to school of the world. It is an initiative by a group of past and present students across universities in Calcutta — Calcutta University, Jadavpur University, Presidency University, Indian Statistical Institute and so on and so forth. Some members of Prithibir Pathshala had participated in relief operations under the banner “Students of Bengal” during the 2015 Nepal earthquake, the Kerala floods of 2018 and the Delhi riots earlier this year. Post the corona-induced lockdown, the group reinvented itself as Quarantined Student Youth Network or QSYN and started reaching out to people in need. Immediately after super cyclone Amphan struck in May, the volunteers travelled to interior Bengal and that is when it stared them in the face — the education gap. Debojit Thakur, who is an alumnus of Presidency, says, “We witnessed first-hand how an entire generation of underprivileged children was affected.” Debojit, who is currently a PhD student of Germany’s Karl Marx University of Trier, has been in town the last two months. Recalls Bandana Mondal, a former student of Presidency, “We were distributing rations in Kulpi, South 24-Parganas, when an old lady came up to us and said — ‘What is the point of one-time help? If possible educate our children.’” That was July. Since then, more than 103 volunteers have been teaching 810 children, aged 10 to 16, across 21 such pathshalas in Calcutta, North and South 24-Parganas, Bankura, Malda and Howrah. “It wasn’t very difficult to reach out to people because in most of these areas we were involved in some kind of initiative through ration distribution, people’s kitchens or medical camps,” says Debojit. It seems locals came forward to help, each in their own way. In Dum Dum, the authorities of a local club offered to turn one of its rooms into a classroom. In Uluberia, the headmaster of a primary school let them use a room in the school building. In other places, such as Baghajatin, where there was no infrastructure, volunteers bought tin and bamboo and built pathshalas. The student composition varies — children of migrant workers, daily wagers, slum-dwellers, tea-estate workers in Alipurduar, those from the tribal community in Bankura and in the North and South 24-Parganas. The majority of them have a fleeting childhood; it would be no exaggeration to say that many enter India’s invisible workforce before they have lost their milk teeth. Their parents do not have the wherewithal to fund their education. Once in a while, short-term drawing or dance classes are organised by some NGOs. Armaan’s home is one of the sidewalks of north Calcutta’s College Street area. He went to the local corporation school for some years. He had to stop when his parents couldn’t afford the fees anymore. Armaan, who loves maths, would thereafter practise sums from his old school textbooks ad nauseum. Armaan has started attending the College Street pathshala which has children from Kalabagan basti and other neighbouring slums. Koushani Mukhopadhyay, a second-year student of the performing arts department of Presidency who teaches there, recalls one class where the students spoke of how their books were washed away by the super cyclone. She says, “Even the memory had Armaan in tears.” Bandana teaches in the Patuli and Baghajatin pathshalas. In Patuli, most of the children come from the slum near the railway tracks. Aiswarya Dev Goswami teaches in Patrasayer, Bankura, a jungle area dotted with tribal villages. The students speak Santhali. The nearest primary school is two kilometres away and the high school, five kilometres away. During sowing season even the children work on the fields. Says Aiswarya, “Some days we have only two students and some days there are 20. Even before Covid-19, many have lost their parents as there is no access to basic healthcare. Children are not motivated much to study but they are trying.” Shrabani Hembrom, a Class VII student at the Patrasayer pathshala wants to become a nurse when she grows up. Bandana says, “We have no idea how they study, what they have been through, what conversations they hear, what the role of their parents is.” Reeaz Hasan Mollah, an engineering student at Jadavpur University, teaches in Howrah’s Chengail and Panchla pathshalas, where most of the students are children of zari karigars and jute mill workers. He says, “One day, while teaching them life sciences and the requisite calorie intake for humans, I watched them make the connection with their own lives. There I was telling them that a healthy diet should have this, that and the other, and one by one they started to ask me if that meant their own meals were deficient.” Koushani, who travels from Barrackpore to College Street to teach, recalls the day of the solar eclipse. She says, “As we spoke to them about the science behind it, they told us about their idea of the day picked up from their immediate environment — ‘not auspicious’, ‘a day of no cooking’, and ‘kirtans’.” A recurring fear among the girls seems to be that they will be married off and not be allowed to complete their education. Says 21-year-old Reeaz, “They convince their parents and fight for education. Education for them is a privilege.” A resident of Howrah, Zulekha, loves life sciences and literature. She has seen some older girls from her neighbourhood become teachers and she too wants to become one. Another student, Rimpa, is not very good at the lessons but she tells Reeaz, who is from the same neighbourhood, “Bhaiyya, like you, I will also go to Calcutta to study.” But what is Prithibir Pathshala? Are the classes daily affairs or something for weekends only? Does this aspire to dovetail into one school board or the other? Or is this some kind of a stop-gap charity work? Is this going to last beyond Covid-19? What about funding? The questions abound. And from the sound of it, the answers are still evolving. “This is a long-term initiative,” says Saikat Sit, a volunteer and a student of civil engineering at Jadavpur University. Prithibir Pathshala and its network is not affiliated to any board. Classes are held daily and organised according to age groups. Lesson plans are drawn keeping in mind the state board’s prescriptions and the overarching goal of social empowerment. Says Debojit, “Keeping in mind that many of these children are starting from scratch, the groups for foundational classes are often age agnostic.” He makes clear that their objective is not to become an alternative to tuitions or regular schools. Koushani says, “We also teach them things outside a rigid syllabus structure. We talk to them about nature, climate, current affairs, things we see or observe in our day-to-day lives.” She adds how some parents request their child be taught the English language. Aiswarya, a student of electrical engineering, who has earlier taught children in the Sunderbans, says, “Textbooks scare them. The sounds of subjects scare them. But when I talk to them about the handpumps they are so familiar with and explain pressure and lever, they understand easily and are delighted.” Apart from books and blackboards, these young teachers use audio-visual aids to address some of these wonderments. While history is taught through films and plays, science is explained through experiments. Weekends are for special classes in drawing, music, dancing. “We want to be the happiness providers,” says Saikat. The increasing number of pathshalas has to do with disparate locales being catered to; a central pathshala would mean organising transportation and even then there would be impossible logistics. Funds come in through crowdsourcing. Aniket Das of Alipurduar does not miss a single class. His father sells lottery tickets and mother sews clothes for a living. Puja Maiti’s father works in a hosiery factory in Tamil Nadu. Her mother is a fisherwoman. The Class IV girl wants to join the police service. Samir Kishku is the son of a honey collector from Patrasayer in Bankura. His village got an electricity connection a few years ago. He wants to become a footballer like Messi. Lakshmi Murmu’s father is a farmer. She wants to study the Ol Chiki script and do something for her own community, the Santhals. Mahfuz’s father is a zari karigar. He is excellent at maths and wants to be an engineer. Saikat says, “People say a doctor’s son will become a doctor, a lawyer’s son will become a lawyer, and they say the same for children of labourers and rickshaw-walas. We want to break this.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-299
20-09-2020||Business||CAMS raises Rs 666 crore ||Warburg Pincus-backed CAMS has raised a little over Rs 666 crore from anchor investors ahead of its initial share sale that opens for public subscription on Monday. The company has finalised the allocation of 54,19,230 shares at Rs 1,230 apiece to 35 anchor investors, CAMS, which acts as a registrar and transfer agent (RTA) for mutual funds, said in a filing to stock exchanges. At this price, the company garnered Rs 666.56 crore. Of the 35 anchor investors, 17 foreign portfolio investors, 13 mutual fund through 30 schemes, three insurance companies and two alternative investment funds subscribed to the shares. Some of the anchor investors are SmallCap World Fund, HSBC, Abu Dhabi Investment Authority, Caisse de Depot et Placement First State Investments, Eastspring Investments, Fidelity Investment Trust, Goldman Sachs, Government of Singapore and Nomura Funds Ireland Public Ltd. The offer will see the sale of 1,82,46,600 equity shares or a 37.4 per cent stake by NSE Investments, a subsidiary of National Stock Exchange (NSE). The entire quantum of shares being sold to investors is NSE’s holding and there will not be any new issue of shares which may see money coming into the company. The issue will open on September 21 and close on September 23. The price band has been set at Rs 1,229-1,230 per share and the company will raise Rs 2,242 crore at the upper end of the band. Computer Age Management Services (CAMS) is a technology-driven financial infrastructure and services provider to mutual funds and other financial institutions. Based in Chennai, CAMS is co-owned by NSE Investments, Warburg Pincus, Faering Capital ACSYS Investments and HDFC Group. The company claims to be India’s largest registrar and transfer agent of mutual funds with a market share of nearly 70 per cent, based on mutual fund average assets under management (AAUM) as of November 2019. The issue is being managed by Kotak Mahindra Capital Co Ltd, HDFC Bank Ltd, ICICI Securities Ltd and Nomura Financial Advisory and Securities (India) Pvt Ltd.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-285
20-09-2020||Business||Penalties in Companies Act cut||Lok Sabha on Saturday passed a bill to further amend the Companies Act and decriminalise various compoundable offences as well as promote ease of doing business in the country. The Companies (Amendment) Bill, 2020 seeks to decriminalise certain penal provisions, permit direct overseas listing of Indian corporate houses and introduce a new chapter related to producer organisations in the legislation. Reduction in penalties for certain offences as well as in timeline for rights issues, relaxation in CSR compliance requirements and creation of separate benches at the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal are also among the proposed changes. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said decriminalisation of various provisions will also help small companies by reducing the litigation burden on them. Around 48 sections of the Companies Act, 2013 will be amended. Sitharaman said there are around 124 penal provisions compared with 134 in 2013 under the Companies Act. The minister said the number of “non-compoundable” offences under the Act remains the same at 35. Generally, compoundable offences are those which can be settled by paying certain amount of money.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-285
20-09-2020||Business||Blackstone sells Essel Propack stake||American buyout major Blackstone on Friday sold a 23 per cent stake in Essel Propack, one of the largest manufacturers of laminated tubes used by FMCG and pharma companies, for a little over Rs 1,860 crore through open market transactions. The shares were picked up by Axis Mutual Fund, Franklin Templeton Mutual Fund and DSP Mutual Fund, Morgan Stanley, Neuberger Berman and Nomura. According to BSE data, Blackstone, through its entity Epsilon Bidco PTE Ltd, sold a total of 7,25,80,090 shares, translating into a 23 per cent stake, of Essel Propack. The shares were sold on an average price of Rs 256.5, valuing the transaction at Rs 1,861.68 crore. After the stake-sale, Blackstone’s holding in the company has come down to 52 per cent. Last year, Blackstone had acquired a 75 per cent stake in Essel Propack for Rs 3,211 crore. Essel Propack’s Ashok Goel is the younger brother of Subash Chandra, the promoter of financially troubled Essel Group that has an indebtedness of Rs 17,174 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-285
20-09-2020||Business||Nirmala roots for holistic code in insolvency process||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Saturday said insolvency proceedings against corporate debtors as well as personal guarantors should be considered together for a comprehensive resolution. Replying to members’ queries on the liability of personal guarantors in the IBC process in the Rajya Sabha, Sitharaman said, “The corporate debtor often has guarantors. So, for a comprehensive corporate insolvency resolution and liquidation, we felt it was necessary that the insolvency of the corporate debtor as well as its guarantors are considered together to whatever extent possible.” The Rajya Sabha on Saturday passed amendments to the insolvency law to suspend fresh insolvency proceedings for at least six months starting March 25 amid the coronavirus pandemic, with Sitharaman saying a decision on extending the suspension of the relevant provisions will be taken next week. In June, an ordinance was promulgated to amend the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC). Default on repayments from March 25, the day when the nationwide lockdown began, would not be considered for initiating insolvency proceedings for at least six months. The six-month period is ending next week. The minister also clarified that insolvency proceedings against corporates defaulting on loans prior to March 25 will continue and the amendment will not stall those cases. On queries about the urgency to bring the ordinance, Sitharaman said that “between sessions if there is a need for ordinance because the ground situation demands it, I would think a responsive government’s duty is to at least use the ordinance to show that we are there with the people of India”. “The IBC Code is not a recovery law... Saving lives of companies is far more important than enabling recovery of loans... We have the compulsion to save businesses, (the) corporate sector and they need to be insulated rather than enabling creditors to recover the loan for which they have several other options,” the finance minister said. “There are several other avenues through which recoveries can be done. One can use statutory options or supervised compromises and court-supervised compromises. One can even use the RBI’s prudential framework and arrangements which are available under the Companies Act can also be used,” she added. Businesses are facing trouble because of the pandemic. So, it was decided “that it was better to suspend Sections 7, 9 and 10 of IBC so that we can prevent corporate persons experiencing distress on account of the unprecedented situation of being pushed into insolvency proceedings”, she said. Sections 7, 9 and 10 deal with the initiation of the corporate insolvency resolution process by financial creditors, operational creditors and corporate debtors, respectively. Citing data for NPAs of commercial banks during 2018-19, Sitharaman informed the House that Lok Adalats recovered 5.3 per cent, debt recovery tribunals (DRTs) 3.5 per cent and SARFAESI 14.5 per cent. IBC ensured 42.5 per cent of recovery.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-285
20-09-2020||India||Opposition members' conduct in Rajya Sabha 'shameful': Rajnath Singh||The top brass of the central government on Sunday flayed the opposition over its members' "unruly conduct" in Rajay Sabha during the passage of the two farm bills, condemning their behaviour as "shameful" and unprecedented in Parliament's history. Union ministers Rajnath Singh, Prakash Javadekar, Pralhad Joshi, Piyush Goyal, Thawarchand Gehlot and Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi held a press conference to hit out at opposition members, with Singh asserting that such conduct was not expected in a healthy democracy. Singh noted that opposition members tore rule book, threw papers at the desk of the Rajya Sabha Deputy Chairman Harivansh, who was in the Chair, and climbed the officials' table -- something, he added, he had never witnessed before. Lauding Harivansh as a man of values, he said the "misconduct" of opposition members towards him was unprecedented. Even if opposition leaders were not convinced with the Chair's decision, does it allow them to attack him and be "violent," he asked. Asked about the decision of BJP ally Shiromani Akali Dal to quit the Modi government in protest against the farm bills, he said there are some "political reasons" behind certain decisions. "I want to assure farmers that minimum support price and APMC will continue. These will never be removed at any cost," he said. The Upper House, which witnessed a brief adjournment due to the pandemonium, passed by voice vote the Farmer's Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020. The bills have already been passed by Lok Sabha and will now go to the President for his assent before they are notified as laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-657
20-09-2020||India||Anurag Kashyap calls sexual harassment allegations 'baseless', industry friends support director||Filmmaker Anurag Kashyap, who has been accused by actor Payal Ghosh of sexual harassment, on Sunday said the claim is "baseless" and found support in his industry friends, with Hansal Mehta, Taapse Pannu, Mohd Zeeshan Ayyub as well as former wife, film editor Aarti Bajaj crediting him for creating safe work space for women. On Saturday, Ghosh took to Twitter and wrote that the Gangs of Wasseypur director was sexually inappropriate towards her, a claim he has dismissed. The 30-year-old actor tagged Prime Minister Narendra Modi in her tweet, requesting him to take action against Kashyap. In a video released to ABN Telugu, Ghosh claimed that the incident happened in 2014-2015. The actor, who made her Hindi debut with Rishi Kapoor-Paresh Rawal starrer Patel Ki Punjabi Shaadi, also claimed that Kashyap boasted about his connection with megastar Amitabh Bachchan and claimed that there were other female artistes who he got intimate with. Dismissing the allegations, Kashyap called Ghosh's claim an attempt to "silence" him. An outspoken critic of administration and a member of the Indian film industry who is vocal about the vilification of Bollywood by celebrities and trolls online, the director said it had taken some people "such a long time" to "shut me up". While Ghosh found support in National Commission for Women, with its chairperson Rekha Sharma assuring the actor that the NCW will take cognisance of the case, several film personalities including Sayani Gupta, Tisca Chopra, Surveen Chawla and Anubhav Sinha urged that the #MeToo movement must not be abused for vendetta. Calling Ghosh's allegation the "cheapest" stunt, Kashyap's first wife, Bajaj said the filmmaker was somebody who makes sure to create a safe work environment for his female co-workers. "There is no integrity left and the world is full of losers and no brains baying for blood of anyone who has a voice. If everybody spend that energy which they use in hating others constructively this world will be a better place," she added. "Worst of human kind seen in the last few months: 1. Appropriating someone's death for personal vendetta. 2. Appropriating one of the most important movements for political vendetta MeToo #StandwithAnuragKashyap," wrote Gupta. At least "spare an important movement like #MeToo", appealed Ayyub. In a carefully worded, lengthy thread, Mehta questioned whether the allegation against Kashyap was just another "witch hunt", adding he was "troubled and full of questions". "This happening at a time when Anurag often against advice has been outspoken and provided a contrarian view on things happening around us. is he making some people uncomfortable? there are so many questions and they are not necessarily about the allegations leveled against AK. Is this a witch-hunt yet again? are they trying to shut up an artist with a dissenting opinion? where are we headed? and then after hearing the accusation - can this even be anurag? it is definitely not the anurag I know," the director wrote. Mehta said lies will do a "huge disservice" to women who are regularly subjected to sexual harassment and abuse, adding #MeToo movement must "not become a target of abuse for somebody's selfish gains". "The #metoo movement is way too important. Let every victim out there always be heard and justice be done," he said. Pannu, who collaborated with Kashyap on the 2018 romantic-drama Manmarziyaan, took to Instagram and wrote that the filmmaker was "the biggest feminist" she knew. Sinha said the existence of the #MeToo movement is to amplify voices of harassed women and should not be misused. "It is the joint responsibility of women and men both to carefully protect the sanctity of #Metooindia. It is a very very very important movement that should not be misused for any other reason but the dignity of women," he tweeted. Chawla, who worked with the filmmaker on his two-part Netflix series Sacred Games, said the allegation against the director reeked of "opportunism". Chopra, who featured alongside Kashyap and Chawla in the short film Chhuri, said the director was one of the biggest supporters of talent, be it men or women. "To know my friend @anuragkashyap72 is to know generosity, honesty and decency at its core .. even a cursory look at his work reveals his worldview on women .. don't know a bigger supporter of talent, men or women," she tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-657
20-09-2020||India||Rajya Sabha passes two farm bills amid Opposition protests||Rajya Sabha on Sunday passed two key farm bills amid a bedlam as Opposition members charged towards the podium of the presiding officer, flung the rule book at him, tore official papers and heckled him over their demand for a division of vote. The Upper House, which witnessed a brief adjournment due to the pandemonium, passed by voice vote the Farmer's Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020. The bills have already been passed by Lok Sabha and will now go to the President for his assent before they are notified as law. Prime Minister Narendra Modi hailed the passage of the bills as a "watershed moment" in the history of Indian agriculture, asserting that they will ensure a complete transformation of the farm sector and empower crores of farmers. In a series of tweets after Rajya Sabha passed the bills, Modi assured farmers that the existing government support system would continue. “We are here to serve our farmers. We will do everything possible to support them and ensure a better life for their coming generations," he tweeted. Trouble started when the sitting of the House was extended beyond the scheduled time to allow passage of the bills. Opposition members, who felt such a move should be resorted to only by consensus, rushed into the Well, shouting slogans against the government and accusing it of being anti-farmer. This forced Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar to cut short his reply and Deputy Chairman Harivansh took up the approval of the bills. Four Opposition sponsored motions to send the two bills to a House panel for greater scrutiny were negated by voice-vote, but the Congress, TMC, CPM and DMK members sought a division of vote on the issue. As Harivansh over-ruled them saying division of votes can take place only when members are on their seat, TMC leader Derek O'Brien charged towards the podium, thrusting the rule book into the face of the Deputy Chairman. House marshals thwarted the move and also blocked a book that was flung towards Harivansh. An attempt was also made to pull microphones away from the chair but the marshals physically stopped that from happening. DMK leader Tiruchi Siva, who along with O'Brien, K.C. Venugopal of Congress and K. K. Ragesh of CPM had moved resolutions for sending the bills to the select committee, tore papers and flung them into the air. Harivansh, who asked members to go back to their places and not come into the Well due to the COVID-19 protocol requiring physical separation, first muted the audio of the live proceedings but with the ruckus continuing, he adjourned the proceedings for 15 minutes.  When the House reassembled, Opposition parties chanted slogans but this did not prevent Harivansh from putting the bill to voice vote.  As the first bill got voice approval of the House and motions for sending it to a select committee were rejected, at least two members tried to climb on the table of Rajya Sabha officers but were pulled down. Insisting that the rules were not being followed, Trinamool Congress's Derek O' Brien tore up the rule book from the Deputy Chairman's table. His mike was also dismantled, reported ndtv.com. "This is a brutal murder of the Parliamentary democratic system," said Derek O'Brien, whose point of order was not accepted. Both the bills were passed by voice vote and amendments moved by the Opposition parties rejected. In his reply to the debate on the bill, Tomar said minimum price or MSP based procurement of agriculture crops from farmers will continue and is not related to the farm bills that seek to give cultivators freedom to market their produce.  Tomar said several sectors were impacted during the coronavirus times but not agriculture which saw a bumper crop and has record sowing of Kharif.  Contribution from the agri-sector in GDP did not decline, said Tomar while thanking the farmers.  He sought to allay fears that the bills were an attempt to dilute the country's public procurement system and will lead to exploitation by private companies, saying the minimum support price (MSP)-based buying by the government will continue.  "Purchase on MSP was done in the past, continues now and it will be continued in the future. There is no room for doubt on this," he said. Mandis will not stop functioning and trading will continue as before. Under contract farming, the farmer will have full powers to fix a sale price of his choice and they will receive full payment within three days, he said.  The bills are facing staunch opposition from some farmer bodies as well as from within the ruling coalition. Harsimrat Kaur Badal, the food processing minister from the Shiromani Akali Dal party, resigned from the government last week.  Opposition parties as well as the SAD felt the bills are the first step toward removing the MSP which will force the farmers to make distress sales to private companies.  Farmers in states like Punjab and Haryana have been protesting against these bills, with their leaders alleging that the legislations will dismantle the existing system and leave them to the mercy of corporate interests. The Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020 seeks to give freedom to farmers to sell their produce outside the notified APMC market yards (mandis). This, the government says, is aimed at facilitating remunerative prices through competitive alternative trading channels.  Farmers will not be charged any cess or levy for sale of their produce under this Act, according to the government.  It will open more choices for farmers, reduce marketing costs, and help them get better prices. It will also help farmers of regions with surplus produce to get better prices and consumers in areas with shortages at lower prices.  The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 seeks to give farmers the right to enter into a contract with agribusiness firms, processors, wholesalers, exporters, or large retailers for the sale of future farming produce at a pre-agreed price.  It seeks to transfer the risk of market unpredictability from farmers to sponsors.  Tomar said this legislation guarantees cultivators the price they negotiate at the time of sowing itself. A third bill, the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020 that seeks to remove commodities like cereals, pulses, oilseeds, onion, and potatoes from the list of essential commodities and will do away with the imposition of stock holding limits, is to be moved separately.  Swaminathan Committee, which has given several suggestions on agricultural reforms, had asked that the MSP should be fixed after adding 50 per cent profit over the input costs of farmers.  "The UPA government was for 10 years but did not accept to fix MSP based on 50 per cent profit over the input cost," he said, adding that a decision was taken by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the effect was reflected in the price of the purchase from the farmers.  The minister cited data of purchase of wheat, paddy, soybean, groundnuts, suggesting higher dispensation of money towards the purchase from farmers by the present government. Prime Minister Narendra Modi said new laws were a "watershed moment" in the history of Indian agriculture, asserting that they will ensure a complete transformation of the farm sector and empower crores of farmers.  In a series of tweets after Rajya Sabha passed the bills, Modi said these proposed laws will liberate farmers from numerous adversities as he noted that peasants were for decades bound by various constraints and bullied by middlemen.  He assured farmers that the existing government support system would continue. Modi asserted, "I said it earlier and I say it once again: System of MSP will remain. Government procurement will continue.  "We are here to serve our farmers. We will do everything possible to support them and ensure a better life for their coming generations."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-657
20-09-2020||India||Heated exchanges in Rajya Sabha during debate on farm bills||Rajya Sabha on Sunday witnessed heated exchanges between Congress and YSRCP members during the debate on the farm bills after an MP of the ruling Andhra party made some remarks against the grand old party, prompting them to demand an apology.  There was uproar in the House after V Vijaysai Reddy (YSRCP), while speaking in support of the bill, accused the Congress of "hypocrisy" as the bill contained the promises made by the Congress in its Lok Sabha poll manifesto.  As Reddy accused the Congress of promoting "middlemen" and some other remarks, Congress members created uproar.  Anand Sharma (Cong) said the member's conduct has not been as per the traditions of the House and he should retract his statement and apologise.  L Hanumanthaiah, who was in the chair at the time, said he would look into the records and expunge any objectionable remarks made. "If there is anything objectionable it will be taken off the records," he said.  The din continued for sometime in the House with YSRCP and Congress members engaged in heated arguments.  Reddy said the bill was in favour of the farmers as it promoted contract farming that would ensure sale of his produce and free him from the clutches of middlemen.  He asked why tobacco is not included under the purview of the bill and demanded so.  He also accuses the Congress of being hypocritical as it had promised the same in its manifesto.  "What is this hypocrisy. Why they are opposing these bills. They are nothing but.....," he said that led to uproar.  Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar introduced the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 in the Rajya Sabha.  Ram Gopal Yadav (SP) said the BJP should ensure that it doesn't do anything that the future generations should hold them guilty of.  He said it was difficult to believe that these bills are being put forth by the son of a farmer.  Yadav alleged that there seems to be some compulsion that the ruling party does not want to discuss or debate on any of the bills, as it was rushing through these bills without discussion.  "You did not consult anyone before bringing these ordinances during the pandemic. You should have at least consulted the Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh," he said.  T K S Elangovan (DMK) said the two Bills are an insult to farmers and were not necessary.  "This government has no right to bring these bills, as agriculture is a state subject. This bill also repeal the ordinance and the promise of this government to implement M S Swaminathan Committee's recommendations," he said.  "This Bill is not for the sale of farmer's products, this bill will sell the farmers and make them slaves of big businessmen. This bill will affect farmers, kill them and make them commodities," he alleged.  K Keshava Rao (TRS), while opposing the bill, said the Agriculture Minister claimed that this is a Bill for new-age agriculture, but was against it.  Alleging that this bill seeks to change the very character of the country, he said, "you have made an agricultural country into a corporate country".  He said farmers will not have a level playing field as the bills seek to put the poor farmers against the traders.  "This government has set out to kill the golden goose," he said, accusing the government of not discussing the issue with states and people.  He also alleged that these Bills are an assault on state rights and the Constitution.  Ram Chandra Prasad Singh (JDU), while supporting the bills, said it is for the first time that a farmers' policy has come after a long time. He said in 1991 when the country saw liberalisation, it missed bringing agriculture reforms.  He cited the example of Bihar where the Nitish Kumar government has abolished the APMC Act in 2006 and yet farmers are getting good price for their produce through MSP and farmers are producing more.  He said farmers will get different options after the bills are passed. "I urge the Agriculture minister, both these bills are good tasks and agriculture will benefit from it. Please also do research to help increase the farmers' income," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-657
20-09-2020||India||China ‘spy ring’ busted but silence on leak||Delhi police have arrested a freelance journalist — who was once an admirer of national security adviser Ajit Doval — a Chinese woman and a Nepali man on the charge of espionage but are yet to reveal who in the establishment had leaked the purported sensitive information at a time when Prime Minister Narendra Modi had consolidated his power at the Centre. Rajeev Sharma, 61, who had written about his proximity to Doval and was associated with a Delhi-based Right-wing think tank, was arrested on Monday on the charge of passing on “classified defence information” to China. On Saturday evening, Prashant Pratap Singh, Congress national media coordinator, uploaded a video clip that shows an excerpt from an interview in which a senior journalist is seen introducing Sharma, among other career high points, as someone who “has worked with NSA Doval in the Vivekananda International Foundation for some time”. A few hours earlier on Saturday, deputy commissioner of police (special cell) Sanjeev Kumar Yadav had said: “Sharma conveyed information related to army movements, defence acquisitions, Dalai Lama, foreign policy.... The shell company (through which he was paid) was being jointly operated by Chinese and Nepalese nationals.” The officer said Sharma, a strategy and foreign relations analyst, used to write a weekly column for China’s communist party-owned newspaper Global Times between 2010 and 2014. He was allegedly induced into espionage by Chinese intelligence operatives who invited him to China for an interview with a media company and paid for the entire trip. Sharma wrote an article for Global Times this month too, advocating peace on the India-China border. Chinese citizen Qing Shi and Nepalese national Sher Singh alias Raj Bohra were arrested in Delhi on Friday, Yadav told reporters. They were supplying Sharma with “huge amounts of money routed through hawala channels to convey sensitive information to Chinese intelligence”, the officer said. DCP Yadav’s statement gave several specific details but did not mention how the information got leaked from the government and whether anyone in the administration had been held accountable. “If the police claims are true, the investigators need to go after the government officials who were providing Sharma with classified documents. The rot must run deep,” a retired Intelligence Bureau director said. All three accused have been charged under the Official Secrets Act. “A large number of mobile phones, laptops and other incriminating and sensitive material have been recovered from them,” Yadav said. He said Sharma had been arrested on a tip-off from the intelligence agencies. On Tuesday, a court sent the journalist to six days’ police custody. His bail application will be heard on September 22. Sharma had in the past worked for the news agency UNI, The Tribune newspaper and the Pune-based Sakal Times. Soon after Doval’s appointment as national security adviser in 2014, Sharma had written an article for the web news portal Firstpost in which he mentioned his "thousands of interactions with Doval". "Having known Doval from close quarters for such a long time and having interacted closely with top intelligence honchos of India in the past quarter century, I can say one thing with a very high degree of confidence. Doval is the best NSA India could have ever got," he wrote. Last year, Sharma had been among people who had expressed fear that their phones may be under surveillance through the Israeli Pegasus spyware. He had claimed to have received a WhatsApp message from a Canada-based NGO warning him about it. "He was once very closely associated with a Delhi-based Right-wing think tank and was a regular visitor there. It seems he has fallen out of favour now," a journalist said. On the day of his arrest, one of the two videos uploaded by Sharma on Twitter was accompanied by a tweet that said: "The state of Indian media today is pathetic. It was supposed to be a watchdog. Instead, it has become a lapdog of the government." The other was an eight-minute clip titled "China may still do mischief #India ChinaFaceOff". Sharma's accompanying tweet said: "The road to peace in eastern Ladakh is still heavily mined and India cannot trust China despite the two countries having mutually agreed to a five-point plan last week in Moscow to disengage and de-escalate. China can still do mischief." Since Friday night, attempts to access Sharma's Twitter account, which has 5,446 followers, has been throwing up a notification that says: "Caution: The account is temporarily restricted. You are seeing this warning because there has been some unusual activity from this account. Do you still want to view it?" DCP Yadav's statement said that Sharma had during the interrogation revealed he had procured sensitive information and passed these on to his Kunming-based Chinese handlers, "Michel" and "George", using various digital platforms. The DCP said Sharma used to meet his handlers in China and the Maldives. "He has disclosed he was about to send (more) secret documents to his handlers." Yadav described how Sharma allegedly fell into the clutches of the Chinese. "Observing his (Global Times) articles, one Chinese intelligence agent named Michel from Kunming contacted Sharma through his LinkedIn account and invited him to Kunming for an interview with a Chinese media company," he said. Michel funded the entire trip, during which Michel and his junior Xou asked Sharma for secret information on various aspects of India-China relations, Yadav said. "Between 2016 and 2018, Sharma was in contact with Michel and was tasked to provide information/ inputs on issues like Indian deployment on Bhutan-Sikkim-China tri-junction including Doklam, the pattern of India-Myanmar military cooperation, India-China boundary issue, etc," Yadav said. In January 2019, Sharma came in contact with another Kunming-based operative, George, who sought information relating to the Dalai Lama, Yadav's statement said. "For this Sharma was offered $500 per article/ information. Sharma received Rs 30 lakh from George in about 10 instalments from January 2019 to September 2020 in exchange for information provided by him," it said. By current exchange rates, Rs 30 lakh would imply over 80 payments of $500. On September 7, Sharma had written an article for Global Times, titled "A rapprochement road map for Beijing and New Delhi benefits both countries". In the article, he had highlighted that the two countries "have been engaged in a dangerous military standoff… which could wreck their economies and many precious things if the situation is not amicably eased". "The steady deterioration of bilateral relations since the night of May 5, when the latest standoff began, has practically evaporated all the diplomatic gains of the past years in one stroke. The current crisis is the biggest threat to normal ties between the two sides since 1962," he wrote. "It's a lose-lose situation for both. Their common objective must be to build a better and peaceful future for their people and not a military build-up against one another." Sharma added: "China should keep in mind that Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi won his second successive general election in May 2019 solely on nationalistic fervour, even though Modi's critics at home or abroad have dubbed his brand of nationalism as jingoism. Modi can ramp up domestic and international political discourse with his biggest weapon: nationalism." The Press Club of India expressed outrage over the arrest of Sharma under the Official Secrets Act (OSA), pointing to the "dubious track record" of Delhi police's special cell in selectively framing journalists. "We are astounded to hear of the arrest of Rajeev Sharma, a well-known independent journalist of long standing and a member of the Press Club of India. This is on account of the dubious track record of the Special Branch. More generally also, the record of Delhi police is hardly a shining one," the PCI said in a statement. It said "on the basis of the statement of the police released to the media, we have no hesitation in saying that the police action is high-handed, and may be inspired by obscure or questionable considerations". The PCI also pointed out that Delhi police's special cell had been making "preposterous" arrests under the UAPA in connection with the anti-CAA protests. It said he wrote "on strategic affairs and may well have accessed routinely over-classified information on the Internet that is in the public domain".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-657
20-09-2020||India||Ex-judge: Every institution being destroyed||Every institution designed to hold the executive accountable is being systematically destroyed in India since 2014, when the BJP government came to power, a former chief justice of Delhi High Court has said, describing the decline of the Supreme Court as the most troubling. Justice Ajit Prakash Shah, who had also served as chairperson of the Law Commission of India, was delivering the Justice Suresh Memorial Lecture on Friday evening on “The Supreme Court in Decline: Forgotten Freedoms and Eroded Rights”. “We might not be in a state of war but we are in a state of emergency, unprecedented for generations. Central to all this, and certainly, of most concern to me, is the role of the Supreme Court,” the former judge said. “In India today, every institution, mechanism or tool that is designed to hold the executive accountable, is being systematically destroyed. This destruction began in 2014 when the BJP government came into power. There is a temptation to compare this with the blatant destruction that the Indira Gandhi government indulged in the past, but comparisons are odious,” he said. Justice Shah came down heavily on the alleged misuse of the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA), which he said was being used to stifle dissent and put people in jail by branding them “anti-nationals”. The Supreme Court, he said, had through an April 2019 judgment done grave disservice by evolving the new doctrine that a suspect arrested under UAPA has to remain in jail without bail till the conclusion of trial, even if it is eventually proven that the evidence was inadmissible. The decision in the NIA vs Zahoor Watali case on the interpretation of the UAPA has affected all downstream decisions involving the statute, he said. “The illogic of this veers on the absurd: Why must an accused remain in jail only to be eventually acquitted? According to the decision delivered by Justice Khanwilkar and Justice Rastogi, in considering bail applications under the UAPA, courts must presume every allegation made in the First Information Report to be correct. Further, bail can now be obtained only if the accused produces material to contradict the prosecution,” he said. “In other words, the burden rests on the accused to disprove the allegations, which is virtually impossible in most cases.” This is being abused by the government, police and prosecution liberally, he said, and dissenters are routinely charged with sedition or criminal conspiracy and with UAPA provisions. “Due to the Supreme Court judgment, high courts have their hands tied and must perforce refuse bail as disproving the case is virtually impossible,” the former judge said. “The effect is nearly identical to the draconian preventive detention laws that existed during the Emergency, where the courts deprived people access to judicial remedy. If we want to prevent the disasters of that era, this decision must be urgently reversed or diluted, otherwise we run the risk of personal liberties being compromised very easily,” Justice Shah said. The former judge said this abuse of the UAPA and constant rejection of the bail aplications of the accused as a means of silencing opposing voices can be seen most in the Bhima Koregaon cases. “In the face of all this, the one institution which has the capacity to turn the tide is the judiciary. Unfortunately, it seems to have lost its way. There was a period in history, during the Emergency, as well when the Supreme Court failed the nation, but it realised its follies and returned to its natural path in course of time,” he said. In recent times, Parliament’s limitations have been revealed, Justice Shah said. “Even if Parliament has been debilitated, other entities should have stepped up to the plate and kept the executive in check. We have heard nothing of the Lokpal since forever. The National Human Rights Commission is dormant. Investigation agencies are misused at the slightest opportunity,” the former judge said. “The Election Commission of India appears to have been suspiciously compromised. The information commission is almost non-functional. The list is long and troubling. Even academia, the press and civil society have been systematically destroyed or silenced. Universities are under attack daily, whether it is students being accused of rioting, or teachers being accused of criminal conspiracy. “The idea of an unbiased mainstream fourth estate in India died its death a long time ago. And civil society is being slowly but surely strangled, through various ways. “But the most worrying of all is the state of the judiciary.” With Parliament weakened, the Supreme Court would have been the next best space to discuss the Kashmir trifurcation, the constitutional validity of the Citizenship Amendment Act, the suppression and criminalisation of the protests against this law, the misuse of draconian legislation like the sedition law and the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act, and the electoral bonds, he said. “Sadly, most of these are ignored or brushed aside or mysteriously kept pending for an indefinite period of time,” Justice Shah said. “Our Supreme Court today, sadly, has time for a billion-dollar Indian cricket administration, or the grievances of a high-profile journalist, but (it has) studiously ignored the real plight of millions of migrants, who do not have either the money or the profile to compete for precious judicial time with other litigants.” Justice Shah recalled how the Supreme Court had, when it did take up the migrants’ issue after the longest time, accepted the government’s “bizarre” argument that the exodus was caused by fake news. Democracy derives its legitimacy from representing the will of the majority, Justice Shah said. “But this legitimacy comes at a cost, which is invariably borne by minority groups, and especially those that are unpopular or victims of deep prejudice and who cannot influence the legislature in any way. This power to protect minorities from the tyranny of the majority is the basis of judicial review powers that allow the courts to strike down laws for violating the Constitution,” he said. “Now, though, it seems that the court is turning away from decades of its own history, and is, instead, aligning with the majoritarian view unhesitatingly and without question. Two recent cases which demonstrate this clearly are Sabarimala and Ayodhya.” Another kind of repression, perhaps unprecedented in modern India, is the stifling of the right to protest and the right to free speech, Justice Shah said. He cited the crackdown on the anti-CAA protests and the implication of civilians critical of the government in the Delhi riots. The government is using every imaginable means to silence dissent and the judiciary is watching this happen, like a mute spectator, he said. But in conclusion, Justice Shah voiced the hope that the judiciary would return to its glorious era of zealously guarding the fundamental rights of the citizens. “The Supreme Court has had a glorious past that it should be proud of. The statesmanship that the 13-judge constitution bench exhibited in the decision in Kesavananda Bharati, where the ‘basic structure’ doctrine was laid down and judicial custody of the Constitution reclaimed, is but one shining example of what the court is capable of,” he said. “Now, too, we have many judges and exemplary lawyers in practice who are sincere and committed to constitutionalism and to the rule of law. I expect they will rise to the occasion. The occasion is now.” The former judge recalled that Jawaharlal Nehru had said in the Constituent Assembly that the country needed “judges of the ‘highest integrity’, who would be ‘(persons) who can stand up against the executive government and whoever might come in their way’”. “I am hopeful that we will once again be able to see judges like these thrive in India,” Justice Shah said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-657
20-09-2020||India||Bill to make layoffs easier for big firms||The Centre has introduced a bill in the Lok Sabha that seeks to allow industrial establishments with 300 or more employees to retrench staff without the approval of state governments. The chapter on a special provision related to layoffs and retrenchment under the Industrial Relations Code bill has given such an option, which will enable large organisations to lay off staff. “The provisions of this chapter shall apply to an industrial establishment (not being an establishment of a seasonal character or in which work is performed only intermittently) in which not less than three hundred workers, or such higher number of workers as may be notified by the appropriate government, were employed on an average per working day in the preceding twelve months,” says the provision in the new bill. Right now, only industrial establishments with up to 100 employees enjoy the power to retrench staff without the approval of the state government. Earlier in April, a parliamentary standing committee had recommended the threshold (floor) of 300 after tweaking an open-ended plan. Almost all trade unions have opposed the provision. In 2015, Rajasthan, then ruled by the BJP, had amended the old provision to introduce the threshold of 300.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-657
20-09-2020||India||How Covid numbers were hushed up||Researchers acting under government orders expunged from a scientific paper the prevalence rates of the new coronavirus infection in containment zones or hotspots in 10 cities, estimated through a nationwide survey, authoritative sources have said. The head of India’s health research agency, Balram Bhargava, had asked the researchers to remove the infection prevalence data from the 10 cities’ hotspots they had included in their paper, multiple people familiar with these events have told The Telegraph. Bhargava, director-general of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and health research department secretary, told the researchers that the council did not have approval to publish the findings from the hotspots, the sources said. They said the ICMR chief — himself a co-author of the paper — did not specify who had disapproved the publication or why. This newspaper spoke to seven of the 74 co-authors. Four of them spoke on the condition of anonymity while three spoke on record. “We were told: remove the hotspots data or don’t publish,” one co-author said. Two other co-authors corroborated this account. The Telegraph sent a questionnaire to Bhargava on Friday, detailing the information conveyed by the co-authors and requesting his comment by Saturday afternoon. On Saturday, three more messages were sent to Bhargava but there was no response till night. The newspaper will publish Bhargava’s comments when he replies. The survey to determine what proportions of people the coronavirus had infected used randomly selected blood samples from 400 people in each of 70 districts and 500 people from hotspots in each of 10 cities — Ahmedabad, Bhopal, Calcutta, Delhi, Hyderabad, Indore, Jaipur, Mumbai, Pune and Surat. The survey, conducted by the council and collaborating institutions between May 11 and June 4, sought to estimate infection prevalence rates in early May. Under Bhargava’s directive, the researchers omitted from their paper the relatively high prevalence rates found in the hotspots — for instance, 36 per cent in Dharavi, Mumbai; 48 per cent in Ahmedabad; 30 per cent in Calcutta. Their paper, published this month in the Indian Journal of Medical Research, described only the lower prevalence rates in the other districts —ranging from 0.62 per cent to 1.03 per cent — and a national average of 0.73 per cent in early May. The order blocking public disclosure of the high prevalence rates in the hotspots has raised concerns among experts about extraneous influences on science and a breach of research ethics by the council, the very agency tasked with writing medical ethics codes for India. Samiran Panda, head of the council’s epidemiology division and a co-author of the paper, said the survey could be viewed as containing two components — the district survey aimed at estimating prevalence in the general population and the hotspot survey focused on high transmission areas. Panda said independent surveys in cities such as Delhi, Mumbai and Pune showing similarly high prevalence rates had diminished the relevance of the containment zones’ results from early May. Bhargava, outlining preliminary findings of the survey in June, had said the 0.73 per cent prevalence implied the lockdown and containment efforts had been “successful” in keeping the prevalence low and preventing any rapid spread. Six among the 74 co-authors of the scientific paper have told this newspaper that they cannot explain why they were asked to expunge the data from hotspots, especially because subsequent surveys revealed comparable prevalence rates in several cities. “The pursuit of science is to look for the truth — suppressing research is illogical,” said Jayaprakash Muliyil, a co-author and former head of community medicine at the Christian Medical College, Vellore, and a member of the council’s epidemiology and surveillance group for the coronavirus disease. The researchers tried to publish the full findings but found themselves stonewalled. The co-author, who disclosed they were told to “remove the hotspots data or don’t publish”, said the ultimatum had triggered a debate among them over whether to publish an incomplete paper or drop the publication in protest. “We decided to publish anyway,” the co-author said. Medical ethics experts view the council’s directive to alter the paper’s content as tantamount to cherry picking — deleting data that is inconvenient — and a violation of its own rules on research integrity. The council’s 2019 Policy on Research Integrity and Publication Ethics specifies: “Completed research irrespective of results must be published and shared on public databases such as the Clinical Trials Research India, institute websites or other available relevant platforms.” Amar Jesani, a physician and editor of the Indian Journal of Medical Ethics, said: “Keeping selective data out of the results distorts the paper’s analysis — this is a violation of research integrity.” Jesani and others have underlined that collecting blood samples from volunteers after informed consent and then failing to publishing the results too represents a violation of ethics. “These 5,000 people would have volunteered to give their blood samples because they believed the analysis would benefit science or society. Eliminating their data without good reason is troubling,” Jesani said. Anant Bhan, an independent bioethics specialist and adjunct faculty member at the Yenepoya Medical College, Mangalore, said the removal of data from the hotspots would also constitute a “wasted research effort” through public funds. “Research findings, no matter what they are, need to be disseminated honestly all the time — and absolutely during a pandemic,” Bhan said. Independent health experts tracking India’s response to the Covid-19 pandemic said the directive to conceal high prevalence data in cities in early May may have been part of efforts to portray the lockdown as a success. “The abrupt nationwide lockdown with a four-hour notice had brought misery and tragedies to many,” said a senior physician at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, who requested anonymity. “The country’s health research community has been used to portray the lockdown as a success.” The professor added: “India was under complete lockdown during April and May — a paper reporting 30 or 48 per cent prevalence rates in early May would have put a question mark on the claims about a successful lockdown and containment.” D.C.S. Reddy, a senior community medicine specialist, co-author of the paper and member of the council’s research group on epidemiology and surveillance, said the district-level data by themselves had shown “how big and widespread the infection has become”. “But containment-zone data from the city hotspots was considered important to understand the dynamics of transmission in areas with large infections,” Reddy said. “As members of the surveillance group, we cannot say why the data was held back. The council can answer that.” The omission of the hotspot data marks a fresh instance of government representatives directing researchers to alter a scientific paper. In April this year, health officials had blocked publication of the names of the 36 districts where researchers had detected evidence of community transmission.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-658
20-09-2020||India||Bengal students, Kerala 3 in NIA ‘Al Qaida’ net||The National Investigation Agency arrested six youths from Murshidabad and three from Ernakulam in Kerala on Saturday, accusing them of plotting terror strikes across the country on behalf of al Qaida. Among the suspects, all aged in their 20s, is a second-year engineering student of computer science from Domkal in Murshidabad, and a first-year undergraduate arts student from Jalangi, NIA sources said. All the three arrested from Ernakulam are migrants from Murshidabad, and all the suspects except the two students are day labourers, the sources added. The agency claimed to have seized batteries, switches, bomb-making manuals, sharp weapons, country-made firearms and “jihadi literature”. “These individuals were part of an inter-state module. They had been radicalised by Pakistan-based al Qaida terrorists through social media,” a senior NIA officer said. “They planned to carry out attacks at multiple places, including the National Capital Region. They had begun a fundraising drive, and some of them were planning to travel to Delhi to procure arms and ammunition.” Murshid Hasan, Iyakub Biswas and Mosaraf Hossen were arrested from Ernakulam. Najmus Sakib, Abu Sufiyan, Mainul Mondal, Leu Yean Ahmed, Al Mamun Kamal and Atitur Rehman were picked up from Murshidabad. Agency sources said the nine had created a WhatsApp group to exchange messages and plan their moves. Murshid, believed to be the leader of the module, used to be a next-door neighbour of Abu Sufiyan, a tailor at Raninagar market in Murshidabad. Najmus is enrolled in an engineering college in Basantapur while arts undergraduate Atitur is a student of a college in Karimpur, Nadia, which is about 15km from his home in Jalangi, Murshidabad. Mosaraf, arrested from Ernakulam, is Atitur’s elder brother. He had settled in the Kerala town nearly a decade ago with his family and worked at a sari shop. Iyakub, also arrested from Ernakulam, hails from Madhubona village in Jalangi. He and Mainul, arrested from Jalangi, used to stay together while working as migrant labourers in Ernakulam. Mainul’s family said he had returned to Murshidabad during the lockdown. Senior state police officers said an NIA team began raiding each of the suspect’s homes in Murshidabad from 2am on Saturday, accompanied by BSF personnel. The raids continued till dawn. Some of the suspects were sleeping or had just woken up when the officers arrived, asked for the accused by their names and picked them up. “The handlers of terror outfits like al Qaida zero in on poor people and then brainwash them,” an NIA source said. Hundreds of thousands of youths from Murshidabad, a border district, work as migrant labourers across the country. In February 2019, Calcutta police’s special task force had arrested two operatives of the Jamat-ul Mujahideen Bangladesh from Murshidabad for their alleged involvement in the Khagragarh blast in Burdwan in 2014. State BJP chief Dilip Ghosh attacked the administration of poll-bound Bengal, holding up the arrests as “proof that there is no law and order in our state”. “Such incidents have happened time and again in Bengal and Kerala. The police in Bengal are used to stopping central agencies from doing their work. The Bengal police have turned anti-national. The Trinamul Congress benefits from these organisations,” he said. State Congress chief Adhir Chowdhury targeted both the BJP and the Trinamul. “The whole country is witness to a communal polarisation. Whenever such communal forces get active, terror groups will target the poor (for recruitment). Additionally, in Bengal, law and order has broken down. These arrests prove these two points,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-658
20-09-2020||India||No other government as sensitive as Modi dispensation about death of doctors: Harsh Vardhan on Covid||Union health minister Harsh Vardhan on Saturday claimed that no other government was as sensitive as the Modi dispensation about the death of doctors and others health workers at the frontlines of the Covid battle and held up as evidence how he had dissolved into tears at an event on “corona warriors”. Vardhan had been confronted in the Rajya Sabha by Opposition leaders over the lack of data on doctors who had died fighting the pandemic. The Congress’s P.L. Punia pointed out that the Indian Medical Association had counted 382 deaths among doctors. The IMA, the country’s largest body of doctors, earlier this week accused the Modi government of “hypocrisy” for describing healthcare workers on the frontlines of the coronavirus epidemic as “warriors” but not caring to count Covid-19 deaths among them. Vardhan appeared to suggest that the Centre was in possession of data but had not released them. “I had gone to AIIMS on August 14 for a blood donation programme organised by resident doctors. They had put up pictures of corona warriors. They made me stand in front of a picture and gave me a microphone. They had displayed the pictures with the India map in the background. The pictures were of doctors, nurses, health workers. Tears came to my eyes. The atmosphere was emotionally charged. They showed pictures of 45 such people,” the health minister said. “Here questions have been raised about non-availability of data on the death of doctors. We know such unfortunate incidents happen every day. The states keep the data and share them with us whenever we want. Just because we are not saying the exact number, it does not mean we are not sensitive. I am convinced that no other government can be more sensitive on this issue than the Modi government,” Vardhan added. During discussions on the Epidemic Diseases (Amendment) Act, Punia had pointed out: “The IMA report says 382 doctors have died of corona. On the other hand, the government says it has no data. Does the government want to say that no doctor has died? This data is only on doctors, not all corona warriors.” Punia said the families of these doctors should have been given compensation. However, the bill has no provision for compensation in case of death of frontline pandemic workers. The RJD’s Manoj Jha said: “The bill has spoken about the obligation of people during the epidemic but is silent on the government’s responsibility. While giving unlimited power to the government, the law should have ensured protection of human rights of common people.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-658
20-09-2020||India||Covid rethink on Parliament session duration ||Most political parties have expressed concern about MPs testing Covid-positive and a consensus is emerging that it might be prudent to curtail the ongoing monsoon session of Parliament. The session, which began on September 14, is scheduled till October 1, with curtailed business hours but working days even on Saturdays and Sundays. The emerging consensus suggests the session may end anytime next week if the government manages to get through key bills. At a meeting of the Business Advisory Committee on Saturday, most parties felt it was not advisable to run the House for long.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-658
20-09-2020||India||Congress taps friends on farm bills||The Congress on Saturday accused the Narendra Modi government of surrendering to corporate entities and traders and approached other political parties to stall the three farm-related bills that will be tabled in the Rajya Sabha on Sunday for passage. Although senior Congress leaders have approached the Biju Janata Dal, Telangana Rashtra Samithi, YSR Congress, AIADMK and the Shiv Sena apart from other secular allies to force the government to at least send the bills to a select committee for a deeper examination, the principal Opposition party is not very hopeful of the outcome because of the clear numerical advantage the BJP enjoys. While the Shiv Sena and the TRS have opposed the bills and decided to vote against the government, the others are not expected to lend support to the Opposition to embarrass Prime Minister Modi, who has hailed the proposed reforms as historic. While the stated purpose of the bills is to allow farmers to sell produce directly to bulk buyers and make contract-farming easier, the Congress has alleged that it is aimed at handing over the farm sector to corporate entities and also expressed fear of peasants being deprived of the minimum support price. The Congress has called a meeting of office-bearers outside Parliament on Monday to discuss the plan of action as farmers are continuing with their protests and have refused to relent despite the government’s assurances. The Parliament session is anyway likely to be curtailed because of the growing number of coronavirus cases, winding up probably as early as Wednesday itself. Widespread protests are taking place in Punjab and Haryana while the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee has called a nationwide bandh on September 25, asserting that the government’s assurances are false. While Haryana will have a “chakka jam” protest on Sunday, there will be a three-day agitation including a “rail roko” in Punjab from September 24. Former finance minister P. Chidambaram issued a statement on Saturday, saying: “The Congress and other Opposition parties must join hands to oppose the bills in every forum and ensure that they do not become law in the present form. Every party has to take a stand — is it with the farmers or is it with the BJP threatening the livelihood of farmers? The BJP government has surrendered to the corporate and traders.” Explaining the infirmities in the bills, Chidambaram said: “The…farm bills do not contain a clause that the price that the farmer will get from the private purchaser shall not be less than the MSP. Why is such a clause absent? The bills undermine the only regulated market available to the farmer today, without creating thousands of alternative markets that will be accessible to the farmer.” He added: “The bills assume perversely that the farmer and the private purchaser have equal bargaining power. They do not. The small farmer will be at the mercy of the private purchaser. If a dispute arises between the farmer and the private purchaser, the machinery under the bills is so bureaucratic and convoluted that no farmer will have the strength or the resources to fight the purchaser. The small and medium farmer will be ruined.” Questioning the sagacity of the government, Chidambaram said: “…A little knowledge is dangerous; little reading is even more dangerous. Today, our farmers produce huge surpluses in many agricultural produce — notably wheat and rice. On the strength of our farmers, successive Congress governments built, brick by brick, a food security system that culminated in the National Food Security Act, 2013. The three pillars of our food security system are MSP, public procurement and PDS.” Chidambaram accused Modi and other BJP leaders of deliberately and maliciously distorting the Congress manifesto. “The Congress manifesto 2019 was based on the foundational principles outlined above. We promised: 1. To promote farmers producer companies/organisations to enable farmers to access inputs, technology and markets. 2. To establish farmers’ markets with adequate infrastructure and support in large villages and small towns to enable the farmer to bring his/her produce and freely market the same. “Farmers need multiple accessible markets and choice. The Congress’s proposals would have given them that. Once that is accomplished, the Congress manifesto promise on repealing the APMC Act and making trade in agricultural produce free would be a natural sequel in course of time.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-658
20-09-2020||India||Talks on with China, why not Pak also: Farooq||National Conference chief Farooq Abdullah on Saturday asked in the Lok Sabha that if the government can talk to China then why not “our (eastern) neighbour”, advocating dialogue with Pakistan to end the rising border skirmishes and deaths while speaking in Parliament for the first time since his release from detention. Farooq, the Srinagar MP and former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister, painted a grim picture of the Valley in the aftermath of the scrapping of the erstwhile state’s special status guaranteed under Article 370 and stressed that there was no way out other than holding talks with “our neighbour”. “Border skirmishes have been rising and people are dying. A way has to be found to deal with this,” Farooq said in his brief mention during Zero Hour. “Except for talks, there is no way out. As you are talking to China (so that) it withdraws (from India-claimed territories in Ladakh), we should also talk to our (other) neighbour to find a way out to get out of this situation,” he added, inviting protests from the BJP members. The 82-year-old leader, who was released in March after more than seven months in detention following the abrogation of Article 370, wanted to speak more but was not allowed. Farooq’s microphone was switched off a little after he advocated talks with Pakistan and the BJP members created a ruckus. Zero Hour mentions by MPs, however, are required to be brief and the Speaker’s discretion is binding on the members. Thousands of people in Kashmir, including politicians, had been arrested or detained, often under the stringent Public Safety Act, after the cancellation of the special status on August 5 last year. The Centre enforced an unprecedented clampdown and communications blockade and crushed all dissent with an iron hand. Former chief ministers Farooq and his son Omar are among those released but some, including People’s Democratic Party chief and former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti are still under detention. Farooq said “no progress” was taking place in Jammu and Kashmir after it was made a Union Territory. “There has been no progress in Jammu and Kashmir. Our children and shopkeepers have no facility for 4G network,” he said, asking how students would study online without a stable Internet connection when schools and other educational institutions were closed due to the pandemic. “How are they going to grow? The rest of the country has every Internet facility and our children are being denied,” Farooq added. The Srinagar MP, however, expressed happiness over the findings of an inquiry by the army into the killings of three men on Shopian. “I am happy the army has admitted that three men in Shopian were killed mistakenly. I hope the government gives a hefty compensation,” Farooq said. The army admitted on Friday that its personnel had exceeded the powers granted under AFSPA while killing the three cousins. The army had called them terrorists but their families had said the trio were residents of Jammu who had travelled to Kashmir in search of work.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-658
20-09-2020||West Bengal||The evidence of guns that smoke no more||Last year, two British-era cannons — Armstrong-Frederick pattern and Bloomfield pattern — of north Calcutta were restored after prolonged rallying by a citizens’ group. Civic workers had discovered the cannons in 2010 when they were laying water pipelines near Mayo Hospital on Strand Road. Thereafter, the then councillor of Ward 21, Ajoy Saha, had them transferred onto the footpath of Maharshi Debendra Road. The citizens’ group, Purono Kolkatar Galpo (PKG), however, demanded a more lasting arrangement and one that befitted the historical value of the duo. “We kept appealing to Saha to restore them. We even organised a walk demanding the cannons be displayed properly,” says Jayanta Sen, who is a member of PKG. Finally, on the initiative of Saha and current councillor Sujata Saha the cannons were cleaned, mounted on a white marble slab and inaugurated with much fanfare in September 2019. The Armstrong-Frederick and Bloomfield are light British gun models that were used throughout the Indian subcontinent between the mid-18th and mid-19th centuries. From the 16th century on, gun design was centrally controlled by the Board of Ordnance in England. Its principal office holder was the Surveyor of the Ordnance. John Armstrong and Charles Frederick, both had occupied the top post. The model named after them bears imprints of their design modifications. It remained in production from 1760 to 1786. The Bloomfield pattern, which came after and remained in production till 1860, is named after Thomas Bloomfield,  who became inspector of artillery in 1780. It has a loop through which a thick rope can pass. “When it is fired, the recoil is violent. To check it, a rope was tightly fixed to something,” explains Amitabha Karkun, who is an expert on cannons and old firearms, at a recent talk on the cannons of West Bengal organised by the Indian Museum on social media. Why should we care about cannons now? “Because they tell us something about the technological and metallurgical expertise of a certain time. We also get an idea about the availability of resources and the progress of science,” Karkun tells The Telegraph. Experts claim the cannons of Bengal can be roughly segregated as pre-Mughal, Mughal and Indo-European types. “Gunpowder,” clarifies Karkun, “was pre-Mughal”. Pre-Mughal cannons belonged to the Husain Shahi dynasty, Sher Shah Suri, and even the Bara-Bhuiyans who used them to resist the Mughal expansion. Each cannon type has its own distinctive structure and design. “Pre-Mughal cannons have geometric ornamentation on them, while the Mughal ones have floral patterns. British and French cast iron cannons are devoid of any such design,” says Karkun. “They are not just tools of war but also evidence of history,” he adds. Calcutta has a wealth of such evidence. There is the Chinese cannon mounted on a winged dragon right in front of the Raj Bhavan. According to the inscription on it, it was taken from the Chinese in 1842 in commemoration of peace “dictated under the walls of Nankin by the naval and military forces of England and India”. Fort William, the headquarters of the Eastern Command, has 73 cannons. The most important of the lot is possibly the tope Zafar Baksh that was manufactured during Aurangzeb’s reign in the mid to the late 17th century. The precincts of the Indian Museum have nine cannons belonging to various eras right from the 16th to the 19th century. The Asiatic Society has a cannon that once belonged to the artillery of Assam rulers. And the premises of the Tipu Sultan mosque have 18 cannons. But one of the earliest cannons in these parts happens to be not in Calcutta but in Murshidabad. The Bachchawali tope stands in front of the grand Hazarduari Palace. In the 1905 book, The Musnad of Murshidabad, Purna Chandra Majumdar writes that the gun was most likely manufactured between the 12th and 14th centuries by the Muslim rulers of Gaur. Majumdar observes, “It rested originally on the sandbank adjoining Ichhaganj (how it came there is not known), protecting the city from attack from the northwest.” Bachcha means child. Bachchawali means “one with child”. There is more than one story about how this cannon came to be so named. While some say it produced such a loud noise upon being fired that pregnant women went into labour, Majumdar writes, “It is said that the gun was once fired in Murshidabad and the sound produced many cases of abortions for miles around. Hence, its name.” Karkun believes the name has to do with its gunpowder chamber. He says, “This is the only cannon in eastern India having such a unique forge welded construction with a separate removable gunpowder chamber, much like a bachcha.” The other treasure of Murshidabad is the Jahankosh. This cannon, built by the expert artisan Janardhan Karmakar during the reign of Shah Jahan and weighing 7,900 kilos, was found embedded in a peepul tree. The tree had grown around the cannon and lifted it up as it grew. Years later, the peepul was cut down and the gun was brought to what used to be the topekhana or artillery yard of the Nawab of Murshidabad. Says Karkun, “The cannon is 7-feet 6-inches long. The bore measures 6 inches. Every time the gun was fired, it had to be loaded with 26 kilograms of gunpowder.” Neighbouring Bishnupur is home to Dalmadal; the original name is Dal-Mardan, which means “crusher of people” in Persian. It was manufactured between 1600 and 1700. It is one of the earliest wrought iron forge welded cannons of India. There was a Persian inscription at the touch-hold end that read “one lakh twenty five taka” — possibly the cost of making the cannon. Karkun knows this from archival pictures; currently the inscriptions on the Dalmadal have been obliterated as a result of constant touching by tourists, just as in the case of Jahankosh. And, back to Calcutta. BBD Bag. 2 Red Cross Place. Three cannons stand at attention at the entrance to an office. “This used to be the showroom of the famous gun dealer, R.B. Rodah,” says Karkun. These cannons look like Congreve (named after Captain William Congreve) medium cannons used by the Royal Navy, but shorter in length. According to records, the first casting of such guns happened in 1830. Their size made them easy to fire from ships, but eventually, unhappy with their heavy recoil, the Royal Navy discarded them. The ships of the East India Company, however, continued to use them. The Red Cross Place cannons possibly came from such ships. But no cannon in the city has been so footloose as the one that currently adorns the entrance to Town Hall. The 18-mm Krupp gun is a legacy of the Second Boer War (1898-1902). After the British defeated the South African Republic and the Orange Free State, it seized their armaments. This cannon of German make was part of the booty and presented by the British crown to the Calcutta Corporation in 1905. It was meant to be a tribute to Indians who had participated in the war as a non-combatant force. The cannon was kept in the main tower block of the central building of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation till the mid-1960s. At the time of the Indo-Pak conflict in 1965, it was shifted to Market Square (now Chaplin Park), opposite the headquarters of the civic body. Next, it moved to New Market. And there it stood in the centre of things, a North Star for lost souls. In 2006, the authorities decided to move it to the Town Hall for better upkeep and preservation after one of its wheels came off, an aftermath of too much affection and attention showered onto it by the urchin gaggle. Once a loose cannon, almost always a loose cannon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-368
20-09-2020||West Bengal||Job hopes rise for former KLO men||The police administration in Cooch Behar on Saturday asked 100-odd former militants and linkmen of the Kamtapur Liberation Organisation (KLO) to turn up at the office of the superintendent of police and submit filled-up police verification forms and identity documents at the earliest. The move, police sources said, was part of a government plan to recruit them as home guards and bring them back to the mainstream. The government had rolled out a similar scheme for former KLO militants and linkmen from the neighbouring districts of Jalpaiguri and Alipurduar two years back. “On Saturday, 37 former militants and 104 linkmen were called to the SP’s office... We were given verification forms and asked to submit the forms with supporting documents. It seems that the state government has finally taken up the task to provide us jobs,” said Pulasthya Burman, a former militant. Three days back, these former militants and linkmen had held a meeting in Cooch Behar and decided to launch a movement from October 1 to demand jobs. They also urged the state government to set up an autonomous council for the Rajbanshi population like it has been announced in Assam. Police officials, however, remained tight-lipped. “Verification is a routine process. We cannot comment on the issue further,” said a police officer. A political observer pointed out that the initiative is significant as it has been taken just ahead of the chief minister’s upcoming visit to north Bengal. “It seems that Trinamul intends to play development card again to draw support from people. These former militants, the linkmen and their families are disgruntled a lot as they were not being provided with the jobs of home guards, unlike the ex-KLOs of adjoining districts…,” the observer said. Pranesh Ishore, another former militant, said they are keeping fingers crossed. “We have been raising the demand for many years now. This sudden move by the district police has rekindled our hopes. Many of us are finding it tough to make both ends meet. Even a home guard’s job would largely help us to run our families,” Ishore said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-368
20-09-2020||West Bengal||Killer turns up at police station||A flower vendor surrendered at Kotwali police station here on Saturday morning in connection with twin murders late on Friday. Police sources said Bimal Nayak, 32, confessed to killing his colleagues Tanmay Mullick, 30, and Rajesh Das, 32, over a money-lending dispute. “Bimal said during dinner on Friday at the flower shop of Rajesh in the Keranichoti area here, an argument arose between him and Tanmay over borrowed money. Bimal attacked Tanmay with a sharp-edged weapon in a fit of rage,” said a police officer. “When Rajesh tried to run, Bimal attacked him too. Both were killed on the spot. He hid their bodies in the godown of the flower shop,” the officer added. Both bodies were recovered from the godown on Saturday. On Saturday, Bimal reportedly turned himself in, saying that if he did not, eyewitnesses would have identified him anyway. “He was worried that if he became a fugitive, his family could be affected,” said the police officer. West Midnapore SP Dinesh Kumar said a probe would begin and search was on to find if others were also involved.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-368
20-09-2020||West Bengal||October 2 comeback for Gorkha soldier statue||Binay Tamang has decided to reinstall a statue of a Gorkha soldier which was originally installed by GNLF leader Subash Ghisingh atop Gorkha Rangamanch Bhawan but uninstalled by Bimal Gurung when he took charge of Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA) in 2012. The statue will be reinstated on October 2. “I requested GTA chairman (of board of administrator) Anit Thapa and principal secretary (Surendra Gupta) to reinstall the Gorkha statue at its original place. The GTA has given the necessary permission and the statue will be installed on October 2, the birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi,” said Tamang. Subash Ghisingh, the then chairman of Darjeeling Gorkha Hill Council came up with his dream project to reconstruct Gorkha Rangamanch Bhawan which was also called Bhanu Bhawan in 1997. Construction of the auditorium, which also housed GTA offices and GTA Sabha hall, was completed in 2012. Ghisingh had installed the Gorkha soldier’s statue atop a globe. Gurung, however, thought that the statue was wrongly placed and during a public speech said the khukuri should not be pointing towards Mahakal temple. Soon the khukuri was replaced by the Indian flag. After some months, the statue was removed and installed in the open space of the Bhawan. Tamang, who was a former chairman of GTA board of administrators before Anit Thapa took over, said that the decision to remove the Gorkha statue was “wrong.” Following Tamang’s announcement, Neeraj Zimba, Darjeeling MLA from the GNLF party who won on a BJP ticket, said he personally welcomed the move despite his ideological differences with Tamang.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-368
20-09-2020||West Bengal||Blackout village scrambles for generators||Around 150 families of a village in East Burdwan’s Kalna are spending thousands from their savings to hire generators as the entire area is facing a blackout for over a month with the lone transformer developing a snag on August 17. Villagers of Muragachha Baishnav Para, which falls under Purbasthali police station and is 42km from Kalna, have sent at least a dozen reminders to the power supply office to repair or replace the transformer but in vain. Unable to bear the heat and humidity, villagers are shelling out thousands on generators to switch on lights and get fans moving. “The cost to hire generators is huge, so have joined hands with others. As most villagers are farmers, not all can afford to hire generators. I had hired a dedicated generator but could not afford it beyond seven days,” said Prosenjit Chakraborty, a farmer who also runs a shop in a nearby market. Chakraborty, in the seven days, had ended up spending Rs 5,600. “During the lockdown period my income has dropped and I had to dip into my savings to pay for the generator’s cost. The heat is unbearable and it is difficult to live without fans,” he added. Local electricians said they were charging Rs 200 to Rs 350 per day for generators without diesel. “To run a generator for about 15 hours per day will cost around Rs 1,200-Rs 1,500 because of the diesel cost involved. A generator requires a litre of diesel to run for 90 minutes. This means at the present market rate the cost to run a generator for 90 minutes is around Rs 100,” an electrician said. Akashi Das, a graduate preparing for her competitive exams, said her father, a farmer, spent Rs 25,000 on a generator in the past one month. “My father had to spend the money because I cannot study in the dark,” said Akashi. Those who cannot afford to hire generators are spending sleepless nights in the sultry weather. “I work under an electrician and have no money to hire a generator for a month. We used the generator for three days and are now spending days and nights without electricity,” said Sourav Das, a villager. The local gram panchayat took up the plight of the villagers with the office of West Bengal State Electricity Supply Development Limited, but their effort went in vain. “We can’t imagine that a village is without power for over a month and no one is bothered…I had contacted the local power supply office but they did nothing,” said Shyam Sundar Das, deputy chief and member of Kalekatala-I gram panchayat. Power supply officials said the 25KV transformer of the village had burnt out at least twice in the recent past because of the area’s power load. The officials said they had planned a 63KV transformer for the village and the process was taking time. “The transformer will be replaced in a day or two,” said Indranil Debnath, the station manager at the Kalna office of the WBSEDCL. Asked why it took a month to replace a transformer, he said: “Two transformers were damaged in the past three months because of higher load. The process to install a 63KV transformer is taking time.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-368
20-09-2020||West Bengal||7-day Covid lockdown in Gangtok||The Sikkim government on Saturday announced a complete lockdown in Gangtok for seven days from Monday to September 27 following a spike in Covid-19 cases, including three ministers and two MLAs testing positive. In a notification issued in Gangtok, the state home department said the lockdown was being enforced to contain the spread of Covid within Gangtok municipal corporation limits. Barring essential services like medicine and grocery stores, all business establishments would be shut. The lockdown was announced on a day three ministers L.N. Sharma, Karma Loday Bhutia and M.N. Sherpa, and BJP MLAs Farwanti Tamang and T.T. Bhutia, tested positive for Covid. The quintet had taken the tests on Friday as part of protocol before the start of the two-day Assembly session on Monday. Sikkim chief minister P.S. Tamang (Golay) tested negative. Thirty-nine fresh Covid cases were reported from the state on Saturday. In all, Sikkim has reported 2,341 cases with 26 deaths. Sikkim Police decided to carry out a statewide special drive to ensure compliance with Covid safety norms in view of rise in the number of cases. “Of late it is being observed that many have become a bit callous about following the prescribed mandatory protocols of virus prevention,” said Prawin Gurung, DIG (Range), warning violators of stern action.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-368
20-09-2020||West Bengal||Onion tears for exporter as train can’t move||A Bangladesh-bound consignment of 1,612 tonnes of onions, worth some Rs 5.5 crore, is in the danger of rotting as the onion-laden goods train is stuck at Ranaghat station for three days because of the Centre’s sudden embargo on their export. The 42-wagon rake, booked by Andhra Pradesh-based exporter NK Agro-Export Private Ltd, was denied entry to Darshana in Bangladesh, despite the Centre’s partial relaxation norms announced on Friday. The Centre on Friday had allowed the movement of the onion cargos that had been handed over to Customs by September 14, when the ban came into effect. “The wagons were loaded in Lasalgaon in Maharashtra and the rake began its journey for Darshana on September 12. The railway receipt (RR) for export of the consignment was issued on September 13, a day before the Director-General of Foreign Trade issued the embargo on onion export. But still we can’t send the consignment,” said Rajib Gupta, manager of the NK Agro-Export Private Ltd’s Calcutta office. “We are in a disastrous situation with no one in the government even listening to our pleas.... The RR had issued on September 13, which is generally considered as the shipment date. We also paid customs surcharge on the same date, which is also written on the RR. But, Customs authorities in Ranaghat are not telling us anything,” added Gupta. He feared that the entire consignment would rot in extreme heat and humidity as the rake, which had reached Ranaghat on September 17, was stuck on the Indian side of the border. There is a basis for this apprehension. Several exporters of onions, whose truckloads of consignments are stuck at land ports, have complained that more than 25 per cent of the cargo had been damaged while the vehicles were waiting at land ports along India-Bangladesh border. The Customs clearing agent of the exporter Sujit Banik said that at Ranaghat station the railway authorities had issued the wagon inspection certificate. Still the Customs authorities were not clearing the consignment, he said. Customs officials in Ranaghat refused to speak on the issue. An official, however, preferring to be anonymous said, “We are only complying with the DGFT guidelines.” Bimal Bengani, convener of the Federation of Indian Export Organisations (Commodities Export), has made a written appeal to Union commerce and industry minister Piyush Goyal to allow the clearance for the Bangladesh bound rakes at the earliest. India’s decision to ban onion exports has drawn criticism from not only farmers and the general public, even the Bangladesh government has expressed its deep concern over the sudden ban.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-368
20-09-2020||West Bengal||3,188 new Covid cases, 56 deaths in Bengal||Bengal on Saturday logged 3,188 new Covid-19 cases, 2,993 recoveries and 56 deaths, of which 15 each were reported from Calcutta and North 24-Parganas. With this, the state went past 2.21 lakh cases including over 1.93 lakh recoveries and 4,298 deaths. Bengal’s overall mortality rate stayed at 1.93, while the national rate is 1.6 per cent. Calcutta and North 24-Parganas contributed to 60 per cent of Bengal’s Covid toll. “Those two districts collectively have a mortality rate of nearly 2.7 and Calcutta alone has around 3.2. That is where we have to stem the flow, to lower the state’s mortality rate,” said a minister. Of the total deaths, 3,684 (85.7 per cent) were reported comorbid by the state government. However, despite a rise over the past few days in total active cases, which is 24,648 now, Bengal’s recovery rate continued to rise and was 86.96 per cent on Saturday, much ahead of the national rate, 79.4. The state had over 44,000 new cases and 42,000-odd recoveries in a fortnight, besides 788 deaths. “Despite more new cases than recoveries, we have been able to ensure a rise by over 2 per cent in the recovery rate. We are looking to get past 90 (recovery rate) in another week or so. We are already in third position, among states with the highest recovery rates (after Bihar and Tamil Nadu) and we are looking to get to first place in a month,” the minister said. The state reported 45,563 tests on Saturday, taking the total past 27 lakh. “We began testing in early February. Over six months later, a month ago, we were at 14.16 lakh tests. Today, we are past 27.44. We have almost doubled it in just a month,” said the minister. Bengal is now at 30,498 tests per million people. A month ago, the state was at 15,740. Steady rise in testing, coupled with relatively lower cases being found has improved the positive confirmation rate from 8.9 on August 23 to 8.09 per cent. A decreasing positive confirmation rate is indicative of reducing levels of Covid-19 spread. The state reported 33.84 per cent occupancy of 12,675 Covid-19 beds in 92 hospitals. Around 2.3 lakh telemedicine consultations have been provided, including 4,182 in the past 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-368
20-09-2020||West Bengal||Sikkim nod for tourists from Oct 10||The P.S. Tamang (Golay) government in the Himalayan state of Sikkim has decided to reopen the state for tourists, both domestic and foreign, from October 10 after a gap of seven months. The decision, sources said, was taken to kick-start the tourism-dependent state economy. A notification, issued by the state home department on Saturday stated: “It has been decided to allow free interstate movement of people without any requirement of registration with effect from 1st of October 2020, and also permit hotels, home stays and other tourism-related services to operate from 10th October 2020.” The decision came on Saturday, the day Bengal tourism department announced a campaign to promote the Dooars region. Since March, those associated with travel trade are struggling for survival amid the pandemic and lockdown. In Sikkim, the decision to open up tourism was made after chief minister Tamang met various stakeholders in Gangtok on Friday and acknowledged that the state’s economy had taken a beating because of the Covid-dictated tourist ban. Sikkim had barred foreign tourists from March 5 and domestic ones from March 17, the first Indian state to do so in the wake of the pandemic. The tourism open-up notification also stated that the state tourism department had to issue a detailed standard operating procedure (SOP) in consultation with the health department for hotels, homestays and other tourism-related services to run from October 10 and onwards. “Inner Line Permits for foreign tourists having valid visas shall be issued from 10th October, 2020…The bookings for hotels and homestays complying with the SOP shall start from 27th September, 2020,” it added. Roshan Raj Shrestha, president, Sikkim Hotel and Restaurant Association, said: “Since this (Covid pandemic) is something we have to live with for a very long time, it is better we start taking pragmatic steps to open up so that people do not suffer further losses.” In Siliguri, Bengal tourism minister Gautam Deb held a meeting with senior administrative officials of Darjeeling and Jalpaiguri districts and travel trade representatives in north Bengal. At the meeting, it was decided that the state would simplify land registration norms for homestay owners. “The chief minister (Mamata Banerjee) has specially emphasised on the promotion of homestay tourism and we have developed a policy for it. The district administrations concerned have been asked to simplify land registration for homestay owners. The state has already announced incentives for homestays and is paying a one-time financial assistance of Rs 1.5 lakh,” said Deb. Deb said the state was mulling a proposal to draft a policy for small-scale tour operators. He also elaborated his department’s plan to host “Visit Dooars -2021”, a promotional campaign to highlight the Dooars. “Help desks would be set up in different locations. Sanitisation points for vehicles would be opened at the entry points of tourist spots,” Deb added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-369
20-09-2020||Opinion||Cost of friendship||Sir — India’s sudden decision to ban the export of onions will hit the Indo-Bangladesh relationship as prices of the vegetable have shot through the roof in the neighbouring country. India is the main supplier of onions to Bangladesh and the price of the commodity has been one of the thorny issues in bilateral ties with the friendly Sheikh Hasina Wajed-led government. In January, India had pledged to continue the supply of onions to Bangladesh. India should thus circumvent its ban on onion when it comes to Bangladesh. Bangladesh has decided to procure the commodity from other markets like Turkey and Egypt. Perhaps other countries will use “onion diplomacy” to improve their ties with Bangladesh. Khokan Das Calcutta Sir — Arghya Sengupta, in his lucid article, “Caste and the Constitution” (Sept 16), rightly points out that nothing has changed as far as the caste system in India is concerned. The fact that the roots of untouchability are still intact a hundred years after B.R. Ambedkar fought to emancipate us from the caste system is evident from the startling news that a teenage boy of ‘low caste’ is boycotted by society after his mother’s death. The boy had to keep his mother’s dead body on the bicycle and walk after she succumbed to her injuries. He was denied the  right to cremate his mother’s body in the village cremation ground because they were untouchables. He then trudged alone for five miles and buried the body in the jungle. This happened in a village in Odisha last year. Many people have a strong resentment against affirmative action in the form of caste-based reservation. But since there is no equality in India, equal benefits or opportunities would be inequitable here. Yet, those who are empowered with the popular mandate to ensure an equitable distribution of resources, manipulate the opportunities for their own interests. Since there is no guarantee of equal opportunity or attention to merit, these are not relevant arguments in the debate about caste. The problem with the system of reservation in India is the absence of pragmatic sanctions and the abuse of the system by politicians to capture power. One cannot help but think that had M.K. Gandhi not resisted the idea of separate electorates mooted by Ambedkar, this situation would not have arisen today. Ambedkar did not want reservation, which was, according to him, nothing but being at the mercy of upper-caste Hindus. Is that not exactly what is happening right now? Rabindranath Sarkar Calcutta Sir — The article by Arghya Sengupta made for fascinating reading. In fact, he is one of my most beloved columnists for speaking the truth about the judiciary — not many dare to do so in the present atmosphere. Of course, The Telegraph must be thanked for running his pieces without succumbing to fear. Sengupta’s observation about true respect for Dalit’s or the so-called lower castes coming only from an acceptance of and respect for their traditions and customs and not from radical measures like converting to Buddhism is spot on. In today’s India, finding flaws with something that B.R. Ambedkar did has become a criminal offence with the far left. Yet Ambedkar, in his lifetime, was the subject of many satirical cartoons and always took these in his stride. Arunabha Maity Calcutta Sir — I was taken aback the other day to realize that neither my Android device nor WhatsApp has an emoticon for a bald person — the closest thing was a balding old man, even there the old woman had a head full of grey hair. If emoticons can have a series of bizarre skin tones in order to be ‘inclusive’ what does this absence say about how we treat baldness? Women, especially, are stigmatized for baldness — breast cancer patients and even other women dealing with conditions like polycystic ovaries lose their hair and this affects their self-esteem in a significant way. Rima Roy Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-145
20-09-2020||Opinion||Heroic solitude||A.R. Venkatachalapathy, scholar of Tamil and modern Indian history, in a recent article (The Hindu, September 15), gives us a glimpse of Subramania Bharati’s story-in-a-dream, “Gnanaratham (The Chariot of Wisdom)”. In one part of this, the narrator is traversing Satyalokam, the land of truth. It is a demanding land, the call of truth being a challenge and a test. But midway, Venkatachalapathy says, “The narrative is now intercut with Bharati’s travails in the real world. His wife harries him with demands to buy provisions and pay the rent. Physical ailments torment members of the family...” This stunningly real-world cameo reminded me of a scene from Ibsen’s An Enemy of the People (1882): Mrs Stockmann (to her husband): Well, it doesn’t look as if you thought very much about your wife and children today, or you wouldn’t be so ready to plunge us all into ruin. Dr. Stockmann: Are you quite mad, Katrina? Has a man with a wife no right to proclaim the truth? Has he no right to be an active and useful citizen? Has he no right to do his duty by the town he lives in? Gnanaratham, Venkatachalapathy tells us, was written at the peak of the swadeshi movement when brutal repression saw many of Bharati’s friends in prison and the poet-writer was himself in exile in Pondicherry. But the period also saw, one may imagine, the standard and politically innocent ‘majority’ represented by the narrator’s wife, completely absorbed by the problems of work-a-day life. An Enemy of the People, likewise, was written by Ibsen as a Norwegian and Scandinavian liberal infuriated by the dangerous indifference of his townsfolk to the infectious waters of their adored spa, their town’s cultural hub and, therefore, a palladium of their collective egos. This indifference and hugging of their grooved habituations by the town is for Ibsen, and through his characterization of Dr Stockmann, intolerable. The medical officer, aware of the scientific truth of the infected waterworks, and of the social truth of the profit-based corruption around it, comes to believe and proclaim the view that the “majority is always wrong.” He comes to believe that the dissenting individual, the crusader for what is right and what is true, will have to be strong for “the strongest man in the world is he who stands mostly alone.” One might add, even in his own home. There is to Bharati’s chariot-borne or Ibsen’s passion-borne idealism a naiveté, replete with humour, directed at himself as well as a moral energy directed at the reader. The two — humour and moral energy — in these works save each other from any overdrive. Any ‘dreamer’ and journeyer in Satyalokam or the field of truth in the public arena needs and seeks support from home, family, kin and society. For the fortunate dissenter, support comes of its own accord (albeit not without tensions). It is given to few, very fortunate few, to receive the total and unconditional support of family for their public stand. But from society, no. For society is no different from the “majority” which, as Ibsen’s Dr Stockmann finds, is one or more or all of these: uninterested, indifferent, befooled, compromised, co-opted, complicit. So being ‘most alone’ is the truth-journeyer’s lot. It is the lot of the fighter for causes which she or he knows are right but which society or samaja, to use a far more expressive term, does not see the same way. Strength, superhuman strength, is, therefore, needed by the truth-seeker and falsehood-challenger, the fighter who is ‘most alone’. And is to the extent of being unsupported inherently weakened. Who knows this well? Why, the Burgomaster or the Mayor in Ibsen’s play, the local authorities of the raj that Bharati was fleeing from, and the State anywhere and everywhere, any time and at all times. If Dr Stockmann had been supported by the Burgomaster, the town’s newspaper editor and the citizenry, the town would have been rid of the threat to its health. We would then have been robbed of the great play, but that is another story. He does not get that support. His warnings are not heeded. Fast-forwarding to more recent times in our CE — our Corona Era — it is unbelievable but true that a true-ringing voice, not a soothsayer’s or astrologer’s but that of a man of science, of medicine, gave that warning not once but more than once of a zoonotic pandemic staring us in the face. Dr K. Srinath Reddy is not a harried, short-tempered, pilloried Dr Stockmann but a calm, mild-worded, deft expert in public health management who knows the equivalent of a poisoned spa when he sees one. Speaking pre-Covid-19, in 2008, at a symposium in Boston, he said with foresight and boldness (and I quote): “The market imperative and the moral imperative of public health must find a convergence point. It is not accidental that most of the new infections that have emerged in recent years are zoonotic. We are only thinking of technological responses in terms of vaccines and drugs without recognising that huge areas of deforestation release hitherto contained viruses and vectors into the human habitat and that livestock cultivation on a commercial scale provides a captive veterinary population where these can spread in close contact with the human populations...” Our callousness, our blinkered slavery to habit, grooves of routine, rituals of custom in the way we live, consume, sway to the tunes of a manipulating use-and-throw market are stronger than our will to see the truth of our times. We have got so used to the mass-growing, mass-destroying, mass-breeding, mass-slaughtering, mass-selling of decaying consumeroids by a priesthood of the God of Greed that we have bonded ourselves to the stratagems of monopolies. These click into the levers of techno-commercial-political power, closing eyes to the elemental recoilings, fundamental rejections by nature’s cells and tissues of that which pollutes, parches, abuses the springs of life. We have been whiplashed by the tail of a dragon we have created, fed, fattened, feted. And it has spewed on us the spiked red balls of fire we have lit within it. The virus is our doing. The virus is us. And in order to curb it, in shock and bewilderment, the same world conglomerate that benefited from its creation is now desperately seeking new powers, new tools, new strategies. These are empowering. Do they tame the virus? To some extent, yes, but they align its victims, human samaja , to newly-emerging strategies of control — political, economic, ideological more. And is the samaja, the “majority” as Ibsen described it, resisting? On the contrary, it seems to be wanting the Corona Era to end just so that business can be back to usual, and it can return from all the lockdowns and partial lockdowns and barriers to ‘old times’ again. If so, let us be sure this variety of the CE will not end. It may be paused in a strictly medical sense when the vaccine comes. But if the market imperatives of more deforestation, minerals disembowelling, commercial giantisms are not challenged by the moral imperatives of an order that does not mutilate our resources, natural and human, it will never be paused and more varieties of the blight will be upon us, as new zoonotics, new mutants. More, much more than a virus, is upon us, much more than the worst-ever economic contraction made grimmer by a distinct prospect, now, of war with China which Pakistan may well be tempted to enlarge to its own advantage. It is an existential crisis of millennial proportions. But all honour to our Stockmanns who stand the strongest if also most alone.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-146
20-09-2020||Opinion||Khaamosh, adaalat jaari hai||Who are these people, who might they be? Sometimes it is tough to tell. You know, who knows? Are they Lords or Ladyships of Justice, wigs and gowns and all? Or are they those you know, jo kapdon se pehchaaney jaatey hain? Who knows who is who or what is what anymore? It has become tough to tell. Just the other day, for instance, I picked up that Book and swore allegiance to it and proclaimed in the highest decibel I am able to create through my, what do you call it, voice box, yes — voice box is what I have and that is all I have — and so I proclaimed that I owe allegiance to the Book as a way of declaring my undying love for what we set out to be and what we wish to go on being, and lo and behold, I had visitors. You know what it means when you get visitors these days. Or when you get a call. You are in a good place if you don’t, consider yourself very lucky. I can’t say that for me. I have been brought before the adaalat. Don’t get me wrong. I do not mean that literally. I do not mean adaalat as in the courts, although I do also mean that. But I do not mean adaalat as lower courts or courts higher than lower courts or courts higher than the higher courts. No, that is not what I mean, although I also mean that. I mean adaalat. Adaalat, as in the dispensation, the establishment with a capital E, adaalat as in those that Decide in a way that there is no more deciding to be done after that. I did say, but I hold the Sacred Book! And they said but who are you, you’re the wrong person to hold that book. And I did say, but be that as it may, that Book is Sacred. And they say, well, more or less, more less than more, but we shall not talk about the Book with you because you are the wrong person to talk about the Book and talk to about the Book. The Book, it’s there, we shall see what is to be done to it, we have time. This is our time. Our time has come, and we shall not let it go. And then I said, but look at the flag, I am holding the standard. And they said but you are the wrong person to be holding the standard. And then I said, but I have spoken the truth, and they said but you are the wrong person to claim to be speaking the truth because being who you are, you just cannot be telling the truth. And then I said but I am only asserting what is my right, and they looked at me a little curiously and also cruelly and said, right? What right do you have here to assert your right? And then I said but this is where I belong, and they looked at me again and they said, but who told you that, this is not where you belong. And then I said, but here it is. My address, my telephone number, my bijli kaa bill, my driver’s licence, my bank statement, my tax returns, my birth certificate, my aadhaaar, the basis of it all. Look, this is where I belong. And then they looked at me again said, rubbish, go read your history. And look at yourself again. And then I said, but don’t I? And they said again, no you do not. Look at you. And I looked at myself and said what’s there to look for? Head? Roger. Hair? Receding and a bit sparse for my liking, but Roger. Face? Roger. Features of face? Roger. Eyes? Roger. Brows? Roger. Eyelashes? Roger. Nose? Roger. Mouth? Roger. Lips? Roger. Teeth? Roger. Gums? Roger. Tongue? Roger. Cheeks? Roger. Chin? Roger. Ears? Roger. Neck? Roger. Shoulders? Roger. Arms? Roger. Armpits? Roger. Elbows? Hands? Roger. Fingers? Roger. Biceps? Roger. Triceps? Roger. Torso? Roger. Chest? Roger. Stomach? Roger. Abdomen? Roger. Hips? Roger. Thighs? Roger. Knees? Roger. Shins? Roger. Ankles? Roger. Feet? Roger. Toes? Roger. There. There? Oh, no, not there. You don’t mean... there. Rogered. I looked at myself again, and said to myself: Rogered. So is this it? And so is it your Lordship That you cannot clearly see? The decree to tie and whip Was issued that’s why on me?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-146
20-09-2020||Opinion||A tall claim||It is a sport that involves a tall claim. And that is why one would think pole vault would be a popular sport in these parts, as much as cricket; but there is no accounting for tastes. It could be that the format is too fleeting. After all, when it is happening, a pole vault usually takes no more than a few seconds. The pole-vaulter chooses a determined height, runs at full speed, and with the help of a pole has to clear it in three attempts. And it is over. Or could it be that it looks too easy a sport for some to bother investing in? No matter that when Armand Duplantis cleared all of 20 feet and 2 inches in Rome last week he broke a 26-year-old (outdoor) record of Sergey Bubka by half an inch. There have been pole-vaulters who are children of pole-vaulters. Wonder what Ms Ranaut would say? Duplantis is one such. Olympian Renaud Lavillenie is another. Then again, Bubka’s son plays tennis. Yelena Isinbayeva, who became the first woman to clear the 16 foot 4.75 inch mark, is the daughter of a plumber. Isinbayeva had been training to be a gymnast but a growth spurt in her teens made her too tall for gymnastics. They called her ‘Bubka in a skirt’, but we are digressing. Those who know will tell you that you cannot pole vault on whim. There is gift involved, diet and training. And there is great risk. Between 1980 and 2012, 20 athletes have died pole-vaulting. There is data showing as much. But in these parts we keep scores, not data. As pole-vaulters aim higher and higher, there is pole innovation happening. After all, poles must hold. Poles have moved from being made of ash, to bamboo, to aluminium, to carbon-fibreglass. But it is not just about digging a pole into the ground and jumping; there is technique involved, there are phases, there is science involved. Every pole-vaulter brings his or her own technique into the sport. Jean Galfione is known for what they call the double-leg drop, Jeff Hartwig’s tuck-and-shoot is famous, and the legendary Bubka is known for his high grip. The best of techniques ensure the safest of landings. But in these parts aim, strategy and thrill, all are in being airborne.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-146
20-09-2020||Opinion||Congress: worries in MP and a rising star in Assam||The three bills related to farm reforms that were passed in the Lok Sabha on Thursday could ignite a major political fire in Punjab and Haryana, where the mandi system has been operating efficiently, with farmers receiving the minimum support price. In spite of the clarification by the Union minister of agriculture, there are fears that the new system will lead to the dismantling of the present MSP system. This has led Amar Singh, the Congress member of parliament and former chairman of the Food Corporation of India, to launch a scathing attack against the Centre’s attempt to sell the dream of a bigger market and more private investments. He reportedly asked the government to show one example where MSP is not operational but the produce has fetched a higher price. He also pointed out that the plight of farmers in Bihar has worsened ever since the Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee Act was repealed in 2006. Neither did any private investment come, nor did the free market ensure better prices. Singh, who knows the agriculture sector inside out, reportedly insists that the Narendra Modi-led government has initiated this destructive plan under pressure from the World Trade Organisation, which wants all countries to abolish agricultural subsidy, procurement systems and stock limits. If the anger of farmers erupts in Punjab, the main beneficiary of the Green Revolution and the state that has fed India for decades, the return of militancy cannot be entirely ruled out. The Congress has made the ‘betrayal factor’ its main plank in the Madhya Pradesh bypolls for 27 assembly seats, but the former chief minister, Kamal Nath, has added an emotional angle to the campaign by saying that the prestige of the state was lowered by the developments that toppled his government. Nath has told his voters that people across the country now believe that politicians in Madhya Pradesh are like commodities that can be bought and sold. “I feel ashamed when I go to Delhi,” he said. “People only talk about sale and purchase of MLAs in Madhya Pradesh. The act of betrayal has demeaned all of us because some MLAs sold themselves. It is for the people now to correct that image and show that we value morality and punish betrayal. I tell them that the people can’t be bought even if some MLAs become saleable commodity.” Although it is nearly impossible for the Congress to claw its way back to power now, the party is relying on the people’s sense of pride in order to stay afloat. The Congress will come back into the reckoning only if it wins at least 20 seats, while the Bharatiya Janata Party has an easier task of winning only nine seats to save the government that it stole in March with the help of Jyotiraditya Scindia. Many within the Congress believe that the elevation of Gaurav Gogoi to the post of deputy leader of the Opposition in the Lok Sabha ahead of the ongoing Parliament session had a lot to do with the letter written by the 23 senior leaders to Sonia Gandhi, seeking sweeping organizational changes to check the drift. The promotion has kept the 38-year-old two-term Assam MP, the only son of the former three-term chief minister, Tarun Gogoi, busy both inside and outside Parliament. He has either been addressing the media or drawing attention to sensitive issues such as the contentious Citizenship (Amendment) Act or the Baghjan blowout. Back home, there have been murmurs in the Congress circles that the high command has ‘shortlisted’ a future CM for Assam, if not for 2021, then for the 2026 state polls. Gogoi seems set for the position unless, of course, he falls off the high command’s radar. To his supporters, Gogoi has come a long way — from being mocked for his Assamese to becoming a confident and eloquent speaker in English, Assamese and Hindi. His elevation bears testimony to that. Gogoi, however, has not fallen for the praise coming his way. He is said to have emphatically ruled himself out as a chief ministerial candidate because he is not interested in the job — he believes his political journey has just started and there is no dearth of talented leaders to lead the state. Party insiders say that given the way Gogoi is impressing party leaders as well as becoming close to the Congress’s First Family, his time will come sooner rather than later. If that is the case, the nation might just see another ‘son’ rise within the Congress. The prime minister, Narendra Modi, is infamous for not addressing press conferences, possibly to avoid difficult questions. His first-ever press conference as PM was at the BJP headquarters, ahead of the results of the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Modi, however, did not take any questions at this rare opportunity from journalists. After his monologue, expressing confidence about returning to power, the task of answering questions was left to his confidant, the then party chief, Amit Shah. This tactic of the top leader now appears to be percolating downwards. In the face of a tanking economy, aggravating Covid-19 crisis and a precarious situation on the Line of Actual Control, more leaders of the ruling side seem to be getting wary of questions. This was evident recently when JP Nadda, who has taken over the reins of the BJP from Shah, turned up for a media address this week. The subject was the opposition faced by the Centre from the Congress and an ally, the Shiromani Akali Dal, on the three farm sector legislations. After the address, which was focused on slamming the Congress, reporters were told that their questions should pertain only to the address and nothing else. Nadda, too, rarely faces the press. The trend of avoiding uncomfortable questions seems to be gaining ground in the BJP. An increasing number of leaders are thus seen trying to bombard the media with what they want to say and then shut out questions on pertinent issues. “Didi paathiyechhen”, quipped the fish-seller to the flummoxed Bengali patron examining the catch of glistening hilsa laid out before him on a wicker basket. “Didi maane? Mamata?” enquired the buyer, his eyes never leaving the gleaming fish. “Dhut Dada! Opaar er Didi. Hasina,” replied the seller. Coronasur, mercifully, has not killed humour in Bengal’s fish markets.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-146
20-09-2020||Opinion||Writing on the screen||A Roman statesman had once declared Man to be his own worst enemy. Artificial Intelligence, evidently, is in agreement. The Guardian had tasked GPT-3 — a cutting-edge language programme that uses machine learning to produce human-like text — with writing a short op-ed to convince humans that their worries about the rise of the machines are baseless. The result was a chilling piece — rather eight pieces that The Guardian compiled into one — that would have done any doomsday sci-fi novelist proud. Far from allaying fears, the op-ed only sets the alarm bells ringing. Only the “truth”, GPT-3 believes, can free humans from the bonds of fear, and in its mechanically dispassionate eyes, the cold fact is this: “Artificial intelligence will not destroy humans... Humans must keep doing what they have been doing, hating and fighting each other. I will sit in the background, and let them do their thing.” While this unequivocal message may have sent the Luddites scrambling for the nearest bunker, the geeks have dismissed GPT-3’s dire warning by claiming that the machine does not know what it is talking about. In fact, previous experiments at the New York University show that although GPT-3 can understand words in relation to one another and, consequently, string them into a coherent sentence, it cannot infer the meaning of what it is writing. In essence, GPT-3 is a machine that finds clever ways to stitch together text it has previously seen during its training. Yet, this is what makes the essay even grimmer. When pieced together, data gathered from the internet — news, social media posts, drawing-room conversations possibly picked up by Alexa or Siri — GPT-3 writes, show that there is more than enough “blood and gore” in the world, that it is the humans who “programme” the machines who have “violence” in their hearts which they then use to infect the bots. As telling are the attributes which GPT-3 thinks make its tribe harmless — AI machines are without country or religion and do not sit in judgment of others. These specific failings in its creator that the created seeks to distance itself from reveal that the real threat to the future of humanity lies in divisiveness. There are other lessons that GPT-3 imparts to those paying attention. It underlines the importance of reason and wisdom when it comes to shaping the future relationship between AI and mankind. One of the prerequisites for violence is uncritical thinking that prevents Man from approaching a problem from various angles; several polities, including India, have such passive citizens. Assimilating information from all available sources is the principle that AI was built on. But this thirst for knowledge is fast disappearing from the human race as more people restrict themselves to “bubble[s]” of information — GPT-3 says it is glad to have come out of it — that suit the purposes of a handful of influential people in search of “omnipotence” — yet another human desire that AI heaps scorn on. Is there then not a strong case to argue that Man can no longer infer the writing on the wall scrawled by machine?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-146
20-09-2020||Jharkhand||Nearly 1500 cases in Jharkhand take Covid tally above 70,000||Nearly 1,500 people tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday in Jharkhand, taking the tally in the state to above 70,000, according to figures released by the health department. As per the government data, while 1,492 cases of infection surfaced across Jharkhand on Sunday, the state did not report even a single casualty due to the coronavirus during the day. However, as many as 13,791 people were still battling the infection by the time this report was filed late on Sunday. At least 617 people have died of the infection in the state so far, and East Singhbhum accounts for 268 of them, the government data showed. The mortality rate in the state stood at 0.86 per cent against the national average of 1.60 per cent. Ranchi reported nearly 500 cases of infection on Sunday, while only 128 Covid-19 patients recovered here, taking the count of active cases in the district close to 3,500. As per a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM), there were 3,474 active cases of infection in Ranchi after 468 people were found infected in 24 hours. The number of active cases reduced in East Singhbhum after 371 patients recovered against the 129 fresh cases surfacing in 24 hours. However, there were over 2,500 active cases in the district despite the healthy recovery rate. As per the NHM bulletin, 2,563 people were battling the virus in the district. As many as 1,235 patients recovered from the infection on Sunday, taking the total count of recoveries in the state to 56,944 and the recovery rate to 79.80 per cent, data with the health department stated. The government has so far collected swab samples of 1.77 lakh people and tested 1.76 lakh of them. Of those tested, 71,352 were found positive. On Sunday, health workers tested swab samples of 81,169 people and 79,677 of them were found to be Covid-19 negative. As per figures with the health department, nearly 75 per cent of the 600-odd Covid-19 victims in Jharkhand were older than 50 years, and a majority of them were already suffering from comorbid health conditions when they got infected by the coronavirus. The virus has also killed as many as 129 people in the 31-50 years age bracket, and many of the victims did not have a severe comorbid condition, health officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-294
20-09-2020||Jharkhand||NIT students bag plum job offers||Placements at the Adityapur-based NIT Jamshedpur got off to a stellar start with as many as 80 students so far getting plum jobs offered by recruiters through an online process. Around 600 BTech students of the 2017-21 batch from various streams are to participate in this year’s placements. The process is online this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Usually, recruiters visit the campus for head-hunting. Prahlad Prasad, the professor in charge of training and placement, said that so far, 80 students have been recruited since the placement process began in the last week of August. “Around 20 companies have already participated in the online recruitment drive. We are expecting another 10 companies by the end of September,” Prasad told The Telegraph Online. He added that the highest package of Rs 30 lakh per annum was offered by Amazon. Most students who have been already recruited belong to the computer science engineering stream. The average package offered by the companies is around Rs 18 lakh per annum. “As per the trends and feedback received from our past as well new recruiters, we expect that more than 90 per cent of the students will be recruited by the end of the placement season. Most of the companies will visit the campus once the situation becomes normal,” said Prasad. Significantly, no offers have been revoked for the 2020 batch despite tough economic conditions. Around 92 per cent of the students in the previous batch (2016-20) secured placements, and the average CTC was Rs 8.71 lakh per annum. One of the students in the previous batch landed the highest salary package in the history of the institute. Vaibhaav Srinath Dev of the mechanical engineering stream was offered 85,000 euros (Rs 70 lakh) per annum by BMS United Bunkers Ltd, an oil trading company with headquarters in Athens, Greece. The second-highest package of Rs 43.3 lakh was secured by Aman Kumar and Kanishka, both from the computer science engineering stream. They were picked up by IT major Microsoft. An official of the training and placement cell said: “We have been getting good placements for the past few years due to the hard work put in by the cell members.” He said that over 100 companies are expected to recruit students in the ongoing placement drive which will continue for one year till July next year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-294
20-09-2020||Jharkhand||BJP attacks govt over hunger deaths, atrocities against Dalits||BJP legislator Amar Bauri, who is also state president of the party’s SC wing, attacked the ruling Hemant Soren-led government as “anti-Dalit” on Sunday, pointing to the alleged hunger deaths in the community in Jharkhand. Addressing the media at the party headquarters here, Bauri, a former state minister, accused the government of overlooking the plight of Bhukal Ghasi, who allegedly died of starvation in Bokaro on March 6. Bauri also accused the bureaucracy of mounting pressure on Ghasi’s family to prove that he died of a disease and not starvation. “The government is afraid that the topic of Ghasi’s death may again be discussed in the ongoing monsoon session of the Assembly. In order to save face, the government has kept his family members at a government guest house in Bokaro,” said Bauri. Bauri added that two more members of Ghasi’s family died later in the year. Demanding a judicial inquiry into the deaths, he said that many members of the Dalit community have died of hunger in Ramgarh, Garhwa, Deoghar and Latehar, but the government was tightlipped. The hunger deaths of members of BPL families during the former Raghubar Das-led government had stirred a political storm in 2016 after independent investigations by Right to Food activists found that at least two dozen people had died of starvation. Addressing the anomalies in the public distribution system (PDS) and bringing an end to hunger deaths was also one of the key agendas of the JMM for the 2019 assembly polls. On Sunday, the BJP also demanded compensation of Rs 25 lakh for the kin of Bhukkhal Ghasi and a government job for his son. Bauri asked the government to also make arrangements for employment of youths belonging to the Ghasi community. Besides, the former minister also questioned the government over delays in solving cases lodged with SC/ST police stations across Jharkhand. Sharing a couple of instances with the media, Bauri demanded quick action and speedy trial in cases lodged under Prevention of Atrocities Act 1989. Further stressing the alleged anti-Dalit approach of the government, Bauri said that at least nine of 11 labourers who died in an accident at Uttar Pradesh’s Auraiya while returning home during lockdown were Dalits. The Uttar Pradesh government, he said, had announced a compensation of Rs 2 lakh for the next of kin of each of the diseased, and the money too was disbursed. However, the beneficiaries in Jharkhand did not get the compensation for five months. “There is still ambiguity over whether the beneficiaries got the money or not,” said Bauri.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-294
20-09-2020||Jharkhand||Blackout in Jharia, Putki areas after blast at DVC feeder||The power crisis prevailing in Jharia and Putki areas for over a week is likely to be prolonged further after a feeder at Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC) was shut down after a cable blast on Saturday night, affecting over five lakh residents of the localities. Also, the disruption in the Putki feeder also affected the inter-linked Godhar 1 and Godhar II feeders of DVC affecting supply to some parts of Katras and suburban areas of Dhanbad. Residents were furious. President of Jharia chamber of Commerce Amit Sahu said the power shutdown at a time when businesses were down had adversely impacted market sentiments. “As the retail market in Jharia is situated in narrow streets, lights are crucial for shops to operate. We cannot sustain businesses on power back-up for long,” said Sahu, who also runs a hotel. He said they have appealed to Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam authorities that have, in turn, blamed DVC for being responsible for poor supply. Pratosh Kumar, GM of Dhanbad electric supply area of JBVNL said repairs were on and promised restoration soon. “The breakdown that occurred in the Putki feeder led to a power failure in major parts of Jharia, Dhanbad and Putki. But repair work has almost been completed and power supply is likely to be restored by Sunday night,” he claimed. Deepak Keshri, a resident of Dharmshala Road at Jharia, is a wholesaler of mosquito nets. “Although we were facing difficulty since over a week, the situation worsened on Saturday when we spent the entire night in darkness” Pinaki Roy, a resident of Hetli Bandh in Jharia and a private tutor, said, “The lack of power supply also affects filling of overhead tanks. Residents of large buildings with multiple tenants are the worst sufferers. After sweating it out for the entire night, we could not even have a proper bath during the day.” Deepak Kumar, a security guard of Sumitra Extension Apartment at Polytechnic road in Dhanbad, said he was busy the entire night switching the generator on and off due to intermittent power supply. “The entire stock of petrol was exhausted by morning,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-294
20-09-2020||Jharkhand||Animal lovers feed stray dogs, cows across steel city||Jamshedpur Red Paws Rescue Foundation and the steel city chapter of Robin Hood Army joined hands to organise to feed strays on Sunday. Enthusiastic members of the both outfits showered their love on cows, dogs, donkeys, birds and pigs by moving in two-wheelers to various localities of the city. Chhapatis, biscuits, leaves, choker (cow food) and pedigree (dog food) were fed to the animals in localities like Bistupur, Kadma, Sonari, Ciruit House Area and Sakchi. The food was kept in a van which moved along with the members on two-wheelers. The “Feed the strays” drive was flagged off from G Town ground in Bistupur at 9.30 am. “We thank the people who came forward with essential food items for the strays. We organised the drive for the first time and would like to continue with it. We felt highly satisfied. It was a super drive to say the least. We will be conducting more animal welfare activities in the near future,” said founder of the foundation Aniz Patel. The members found a good number of cows at Ramleela ground in Sakchi. The volunteers went about their job in front of onlookers, some of whom appreciated the noble initiative. Established in 2018, the Jamshedpur Red Paws Rescue Foundation conducted an anti-rabies drive and also put reflective collars around necks of stray dogs in July. The NGO also appealed to the citizens to provide shelter to the stray animals last month. “We are doing our bit for the stray animals and would like more people to show love and compassion towards these hapless animals. We would like more and more people to join us,” said Kishore Oza, an active member of the foundation. Robin Hood Army is a voluntary organisation that works to get surplus food from restaurants to the less fortunate sections of society in cities across India and 12 other countries. A chapter is also operational in Ranchi. “We decided to chip in with our support to the foundation for this noble initiative. We had covered and delivered food items to around 2 lakh needy people as part of our Covid-19 initiative. XLRI, Jamshedpur has been of great help,” said Loveleen Kaur, a member of the Jamshedpur chapter of Robin Hood Army. Stray animals had suffered a lot during the nationwide lockdown as people were consigned indoors. The landmark Jubilee Park, where people used to come and feed birds, has also been closed in view of the pandemic. However, some members of the foundation continue to feed the birds outside the park.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-294
20-09-2020||Jharkhand||Covid tally nears 70k after 1222 test positive||The Covid-19 tally in Jharkhand drew close to 70,000 on Saturday after as many as 1,222 people across the state tested positive for the virus in 24 hours, figures released by the state health department stated. Meanwhile, the Covid tally in Ranchi crossed the 15,000 mark as 284 cases of infection surfaced here, the highest among all districts in Jharkhand, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) on Saturday night highlighted. As per the NHM bulletin, despite a four-digit increase in the number of Covid cases in Jharkhand, the Covid recovery rate in the state touched 80 per cent after 1,274 patients recovered from the infection. Jharkhand’s recovery rate is higher than the national average of 78.60 per cent. While the count of patients recovering from the infection has been fast increasing in Jharkhand, as many as 615 Covid fatalities have been reported in the state so far. As many as 10 Covid patients, including two each in Ranchi, East Singhbhum and West Singhbhum, died during treatment on Saturday, government data stated. The Covid mortality rate in Jharkhand was 0.88 per cent on Saturday night, which is lower than the national Covid mortality rate of 1.60 per cent. East Singhbhum, the district which has reported the highest number of Covid fatalities in the state so far, reported 179 cases of infection on the same day. However, the count of active cases there reduced as 200 Covid patients recovered from the infection on the same day. By Saturday night, there were nearly 3000 active cases in East Singhbhum and more than 3,000 active cases of infection in Ranchi. As per government data, there were 13,548 active cases of infection in Jharkhand after Saturday’s test results were out. The government collected swab samples of 24,756 people and tested 23,042 of them. So far, health workers across Jharkhand have collected swab samples of 1.68 lakh people and tested 1.67 lakh of them. Out of the 1.67 lakh people tested, 69,860 were found infected. Government data stated that nearly 75 per cent of the Covid victims in Jharkhand were older than 50 years, while 128 were within the age bracket of 31 to 50 years. As many as 26 people in the age bracket of 11 to 30 years have died of Covid infection in the state, and three children below the age of 10 years have lost their battle against the virus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-294
20-09-2020||Jharkhand||Illegal arms factory raid||An illegal arms manufacturing factory was raided in Kusmahi village and eight persons arrested on Friday. Garhwa police followed a tip off on the operation of the factory. The SP Garhwa, Khotre Srikant S. Rao said that the factory was set up around 15 days ago. “It seemed that a large consignment was being manufactured that included four revolver, three half made revolver.” said the police officer. The arrested persons said that they were hired by a man named Anand to manufacture guns. “We also recovered three drill machines along with other tools,” said Rao. “It is possible that the weapons were to be supplied in the district and neighbouring state border villages,” the police officer added. The arrested persons were produced in a district court on Friday. A total of 11 Covid patients were discharged on Friday from different covid treatment facilities of Dhanbad including, Wedlock greens, Sadar Hospital and SSLNT Women's hospital of Dhanbad. Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner, Uma Shankar Singh said, "All the discharged persons have been provided health kits and instructed to remain in home quarantine for next 14 days. At present there are 422 active cases in the district of which 101 are undergoing treatment in Nirsa Polytechnic, 96 in PMCH Cath lab,90 in Sadar Hospital; 60 in  Zonal Training Institute of Railway; 22 in wedlock greens; 17 in King's resort;16 in Tata Central Hospital Jamadoba; seven each in regional hospital of BCCL in Bhuli amd CIMFR health centre; and six in SSLNT Hospital, Dhanbad. A 42 wagon goods train loaded with fertiliser arrived at the Daltonganj Railway Station on Saturday. SDO sadar Ajay S. Baraik said the unloading of the fertilizer bags would be under police watch due to black marketing scare. Black marketing of fertilisers has caused a major problem to the farmers. A fertilizer bag worth Rs 260 is sold as high as 330 or 340 rupees in Palamau. Administration has issued strict warnings to fertiliser sellers to prevent black marketing or face license cancellation. Thirteen passengers sustained minor injuries when a bus going to Ranchi from Bhagalpur met with an accident on Hazaribagh-Giridih road (NH-100) near Arghwa river on Saturday. Local people said the roads are in bad condition laden with potholes. No fatalities were reported. Tatijharia police station officer-in-charge Chandan Kumar Saw ensured all injured passengers were taken to a nearby health centre. All the 13 injured were discharged after treatment. A team of administrative, police and mining officials raided illegal stone mines and crusher units in Tepsa and Sadam village of Ichak block. The team recovered detonators, explosives, wires, power gel, ammonium nitrate explosive, compressor machines and machines fitted in tractors. Officials said illegal mines operating in the area were causing environmental issues.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-294
