21-09-2020||Calcutta||Online session on mental health||Isolate those with Covid-19 but do not make them feel unwanted, said the head of a school at a session on mental illness. “Let the (Covid) patient (in the family) feel wanted and establish an emotional connect with the person. It’s an age of technology, you can talk to the patient,” said Mukta Nain, the director of Birla High Schools. She was speaking at a webinar on Towards Mental Health 360: Breaking Stigma, Stereotypes and Taboos, organised by Caring Minds on Sunday evening. “Go out to the park and get some fresh air. Parents can do that especially when they have some disagreements, go outside, discuss it and come back. Have the disagreements behind closed doors so they are not displayed in front of the child,” said Nalini Juthani, a psychiatrist from the US. “It is alright to expose children to a healthy argument…. But parents should not fight violently in front of the child or take it beyond a certain point because that will make the child very insecure,” said Minu Budhia, founder director of Caring Minds. Psychiatrist Manoj Shah said with both parents working from home and living in small apartments, it has become a “juggling act” that leads to stress.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-298
21-09-2020||Calcutta||Cop raids for safe nightlife net 830 ||A day after gun shots were fired and bombs hurled inside a hookah bar early on Friday, Calcutta police carried out “block raids” at specific intersections across the city on Saturday night and Sunday. With the bars and nightclubs getting operational, several Calcuttans have started stepping out of their homes to spend the weekend on Park Street or share a drink at their favourite night club. Police officers said it was important to ensure that no one felt unsafe outdoors at night even if only a few people were on the roads. Senior officers said they conducted the block raids — involving blocking intersections by setting up check points — to crack the whip on unruly vehicles, prevent drink driving and ensure police presence to prevent crime on the roads. “These night raids will continue from time to time to restrict criminal activities at night,” said a senior officer at Lalbazar. Three or four men fired and hurled bombs at a café-cum-restaurant in Karaya early on Friday before fleeing. The police suspect that a dispute had triggered the attack. The raids, conducted across the city from 9pm on Saturday to 1am on Sunday, resulted in the prosecution of 830 people for disorderly conduct, 1,070 motorcyclists for riding without helmets, 638 motorcyclists for carrying more than person on the pillion, and six each for drink driving and illegal possession of arms and ammunition. Police pickets and check-points were set up at major intersections under the supervision of the officers of the rank of deputy commissioner. Officers from police stations and traffic guards took part in the raids. The lockdown period and the consequent night curfew had left Calcuttans confined to their homes at night for the past few months. With the beginning of unlock phases, the city’s nightlife is gradually limping back to normal. “Several young people were on the roads like on a typical weekend. People have started coming out again but in fewer numbers,” said an officer in south Calcutta. Another officer said they were trying to implement a two-pronged strategy while controlling night security in the city. “We have been prosecuting hundreds of people for not wearing masks. Now, we are ensuring that anyone who steps out at night does not feel unsafe,” the officer said. Police have not been able to use breathalysers for testing the alcohol consumption of motorists for the past few months to prevent spread of Covid-19. Only motorists who were found visibly sloshed and were tested at hospitals for the presence of alcohol in their body were prosecuted. Officers appealed to motorists that they should not drink and drive taking advantage of the fact that the machines for testing the alcohol content in their blood were not  being used.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-298
21-09-2020||Calcutta||School responds to blood crisis||A school in central Calcutta responded to the crisis of blood in the city during the pandemic and organised a blood donation camp on Sunday. More than 50 people turned up at Chowringhee High School to donate blood through the morning and afternoon. Among them were former students, parents of current students and people in and around Chowringhee Lane, where the school is located. A part of the blood collected will go to The Thalassaemia Society of India. “We have been reading about the scarcity of blood and wanted to do something about it. We know that the Society is also facing a crisis,” said Perminder Dasani, the administrator of the school. Every year the school organises two blood donation camps, in April and September. “We could not organise a camp in April because of the lockdown but arranged for 17 people who donated blood for the children who have thalassaemia,” said Dasani.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-298
21-09-2020||Calcutta||Gloves come to aid of leather trade||Demands for luxury leather products are still much lower compared to what they used to be but Covid-19 has triggered an increased demand for industrial safety gloves, which many leather goods manufacturers and tanneries in Calcutta said was helping them run their units. Several leather goods manufacturers, who would earlier produce wallets and bags for big luxury brands in Europe, Canada and the US, are now producing industrial safety gloves. The tanneries which were processing better quality leather for bags and wallets are now also processing inferior quality leather needed to produce gloves. According to the leather industry sources, there is a 20 per cent growth in the demand for the industrial leather goods across the world compared with last year. The gloves are used mainly by workers in the mining industry, chemical factories and units where hazardous and sharp objects are handled, said leather manufacturers. The mining industry has been declared as an essential sector by governments in Canada, South America, South Africa and other regions. Calcutta produces the largest number of industrial safety leather gloves in India, followed by Chennai, said leather industry sources. Many tanneries said the processed leather meant to be shipped to Europe and other countries is still lying with them. “Malls and stores in Europe and other countries have opened but the demand still has not picked up like it was in the pre-Covid times. Also, the air freight charges have gone up by almost three times. So, exports are still low by almost 50 per cent compared to last year,” said Zia Nafis of Zia Hide Skin Agency. Nafis said tonnes of processed leather had been lying at his Bantala manufacturing unit since March because importers in Italy were not ready to collect the consignments. Big brands manufacturing shoes and other luxury leather items there have slowed down productions. Officials at the Calcutta airport’s cargo division said usually about 4,000 tonnes of leather goods like bags, wallets and belts and finished leather used to be exported every month. In July, the volume was around 1,500 tonnes and in August, around 2,300 tonnes. “The freight has gone up from Rs 100 a kg to more than Rs 300 a kg. Earlier, passenger flights would take the products to Europe and the US. Now, cargo aircraft are carrying the goods and so the charges have gone up,” said an official. Since July, Nafis has been processing low quality hides for gloves manufacturers in Calcutta. “I have processed 2 lakh square feet of leather since July for the industrial gloves manufacturing units. But the price is much lower,” said Nafis. He said the superior quality of leather, used to manufacture bags and wallets, costs Rs 50 per square feet. “The cost of leather used to manufacture gloves is Rs 14 to 15 per square feet. But because of high demand, I am being able to pay wages and meet other overhead costs,” he said. Nehal Zafar, owner of ANS Leather, exports industrial safety gloves. “We could not export because of the lockdown. After that shipments have started moving. There is a 20 per cent increase in demands also,” said Zafar. Md Amir of AN Exim said earlier his unit would process 30,000 to 40,000 square feet of high quality leather meant for bags and wallets. “But there is hardly any demand now for high quality leather. So, I have started processing low quality leather for industrial gloves,” said Amir. In the last six months his unit processed barely 10,000 square feet of fine leather. “I had to shift to process leather for industrial gloves because I have to pay 30 workers. I have processed one lakh square feet of leather for the gloves over the past month," he said. One manufacturer said that around this time of the year, they would be busy arranging for shipments of wallets and bags to Europe and the US for Christmas and New Year. But this time, they are still manufacturing because of the slump. “Importers are apprehensive in Europe and the US about a second wave of Covid. So they are reluctant to place bulk orders,” said the manufacturer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-298
21-09-2020||Calcutta||Comorbidity survey ends, mop-up leg planned||The 14-day survey to identify the prevalence of comorbidities among Calcuttans ended on Sunday with around four lakh households remaining uncovered. A senior state government official said a mop-up exercise would be conducted to ensure the remaining households were surveyed, too. The Calcutta Municipal Corporation had engaged 20 surveyors and two supervisors in each of the 144 wards to conduct the survey, which was undertaken to bolster the government’s Covid response. A CMC official said that by Sunday evening, 6.15 lakh of the 10 lakh-odd households in Calcutta had been surveyed. The survey was conducted by the CMC, state health department and Covid Care Network, an organisation of doctors, health officials and people who have recovered from Covid-19. “This was a first of its kind survey in Calcutta. The survey over the last two weeks has gained good momentum. We will conduct a mop-up exercise to ensure that no household in the city is left out. A meeting will be held in one or two days to decide on the modalities of the mop-up exercise,” the state government official said. A CMC official added that the comorbidity survey was a dynamic initiative and such pan-Calcutta surveys should be conducted at regular intervals, such as once or twice a year. Because of the modern-day lifestyle, the prevalence of comorbidities among people will keep increasing, the civic official said. “Someone who does not have any comorbid condition now may develop one in the next one year. So the survey has to be done at regular intervals so that the government has updated data.” Comorbidities are conditions that can affect the workings of vital organs such as the lungs, kidneys and the heart, said a public health specialist. A new infection can spell more trouble for a person suffering from one or more such conditions. The surveyors recorded a person’s name, age, contact number and if he/she was suffering from cancer, diabetes, heart or kidney disease, hypertension, respiratory disease, liver disease or tuberculosis. The civic body will upload the data on its server and the information will be accessible to its doctors. A civic official said the presence of data on comorbidities could be a game-changer in public health management. The prevalence of comorbidities and the average age when a Calcuttan develops such a condition will serve as critical inputs during the framing of public health policies for Calcutta. “During the Covid-19 pandemic, this data will help us respond better. Someone with a comorbidity will have to be prioritised over someone without any such condition. Also, people with advanced age and presence of comorbid conditions have to be monitored very closely if they are infected with Covid-19,” said the CMC official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-298
21-09-2020||Calcutta||PG admissions to start on November 1||The higher education department has asked universities to admit students to postgraduate courses through online mode from November 1 as the Covid-19 pandemic is likely to continue and physical assembly on the campus will not be advisable, said an official of the department. The department had on September 16 issued an order barring the universities from calling prospective candidates to campuses for counselling or verification of documents. The order states the date of commencement of admission of students to postgraduate courses. Eligible applicants should be informed directly by the universities through email or telecommunication, states the order. The start of the academic session has not yet been announced, as the department is not in a position to tell when the campuses will reopen, said the official. “We have asked the universities to follow the mode that the colleges followed for undergraduate admissions. The government had issued a notification on July 16 telling colleges how to admit students amid the pandemic. The situation has not improved and is likely to remain the same given the steady spread of the virus,” he said. The department decided that postgraduate admission would start on November 1 after the UGC last week asked the universities to publish the end semester/final year results of the graduating students by the end of October so admissions to the first year of postgraduate/PhD programme could be completed without any further delay and the next session could start on time. The September 16 order states that since a prospective candidate is not required to visit the campus, the documents will be verified once classes start. Admissions will be cancelled if the documents are found not in conformity with the declarations made in the online applications, said the official. An official of Jadavpur University said that while a candidate till last year submitted the application form online, he or she had to visit the campus to get the documents verified before the start of classes. The education department’s notice says: "All the stakeholders shall adhere to COVID-19 norms/ protocol issued by the government.” Details of the bank where the candidates seeking admission will deposit the fees have to be sent through SMS or email, said another official. The lists of eligible candidates will also have to be made available to the designated bank branches for verification during payment. Fees should be paid only through e-payment or the designated bank and not physically at the universities, the order says. Keeping the health hazard in mind, the department has devised the system in a way that students will not have to come in contact with others during admission, said another official. The higher education department has extended the last date of admission to undergraduate colleges from September 25 to October 30 as seats are vacant, education minister Partha Chatterjee said on Sunday. Chatterjee said as many as 25 per cent of the seats are vacant in some colleges. “The order on extending the deadline will be issued on Monday,’’ Chatterjee said at a rally in Behala.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-298
21-09-2020||Calcutta||A walk through Rabindra Sarobar banks reveals picture of neglect||A disaster was averted after the National Green Tribunal (NGT)’s on Thursday dismissed the Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA)’s appeal to allow Chhath rituals in the Rabindra Sarobar premises. But a visit to the lake grounds, the only open, green space in south Calcutta and beloved of morning-walkers, reveals the ongoing disaster. Besides, say environmentalists, Rabindra Sarobar, or the Dhakuria Lakes, have been plagued by many troubles that have been consistently ignored by the authorities. The fact that the CMDA now wants Chhath puja performed at the lakes — the CMDA plans to move the Supreme Court to pursue with the appeal — is the culmination of long years of neglect of the lakes and a systemic undermining of the natural environment of the city. One obvious sign is the appearance of the lakes now. Almost four months have passed since Cyclone Amphan struck, but the signs of devastation are everywhere. The main pathways have been cleared. But every few feet you encounter exposed trunks of trees, their tops sawn off by the winds, clumps of dead branches heaped over rubble and entire segments of metal fencing either missing or lying mangled. Near the Nazrul Mancha entrance, huge tree trunks, remnants of trees felled by the cyclone, form a barricade. On one side of the stadium, a life-size showpiece horse lies on its side, at an upper level. It looks like death. As one walks from Nazrul Mancha towards the Safari Park entrance, a line-up of tall, ghostly trees stand, hit in the middle, their top halves fallen to the ground but still attached to the trunks. The right side of the path is overgrown with weeds. A smaller water body near the Safari Park entrance looks like it has not been cleaned for months. The grounds are open now from 5.30am to 9.30am, but they are changed vastly. Visitors are fewer in number. “I tried to start going again,” says Kunal Banerjee, a Lake Road resident and a morning-walker. “But the lakes look so dismal now that I can’t bear to go there anymore.” During lockdown, when the city really needed open space, the condition of the lakes affects the city more. If the wetlands are the city’s kidneys, Rabindra Sarobar — created by the CIT scheme, which acquired the 190 acres in the 1920s — can be called Calcutta’s lungs. The city has less than 6 per cent open space against an international benchmark of at least 15 per cent; and Rabindra Sarobar, along with Subhash Sarobar and the Maidan, constitutes the bulk of it within the city. That Rabindra Sarobar can be left to rot like this is the result of a deep indifference towards environment that the authorities have been showing of late, says environmentalist Naba Dutta, secretary, Sabuj Mancha, who has written a letter to the chief minister highlighting how holding the Chhath puja at the lakes will pollute the waters and affect the biodiversity of the place. This indifference towards environment, coupled with “vote politics“ in the run-up to the Assembly elections led the CMDA, a state government body that is the custodian of Rabindra Sarobar, to appeal for the Chhath puja at the lakes. The CMDA has been even more neglectful towards Subhash Sarobar. “At least Rabindra Sarobar is in south Calcutta and powerful people are on its side,” says Naba Dutta. Subhas Sarobar is even less protected. “And what makes the authorities think that all those in the city who perform Chhath puja want to do it at the expense of environmental concerns? This is stereotyping and undermining the Bihari community,” says Naba Dutta. Tolerance of unethical business practices has also made the authorities ignore another severe problem at the lakes: the effluents from the clubs around, which go straight into the lakes. “For years, we have been highlighting this problem, but the authorities have done nothing,” says environment activist Subhas Datta. “It’s a fact that, from time to time, we have found various clubs releasing toxic effluents in lake water,” a former state pollution control board official said. The one thing that the authorities have done consistently about the lakes is being inconsistent, depending on the priority of the moment. On November 15, 2017, NGT issued a set of directives on the lakes, which included a blanket ban on observing Chhath puja there. The directives were based on recommendations of an expert committee formed by the tribunal, following petitions, including one from Subhas Datta,  on activities that were affecting the lake environment. The committee also pointed at the polluting role of the effluents from the clubs. The directives banned performance of any puja, community picnic and organisation of social events in and around Rabindra Sarobar; and new construction or extension of any existing building without the permission of the tribunal. The CMDA was to introduce nominal entry fees and frame guidelines for operation of the clubs, which clubs not to have direct access to the lake area. “While the CMDA has informed that it will not charge entry fees, the rest of the directives have been violated in varying degrees, the most blatant being the observance of Chhath puja twice after the order,” says S.M. Ghosh, environmentalist and regular morning walker, who is also concerned about the heavy pollution created by the club effluents. In September 27, 2019, just before the Chhath puja, the NGT warned that “permitting performance of the puja in the Rabindra Sarobar lake will be considered as violation of the directions passed … which shall call for punitive action...”, after the very CMDA had approached the body, expressing fears about the lake premises. The order was completely violated yet again and thousands performed Chhath within Rabindra Sarobar, which, activists claim, could only happen only with the tacit support of politicians and administration. Subhas Datta points at the role the opposition parties in the state are not playing and alleges a conspiracy of silence in matters of religion. “It seems that a political mahajot has been formed against environment,” the activist feels.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-298
21-09-2020||Calcutta||Xavier’s set example in holding online test ||All 472 students of the undergraduate and postgraduate final semester exams at St Xavier’s University had uploaded their answers instantly at the end of each test, vice-chancellor Father Felix Raj said. The exams were held between September 14 and 18. Students were informed before the exams that their answers would not be accepted if they were late by even a minute in uploading them. If a test was to end at noon, students had to stop writing their answers sharp at noon and upload the answers instantly, Father Felix Raj said. Nine out of the 472 examinees had complained about minor technical problems while writing the exams at home. “The problems were solved immediately and all 472 candidates managed to upload the answers as soon as they stopped answering the questions on all days,” the VC said. The success in conducting online exams by St Xavier’s University, a private institution run by Jesuits, has come at a time when some state-aided institutions like Calcutta University are finding it difficult to evolve a suitable system for conducting the final year/semester exams amid the pandemic. Calcutta University had initially decided to give 24 hours to students to upload the answers. But the university has changed its decision following a prod from the University Grants Commission and given students 30 minutes after the end of each day’s test to upload the answers. St Xavier's University had appointed one teacher for every 20 students to monitor them during each test. Students could call the respective teachers if they faced any technical problems. The teachers were asked to convey the problems to experts from an agency that was hired by the university to manage the technical side of conducting the exams. Arrangements were made to ensure that the problems were solved immediately and every student could complete the paper in the allotted time. Three rounds of mock tests were held to help students understand the system. The mock exams also helped the authorities anticipate the kind of technical problems an examinee could face. “This was the first time students had to take the tests sitting at their home. We had no experience of conducting the examinations this way. But we were able to conduct the exams successfully,” the VC said. He said the new system had been adopted as a one-time measure because of the pandemic. But after its successful implementation, the institution is planning to conduct exams this way even after the situation normalises. The end semester exams of St Xavier’s University were held from September 14 to 18. The results will be declared on September 30. The questions were a mix of multiple-choice (MCQs) and subjective types. Half the questions are MCQs||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-298
21-09-2020||Calcutta||Online recharge for smart cards||The transport department has made arrangements for online recharge of smart cards for government buses, ferries and trams in keeping with the new normal amid the Covid-19 pandemic, an official said. One can now recharge a card by visiting www.onlinerecharge.wbtc.co.in. Till now, a passenger had to visit a point of sale run by the West Bengal Transport Corporation to recharge a card. The portal will ask for the mobile number or card number and then offer options for the amount to be recharged. The amount can vary between Rs 100 and Rs 1,500 but has to be in multiple of 100. The payment can be made through credit card, debit card or Net banking. As an incentive of sorts, an additional 10 per cent of the paid amount will be added to the account. A recharged card will have to be updated at a sales counter or with the help of a ticketing machine available with conductors. “The measure for online recharge of smart cards has been taken to reduce exposure, as a precaution against Covid-19. We are also planning to tie up with online delivery sites so cards can be delivered at doorsteps,” said an official of the transport department. “We expect a rise in the number of commuters not only on buses but in the two other modes. The card can be used on all three modes of transportation,” said Rajanvir Singh Kapur, the managing director of the West Bengal Transport Corporation. “We are in the process wherein one can buy the card online and even recharge online.” Some of the places where smart cards are available are Garia No 6 bus depot, Howrah bus terminus, Jadavpur 8b bus stand, Thakurpukur 3A bus stand, Dum Dum 11A bus stand, Karunamoyee bus stand, Howrah jetty, Millennium Park jetty and Farlie Place jetty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-298
21-09-2020||Calcutta||Polio vaccine to be given at home||The Calcutta Municipal Corporation will completely depend on door-to-door visits to give the polio vaccine this year, deciding to do away with camps at strategic locations that were organised till last year, an official of the civic body said on Sunday. Around 40 per cent of pulse polio doses were administered in the camps, the official said. The programme to give polio vaccines began on Sunday and will continue through the week. “Camps have been cancelled this year to avoid gatherings. In previous years, after the camps would end, civic health workers used to visit the children who had not been vaccinated in the camps. Those children would be vaccinated at home. But this year all children will be vaccinated at home,” a CMC official.. “This is a challenge for us, but we have to do it,” said an official of the civic health department. “The camps drew a large number of children…. Our experience showed that nearly 40 per cent of all children were vaccinated at camps, which were held on Sundays. Parents preferred to get their children vaccinated on Sundays.” The official added that it was because of the long queues that the civic authorities decided not to organise the camps this year. “The congregation of so many people would have been a threat to the health of everyone. Our staff, parents and children, everyone would have been exposed to the risk of contracting the novel coronavirus.” The Pulse Polio Immunisation Programme, which started on Sunday, is held usually four times a year in Calcutta, along with the rest of the state. Around 30 police personnel, including officer-in-charge Mriganka Mohan Das were felicitated for their role in battling the Covid-19 pandemic. The visitors were members of Junior Chamber International (JCI), an NGO and youth organisation. “In the midst of the coronavirus pandemic, certain people have emerged as warriors. They have answered the call of duty by risking their safety for serving the society. Not all superheroes wear capes, some wear a police uniform,” said Reshma Narwani of the JCI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-299
21-09-2020||Business||CBI books Kwality Ltd, directors over Rs 1,400cr bank fraud||The CBI has booked dairy major Kwality Ltd and its directors for allegedly cheating a consortium of 10 banks, led by the Bank of India, of over Rs 1,400 crore through bloating of financial statements and diversion of loan funds, officials said Monday. Nearly 11 days after registering an FIR in the case, the CBI conducted searches on Monday at eight locations in multiple cities including Delhi, Saharanpur, Bulandshahr (Uttar Pradesh), Ajmer (Rajasthan), Palwal (Haryana) on the premises of the company and its directors. The CBI has registered the case against Kwality Ltd. -- which started as an ice-cream manufacturing company and diversified into milk-based products -- and its directors Sanjay Dhingra, Siddhant Gupta, Arun Srivastava besides other unidentified persons, the officials said. The agency has acted on a complaint by the Bank of India. "It was alleged in the complaint that the said accused had cheated the Bank of India-led consortium comprising BOI (lead bank), Canara Bank, Bank of Baroda, Andhra Bank, Corporation Bank, IDBI, Central Bank of India, Dhanlaxmi Bank, Syndicate Bank to the tune of Rs.1400.62 core (approx.)," CBI spokesperson RK Gaur said. They allegedly cheated the banks by way of diversion of bank funds, sham transactions with related parties, fabricated documents/receipts, falsified books of accounts and created false assets and liabilities etc, Gaur said. In its complaint, the Bank of India, the lead member of 10-bank consortium, has alleged that the company manipulated its financial statements by bloating its business operations through overstatement of the sales. purchases, debtors. creditors and inventories to keep the fund flow from bank going. The bank conducted a forensic audit of the company after it failed to repay loans. "Out of the total sale of Rs.13,147.25 crore made by the company only Rs.7,017.23 crore was routed through the consortium accounts," the BOI has alleged. It said a considerable amount of trading, sales and purchases were made "without actual receipts of the same in factory premises and physical deliveries therefrom". "Supplies have been effected directly by the suppliers of the Company to the customers of the Company. These items being exempt from taxes, they are also not covered under VAT and GST regime. These suppliers and customers appear unorganised in nature and appear to have a weak financial base to support such large volumes of business," the bank has alleged in its complaint which is now a part of the FIR. The bank has alleged that a considerable amount of sales and purchases was settled without actual payments being received or made by the companies. "Balance Confirmations in respect of receivables show huge deviations. Against total outstanding of Rs 1,807.57 crore parties have confirmed receivables of Rs 972.82 crore. Accordingly, it indicates inflation of receivables by Rs 834.75 crore," it alleged. The bank has alleged that the accused directors acted dishonestly with the aid, consent and active connivance of each other, carried out the misappropriation and dishonest conversion of funds for their personal gains. "The accused persons have given the shape and effect to the forgeries and fabrication as a result of which window dressing and cheating of Bank has been carried out. By their acts of misappropriation, cheating and frauds. the money entrusted to the accused persons for the permitted business purpose have been utilized for their own benefit causing wrongful loss to the Bank of India Consortium," it alleged.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-284
21-09-2020||Business||Spend with benefits||Covid-19 has prompted both businesses and customers to turn to digital transactions. Transacting cashlessly with modes such as debit and credit cards, UPI and netbanking allows you to minimise contact and reduce the chances of being infected. With even local businesses going online,you can now buy just about anything from the safety of your home. E-commerce has come a long way in 2020. The digital habits formed now are likely to persist. Which brings us to the key point of this piece: shopping online is now a daily fact of life, but what’s the best way to transact? Some modes of digital spending provide you no benefits beyond ease of use. But a feature-rich credit card not only provides those conveniences but also offers rewards such as cashbacks, freebies, and points you could convert into goods and services, the combined value of which may run into thousands of rupees every year. Here’s what you need to know about how to get the best out of your credit card. Depending on the kind of credit card you have, many of your transactions may help you earn rewards. Rewards help you save money. The key is to maximise rewards with the help of the habit you have now developed, which is online shopping. Many cards tie up with online businesses and help you earn rewards on many transactions but also accelerated rewards on select transactions. For example, one online shopping credit card from a government bank gives five points per Rs 100 spent online and one point per Rs 100 on other eligible spends, but it offers 10 points per Rs  100 spent when you shop with partner websites such as Amazon. This helps you if you are already a regular shopper at the partner website. Over time, your accumulated points can be converted into gift vouchers that can help you make additional purchases. Let’s consider your other options. If you opt for cash-on-delivery (COD), your benefits in terms of cashback and reward points is likely to be nil. The same may be true for netbanking and UPI where rewards such as discounts and cashback may be rare, one-time, or completely random. The only other digital payment instrument that may be able to provide you consistent benefits is your debit card. However, these rewards too may be limited. You may find that a credit card that provides above-average benefits for online shopping may be your best option. Not just that, a premium credit card for which there may be an annual charge may be able to provide bigger benefits than a lifetime free credit card. Refer to the table where online shopping via COD has no benefit whereas planned online shopping with partner websites can lead to rewards worth Rs 9,501 in a year. To get the best out of your credit card, it is necessary to know the fine print to understand the rewards you’re eligible for. It’s also important that your card allows you to enjoy the lifestyle you desire. It should help you maximise the rewards from your unique spends. If you don’t already have such a card, you may research the market for one. For example, if you love shopping at brand ABC, then it’s not useful to have a card that incentivises shopping with brand XYZ. You must also understand if caps apply on your reward. For example, one card may offer reward points with a one-year expiry while another card may not expire your points. Similarly, one card may cap your cashback rewards in a month at Rs 750 while another card may let you enjoy unlimited cashbacks. Apart from these, your card may also provide privileges that help reduce costs and maximise gains. For example, many cards provide free lounge access at domestic or international airports, gift vouchers on reaching spending milestones such as Rs 1 lakh and joining or renewal gifts such as e-vouchers or reward points. The benefits are attractive when one assumes that all credit card dues are being paid off in the same billing cycle. This allows the user to enjoy the card privileges and avoid late payment penalties as well as steep interest charges. Credit card debt is unsecured debt which is typically the most expensive form of borrowing. Therefore, it’s critical to be timely with the payments and not let the debt snowball. Late payments could lead to hefty charges that may reduce the gains through rewards. Use your credit card smartly, get greater value for your spends, but always pay your dues in time. This may prove more beneficial than a combination of cash-on-delivery, netbanking, debit cards and UPI. The writer is CEO, BankBazaar.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-284
21-09-2020||Business||Chip giant MediaTek ready for 5G in India||MediaTek, one of the top chip companies in the world, expects 5G mobile services will roll out in the country within a year, offering a market for its chips in the 5G devices in the country. The company, based in Taiwan, powers more than 1.5 billion devices across the world. It caters to original equipment manufacturers such as Motorola, Oppo, Realme, Vivo, Samsung, Xiaomi, Lenovo, Sony, Broadlink, LG, Google, Amazon among others. MediaTek is a fabless semiconductor company, meaning it designs and markets chip but does not manufacture them. “5G has been one of the verticals where we have been doing strong research and development over the last few years. We have launched the flagship products from our side. In India, the government does realise the importance of 5G. From MediaTek’s point of view, the chipsets are already available and our OEM partners have already launched 5G devices powered by MediaTek worldwide,” said Anku Jain, managing director, MediaTek India. “In the next 12 months, there are high chances that 5G network would be available in India. The government realises its importance and in the current situation of the Covid-19 pandemic I feel this will expedite the whole process. As soon as that happens, I am sure our OEM partners will announce devices for India,” Jain said. Smartphones and tablets constitute around 43-48 per cent of the revenue of MediaTek, while the remaining revenue is from smart devices and connectivity solutions such as WiFi and bluetooth. A transition to 5G would aid MediaTek to consolidate its presence in India further amid the changing global dynamics of application processors. Jain said the company would follow a two-pronged approach to grow its presence in India. This includes more research from its two centres in Noida and Bangalore and increasing revenue with the adoption of 5G and smart devices in the country. According to Counterpoint Research, MediaTek has been able to increase its market share in the application processor category to 38 per cent from 32 per cent in India in the second quarter of 2020 reflecting a global trend amid the shift in competitive dynamics in the sector.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-284
21-09-2020||Business||Auto makers launch models to spur demand||Auto makers are launching models to build excitement and ramp up demand in a moribund market. Buyers have been buffeted with four models last week — Korea’s Kia is offering the Sonet its first compact SUV, while Skoda has rolled out compact sedan Rapid TSI. In bikes, BMW has vroomed out with Motorad, while Ashok Leyland has hit the roads with a light commercial vehicle. Kia Motors has launched the Sonet at an introductory price of Rs 6.71 lakh, ex showroom, pan India. The compact SUV will directly compete with sister company Hyundai’s Venue in a similar price range. The Sonet is being offered across 17 variants, including two petrol engines, two diesel engines (WGT & VGT configurations), five transmissions and two trim levels — Tech Line and GT-Line. The Sonet has received 25,000 bookings and is being produced at the company’s manufacturing unit at Anantapur, Andhra Pradesh. Kookhyun Shim, MD and CEO at Kia Motors India, said “Given the enthusiastic reception it has already received, we are extremely excited about introducing Kia’s latest made-in-India car for the world, the Sonet, in India.” Skoda Auto India unveiled the Rapid TSI Automatic Transmission at an introductory ex-price starting from Rs 9.49 lakh, nationwide. The Rapid has a new engine mated to a six speed torque converter. Premium bike maker BMW Motorrad India has launched the BMW R18 , marking the brand’s entry into the cruiser segment. The R18 can be ordered as a completely built-up unit (CBU) through the BMW Motorrad dealer network at a price range of Rs  18.9 lakh to Rs 21.9 lakh. In the commercial vehicle segment, Ashok Leyland launched a  platform called Phoenix together with the first product based on the platform, Bada Dost. The company aims to garner 65 per cent of the market share in the LCV segment by launching products every three months based on its new Phoenix platform.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-284
21-09-2020||Business||Business sentiment improves in July-September quarter||India Inc’s business sentiment has improved during the July-September quarter as the government gradually unlocked the economy and business activity resumed, according to the CII’s business outlook survey. The latest CII Business Confidence Index has surged to the level of 50.3 in July-September 2020, bouncing back from its lowest reading of 41.0 recorded in April-June 2020, the industry chamber said in a statement. “The stellar recovery in the index has been supported by the remarkable increase in the Expectations Index (EI), which rose 46 per cent quarter-on-quarter, to the level of 55.2, as nationwide lockdown restrictions were lifted and businesses gradually began to reopen during the July-September quarter,” it added. CII director-general Chandrajit Banerjee said while a recovery is underway, it could be tremendously expedited through continued government support and handholding of businesses during this crisis. The survey was conducted during August-September 2020 and saw the participation of over 150 firms across different sectors. Over half of the respondents stated that the weakness in domestic demand is likely to be the topmost risk to business confidence in the next six months. “More than a third of the respondents (35 per cent) foresee a contraction higher than 4 per cent in India’s GDP in 2020-21 as the significant setback to economic growth has been aggravated by state-imposed lockdowns to curb local outbreaks,” the statement added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-284
21-09-2020||Business||21 states to tap RBI for GST shortfall||As many as 21 states, mostly ruled by the BJP or parties which have supported it on various issues, have opted to borrow Rs 97,000 crore to meet the GST revenue shortfall in the current fiscal, sources said on Sunday. The states and Union Territories (UTs) which have intimated their decision to the Centre are Andhra Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Goa, Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu & Kashmir, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Odisha, Puducherry, Sikkim, Tripura, Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh. Finance ministry sources said Jharkhand, Kerala, Maharashtra, Delhi, Punjab,  Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Telangana and Bengal are yet to respond to the GST Council proposal to decide their options. The states which do not submit their borrowing options before the GST Council meet on October 5, 2020 will have to wait till June 2022 to get their compensation dues, subject to the condition that the GST Council extends the cess collection period beyond 2022, the sources said. The GST Council needs only 20 states to pass any resolution, in case voting is required on any issue, the sources added. In the current fiscal, the states are staring at a staggering Rs 2.35 lakh crore GST revenue shortfall. Of this, according to the Centre’s calculation, a shortfall of about Rs 97,000 crore is on account of GST implementation and the rest Rs 1.38 lakh crore is due to the impact of Covid-19 on states’ revenues. The Centre has given two options to the states — to borrow either Rs 97,000 crore from a special window facilitated by the RBI or Rs 2.35 lakh crore from the market.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-284
21-09-2020||Business||Small NBFCs seek refinance and relaxation in PSL norms||Small and medium sized non-banking finance companies (NBFCs) have sought a refinancing body on the lines of the National Housing Bank (NHB) and further relaxation in the priority sector lending (PSL) norms for banks. According to the Finance Industry Development Council (FIDC), a representative body of NBFCs, bank funding of small and medium NBFCs has been a challenge because of various reasons, particularly during the last two years. The poor response to the Targeted Long Term Repo Operations 2.0, which mandated banks to invest at least 50 per cent of the stipulated amount in small and medium NBFCs, was an evidence of the relatively poor funding by banks. In a letter to finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, the FIDC has said there is a need to reduce the over-reliance on banks and have a dedicated refinancing body. It said this role could be assigned to Sidbi and Nabard and these institutions could fund by way of term loans for a tenure of 3-5 years. The body also pointed out that a vast majority of loans given by NBFCs to MSMEs and individuals are for an average tenure of 24 to 48 months and, therefore, it is imperative that NBFCs need to borrow for a commensurate period to maintain a healthy asset liability match. However, at present, funding under the partial credit guarantee scheme, the special liquidity scheme are all for a short tenure of 6-18 months. The FIDC urged that the tenure be increased to at least 36 months. While bank lending to NBFCs for on-lending to the priority sector is treated as priority sector lending for banks and the sectoral limit has been kept at five per cent, the body wants this to be increased to 10 per cent. It has also said that there is an artificial cap of Rs 20 lakh per loan put on such on-lending transactions which may be done away with.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-284
21-09-2020||Business||Pandemic pool for MSME wage cover ||An insurance panel has proposed the creation of a pandemic pool and a policy shield to protect the wages of individuals working in micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs).  Business interruption losses suffered by MSMEs on account of the pandemic and the subsequent lockdown are at present not covered by traditional insurance policies. “The covers for these losses are not provided by the market as it is beyond the risk appetite of the insurance and reinsurance market. If insurance companies are required to cover such claims, such an action would create substantial solvency risks for the sector, significantly undermining the ability of insurers to pay other types of claims and exacerbate the negative financial and economic impacts,” the panel said in its report. Hence, the working group, comprising insurance industry officials and members of IRDAI, has proposed the creation of a pandemic pool and an associate insurance cover that protects up to three months of wages of individuals working in MSMEs that employ up to 10 persons in the first phase. The premium for the product is estimated at Rs 999 per employee. This will be later scaled up to cover salary charges of MSMEs with more than 10 employees.  The initial pool size has been proposed at Rs 5,000 crore with the government providing a backstop guarantee of Rs 75,000 crore. “Pandemic is a risk that the industry cannot handle. It’s like nuclear disaster or terrorism risk. The reason is the risk is too high for insurance companies to handle and the premium is not there for it,” Sarbvir Singh, CEO, Policybazaar.com, told The Telegraph. Singh said that while the pandemic pool will make it easier for insurers and reinsurers to manage risk, it is necessary to make the product accessible to the MSMEs. “Right now, MSMEs come under the commercial lines of insurance. Big brokers who only focus on relatively large companies serve this category. It is necessary to see that MSME insurance like retail insurance is easier for companies to buy. This will make the base widespread,” Singh said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-284
21-09-2020||Business||Wait for Centre's borrowing plan||The finance ministry in consultation with the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) will decide the borrowing calendar for the second half of the current fiscal in the last week of this month, sources said. According to the announcement made in May, the government intends to borrow the remaining Rs 5.02 lakh crore out of the Rs 12 lakh crore during the October-March period to meet rising expenditure to combat the Covid-19 crisis amid the moderation in tax collections. The exact date for the meeting to decide the borrowing calendar is yet to be fixed but most likely it should happen in the last week of this month, the sources said. The government had envisaged to raise 58 per cent of the total borrowing target of Rs 6.98 lakh crore from the dated securities in the first half of the current fiscal. During the first quarter of 2020-21, the central government issued dated securities worth Rs 3,46,000 crore against Rs 2,21,000 crore in the same period a year ago. In the second quarter, the borrowing through dated papers has touched Rs 3.60 lakh crore as of September 18. Thus, the total borrowing so far this fiscal has been Rs 7.06 lakh crore, exceeding the government borrowing plan of Rs 6.98 lakh crore. This leaves room for borrowing of less than Rs 4.94 lakh crore in the second half of the financial year. One more borrowing, according to the calendar is likely to take place on September 25 of Rs 30,000 crore. After that, the borrowing for the remaining six months of the current fiscal will be limited to Rs 4.64 lakh crore if the government does not raise its borrowing level beyond Rs 12 lakh crore. Hard-pressed for funds to combat rising coronavirus infections, the government in May increased its market borrowing programme for the current financial year more than 50 per cent to Rs 12 lakh crore. In the 2020-21 Union budget presented in Parliament in February, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had pegged the gross market borrowing — which is also a reflection of fiscal deficit —  for the current fiscal at Rs 7.80 lakh crore. The amount was up from Rs 7.1 lakh crore in 2019-20. However, in view of the impact of the lockdown on tax collection and the need to garner additional resources to fight the pandemic, the government decided to substantially increase the market borrowing programme for the current fiscal by about 54 per cent or Rs 4.2 lakh crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-284
21-09-2020||Business||Lodha to appeal against court curbs ||The trial court order restraining Harsh Vardhan Lodha from all the entities of MP Birla Group will be contested by Lodha’s counsels on two key grounds when they file an appeal before the division bench of Calcutta High Court on Monday. The Lodha camp is likely to argue that the order extends the reach of the committee of administrator pendente lite (APL committee) to 30 entities — which include investment and manufacturing companies, trusts and societies — even though most of them were not part of the estate of late Priayamvada Devi Birla (PDB). The Lodhas will also contest that part of the trial court order which allows the three-member APL committee, which was appointed by the HC in 2012 to oversee and protect the estate of late Priyamvada Birla, to take decision by a majority. Justice Sahidhulla Munshi restrained Lodha on Friday from holding any position in the MP Birla group and drawing any benefit. Lodha will seek an immediate stay on the operation of the order before the division bench. The legal feud between the Birla family and the Lodhas erupted in 2004 when late Rajendra Singh Lodha sought the probate of late Priyamvada’s purported will which landed the control of the MP Birla group to him and after his sudden demise in 2008, to his younger son Harsh. Three of the four listed manufacturing companies have informed bourses they are  reviewing the matter. The Birla camp argued that Lodha has ceased to be a director of all companies and if he attends any board meeting, gives direction or even enters the office premises of these entities, it would be construed as contempt of court. Asked if the Birlas would move court again to enforce the trial court order, a source said: “We are reviewing the matter,” pointing out that communiques sent by the companies are inadequate. The Lodha camp may argue that the extent of control of the committee is limited to the inventory of assets of the estate of late Priyamvada, which has been unanimously agreed upon by all sides multiple times. The inventory does not include the companies in which she did not hold shares personally, nor does it include trusts or societies which hold significant holding (14.35 per cent) in Birla Corporation Ltd. However, around 30 third-party companies, trusts and societies holding shares in various companies of MP Birla Group, have been asked to exercise their voting right in accordance with the directions of the administrators by the trial court. A four-tier structure controls the five MP Birla Group manufacturing companies. While four — Birla Corp, Vindhya Telelinks, Universal Cables and Birla Cables — are listed, Hindustan Gum and Chemicals is unlisted. Such an order has been passed thereby taking away the voting right of such third party entities without hearing them, the Lodhas said. Lodha may also point out that the APL committee in the past had written to the company secretary of Birla Corp giving proxy for 1,260 shares only, which late Priyamvada Birla directly held in her name. Attention will also be drawn on how a division bench had made a distinction between Harsh Lodha as a legatee in a probate suit and Lodha as a director and chairman of a company. “The same court has previously made clear distinction between Harsh Lodha as chairman of Birla Corporation and Harsh Lodha as a proponent of the Will when the Birlas in 2016 made an unsuccessful attempt to block Birla Corporation's acquisition of Reliance Cement,” Debanjan Mandal, partner of Fox & Mandal and counsel for Lodha, said. No restrictive order was passed by the probate court which held that it had no jurisdiction over outsiders. But that distinction was completely lost in Friday’s verdict, Mandal countered. The trial court allowed the APL committee to decide based on majority decisions. After retired judge Mohit Shah joined the committee, it has taken decisions which went against Lodha. It had asked all investment companies to vote against resolutions seeking the appointment of Lodha and profit-linked remuneration in listed companies. Lodha’s counsels are likely to point out that twice in the past committee members had sought guidance from a division bench of the HC whether a decision can be taken by majority. However, no explicit order was granted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-284
21-09-2020||India||Farm bills not against agriculture 'mandis' , clarifies PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday asserted that the farm sector reform bills passed by Parliament were the need of the 21 century India and again reassured farmers that the government purchase of their produce coupled with minimum support price mechanism will continue. Farmers remained in shackles for long leading to a clique benefiting from their "compulsions", he said, adding that it needed to be changed and his government has done it. Noting that his government had brought farm ordinances, which these legislations will replace, in June, he said farmers are already getting a better price for their produce in several states. Farmers will now have the freedom to sell their produce at a place and price of their choice, he said. Modi made the comments at a virtual ceremony to lay foundation stones of nine highway projects in Bihar and to inaugurate optical fibre internet services through which the state's all 45,945 villages will be connected. Seeking to dispel concerns among a section of farmers, he said he wanted to make it clear that the bills are not against agriculture 'mandis' (agricultural markets) and they will continue like they always have. Two key farm bills, dubbed as the biggest reform in agriculture by the government, were on Sunday passed by Rajya Sabha with voice vote. The two bills were earlier cleared by Lok Sabha. No government has done as much to boost MSP and government procurement of farmers' produce than his dispensation, the prime minister said. The government, he said, lifted a record amount of grains amid the coronavirus pandemic and also made a record payment to farmers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-656
21-09-2020||India||Seven children among 10 killed in a building collapse in Thane||Seven children and three others were killed and 11, including a four-year-old boy, rescued after a three-storeyed building collapsed in Maharashtras Bhiwandi town on Monday, police said. Around 10 persons are still feared trapped after the 43-year-old Jhilani building caved in at 3.40 am, police said, adding search operations are underway. The dead children include a two-year-old, a civic official said. Personnel of the Thane Disaster Response Force (TDRF) were seen pulling out the boy, Ubed Quraishi, from the debris and feeding him water. Bhiwandi is a powerloom town around 10 km from Thane. The building had 40 flats and around 150 persons lived in it, an official said. A civic official the building, located at Narpolis Patel Compound near Dhamankar Naka, collapsed while the residents were asleep, reported PTI. Teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) rushed to the spot. NDRF DG S N Pradhan said the teams were using a canine squad to search persons trapped in the debris. A portion of the building collapsed and many occupants were trapped in the debris of the collapsed building, a Thane Municipal Corporation official said. The building was not in the list of dilapidated structures of the Bhiwandi-Nizampur Municipal Corporation, he said. An eyewitness said local residents rushed to the spot immediately after the collapse and helped pull out some persons from the debris. The power supply to the locality was snapped as a precautionary measure, the official said, adding the injured have been admitted to local hospitals.  Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday expressed anguish at the loss of lives. "Saddened by the building collapse in Bhiwandi, Maharashtra. Condolences to the bereaved families. Praying for a quick recovery of those injured. Rescue operations are underway and all possible assistance is being provided to the affected," Modi wrote on Twitter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-656
21-09-2020||India||8 MPs suspended, RS chairman rejects no-trust motion||The Rajya Sabha on Monday suspended eight MPs, including TMC leader Derek O'Brien and AAP’s Sanjay Singh, for the remaining part of the monsoon session over their "unruly behaviour" during the passage of farm bills. Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu termed the behaviour of Opposition MPs  on Sunday as "very unfortunate, unacceptable and condemnable" and one that has "tarnished the image of Parliament, particularly elders' House." He also rejected the notice for a no-confidence motion moved by Leader of the Opposition Ghulam Nabi Azad and 46 other MPs against Deputy Chairman Harivansh, who was in the chair during the bedlam on Sunday, saying it was not in proper format and does not give the required 14-day notice period. Two key farm bills were passed by Rajya Sabha on Sunday with voice vote amid protests by Opposition members who were demanding that the proposed legislation be referred to a House panel for greater scrutiny. The government on Monday moved a motion seeking suspension of Derek O'Brien (TMC), Sanjay Singh (AAP), Rajeev Satav (Congress), K.K. Ragesh (CPM), Syed Nazir Hussain (Cong), Ripun Boren (Cong), Dola Sen (TMC) and Elamaram Kareem (CPM). Amid opposition, the motion was adopted by voice vote and the Chairman asked them to leave the House but they remained present and protested against the ruling. Naidu called for taking up a call attention motion on GST compensation to states where O'Brien, Ragesh and Kareem were listed as movers. But with members protesting, he moved on to the next listed business saying they were not interested. As the protests continued, he adjourned the proceedings for 20 minutes. The House saw three more adjournments as the suspended members remained present in the House and Opposition parties protested against the decision. Soon after Zero Hour, Naidu said he was "pained" at the happenings during the passage of the two bills. He condemned the unruly behaviour of some members and also the "physical threat" to the deputy chairman. As some Opposition members wanted to put across their point of view, Naidu asked them to obey the Chair and not speak in between. He rejected their point of order and when they persisted, he named O'Brien and asked him to leave the House. "It was a really bad day for democracy," he said. "Some members came to the well of the House and also threw papers. They wrenched the mike of the Deputy Chairman. They hurled some papers on the Deputy Chairman. They abused the Deputy Chairman, according to the Deputy Chairman," he said, adding the "Rule book was also thrown on him". "Climbing on the table, dancing, shouting in the Well, tearing papers, breaking the mike, obstructing deputy chairman from doing his duties, throwing papers, rule book on deputy chairman, is it a parliamentary standard," he asked. "I only suggest to members of Parliament please do some introspection and is it a way to conduct ourselves?" he said. Naidu said marshals prevented ugly scenes. "If marshals were not called on time what would have happened to the deputy chairman. I am worried. He says he was abused with objectional words. This is very unfortunate. This should not be allowed. If you have any problem, the way (out) is to discuss, debate and decide. "If you have numbers, vote against the resolution. Deputy Chairman also stated that if you please go to your seat he will conduct voting...it is on record." he said. He said the deputy chairman was "physically threatened. So I am worried he would have been harmed also. Keeping this in mind, the government wants to move a resolution," he said. Naidu said he had received a letter expressing no confidence against the deputy chairman. "I have gone through the entire proceedings of the House yesterday (Sunday). In light of allegations made by the Leader of the Opposition and other members, I observe that the deputy chairman had persistently requested the members to go to their seat and participate in the debate and move amendments. "Obviously in view of the continuous disruption of the House, the division could not have taken place... Certainly, the conduct of some members grossly crossed all barriers of parliamentary decorum and etiquette and thereby bringing down the prestige of the House," he said. He said after carefully going through the provisions of the Constitution, rules of the House and past precedence, it is "observed at the outset that the motion is not in a proper format." "As per provision of Article 90(C) of the Constitution, a notice period of 14 days is required for moving a resolution of the motion. As the House is going to be adjourned sine die on October 1...the notice does not complete the required period of 14 days. Hence I rule that motion is not admissible," he said. Minister of State for Parliamentary Affairs V. Muraleedharan moved a resolution that eight members be suspended for the remaining part of the session "for their unruly behaviour especially with the chair." "And their gross disorderly conduct in the violation of rules and etiquette of Rajya thereby bringing disrepute to this House and causing insult to the office of deputy chairman," he said reading out the motion. Amid protests, the motion was passed by voice vote and the Chairman said the eight members are suspended for the remaining part of the session. Naidu also noted that Covid-19 precautions were violated by some members on Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-656
21-09-2020||India||Covid: For 5 months, daily wait in vain for work in Bhubaneswar||Abhimanyu Nayak, 40, walks to the Delta Square labour congregation point in Bhubaneswar every morning, only to return empty-handed after waiting for several hours. “I have been coming here every day since May, but I have got work on hardly 15 days in the past five months,” said Abhimanyu, who has been living and working in the Odisha capital for the past 15 years. Urban labourers in the state are among those hardest hit by the pandemic and the resultant economic slowdown, with most of them pushed into breadlines because of lack of work. Odisha has an estimated 30 lakh urban labourers, employed mostly in real estate and other construction jobs, house painting and repair work. But these activities have come to a grinding halt in the lockdown. People wary of catching the coronavirus have been jittery about allowing workers into their homes even for sundry repairs. Bhubaneswar has more than 10 labour congregation points where workers from slums across the city gather early every morning to be picked up by contractors and taken to work sites. But for the past few months, labourers have had to mostly return home after a futile wait for hours for work. Abhimanyu, the daily wager, said: “During the lockdown I had travelled to my village in Ganajam (240km from Bhubaneswar). As the situation turned worse in the rural belt, I returned to Bhubaneswar.” But for Abhimanyu and countless others like him, it has been like jumping out of the frying pan into the fire. “Those who have the expertise go to Surat (in Gujarat) to work in the textile industry. Many migrate to Chennai, where the income opportunities are much more. But people like us who neither have the skill to work in the textile industry nor the wherewithal or opportunity to settle in Chennai are suffering,” Abhimanyu said. Pratima Tudu, another labourer, said: “No one comes to take us for work. It seems all construction work has stopped.” Pratima said the plight of women workers was worse as the handful of contractors who come prefer the male workers.  The women have lost their financial independence, Pratima said. Hunger is also gnawing at the labourers and their families because the pandemic has not allowed them to travel to their villagers to pick up rations. Most urban labourers have their ration cards registered in their native villages. But because of the pandemic restrictions, and refusal by city residents to allow those travelling to villages to return to their homes in slums and colonies for fear of contracting the virus, the urban labourers are running short of food. “As I cannot go to my village, I am no longer getting rice at Rs 1 a kilo under the government scheme (from ration shops). We hardly have any income these days and it is difficult to buy food and other essential items at retail prices,” said Dhurba Guada, a labourer in Bhubaneswar. The workers also have to pay room rent. “My room rent is Rs 2,000 a month. I have no way of paying it. This is leading to daily fights with the landlord,” said Mangal Behera, another labourer. Labour minister Sushant Singh said labourers in rural areas were still better off. “They are getting work under the MGNREGA. But skilled workers in urban areas are struggling. We hope the situation will improve once normality returns in the private sector,” he told The Telegraph. Trade union leader Janardan Pati said a proper survey was needed to find out the true extent of joblessness among urban labourers. “While there has been a survey on the loss of white collar jobs, there is no authentic data on joblessness among urban labourers on account of the corona pandemic. This is because most of them are unregistered workers. There are no government records on them,” Pati said. Odisha is grappling with an acute unemployment problem, according to data available with the government. Figures available with the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy show that Odisha’s unemployment rate had increased by 10.7 percentage points to reach 23.8 per cent in April, higher than the national rate of 23.5 per cent. “Now after the lockdown, the unemployment rate has multiplied, rendering lakhs of people helpless,” Pati said. The Odisha government had launched a Rs 100-crore urban employment wage initiative in April, aimed at providing work to the urban poor. However, the amount was inadequate, labour leaders said. “Before Covid-19 too, unemployment was an issue. Now the situation has got aggravated. We demand that the central government introduce an urban job guarantee scheme on the lines of the MGNREGA. It should also introduce a national employment guarantee act,” said Ramakrishna Panda, the national secretary of the Congress-affiliated Aituc. Panda said what had compounded the problem was that around 10 lakh skilled labourers had returned to Odisha during the lockdown. The principal secretary in the urban and housing development department, G. Mathivathanan, said the crisis was not unique to Odisha. “This is a phenomenon visible across the country and not specific to Odisha. We are sincerely trying to give employment to the urban labourers. But until the economy returns to the pre-Covid situation, it would be tough to provide employment to all the labourers,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-656
21-09-2020||India||Fresh Delhi summons to Facebook India ||The Delhi Assembly’s Committee on Peace and Harmony has issued fresh summons to Facebook’s India head Ajit Mohan, who had refused to be questioned by the panel on the social media giant’s alleged culpability in communal riots here in February that claimed 53 lives. The committee, which sent the summons on Friday, warned of punitive action if Mohan refuses to appear on Wednesday. Committee chairperson Raghav Chadha said in a statement: “Any rebuttal or disregard to this subsequent notice shall be deemed as a wilful act of breach of privilege and thus shall entail various proceedings initiated against Facebook India.…” “Having regards to their disobedience, the committee mulled over exercising its powers and privileges conferred to it by the Constitution of India by applying its penal jurisdiction against Facebook after affording them one last opportunity to appear before the committee,” he said. Facebook is yet to respond to queries this paper sent them last week on their response to the panel. The company had earlier written to the panel that only the Centre, and not a state or union territory government, could regulate communications in India. Mohan had appeared before the parliamentary standing committee on information technology earlier this month amid reports of the company’s inaction on hate speech by BJP MLAs. After the hearing, Facebook removed several accounts in the name of Telangana’s BJP MLA T. Raja Singh. In previous hearings of the Delhi Assembly’s committee, expert witnesses, including journalists, had alleged that Facebook officials might have deliberately ignored hateful posts on the platform that incited the riots. Last week, Buzzfeed News reported a leaked memo of a former Facebook staff that accused the company of ignoring or acting slow on fake accounts that undermined elections across the world, and that the company has not disclosed the existence of such a network to influence Assembly polls in Delhi, earlier this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-656
21-09-2020||India||Farmer death warrant: Congress on bills||The Congress on Sunday described the passage of the contentious farm-related bills in Parliament as a “death warrant” for farmers, declaring its intent to launch political and legal battles to defeat what it said was a government plan to facilitate a corporate takeover of the agriculture sector. Asserting that such a conspiracy would never succeed, Congress MP Rahul Gandhi said: “The farmer who cultivates gold from land, the arrogance of the Narendra Modi government has forced him to shed tears of blood. The manner in which the death warrant for farmers was issued in the garb of legislation passed in the Rajya Sabha today has shamed democracy.” The former Congress president added: “How will the farmers get MSP (minimum support price) after these black laws abolish the mandi system? Why is there no guarantee of MSP? Modi is turning farmers into slaves of capitalists. The country will never allow this to happen.” While farmers blocked several roads in Haryana on Sunday, hundreds of protesters from Punjab began a march towards Delhi. The protests have been the most widespread in Punjab. There have been demonstrations in Maharashtra, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, western Uttar Pradesh and Chhattisgarh as well. Senior leader Ahmed Patel said September 20 would be remembered as a “black day” in India’s history as the Centre had attacked not only farmers but also federalism. Congress spokesperson Abhishek Manu Singhvi hinted at a legal challenge, saying: “The bills have not been passed; the government has claimed the passage of the bills on the basis of the tyranny of majoritarianism. Amendments and resolutions were moved, division of votes was demanded but the government just bulldozed its way through this. The Constitution is clear that laws relating to agriculture trade can be passed by states only. This will be struck down by the Supreme Court.” Former finance minister P. Chidambaram tweeted: “The agriculture minister says that the government will guarantee that the farmer will get MSP. Private trade takes place even today. The price paid to the farmer is invariably less than MSP. If the agriculture minister can magically ensure MSP, why has he not done that so far? How will the minister know which farmer sold his produce to which trader? How will he know the millions of transactions that will take place every day all over the country?” The Congress senior added: “If he (agriculture minister) does not have the data, how will he guarantee MSP is paid in every transaction? Does the minister and the government think that the farmers are so foolish to believe the empty promise of the government? “Did the Modi government fulfill the promise of putting Rs 15 lakh in the bank account of every Indian? Did the Modi government fulfill the promise to double the farmers’ incomes? Did the Modi government fulfill the promise to create two crore jobs every year?” Party communications chief Randeep Surjewala compared the government’s move to push through the proposed farm reforms to the situation during British rule. Like the British who tried to snatch the rights of the Indians, Surjewala said “an autocratic ruler is now trying to snatch the land of the farmers”. The Congress spokesperson said: “The Prime Minister should directly answer: Who and how will the MSP be paid once the mandi system is over? Will the Food Corporation of India go to every farm of 15.5 crore farmers to offer MSP? Why has the law not incorporated a guarantee for MSP? Even the British said, we are giving freedom from Mughal rule. If what the government is saying is true, why are 250 farmers’ organisations protesting?” The Congress general secretary in charge of organisation, K.C. Venugopal, issued a statement condemning the “high-handedness” shown in the Rajya Sabha as a “murder of democracy”. He said violation of established parliamentary norms had become the new normal as an “authoritarian” government was bulldozing democratic practices to help its capitalist friends.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-656
21-09-2020||India||Watershed moment for the history of Indian agriculture: Defiant Modi on farm bills||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday termed the passage of the farm bills as a “watershed moment in the history of Indian agriculture”, exhibiting defiance in the face of intense protests by peasants’ organisations and risking losing allies. “A watershed moment for the history of Indian agriculture! Congratulations to our hardworking farmers on the passage of key bills in Parliament, which will ensure a complete transformation of the agriculture sector as well as empower crores of farmers,” he tweeted. Modi posted a series of tweets, in Punjabi apart from Hindi and English, asserting that the three farm bills would transform the lives of farmers. The Prime Minister’s choice of Punjabi was an attempt to assuage concerns in a state where the farmers’ protests have been the most intense, forcing BJP ally Shiromani Akali Dal to pull out its lone cabinet minister from the central government. Led by Modi, BJP ministers, MPs and leaders went into an overdrive to tom-tom the bills as an unprecedented measure for the welfare of farmers and slam the Congress and other parties for trying to block the reforms. The bills have triggered massive protests by farmers’ outfits in Punjab and Haryana that are now spreading to other states. Modi’s tweets and the manner in which the government pushed the bills through both houses of Parliament, riding roughshod over the Opposition, reflected a sense of determination and defiance that was in sharp contrast to the government in 2015 backtracking from a pro-industry land acquisition bill, buckling under similar protests by farmers. The Akalis, the BJP’s oldest ally, have this time cautioned the government against underestimating the strength of farmers.The RSS’s economic wing, the Swadeshi Jagran Manch, and farmers’ arm Bharatiya Kisan Sangh had demanded that the government insert a clause guaranteeing at least the minimum support price for farmers even when they sell their produce to private players. The government, however, disregarded this demand too. Asked about the RSS outfits’ demand, defence minister Rajnath Singh said: “There was no such provision earlier too.” Ashwani Mahajan, co-convenor of the Swadeshi Jagran Manch, told The Telegraph: “Our demand stands and we will continue to press for it. This government is pro-farmer and we are sure it will protect the rights of the farmers.” Mahajan stressed the need to provide protection to farmers from big corporate entities. “Corporates have the right to fix the MRP (maximum retail price) of their products. The farmers should at least be guaranteed minimum support price,” he said. Internally, the RSS and its affiliates are uncomfortable with the government’s rush. “The farm bills are not like the land acquisition bill that was blatantly anti-farmer; still we should be cautious,” an RSS leader said. While Akali Dal’s Harsimrat Kaur Badal has already quit the Modi government, the BJP appears to be on collision course with another ally as well — the Jannayak Janata Party in Haryana. So far the BJP has been able to keep JJP boss Dushyant Chautala calm but he too dangled the threat of resignation on Sunday. “I will quit my post the day any danger is posed to the MSP system,” Dushyant, the deputy chief minister in the BJP-led government, told news agency ANI after the passage of the bills. “There is no mention of ending the MSP system in the bills passed,” he added. The government, however, sought to project an image of nonchalance. A battery of ministers led by Rajnath, who claimed he too was a farmer, were fielded to attack the Opposition for “spreading lies” and assure farmers that their income would increase after the new provisions come into force. “Narendra Modi now feels he has decimated the Opposition and with his excellent connect with the people he’ll be able to convince the farmers,” a BJP old-timer said, fearing that such over-confidence could be “misplaced”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-656
21-09-2020||India||A question for Ajit Doval on arrested ‘spy’||The arrest of freelance journalist Rajeev Sharma on the charge of passing on “classified defence information” to China has thrown up one question at a time India is locked in the worst border crisis in decades with the neighbour. “Sharma knew Ajit Doval (national security adviser) very well and the accredited journalist was very open about it. The logical question to be asked now: was the NSA not aware of his alleged illegal activities?” senior journalist Paranjoy Guha Thakurta, who had interviewed Sharma in November last year, told The Telegraph in response to a question on Sunday. The question has wide national security implications. The claims made by Delhi police and the time-frame they listed on Saturday suggest that Sharma received cash from a Kunming-based Chinese handler, “George”, from January 2019 till September 2020 for information allegedly provided by the journalist. The wording of the Delhi police statement does not make it clear when the information was passed on. If the charges are true and the alleged payment was not made for information handed over earlier, it would mean that classified information was being leaked from the government even at the height of the current border crisis in eastern Ladakh. During the interview with Thakurta last year, Sharma had said: “I am unable to understand why I am under surveillance. I was told that the present government is doing this but I do not know why the government will do this since I am not involved in any anti-national or illegal activities.” Sharma was in the news then because he was among those who had said their phone was under surveillance through an invasive Israeli-developed spyware called Pegasus. The Centre had denied it had anything to with the purported surveillance. If Sharma was indeed under surveillance, it does not appear to have been very effective or the inputs were not taken seriously by the security establishment. Untrammelled by such surveillance, Sharma, according to the Delhi police statement, managed to receive Rs 30 lakh in 10 instalments from his Chinese handler between January 2019 and September 2020 and had meetings with the handler in Malaysia and Kunming City (in China). All these loose ends pose troubling questions before the national security apparatus headed by Doval. Calls from this newspaper to Doval’s office were not answered on Sunday, a holiday. If and when the national security adviser comments on the subject, this newspaper will publish them. In the November 2019 interview, a clip from which gained traction on social media on Saturday night after questions began to be asked about Sharma’s past association with a think tank linked closely to Doval, Thakurta had introduced Sharma as someone who had worked with Doval in the Vivekananda International Foundation for some time. Besides, an article by Sharma published in 2010 on the rediff.com portal describes the writer as “senior fellow with the New Delhi-based think tank Vivekananda International Foundation” (VIF). Yet, when The Telegraph phoned a senior official of the foundation on Sunday to enquire about Sharma, the official said: “I can’t recall his association with the VIF. Why are you asking me this?” The VIF was set up in 2009 with Doval as its founding director. The VIF, which describes itself as an “independent, non-partisan institution”, is a project of the Vivekananda Kendra, founded in the early 1970s by former RSS general secretary Eknath Ranade. The VIF has its office in Chanakyapuri, known as the diplomatic hub of the capital. The VIF’s website lists its “relationships” with multiple Chinese institutions/ think tanks that deal with strategic studies. In 2011, the foundation had organised a seminar on corruption and black money, which was attended by Doval, the then VIF director, Baba Ramdev and Team Anna members Arvind Kejriwal and Kiran Bedi as well as several RSS ideologues. Later, Anna Hazare and Ramdev began the much-publicised fast against corruption. The campaign ignited a massive protest and is said to have helped bring Narendra Modi to power in 2014. If Sharma did pass on classified defence information, the question how he had accessed such intelligence has not yet yielded any convincing answer. Media reports quoting sources in Delhi police have suggested that Sharma accessed the information by giving the impression that he was collecting the data for his work as a journalist. Inherent in such a theory is an assumption that the officials who reportedly gave the information to Sharma were aware that they were speaking to a journalist and the information was for publication. It is unlikely that any official would innocuously hand over classified information for publication. “If the police disclosures are correct, they should also name who in the government establishment was providing him with highly sensitive documents. They should pinpoint those responsible in the security establishment,” a retired Intelligence Bureau director said. Asked whether the investigators too are probing this angle, a senior Delhi police officer said: “We have nothing more to say now.” Thakurta, the journalist who had interviewed Sharma, raised another important matter. “Sharma is an accredited journalist. It never struck me that he was a shady character. He wrote mainly on defence, security issues and foreign affairs,” Thakurta said. A journalist is provided with an accreditation card by the Press Information Bureau after multiple layers of security checks, and it has to be renewed every year. If Sharma was indeed indulging in questionable activities, the accreditation process does not appear to have come across any red flags. If Delhi police’s charges turn out to be true, the efficacy of the accreditation process will face questions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-656
21-09-2020||India||Bill cloud on rights of workers in many plants||Three-fourths of India’s factories will be exempt from norms meant to protect workers against arbitrary dismissal or punishment, or discrimination in promotion and transfers, if a modified labour bill is passed, labour economists have said. Only factories with less than 100 employees are now exempt from following these norms, under the Industrial Employment (Standing Order) Act and the Industrial Disputes Act, which the Industrial Relations Code bill looks to subsume. The IR Code bill, introduced in the Lok Sabha on Saturday, seeks to extend the exemption to all industrial establishments with less than 300 employees. Analysts said this would facilitate layoffs and usher in a “fire at will” culture as in the US, because three in four factories in India have fewer than 300 employees. If the IR Code bill is enacted — likely given the government’s numbers and the standing committee’s nod — factories with less than 300 employees will not need the state government’s permission to sack workers. Nor will they need to follow the state government’s rules on probation, promotion or transfer, or those governing notices, inquiries and punishment for misconduct. They will also be exempt from certain rules that protect workers against punishment or dismissal for forming trade unions or for participating in strikes that had sought the necessary permissions. Further, the code bill says that employees cannot go on strike until the company has responded to their 14-day notice while the existing law says they can start the strike if the company fails to respond within the 14-day notice period. Apart from the Industrial Disputes Act and the Standing Order Act, the IR Code will also subsume the Trade Union Act after its passage. The code is one of three pending labour reform bills that had been referred to a standing committee. With the panel giving its recommendations, the government has tweaked them and introduced them in the Lok Sabha. The chapter on “standing order” (on service conditions) in the modified IR Code says: “The provisions of this chapter shall apply to every industrial establishment wherein three hundred or more than three hundred workers are employed, or were employed on any day of the preceding twelve months.” Labour economist Shyam Sundar, professor of human resource management at the XLRI, Xavier School of Management, Jamshedpur, said the Standing Order Act aimed at standardising the terms of service as a safeguard against arbitrary or discriminatory acts by employers. “The employers could not punish or dismiss workers according to their whims because of this law and various court judgments,” he said. “The Standing Order Act and the Industrial Disputes Act provide substantial employment security. Now this IR Code will exempt three-fourths of factories from its purview... and provide employers the liberty to ‘fire at will’ (as in the) highly liberalised labour market of the US.” Sundar said the exempted employers would be free to decide the probation periods, promotion criteria and transfer norms as they please. The trade unions will come under pressure and holding strikes will become virtually impossible, he added. Labour economist Ravi Srivastava said that once the IR Code is enacted, “the workers will no longer be able to take any industrial action and their collective bargaining power will become weak”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-656
21-09-2020||India||Centre blames ‘irresponsible societal behaviour’ for rise in Covid cases||Union health minister Harsh Vardhan on Sunday blamed the spurt in Covid cases in the country on “irresponsible societal behaviour” and called upon everyone to hail Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s leadership in tackling the pandemic. “We have seen a spurt in the number of cases recently. This is because of irresponsible societal behaviour. People should not relax,” the minister told the Lok Sabha. Modi had said in March the war against Covid would last 21 days. India now has the second highest number of Covid cases in the world.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-656
21-09-2020||India||Voice nails farm bills, democracy speechless||Two contentious farm bills were steamrollered through Parliament on Sunday with the Rajya Sabha passing these by a much-contested voice vote amid protests. Such was the outrage that 12 Opposition parties have moved a no-confidence motion against deputy chairman Harivansh who was elected less than a week ago on last Monday. The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, and The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, have been portrayed by the government as a facilitator that will help farmers to sell their produce to big players. The Opposition has described the bills as a “death warrant” on farmers that undermine price guarantees and leave them at the mercy of corporates. The bills were passed in a melee in the Rajya Sabha. The Lok Sabha had earlier cleared them. Not just the regular Opposition but even parties seen as friendly to the Narendra Modi government were either opposed to the bills or wanted to send them to the Select Committee. Among the sceptics were the AIADMK, TRS and the BJD. With the Akali Dal pulling out its minister, the BJP was left friendless, barring the JDU — a turn of events that must have turned the government with a brute majority cautious. Ignoring calls for a division (vote), the amendments moved by Opposition to refer the bills to the committee were defeated by voice vote. When any member seeks a division, House Rule 252 says: “If the opinion of the Chairman as to the decision of a question (by voice vote) is challenged... he shall order a division to be held, under which the votes can be recorded and matter decided”. Trouble began when the government sought to extend the day’s sitting till the passage of the bills, which have triggered protests by farmers across several states. This was immediately contested by the Opposition, which said there was no consensus in the House. The government showed no signs of relenting, Opposition MPs entered the Well to protest and in the din that ensued, a mike on the presiding officer’s table was broken, a rule book torn and papers thrown towards the Chair. A short adjournment followed. Marshals were called in and made to stand as a human wall around the Parliament reporters’ table and the Chair to keep the protesting MPs away. On Sunday, there was considerable support for the Opposition amendments seeking to refer the bills to the Select Committee. AIADMK’s S.P. Balasubramoniyan said the bills had been “enacted to make contract farming legitimate so that big businesses and companies can cultivate vast swathes of land on contract. This is like disinvestment of Indian farming sector and selling it to big corporates and MNCs.’’ Picking on the BJP’s Bhupendra Yadav’s description of the bills as ushering in “New Age Agriculture”, K. Kesava Rao of the TRS — a party that usually goes along with the government — said: “We are totally against this new age…. Now, you are pitting the poor farmers against rich corporates…. The government has set out to kill the golden goose. Agriculture is the only sector that beat the pandemic in the April-June quarter.’’ BJD, another party that is unaligned but votes with the government, stressed the need to send the two bills to the Select Committee for further consideration. The BJD and the AIADMK may not have voted against the bills but there was an indication that they would support a move to refer them to the Select Committee, strengthening the Opposition’s chances of stalling them. Since the amendment for moving the bills to the Select Committee would have to be disposed of before putting them to vote, the government did not want to risk it. Had the amendment been passed, it would have had to move a resolution to refer the bills to the Select Committee. Akali Dal MP Naresh Gujral, too, favoured referring the bills to the Select Committee. Stating that the farmers of Punjab had helped make India self-sufficient in food, he said they feel aggrieved now because of these bills. “Don’t think the farmers of Punjab are weak.... If injustice is done, they will fight,’’ he said. BSP’s Satish Chandra Mishra demanded that the government amend the bill to provide for MSP (minimum support price) protection under the new regime. Responding to the BJP’s allegation that the Opposition was spreading rumours about abolition of MSP in the new bills, Shiv Sena’s Sanjay Raut asked if the Akali Dal minister resigned from the Modi cabinet on the basis of rumours. The Left parties demanded an amendment to protect MSP so that farmers are reassured. Through Yadav, the BJP’s counter to much of the criticism was that the Congress had left farmers in the lurch and the Modi government was making a course correction. It said the Congress manifesto, too, had promised the end of the Agriculture Produce Market Committees. Ahmed Patel of the Congress responded: “You are selectively quoting our manifesto to suit your agenda. I challenge you to implement the rest of what we have promised also.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-657
21-09-2020||India||Opposition parties move no-confidence motion against Rajya Sabha deputy chairman||Twelve Opposition parties have taken the rare step of moving a no-confidence motion against Rajya Sabha deputy Chairman Harivansh after the voice vote was used to defeat amendments linked to the farm bills. The government is said to be planning a counter-strike by moving a motion to suspend the MPs who misbehaved with Harivansh. The Opposition motion is unlikely to be allowed as under Article 90 of the Constitution, a resolution to remove the deputy Chairman cannot be moved without giving 14 days’ notice. Emboldened by farmers erupting in protest in multiple states, the Opposition took the unparalleled step of filming their protests in the House and uploading videos on social media. Parliamentary ruckus is traditionally not telecast. Both sides called it a “black day” for democracy. The government cited the commotion in Parliament while Opposition members pointed to the manner in which the bills were passed without giving them a chance to press for a division (voting by electronic or paper ballot). Congress MP Abhishek Manu Singhvi questioned the voice vote itself, underlining that there was no audio in the Lok Sabha — where several of the Rajya Sabha members are seated this session owing to physical distancing requirements — and so the question of quorum arises. The audio link was apparently disrupted after the mic on the chairman’s podium was broken by some Opposition MPs. As is the wont whenever MPs enter the well, Rajya Sabha TV kept the cameras frozen on the Chair once the Opposition moved in to picket the deputy Chairman over the decision to extend proceedings beyond 1pm and till the passage of the farm bills. “The dictatorial attitude of the Chair in not wanting to get a sense of the House, which is the convention to extend the session beyond the scheduled 1pm, led to bedlam & chaos. The anti-farmer bills were passed in the din without voting. Why the tearing urgency? On whose orders?” tweeted Congress chief whip Jairam Ramesh. In the din that ensued, the amendments moved by members from different Opposition parties were defeated by voice vote and their demand for a division not taken up, prompting them to move the no-confidence motion against the deputy Chairman. Later in the evening, the government brought out a pantheon of ministers under the leadership of defence minister Rajnath Singh, the favoured trouble-shooter of late, to defend Harivansh. Asked why the Opposition demand for division was not granted under Rule 252, minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi said the Chair had asked the Opposition members to return to their designated places and make a request. They did not, so the division was not allowed. In a video message, Trinamul’s Derek O’Brien said: “Today, the right to seek a division was taken away from the Opposition.... It’s like literally taking parliamentary democracy and shoving a knife into it.… You don’t expect the Opposition to sit down and eat lollipops while this happens. So, we protested. Interestingly, the TRS and the BJD, which normally vote with the government, also wanted the bills to go to a Select Committee. So, were the government not sure of their numbers? If they were so sure of the numbers, they could have allowed us to have the vote.” AAP’s Sanjay Singh tweeted a video showing him standing on the Parliament reporters’ table in front of the Chair and shouting slogans. The video showed Singh being bodily lifted from the table as some Congress and Trinamul MPs tried to stop the marshals. In the same video, Congress MP Rajeev Satav was seen climbing onto the same table to shout slogans. “Yes, there are rules that we should not be shooting inside the Rajya Sabha. But we won’t let you get away with it.... You want to suspend me, suspend me. We shot it... there are no rules left. Yes, the Opposition took videos.… You tried to rewrite the rules of Parliament... we took you on today, not for ourselves but for... Indian Parliament, farmers and the Opposition,” O’Brien said. Briefing journalists after the government’s media conference, Congress leader K.C. Venugopal said: “It is unfortunate that ministers are justifying what the deputy Chairperson did. In a parliamentary democracy, the government has the way — we agree — but the Opposition has its say.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-657
21-09-2020||India||Our concern is livelihood: father of terror accused||Tazimuddin Sheikh’s house at Ghoshpara in Jalangi, Murshidabad, has become a spectacle of sorts as people are turning up to check the home that an NIA team had surrounded early on Saturday to arrest a man with alleged terror links. “Is this the house of the two terrorists?” asked a young man, who came from a neighbouring village to see the house. The disbelief in his voice after he walked along a winding mud-road, cutting through rows of fields and ponds, to reach the house — built of jute-sticks with corrugated tin shades on the top — was palpable. A local youth pointed to the corner of the house that Tazimuddin had left for Atitur, his sixth son and a college student. The NIA claimed Atitur had connections with the banned terror outfit al Qaida and so did his elder brother Mosaraf Hossen, who was living in Ernakulam in Kerala. The father, who has around a bigha of land for himself and cultivates jute, pulses and occasionally wheat, said he had no clue that his sons had terror links. “We are poor people.... Our concern is earning a living. How can you believe that we will have links with terror outfits?” asked Tazimuddin. According to him, he could barely earn Rs 6,000 to Rs 7,000 a month with his toil in the fields, while his sons were all fending for themselves by using their labour. Officers probing the case said they were aware of the poor background of the detainees. “The al Qaida handlers were also aware of the abject poverty of these people,” said a source, without explaining how he was aware of this. “Youths from such families are usually the targets of handlers who are tasked with recruiting people,” said a senior office, adding that the promise of “economic stability”, along with “fame and glory”, is dangled as carrots to take the youths under their fold. Among the nine arrested from Ernakulam and parts of Murshidabad on Saturday, almost all, barring one, have been struggling with their family income for some time now. Some had left their homes for Kerala in search of additional income, but had to return during the lockdown after losing jobs. Al Mamun Kamal from Jalangi, for instance, had been to Kerala as a migrant labourer and had returned a few months back with others during the lockdown. A father of two sons, he had been making a living these days as a stop-gap driver of private vehicles. The others, who were living in their villages, didn’t have any gainful employment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-657
21-09-2020||West Bengal||61 more die of Covid in Bengal||Bengal on Sunday logged 3,177 new Covid-19 cases, 61 deaths and 2,958 recoveries. The total cases went past 2.25 lakh, of which nearly 1.96 lakh were recoveries and 4,359 deaths. The recovery rate crossed 87 for the first time and is 87.05 now, far ahead of the national rate of 79.62 per cent. “Despite the slight rise in the total number of active cases (24,806 on Sunday) over the past 10-12 days, the state is still out of the top 10 (12th position currently) in the list of states and Union territories with the most active cases. In terms of active ratio, it is in the 31st place. That’s how decent our performance, even at this stage of the pandemic, is,” said a Bengal minister. Of the total 4,359 deaths, Calcutta alone accounted for 1,581, with 15 reported on Sunday. North 24-Parganas reported a total of 981 deaths, 16 of them on Sunday. The state government reported 3,734 deaths (85.7 per cent) as those with comorbidity “present”. Bengal’s overall mortality rate is now 1.93, still behind the national rate of 1.6 per cent. “Despite a lot of efforts, we are yet to lower our mortality rate to far less than 2. That is because we have been plateauing out in the daily count of both new cases and deaths. For a substantial drop in the mortality rate, either the number of daily deaths has to decline sharply or the number of new cases has to see a spike,” said the minister. “The chief minister set a target of halving the mortality rate, weeks ago. But it has not been easy and we haven’t been able to get close yet,” he added. On the plus side, having conducted over 9 lakh tests already in September, the total test count is nearly 27.91 lakh now. With substantial ramp-up in testing, the state quadrupled its daily testing in two months, conducting 45,656 on Sunday. The tests per million count is now 31,006, which was 20,974 even at the beginning of September. Steady rise in testing, coupled with no marked increase in the number of new cases being found, has improved the positive confirmation rate from 8.9 on August 23 to 8.07 per cent. A decreasing positive confirmation rate is indicative of reducing levels of Covid-19 spread. The state reported 33.94 per cent occupancy on 12,675 beds earmarked for Covid-19 at 92 dedicated hospitals for the pandemic. Over 2.34 lakh telemedicine consultations for the pandemic were provided, including 4,182 in the past 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-367
21-09-2020||West Bengal||Office-of-profit notice to Firhad Hakim||The Election Commission of India has sought a reply from Firhad Hakim, state urban development minister and the chairman of the board of administrators at the Calcutta Municipal Corporation, by September 30 on a petition that had alleged that he became a subject to disqualification as an MLA for holding an “office of profit”. The director (law), V.K. Pandey, of the ECI issued the notice mentioning the petition submitted by Indrajeet Dasgupta, an advocate in Calcutta High Court, had alleged that the post of Chairperson of the Board of Administrators of the CMC was not exempted from disqualification under the West Bengal (Removal of Disqualification) Act, 2007 and hence, it fell in the category of “Office of Profit”. The notice sent to the minister mentioned that if Hakim didn’t reply within the stipulated time frame, the ECI would then proceed to take further action without any further reference to him by considering that he had nothing to say in this regard. Sources in the chief electoral officer’s office in Calcutta said the notice had already been handed over to the minister a couple of days back. The ECI notice says the petition had stated the offices of the chairperson of the board of administrators has certain benefits to it like chauffeur driven car, personal staff, salary and allowances, which make them offices of profit. “I haven’t received the ECI notice as yet. If I receive, I will surely respond,” said Hakim. Sources said home secretary Alapan Bandopadhyay had written to the ECI, explaining that Hakim’s post didn’t qualify as the office of profit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-367
21-09-2020||West Bengal||Rs 9cr allotted to civic bodies for dengue fight||The Bengal government has allotted Rs 9 crore to 126 civic bodies across the state  in a bid to enlist civic personnel to fight dengue, with senior health officials reiterating chief minister Mamata Mamata’s assertion that the vector-borne disease could not be neglected amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The “Dengue Bijoy Obhijan” drive was launched by officials on Sunday, flagging off a three-month drive against the disease. Sources said the move came after the chief minister repeatedly said at Nabanna meetings over the past few months not to forget dengue during the fight against Covid-19. In a meeting with district magistrates and other senior officials last month, Mamata had expressed her worry over dengue with particular reference to North 24-Parganas and Calcutta. “Please carry on the work needed to prevent dengue. Ensure that a situation does not arise later where you have to fight dengue and Covid-19 together,” Mamata had warned recently. Later, in a late August meeting with district officials, she had ordered a close watch on dengue-prone areas in the district. Sources said the State Urban Development Agency (Suda) had allotted Rs 9 crore to municipalities this year according to the area allotments of the civic bodies. Large civic bodies like Asansol Municipal Corporation in West Burdwan received Rs 28.62 lakh whereas smaller civic bodies like Basirhat in North 24-Parganas received Rs 6.81 lakh. “We have allotted the funds to civic bodies as a first step in outsourcing persons who can join as vector control team members. Members will visit homes and take immediate action to remove stagnant water. The programme will stop the spread of the disease,” said Santanu Mukherjee, Suda director. “Funds are hereby released electronically in favour of Urban Local bodies as honorarium to Vector Control Team Members…” an order issued by Suda this week read. Suda officials said they would continuously send money to civic bodies every month till November —t he peak time for dengue — and would ask civic bodies to send utilisation certificates of the funds by the fifth of every month. Sources in different municipalities said the government had increased funds for controlling Dengue for the first time in a number of years, and welcomed the move citing clear directions to take actions in dengue-prone areas. “Earlier, our staff from the municipality used to look after dengue-related matters. Now, the government will hire personnel dedicated to keep vigil for the vector disease,” said Aswini Tiwari, chairman of the Rampurhat municipality. On Sunday, state urban development minister Firhad Hakim inaugurated the new drive against the disease. which was followed up with an inauguration at all civic bodies in Bengal on Sunday. “All municipalities have been asked to conduct door-to-door surveys mainly to locate stagnant water and to campaign in urban pockets to make people aware about dengue in the time of Covid-19,” said an urban development department official. On Sunday, several municipalities took out tableau to campaign against dengue and initiated cleanliness campaigns in their respective areas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-367
21-09-2020||West Bengal||Flames devour hilsa at a godown at Digha||Nearly two tonnes of hilsa valued over Rs 20 lakh were burnt to ashes in a fire at a godown inside Digha’s Matsya Nilam Kendra market. The fire reportedly started around midnight from cigarette ashes of a worker sleeping on the premises. East Midnapore district police began an investigation into the cause of the incident. Sources in the local fish traders’ association have lamented the latest blow to an “already dismal” hilsa season this year, which most fishermen in the district rely on for a substantial portion of their yearly income. “Twelve stores caught fire last night. Among them was a fish godown (in right picture) storing the coveted fish worth of Rs 20 lakh,” said a police officer. “This has caused a further setback for fishermen who were already reeling from a bad hilsa season,” said Digha Fishermen’s and Fish-traders’ Association secretary Shyam Sundar Das. Bablu Gaji, an owner of the godown and resident of North 24-Parganas’s Basirhat, said: “This fish is very costly and I was depending on the income to repay bank loans. I had lost approximately 600kg of fish.” He said each fish was priced between approximately Rs 800 and Rs 1,200.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-367
21-09-2020||West Bengal||Bengal govt to transfer land to erosion victims||The Mamata Banerjee government has started handing over land to people who were earlier evicted or lost their homes and land because of river erosion in north Bengal. While in Malda, the administration has announced that land will be provided to 68 erosion victims on Monday, tourism minister Gautam Deb handed over land rights to 14 families in Jalpaiguri on Sunday. In Malda, all the victims who would be handed over the land are from different villages of Baishnabnagar Assembly constituency that has a BJP MLA since 2016. “We would be offering each of 68 families the deed of land measuring one cottah. The alternate land would be in the vicinity of their old houses. Few families would even get the land near NH12,” said Rajarshi Mitra, the district magistrate of Malda. This is the first time in recent times that the administration has acted so quickly to provide alternative land to erosion victims. “Among the prospective beneficiaries are many who have lost their homes to the erosion a fortnight ago,” said Subhamay Bose, a spokesperson for district Trinamul in Malda. He also demanded that the Farakka Barrage Project Authority that functions under the central government take up anti-erosion work in the affected areas. Although the erosion started on a small scale in June in Baishnabnagar under Kaliachak 3 block, it took a grim turn on August 30 when large stretches of land in Chinabazar and Sarkarpara were devoured by the Ganga. Frightened by the erosion, the residents had started shifting their houses to safer places. Many took shelter at a local ground and others were living in makeshift tents. All the affected families would be rehabilitated in due course, said sources in the administration. In Gajoldoba (under Rajganj block of Jalpaiguri) where the state is developing “Bhorer Alo,” a mega tourism hub, 14 families, who had encroached on government land, were evicted as it was decided to build a bridge and its approach road to connect the hub. “Today (Sunday), we provided them with land. They will also get funds under the state’s housing scheme to build their homes,” said the tourism minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-367
21-09-2020||West Bengal||Bista raises hill demand in Lok Sabha||Darjeeling MP Raju Bista  requested the Centre in the Lok Sabha on Saturday to expedite the process to “ascertain” a “permanent political solution” to the Darjeeling issue at a time BJP allies in the hills mounted pressure on the Narendra Modi government on the matter. In its manifesto for the 2019 general elections, the BJP had said: “We are committed to work towards finding a permanent political solution to the issue of Darjeeling Hills, Siliguri, Terai and Dooars region.” In a statement, Bista said: “I requested the Parliament to take cognizance of the fact that the demand for Gorkhaland state is a long-pending demand of the people from Darjeeling Hills, Terai, and Dooars.” The BJP MP said developments like abrogation of Article 370, resolution of the Bodoland issue and “the rapid pace of development in hitherto neglected” Northeast had given hope to “the people from our region that Gorkhaland-related issued would be resolved very soon”. Bista also pointed out that the Darjeeling Gorkha Hill Council (DGHC) and the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA), which had been formed in 1988 and 2012, respectively, “have failed to fulfil the aspirations of the people”. The BJP leader is of the opinion that the issues also needed to be looked at from the perspective of “national security” given the fact that the hills, Dooars and the Terai share borders with Bhutan, Nepal and Bangladesh and is very close to the China frontier. Bista’s renewed focus on the hill issue comes close on the heels of BJP allies, GNLF and the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha’s Bimal Gurung faction, demanding that the process for “finding a permanent political solution” start before next year’s Bengal Assembly elections. The BJP hasn’t yet spelt out “the permanent political solution”. However, the GNLF, which has started a poster campaign in the hills, says the solution should not be anything less than the Sixth Schedule status for the hills.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-367
21-09-2020||West Bengal||Varsity starts gate restoration||Visva-Bharati on Sunday started primary work to restore its gate, which had been demolished by a mob on August 17 during a protest against the setting up of a boundary wall around the Pous Mela ground. The initiative was started following a two-hour meeting of a four-member committee formed by Calcutta High Court and officials of the varsity and the district administration on Sunday. The committee members held the meeting after visiting the Mela grounds on Sunday morning. A high court division bench headed by Chief Justice T.B.N. Radhakrishnan on Friday set up the four-member committee, chaired by Justice Sanjib Banerjee, to look into aspects of the ongoing impasse at Visva-Bharati over the construction of a wall along the Pous Mela ground and to find a solution by involving all stakeholders. The three other members of the committee are Justice Arijit Banerjee, advocate-general Kishore Datta and additional solicitor-general Y.J. Dastoor. The court also appointed advocate Jaydeep Kar as amicus curae to the case. Sources said the committee had asked the varsity at the meeting to restore the gate to its state preceding the violence on the morning of August 17. “The committee members asked us to restore the gate with immediate effect and so we started the work. We will try to complete the gate within seven days. Committee members will reassemble after a week,” said a senior Visva-Bharati official who attended the meeting. On Sunday afternoon, an earth-moving machine supervised by varsity engineer Amit Sengupta started removing debris from the gate as part of preparing the groundwork. “We have asked the contractor to start the work on an urgent basis,” said a varsity official. On Sunday morning, committee members visited the Pous Mela grounds, including the spot where the gate was demolished. After visiting the grounds and collecting information from district magistrate Moumita Godara Basu and district police chief Shyam Singh, the committee members proceeded to the office of vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty for a meeting. “Committee members held a meeting for over two hours with Visva-Bharati officials, including the VC, and district officials. Officials from both the sides laid out their assessments before the committee members who advised that problems be worked out together,” said a source. Later in the day, a joint news release was issued by the district magistrate and the varsity’s officiating-registrar Ashok Mahato, regarding the meeting and the visit of the committee members. “It was decided that Visva-Bharati authorities and district administration will work together to sort out any problems amicably through discussion and sharing of information, maintaining the dignity and sanctity of the Institution of National Importance founded by Gurudev Rabindranath Tagore,” the news release read. “The committee will reassemble soon and hear the views of the Ashramik, local residents and representatives of the Byabasayi Samiti,” it added. On August 17, Santiniketan witnessed unprecedented violence when protestors demolished a wall that varsity authorities were erecting around the Pous Mela ground, which the varsity owns. Since then, sentiments in the university town have been on the boil as varsity authorities have stuck to their stand on the fencing, whereas town residents and the ruling Trinamul Congress dispensation are against it. Varsity officials starting Sunday morning deployed two armed police personnel at the site of the gate in order to prevent further disturbance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-367
21-09-2020||West Bengal||Land survey held in hill tea garden||The Darjeeling district administration has conducted a land survey in the Pandam tea garden, the move seen by many as a preparatory step towards meeting the long-standing demand of granting land rights to hill citizens. More than 3 lakh labourers in the tea gardens of north Bengal do not enjoy land rights despite working in the plantations for generations. Ahead of the 2021 Assembly elections, the issue of land rights has taken the centre stage with the Binay Tamang camp of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha flagging it repeatedly. “Out of 54 Assembly seats in north Bengal, 15 are in the tea growing region. In the Lok Sabha polls last year, the Trinamul Congress had lagged behind the BJP in those seats, except Chopra. If the state government can do something about the land rights, Trinamul will get a huge advantage in the brew belt,” said a political analyst. Administrative sources said the spot inquiry conducted at Pandam — during which population and land area at Pandam busty was noted and the entire tea estate’s measurement was taken — in the first week of September bore hints that the state government was looking at the demand with due seriousness. There are, however, no clear indications that the state government has taken a policy decision on granting land rights to tea garden workers, said a source. “But if there is any positive decision taken with regard to the Padam tea garden, situated about 10km from Darjeeling town, similar demands will resonate all across the hills. You can’t have a situation where workers of some estates are given land rights and the rest are ignored,” said the source. Multiple sources said the Darjeeling district administration was handling the land rights issue carefully by keeping the stakeholders involved. In the case of the Pandam survey, the authorities had informed not just the manager of the garden but also marked a copy of the survey notice to Tshering Dahal, the president of the women wing of the Tamang camp. The management wasn’t, however, present at the meeting concerning the land survey. “We received orders from higher authorities to conduct the survey. It was probably done based on representations by some people,” said a land and land reforms officer. Sources said Dahal had written to the district administration on December 23, 2019 stating that residents of Pandam busty had been demanding land rights since 1975 and the land department had failed to conduct a survey despite an order to the effect (memo no 87/CF-20/TG/(1)17) dated April 10, 2017. Dahal was informed about the survey on August 24, 2020. Binay Tamang told The Telegraph that the move was an outcome of his party’s relentless persuasion. “I have been told that after Pandam, another survey will be conducted in the Chungthung tea garden. Land is a complex issue. I am in Calcutta and will once again discuss the issue with chief minister Mamata Banerjee,” Tamang said. The Tamang camp is hoping that some positive development on the land rights issue can change its fortunes in the coming Assembly elections. The BJP had won the Darjeeling Lok Sabha constituency and the Assembly seat, to which a bypoll was held, last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-368
21-09-2020||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee defers Siliguri visit||Mamata Banerjee has postponed her north Bengal tour scheduled from September 21 to 24 because of heavy rainfall predicted across the state in next few days following a deep depression in the Bay of Bengal. “The chief minister would now visit Siliguri between September 28 and 30. The chief minister fights any calamity from the front and this time also, she decided to lead the operations from Nabanna in case heavy rainfall occurs,” said a senior government official. Mamata was supposed to hold review meetings of five north Bengal districts on September 22 and 23. Now, she is scheduled to hold the meetings on September 29 and 30. Sources said the chief minister postponed her visit considering the fact that if rainfall occurred in the next few days, a large part of the state could submerge. “All waterbodies are full and many rivers are flowing just below the danger level. In such a situation, heavy rainfall for a few days at a stretch may lead to inundation in many areas. The chief minister knows the situation well and she postponed her trip considering the ground reality,” said another official. Sources at Nabanna said every district magistrate had been asked to keep all arrangements ready to fight the disaster, if any. “Dry foods and other necessities have been kept ready in different districts while arrangements for additional tarpaulins are being made on an emergency basis. People living in the low lying areas could be evacuated if the situation turns critical,” said an official. The disaster response teams have also been deployed in almost all districts, particularly those which are prone to floods.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-368
21-09-2020||North East||Parliamentary secretary row in Manipur||The High Court of Manipur has set aside the appointment of 12 MLAs as parliamentary secretaries, prompting the Opposition Congress to seek their disqualification and the resignation of the BJP-led state government on moral ground. The court on Thursday pronounced that the Manipur Parliamentary Secretary (Appointment, Salary and Allowances and Miscellaneous Provisions) Act, 2012 and the Manipur Parliamentary and (Appointment, Salary and Allowances and Miscellaneous Provisions) Repealing Act, 2018 were both “invalid and unconstitutional”. A division bench comprising Chief Justice Ramalingam Sudhakar and Justice A. Bimol Singh, acting on a writ petition filed in 2018 challenging the appointments, passed the ruling, effectively quashing the appointments under these laws. Manipur state BJP president S. Tikendra Singh confirmed that the court has quashed the parliamentary secretaries’ appointments made in 2017 but also added that the twelve MLAs had resigned from their posts soon after their appointment was challenged in the court. Senior Congress MLA and chief spokesperson K. Meghachandra told The Telegraph that they were preparing to meet the governor Najma Heptulla in the next couple of days to seek the disqualification of the MLAs and also the resignation of the government. Of the 12 MLAs, eight are from the BJP, three from the Naga People’s Front and one Independent. The newly-appointed AICC in-charge of Manipur and Mizoram and former Union minister Bhakta Charan Das, who is reaching Imphal on Monday afternoon, will be part of the party delegation that will call on the governor seeking action against the MLAs, Meghachandra said. Das, a former president of Odisha PCC, replaced Assam MP Gaurav Gogoi who was in August elevated as the party’s deputy leader in the Lok Sabha. Welcoming the ruling, Meghachandra said the high court’s order proves the “illegality and unconstitutionality” committed by the BJP government in Manipur and as such the state government must resign on moral ground and all the 12 “illegally appointed” MLAs as parliamentary secretaries by the chief minister be “disqualified” because they “enjoyed office of profit” from 2017 onwards and during their tenure as parliamentary secretaries. “Therefore, the Congress  is going to submit the representation for the disqualification of the 12 MLAs under Article 192 of Constitution of India to the Governor of Manipur.... We constitutionally demand that BJP government must resign as the continuation of this government will result in many unconstitutional and illegal acts,” Meghachandra said. Manipur has a 60-member Assembly and the size of the council of ministers cannot exceed 12 or 15 per cent of the total House strength. The 15 per cent cap on ministry size has seen state governments use the parliamentary secretary route to accommodate party MLAs or those from allies supporting the ruling dispensation, enjoying status and perks similar to minister of state. However, the courts, including the Supreme Court, have in the past ruled these appointments unconstitutional. The bench has cited a Supreme Court ruling in a similar appointment case related to Assam wherein the apex court had stated, “Article 194 does not expressly authorise the state legislature to create offices such as the one in question.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-44
21-09-2020||North East||Assam police exam cancelled after leak ||A statewide recruitment examination for 597 posts of sub-inspectors in Assam police on Sunday afternoon had to be cancelled following the leak of the question paper on WhatsApp, affecting over 66,000 candidates. The state-level police recruitment board (SLPRB), Assam, which conducted the examination, promptly lodged a case with the criminal investigation department following the cancellation. The paper was of three-hour duration, from 12 noon to 3pm, held across the state. Pradeep Kumar, chairman, SLPRB, told The Telegraph that they came to know about the circulation of the question paper for the written test on WhatsApp “twelve minutes before the 12-noon start” and after discussion with the state DGP, IGP (Special Branch) and chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal who is in Delhi. The decision of cancelling the exam reached the examination centres between 12.45pm and 1 pm, candidates who took the test said. The SLPRB is under the home department which is headed by the chief minister. “We came to know about the leak from a person in Guwahati. Inquiries revealed the WhatsApp message was sent to him from a person in Golaghat who had received the message from Karbi Anglong. When the chief minister was apprised, he said fairness of the examination has to be ensured at all cost and as such the examination was promptly cancelled. We will announce a fresh date within a month,” Kumar said. Nobody has been arrested till the time of filing the report. The chief minister’s office in a statement said that Sonowal has directed DGP Bhaskarjyoti Mahanta to expeditiously conduct the inquiry into the leak to nab the culprits. The cancellation left the candidates disappointed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-44
21-09-2020||Opinion||Fishy fund: Mahua Moitra attacks PM-Cares||Sir — In one of her finest speeches yet, the Trinamul Congress leader, Mahua Moitra, launched a scathing attack on the PM-Cares fund in the Lok Sabha, arguing that not only does it take away statutory promises made under the goods and services tax regime, but also corners public funds to the detriment of state relief funds. She went on to say that public sector units competing to donate money to the PM-Cares fund are like “courtiers of the Emperor, competing with each other to give gifts with public funds”. She also slammed the government for accepting funds from Chinese companies, saying that no “dying Indian would want to be on a ventilator paid for by enemy money”. People wonder how the minister of state for finance, Anurag Thakur, who once raised a hue and cry about the Congress allegedly accepting money from the Islamist preacher, Zakir Naik, can now support a project that is funded by China. He wondered why it took so long for the Congress to return Naik’s donation. Similarly people are now wondering when will Narendra Modi return the donations from Xiaomi — Rs 10 crore — TikTok — Rs 30 crore — Huawei — Rs 7 crore? This shows that contrary to his election rhetoric, there is not much difference between this government and its predecessors when it comes to shady financial transactions. He may have forgotten that like terrorists, the corrupt also have no colour, caste, creed or even party. Whenever any allegations of financial irregularities are levelled against the Modi government, immediately to save its skin it deploys senior ministers to pacify the aam aadmi with lies and unimportant issues. If there are no shady dealings in the PM-Cares fund, why not make it open for an audit by the Comptroller and Auditor General and bring it under the purview of the Right to Information Act? The true essence of democracy calls for financial transparency from public funds and public servants. But when a power hungry prime minister is surrounded by his sycophantic courtiers then how can he give us a clean and corruption free government?Bidyut Kumar Chatterjee,Faridabad  Sir — The speech by the firebrand leader, Mahua Moitra, makes some pertinent points. But I am afraid Moitra gets carried away in the politics of division practised by her opponents. An Indian who is dying cares little if the ventilator came from China or Pakistan. Geopolitical differences have their own forum of resolution. Refusing help during a crisis owing to such issues is foolish. Aparna Astha,Calcutta The glow is back Sir — It was after ages that I spotted a firefly in the house recently. There are also more insects swarming around street lamps and even the ‘Diwali poka’ seems to have made a comeback. All this after a short break of just a couple of months when predatory human activities had slowed down during the lockdown. Even though these activities have now resumed, nature has used even that small window of opportunity to regenerate itself. Meenakshi Basu, Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-145
21-09-2020||Opinion||Extinction report: World wildlife population||The Anthropocene — a geological period signifying human predations on the planet — can no longer be denied. The Living Planet Report 2020 by the World Wildlife Fund found that the earth’s wildlife population has declined by an average of 68 per cent from 1970 to 2016. Forest clearing for agricultural space was the primary cause of the decline, says the report, noting that one-third of the planet’s land is currently being used for food production. Scientists have long warned that the world is entering a sixth mass extinction, driven, among other things, by ceaseless consumption, destruction of wildlife and wild spaces, and burning of fossil fuels. Such activities, ironically, are still perceived as markers of progress by cultures around the world. The indifference of people and their elected leaders towards this imminent armageddon may appear puzzling. But there is an explanation for this criminal apathy too. Human depredation on the natural world has caused a fundamental transformation in man’s relationship with the environment, turning the latter into a resource that is only fit for plunder. Efforts by governments to put the environment on sale are met with minimal public resistance because of a flawed understanding of development. Consequently, commercial imperatives now threaten even the small successes that have been achieved by conservation initiatives. Between 2015-17, the Narendra Modi government exempted 146 out of 206 classes of polluting industries from routine assessments. Unsurprisingly, an estimated 10 per cent of India’s recorded wild flora and fauna is threatened with extinction. The complicity of the executive has forced the judiciary on several occasions to try and protect the environment. There have been deliberations on bestowing animals and rivers with the same legal rights as living persons. Such reflections are welcome. But they will not bear fruit till such time that environmental safeguards and economic development are cast as conflicting concerns. This engineered clash makes it easier for the government to eviscerate even protective legislations. The draft Environmental Impact Assessment, to cite one example, now seeks to ensure the ease of doing business by removing common people — integral to the ecology — from the process of environmental decision-making in a bid to give free rein to marauding industries. Shockingly, the tweaking of the laws comes at a time when Covid-19 has demonstrated the dangers of exploiting nature. Unless swift action is taken to strengthen and properly implement laws to sustain the environment, the future of India and the planet is bleak.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-145
21-09-2020||Opinion||Fight the fire: Sudarshan TV & 'UPSC Jihad'||Restraint is, expectedly, a rare phenomenon during shrill times. The propensity for distorting the truth and vilifying minorities, some of the consequences of the absence of restraint in the institutions of democracy, must be curbed. This was the crux of the heartening message that has gone out in the course of the Supreme Court’s deliberations on a case in which a television channel, Sudarshan News, stands accused of alleging that jihadis — in other words, Muslims — have infiltrated India’s civil services. India’s highest court must be praised for making several pertinent observations on the matter. The court, for instance, took cognizance of the fact that “pre-publication restraint” — a stay will prevail on a particularly toxic news show until the channel curbs its eagerness to fan communal flames — comes with its own set of challenges in a democracy. This cogent reasoning is important given that some legal injunctions have allegedly cast a shadow on the media’s right to unrestrained expression; the Andhra Pradesh High Court’s directive to the media to not report on a first information report against some persons, including the state advocate general, is a case in point. Some of the other relevant issues that were discussed include the rhetoric of nationalism — a useful broom to beat dissenters with — the importance of transparency to deduce whether the government is playing a partisan role when it comes to doling out revenue to the media as well as the ‘toothlessness’ of the National Broadcasting Association. The Bharatiya Janata Party-led Centre, a supposed beneficiary of the sustained media campaign of stigmatization against minorities, has attempted to speak up for journalistic freedom. But the freedom of a pliant media now falls in a twilight zone with obedient television networks setting aside ethical standards and moral concerns to brand a particular community. Strikingly, the Centre is on record stating that there is a need to regulate digital media but not television networks. That the shenanigans of the digital media have given the entire media fraternity a bad name is undeniable. But regulations, if they are necessary, cannot be selective. The Supreme Court’s remarks expose, once again, a rot that is the result of complicity between the State and the media. Self-regulation, always better than legislative restraints, could address the problem.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-145
21-09-2020||Opinion||Heal the fourth estate||The media is a critical public institution that facilitates discursive interactions in a democracy. As the fourth estate, it is central to democratic resilience in India. However, given the contemporary context of acrimonious media overreach, questions concerning media freedom and accountability have assumed enormous significance. The courts have been particularly instructive in defining the contours of freedom of speech and fair trial to avoid the circumvention of justice. A number of precedents have been set by the courts while delving into questions of law related to the fundamentality of the freedom of press and its inherent capacity to democratize information regimes. In two prominent judgments — Express Newspapers (Private) Ltd. and others vs Union of India and The Secretary, Ministry of Information and Broadcasting vs Cricket Association of Bengal and Anr, the Supreme Court reiterated that the liberty of press is an essential part of the freedom of speech and expression guaranteed by Article 19(1). Like other fundamental freedoms, the threshold test of reasonable restrictions is applicable to the freedom of the press as well. The idea of ‘reasonable restriction’ is structural to free and fair trial. There have been instances where the media has been accused of advocating spurious and parallel justice systems jeopardizing the due process of law. Can freedom of press be bypassed for the larger interest of a fair trial, a free and fair trial being the sine qua non for constitutional trust to be reposed in our democratic system?Correct echoes The courts have echoed constitutional dependability in the idea of natural justice. The basic principles of natural justice — Nemo debet esse judex in propria causa (the doctrine of bias) and Audi alteram partem (to hear the other side) — have been upheld. In the 2004 Best Bakery case, the Supreme Court reprised fair trial as the foundational principle in the administration of criminal law. There cannot be any scope for prejudicial bias for or against the accused, the witnesses, or the cause, which is being tried. The premature discernment of guilt or innocence in a media trial would amount to a denial of free and fair trial. The danger lies in the media donning the role of a ‘kangaroo court’ and sensationalizing issues to meet the market-driven TRP logic. Not only has the media overstepped its line and infringed upon an individual’s right to privacy but it has also coerced public opinion to influence adjudication. In the Naveen Jindal vs M/S Zee Media Corporation Ltd and Anr the court stated that both print and electronic media should maintain the distinction between a media trial and an informative media. In the Sunanda Pushkar death case, Justice Mukta Gupta of the Delhi High Court reprimanded the egregious conduct of the media for challenging the sanctity of an ongoing investigation and ordered the exercise of restraint in making charges without evidence and provoking defamatory statements. The issue of the absence of a regulatory mechanism to control the electronic media also came up during the Bombay High Court’s hearing of a petition filed by former IPS officers concerning separate investigations by three Central agencies into the death of Sushant Singh Rajput. A balance of interest must be struck between the freedom of speech and the postulates of fair trial for a just society. The stridency of the media has to be re-imagined in terms of its freedom to speak out critically, its ability to engage in meaningful public debate, and its capacity to accost the excesses of the government. Such a framework will embolden vigorous civic engagement and restrain the manipulation of the press.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-145
21-09-2020||Opinion||Rumblings in Nagaland||The statement from the National Socialist Council of Nagalim (Isak-Muivah) came as a shocker: the Nagas, it said, are ready to “fight another war” if their political rights and history are not respected. Then came the warning — the Naga issue will remain India’s Achilles’ heel if the Centre or its interlocutor, R.N. Ravi, attempts to misinterpret the prevailing situation. There is, in fact, an eerie similarity between the mid-1960s, when the Naga National Council was talking to India, and now when the NSCN(I-M) seems to be reaching the end of its patience after over two decades of negotiations, alleging that Delhi’s interlocutor is going back on the Centre’s previous commitment to have ‘shared sovereignty’ as the bedrock of the Naga settlement. The peace negotiations with NNC started in 1964 with a government demoralized by the 1962 debacle. After routing the Indian army, the Chinese turned to proxy war, offering the Naga rebels training, weapons and even diplomatic support. As the talks continued with the heavyweight mediators of the Naga Peace Mission, the Naga rebels realized that the China card was too precious. Following secret parleys with Dhaka-based Chinese intelligence officials, a large contingent of the ‘Naga Army’ reached Yunnan after starting their march from Totok in July 1996. This China-bound contingent was led by a young Thuingaleng Muivah (political commissar) and ‘Brigadier’ Thinoselie Medom Keyho (military wing). Muivah, at the sunset of his eventful life, now heads the NSCN(I-M), the strongest of the Naga rebel factions. That China will be more than willing to play the Naga card if India plays the Tibet card is amply clear now as it was in 1965-66. A decade of covert patronage, in cohort with the United States of America, to the Tibetan National Volunteer Defence Army led to a riposte on the border in 1962. If the whispers of Phungthing Shimrang, the former commander-in-chief of the NSCN(I-M), reaching China with few hundreds of the toughest Naga fighters are true, then the Narendra Modi government should get the negotiations back on track with some urgency. Irresponsible manoeuvres like threatening to outflank Muivah and his faction by striking a final settlement with the other rebel groups — broadly clubbed as the Naga National Political Groups — could only result in a strategic blowback India may not find easy to face. The R.N. Ravi-led Indian effort to reach a final settlement with the Nagas has been messy. His statement that the Naga problem was a law and order issue and not a political problem smacks of naivete that can cost India dear. It is high time the country stops using the IPS to head every agency — the police, Intelligence Bureau, Research and Analysis Wing, Central paramilitary forces — because policemen, despite their experience, tend to see everything as a law and order problem. Modi needs to comprehend the following points. The Naga issue holds the key to the eradication of the post-colonial virus of ethnic separatism in the Northeast; the region’s strategic and economic outreach potential will not be achieved without a comprehensive settlement to reconcile the warring ethnic groups of such a strategic region to the inevitable trans-border linkages; the Chinese may use of the Naga card to turn tables on Indian efforts to neutralize the Sagaing-Kachin-Yunnan base area for northeastern insurgents. When I played a role in bringing the NSCN(I-M) to the table in 1997 on the request of the then home minister, Indrajit Gupta — I had just finished interviewing Muivah in Bangkok — it became clear to me that the Naga climbdown from ‘independence’ to ‘shared sovereignty’ provided a historic opportunity of course correction for India to transform a centralized power structure into a genuine, tiered federation in keeping with India’s tradition of diversity and pluralism. Two decades later, those hopes lie in ruin, with the ascendant ‘Hindi, Hindu, Hindustan’ rhetoric scuttling the autonomy of frontier states. If India is to get its diplomacy back on track after an injurious derailment, the following goals must be met: the Naga imbroglio must be resolved along with other insurgencies in the Northeast following the Burmese multiple dialogue model; the Kashmir dialogue must be reopened with Pakistan by picking up the thread of the Manmohan-Musharraf engagement; a permanent solution to the border dispute with China must be prioritized; dialogues must be held with small (Nepal) and not-so-small (Bangladesh) neighbours to solve contentious bilateral issues; a high-level of defence preparedness must be retained, covert cards like Balochistan nurtured, and powerful alliances like the Quad nurtured without allowing the US to hijack the agenda.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-145
21-09-2020||Opinion||Stripes over mane||It was nearly half a century ago this very month in September 1972 that the task force on the tiger presented its report to the government. We live in a world where the conservation of wildlife and, even more, the protection of biological diversity is taken as Sine qua non by leaders of all nations. Yet, till 1969, when the Bengal Tiger was named in the Red Data Book, it was not seen as threatened with extinction. Right until then, sport hunting was not only well-known but encouraged to earn much needed foreign exchange. In three short years, India, long famed as a destination for trophy-hungry hunters, had seen the government take up the question of conserving not so much the species in isolation as creating a network of reserves where it could be preserved in situ. In April the following year, the country would launch Project Tiger, which initially covered nine reserves in eight states. It now extends over 50 reserves in 18 of the 28 states of the Indian Union. The project was impossible to get off the ground without the full support of state governments as each reserve was to have a core area where forestry operations would come to a halt. This meant the loss of considerable revenues mainly from timber. In a sense, the tiger now became the umbrella species, which would help secure the future of the rich tapestry of life in each reserve. Even prior to the launch of the project, a major change took place — namely the replacement of the lion as the national animal by the tiger. The latter now began to be referred to in Indian government documents not as the Bengal tiger but as the Indian tiger. It became a symbol of national unity in a diverse and vast country. While not found in all regions, it had a range far more vast than the animal it dethroned: the lion is found only in one state, Gujarat. The relation of tiger and lion as icon is not new and has a longer tale to it. The National Tiger Conservation Authority begins its report on tiger numbers and habitats with an apt quote from the Mahabharata in which Vasudeva warns Sanjaya, and the verses are cited in extensio. “Do not cut down the forest with its tigers/ and don’t banish the tigers from the forest/ the tiger perishes without the forest/ and the forest without its tigers is cut down.” Needless to add is the explicit allegory to the Pandavas who were the tigers and the Kauravas who represented the forest itself. Each needed the other and living together in peace was preferable to all-out destruction in war. In her new monograph, Mega Mammals in Ancient India, the historian, Shibani Bose, goes a step further. These large and majestic animals were well known to the composers of the epics and they used them as metonyms. An animal was more than just a creature of the great forests: it was a symbol with near-human attributes. The clash of lion versus tiger was taken up more than once. Gandhari, mourning her son, Duryodhana, compared him to a tiger slain by a lion. The vyagra or the tiger evoked fear, and warriors were often referred to in Sanskrit texts as vyagra purusha or tigers among men. The tiger skin or vyagra charma conferred power upon kings in rituals of consecration and also on those who meditated in solitude. But the lion still stood out. In the Valmiki Ramayana, when threatened with abduction, Sita warned Ravana of her husband being “A man among lions, a lion among men and a lion-like man.” In the Mahabharata itself, Vidura the epitome of wisdom, likened the Pandavas to lions in the forest. The landscape was bereft of order without the animal that dominated it. The tiger was both feared and admired in the Jatakas of the Buddhists.  Bose shows how, “notwithstanding its strength and grandeur, the striped predator voices acceptance of the supremacy of the lion.” Across the centuries, with the singular exception of Tipu Sultan of Mysore, who was killed in the Battle of Seringapatam in 1799, rulers sat on a lion throne. The idea of the simhasana did not exist in isolation. Several other animals, such as the elephant (a tusker) or a bull, could also be emblems of power. But among the great flesh eaters of the woods and grasslands, the lion captured the imagination in more ways than one. What made the lion stand out? It is possible that living in open scrub jungle and tree-dotted savannah and with the impressive mane and roar of the male, it captured the imagination. Part of this may be explained by its once extensive range, extending across west, central and north India. Early pharmacopeias refer to the lion being at the apex of the aranya or forest and man in the grama or village. Divyabhanusinh observes how the lion in Mughal works was seen to be almost the equivalent of the padshah or emperor. But then the tiger goes even further south. The Kalakad Mundanthurai Tiger Reserve is in one of the most southernmost districts in India: Tirunelveli in Tamil Nadu. Further, lions have not been recorded in historic times east of Palamau, Jharkhand, whereas the tiger ranges eastward into Burma and Southeast Asia. Of course, the lion’s ascent to national animal status may have also been speeded by its prominence in the lion capital of Ashoka. It was also prized for its rarity and well before Independence the lions of Gir forest were the last outside Africa. It is tempting to see the tiger’s ascent in 1972 as occurring owing to a confluence of factors. Its decline had been swift, Indira Gandhi noting it lucidly when she said, “Project Tiger abounds in irony.” A country fabled for the animal was now rallying to save it from annihilation. Perhaps the extensive range of the tiger made it a rallying point for the mission of conservation efforts as a whole. The reserves were diverse patches of its habitat in varied landscapes, ranging from the mangroves of the Sunderbans to the dry, thorn forests of the Aravalli reserve of Sariska. It is also notable that these efforts at the turn of the 1960s came in the wake of two crippling droughts. There was awareness of the relevance of woods and grasslands for recharging groundwater. The forest helped food security, albeit indirectly. This was part of an effort to slow down clearing by axe and plough or opening up fresh land for industry with no thought for the environmental hazard. In the past, the power of these powerful animals had dwarfed that of people. Where they evoked fear, they now were to embody collective endeavour to help their survival. Older symbols were reconfigured with new meanings. There are dimensions of nature embedded deeply in memory and history, lore and culture. Even the memory of how the lion lost the throne reminds us of how much of the self is wrapped with non-human entities that share the land and sky with us. The author teaches History and Environmental Studies at Ashoka University||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-145
21-09-2020||Jharkhand||Tribals threaten to step up stir if govt ignores Sarna code demand||A conglomerate of various tribal rights outfits in Jharkhand has threatened violent protests if the government fails to pass a bill for a separate Sarna code during the ongoing monsoon session of the Assembly scheduled to end on Tuesday. Arbind Oraon, the convener of National Adivasi Indigenous Religion Coordination Committee of India, which has been running extensive campaigns for inclusion of a Sarna code in the national Census since 2015, said on Monday that the government should not take the tribal community’s demand lightly as the peaceful protests may not take much time to turn violent if the government continues to be apathetic towards the demands. “So far, our protests have been peaceful. We also maintained social distancing on the streets. This should in no way be seen as our weakness. We will take to the streets and resort to violent protests if the government does not pass a bill for a Sarna code during the ongoing monsoon session,” said Oraon. Including a Sarna code in the religious census was one of the promises made by the ruling JMM during the 2019 Assembly polls in which the party toppled the BJP government and came to power. “In March, we met the chief minister and he assured us that the government will pass a bill for inclusion of a Sarna code in the religious census. However, Covid-19 pandemic diverted the attention of the government, and we also remained quiet as the situation demanded immediate attention,” said Oraon. On Monday, tribal youths formed a human chain on both sides of the road near Shehjanand Chowk in Ranchi and held posters carrying slogans like, “No Sarna Code, No Vote” and “Garv Se Kaho Hum Sarna hai (take pride in calling yourself Sarna)” when Chief Minister Hemant Soren’s convoy crossed the road on way to the Assembly. A Sarna code has been a long-pending demand of the tribal community in Jharkhand. Several hundred members of the tribal community staged a protest at Jantar Mantar in New Delhi on February 18 demanding a separate Sarna code in the 2021 census. Bablu Munda, president of Kendriya Sarna Samiti, a tribal rights group that participated in the protests, said the tribal community in Jharkhand has been pressing for a Sarna code since decades, but no government had bothered to pay heed to their demands. “But former chief minister Raghubar Das had assured us that he will speak to the Centre about our demands. But his government was toppled before he could take any initiative regarding our issues,” Munda said. Sarna followers are nature worshippers who do not consider themselves Hindus and have been fighting for a separate religious identity in India for decades. Lakhs of tribesmen who were born in Sarna-following families got converted to Christianity over the past century after the advent of missionaries, claim tribal gurus. These tribesmen have also been at loggerheads with the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) over being tagged as Hindus by the saffron outfit. In 2014, thousands of Sarna followers handed over a memorandum to then Union minister P. Chidambaram and demanded recognition of Sarna as a separate religion. The crusaders back then had also staged a protest at Jantar Mantar in New Delhi, but their pleas went unheeded. In 2015, about 30,000 tribals held a nationwide campaign.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-292
21-09-2020||Jharkhand||Power bill: fixed charges waived for April, May June ||The state electricity regulator has decided to waive fixed charges for all categories of consumers, including industrial units, for three months from April in view of the nationwide lockdown that plunged households and businesses into financial turmoil. The order issued on Monday by Jharkhand State Electricity Regulatory Commission (JSERC) also provides a three-month moratorium on payments pertaining to April, May and June till September-end, and directs power distribution companies not to impose any delayed payment surcharges (DPS). “The lockdown has adversely impacted the public and some respite is the need of the hour. The commission, after careful consideration of the situation, has decided to provide relaxations," the order, signed jointly by JSERC member R.N. Singh (engineering) and P.K. Singh (legal), noted. On pending payment of bills between April 1 to June 30, JSERC has ordered a moratorium till September 30, directing power companies to not charge late fees. "If any discom has already received payment with DPS or fixed charges from consumers for the waiver period, it should be adjusted in the next bills of subsequent months," the order read. JSERC had invited comments and feedback from all stakeholders following requests from various quarters. While all trade bodies have, time and again, demanded waivers during the lockdown period, a delegation of Federation of Jharkhand Chamber of Commerce and Industries (FJCCI) also met state electricity department officials with an appeal for concessions. Power companies on the other hand pleaded that any moratorium on bills would increase their financial burden. FJCCI president Kunal Ajmani welcomed the regulator’s move. “The industrial downturn coupled with lockdown has completely put business entities on the brink. Medium and small-scale enterprises are worst hit with many unable to even manage their recurring monthly expenses. In that respect, the JSERC order will give some respite,” he said. Domestic consumers also welcomed the regulator’s order. Subodh Kashyap, a Morabadi resident, said he had already paid his bills for three months in August. “But I hope that in the next bill, I will have to bear less burden as additional money paid will be adjusted,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-293
21-09-2020||Jharkhand||Low-pressure zone brings rain, revives monsoon in Jharkhand||A low-pressure area which originated from the Bay of Bengal and moved northwest, led to widespread rain over Jharkhand in the past 24 hours as forecast and helped revive the monsoon over the state. The low-pressure coupled with an associated cyclonic circulation extending up to 7.6km above mean sea level resulted in rains in several districts. Simdega, Rajmahal in Sahebganj district, Dumka and Koderma received around 50mm rain during the last 24 hours (8.30am of Sunday to 8.30am of Monday). Tundi and Koner in Dhanbad district recorded over 35mm rain, while Ramgarh, Hindgir in Ranchi district and Hazaribagh recorded over 25mm rain. Ormanjhi and Mandar in Ranchi district experienced around 20mm rain, while as many as 20 IMD observatories, including those in Daltonganj, Latehar, Garhwa, Deoghar and Chatra, recorded rainfall between 10mm and 15mm. "Southwest monsoon has been active in Jharkhandi during the past 24 hours. The low-pressure helped in reviving the monsoon. Moderate to heavy rain is expected at a few isolated places in northern Jharkhand during the next 24 hours," said Abhishek Anand, deputy director of Ranchi Meteorological Centre. He said the monsoon trough was passing through Ajmer, Jabalpur, Champa, the centre of low pressure over north west Bay of Bengal and adjoining coastal Odisha. Weathermen at IMD's Patna Met Centre said overcast conditions were expected to prevail in most parts of the state till the next 48 hours. The Met office also issued an alert of lightning and thunder in northern Jharkhand on Thursday, September 24. Weatherman at IMD's Regional Met Centre at Alipore in Calcutta said that monsoon is going to remain active over Jharkhand for the next three to four days at least.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-293
21-09-2020||Jharkhand||Jharkhand going back under JMM govt, says Jayant Sinha||Hazaribagh MP Jayant Sinha described chief minister Hemant Soren as “vinash purush” because ever since his government had come to power, Jharkhand had taken a turn for the worse with respect to power, law and order and condition of roads. Speaking to the media from Delhi, Sinha said as long as the BJP was in power in the state, Jharkhand was the beneficiary of a “double-engine” government with “vikas purush” Narendra Modi leading at the Centre. But now Jharkhand had lost that momentum, he said and accused the Hemant Soren government of plunging the state towards destruction. The former Union minister and BJP leader told the local media that he had chaired a meeting of the district development coordination and monitoring committee last week and asked officials to undertake an inspection of 150 roads constructed in the last five years with funds from the Prime Minister’s Gram Sadak Yojana. “Some of the roads are not in good condition. I have asked officials to identify such contractors and tell them to maintain the roads for five years,” he said. On plans for an airport in Hazaribagh, Sinha blamed the delay on the state government’s failure to acquire land. “People have started realising that the present government is not capable of running the state. So, we wanted to request Hemant Soren to improve the situation at the earliest,” he said. Sinha said the state tourism department had failed to maintain tourist spots because of which he had asked deputy commissioner Aditya Kumar Anand to ensure cleanliness and proper maintenance of the popular Hazaribagh Lake. The MP said the state had failed to tackle the pandemic and that he was in touch with officials to ensure the setting up of two Covid care facilities in Hazaribagh. Sinha said around 60,000 migrant labourers had returned after the coronavirus-induced lockdown and that efforts were on to provide them jobs under MGNREGS.  He asked the people of Hazaribagh to remain vigilant and follow Covid guidelines.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-293
21-09-2020||Jharkhand||Mechanised sweepers lie unused in highly polluted Dhanbad||Five dust-sweeping machines, bought at a cost of Rs 2.25 cr to curb air pollution in Dhanbad, are lying unused since the imposition of the lockdown, but that’s not stopping the local corporation from making preparations to buy more such machines with a fund od Rs 10 cr that is now at its disposal, courtesy Jharkhand State Pollution Control Board. The five machines were put to use partially between June 15 to July 15. But after that these haven’t been used. One reason for that is that roads are wet and muddy during the monsoon. But the other reason is that Dhanbad Municipal Corporation (DMC) doesn’t have the required funds to maintain the machines and buy fuel to run them. Manoj Singh, a Jharia-based environmentalist, said, “We understand that Covid control is of utmost priority for the government. But in a district where Jharia and Dhanbad towns have been declared most polluted, steps to ensure cleaner air are equally important. A large number of people in Jharia and Dhanbad suffer from breathing disorders like bronchitis and asthma.” The five mechanised dust sweeping machines _ three large ones mounted on trucks and two smaller ones mounted on vans _ were bought in June last year from Roots Multiclean, a supplier of cleaning products. They were deployed after finalisation of a route chart during November last year. But less than five month later, their use was stopped due to the imposition of a national lockdown in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak. Sources in DMC revealed that there was talk now to buy more dust sweeping machines by using a fund of Rs 10 crore provided by Jharkhand State Pollution Control Board in March under the National Clean Air programme meant for the 102 cities/towns that have failed to attain clean air goals. Madhurendra Singh, an activist and former president of Bartand Chamber of Commerce, said, “Not using the mechanised dust sweeping machines on the pretext of a funds crunch is nothing but a sheer wastage of public money due to inadequate planning. “A large number of vehicles, including dust sweeping machines, tractors, small tippers and garbage vans, procured during 2012 as per DMC’s solid waste management project, are lying unused since 2014 due to a legal dispute. Now, the dust sweeping machines, procured only last year, will soon become useless,” said Singh Huban Mallick, director of Pay and Clean, the agency looking after the operation and maintenance of the vehicles, blamed the problem on the DMC’s funds crunch. “But we have been assured by the district administration that it is keen on relaunching the services of mechanised dust sweeping machines,” he claimed. Uday Kachhap, DMC assistant engineer in charge of transport, said, “The mechanised dust sweepers have been non-functional since the imposition of the lockdown. We will take a decision in this regard very soon.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-293
21-09-2020||Jharkhand||East Singhbhum conducts 10,000 Covid tests in a day||The East Singhbhum health department claimed on Monday that it had achieved the target of carrying out 10,000 rapid antigen tests on people at various places including containment zones and markets to speed up detection of Covid cases. All visitors to Sakchi, the biggest commercial centre of steel city, had to undergo rapid antigen tests. The drive which began at 10 am continued for about five hours till 3 pm. The on-the-spot rapid antigen test drive was supervised by the new Dhalbum SDO Nitish Kumar and special officer of Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee (JNAC) Krishna Kumar. "We achieved the target of conducting 10,000 rapid antigen tests on a single day on Monday. The test was also conducted at different housing societies which were declared as containment zones," Dr R.N. Jha, civil surgeon of East Singhbhum district, told The Telegraph Online. The health department had engaged around 400 medical personnel for the success of the drive. Jha explained that rapid antigen tests detect the presence of viral proteins (antigens) expressed by the Covid-19 virus in a sample taken from the respiratory tract of a person. "The result of the test is made available within 15 minutes, " he said, adding that the objective was to trace, track and treat Covid positive patients. The East Singhbhum health department has intensified the rapid antigen test drive keeping in view the spurt in Covid-19 cases. So far, the district has reported 12,252 positive cases with 2,563 active cases. Around 9,400 patients have recovered while the death toll due to Covid in the district is 268.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-293
21-09-2020||Jharkhand||High court scraps state recruitment policy framed in 2016||Jharkhand High Court on Monday cancelled the recruitment of thousands of teachers and officials that was finalised on a 2016 policy providing 100 per cent reservation for local candidates living in 13 scheduled districts of the state, describing it as a violation of fundamental rights. The court declared the policy null and void and scrapped the advertisement that was issued to announce the recruitment drive in 2016. The then government headed by chief minister Raghubar Das had advertised for 17,572 vacancies of teachers in the state in 2016. Of these, the Jharkhand Staff Selection Commission (JSSC) has so far filled up about 9,000 posts in both scheduled and non-scheduled districts. As per rough estimates, the order will adversely impact around 5,000 teachers in 13 scheduled districts, besides recruitments made in several other departments, like police and forest. The decision will also affect all future appointments in class III and IV posts in government services. A full bench of Jharkhand High Court comprising justices H.C. Mishra, S. Chandrashekhar and Deepak Roshan pronounced the judgement through video conferencing on Monday after hearing a series of writ petitions filed against the recruitment policy. The bench had on August 21 reserved its order. The Raghubar Das government had on July 14, 2016 issued a notification reserving all class III and IV jobs in government departments for local residents in 13 scheduled districts for a period of 10 years. The 13 districts were Ranchi, Khunti, Gumla, Sidmdega, Lohardaga, West Singhbhum, East Singhbhum, Seraikela- Kharsawan, Latehar, Dumka, Pakur, Jamtara and Sahebganj. But one of the applicants, Soni Kumari, who was a resident of a non-scheduled district, moved court challenging the policy. The petitioner’s counsel, L.K. Singh, said, “The impact of this notification would mean that candidates outside the scheduled district will be deprived from being considered for government appointments to class-III and class-IV posts in the scheduled districts which is against one’s fundamental rights enshrined under the Constitution.” The court finally held that the policy robs equality of opportunity in government jobs and is a violation of Articles 14 and 16 of the Constitution of India. The court order puts a question mark on all immediate appointments lined up by the state staff selection commission. Sources in JSSC said that the recruitment process for around 3,000 posts in various departments were underway. “For example, the process for recruitment tests for data entry operators and panchayat workers were to be done in the next few months. Those will be on hold now. Since 2016, similar drives for appointment of over 20,000 people in different capacities like excise inspectors, forest guards, and constables have been undertaken. These will also be affected,” said a JSSC official. He explained that since JSSC was an examination conducting body for recruitments, further modalities would have to be chalked out after studying the judgement thoroughly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-293
21-09-2020||Jharkhand||Demand for cash in Sindri ATMs||Sindri Chamber of Commerce president Dipak Kumar Dipu on Sunday sent a mail to the Reserve Bank of India demanding regular filling of cash in ATMs. Several ATMs of banks including State Bank of India, Bank of India and Canara Bank have been lying cashless. Dipu in his mail expressed concern that people will have to stand in long queues at banks to draw cash during the festive season which may lead to violation of social distancing norms. Dhanbad district administration has decided to include 15 BCCL areas under its ambit of Rapid Antigen Test from September 21 to curb the spread of Covid-19. In a joint order issued on Sunday by Dhanabd Deputy Commissioner, Uma Shankar Singh and  Senior Superintendent of Police, Asim Vikrant Minz it was announced that testing will take place in the areas including Modidih, Tetulmari, Nichitpur, Lodna, North Tisra-South Tisra, Laikdih, Amlabad Colliery, Mahuda dispensary, Regional Hospital Tilatand, Kustore, Jealgora,Community Hall Barora, Bhowra Hospital, GVT Kenduadih and Durga Mandir. More than100 tribal people on Sunday took out a procession in Putki area of Dhanbad demanding inclusion of Sarna code. The protesters said the resolution for inclusion, if passed in the Assembly in the monsoon session, will give them an identity crucial for the 2021 census. Four members of a family carrying a dead body in an ambulance had a close save when their ambulance hit a concrete slab near Debiyana locality of Nirsa about 35 km from Dhanbad. The family was travelling from Calcutta to Mujaffarpur in Bihar. A police team from Nirsa Police station led by Assistant Sub Inspector of Police J.S.Tigga sent the family with the body in another vehicle since the ambulance was damaged in the accident. An acting principal of G.C.A. inter college Chhaterpur P.R. Pathak was remanded in judicial custody on Saturday. Sub divisional police officer Shambhu Kumar Singh said a criminal case was lodged by a tribal employee accusing him and another male employee of harassment and mental torture. The complainant Asha Tigga works as an accountant in the college. Chhaterpur police are bound to invoke sections of the SC/ST prevention of the atrocities act if the accused are found guilty. Asha Tigga said P.R. Pathak had withheld her salary after she divulged information to an investigating team that was probing financial irregularities in the college. Police are still in search of the co-accused employee. BJP workers burnt copies of land mutation bills at Birsa Chowk under City police station in Bokaro on Sunday.  The workers raised anti-slogans against the JMM government. The Jharkhand government passed  the bill in a covert manner. “This Land Mutation Bill is black law which gives shelter to land mafias. We are opposing it. The law suggests that there will be no civil or criminal case against corrupt officers in land related matters, Is this justified?”said a BJP worker. Residents of Gawan and Tisri block of Giridih are living in fear of a jackal in the area. About 13 people have been injured by the jackal. Sub-divisional police officer (SDPO), Khori Mahua, Navin Kumar Singh said that residents have witnessed a rise in jackal attack in recent days. Sonam Devi, a villager, said that she was going to farmland when a jackal attacked her and she suffered injury to her hand. Jackal attacks are mostly seen at day time. A delegation from Jharkhand Guardian Association has announced a dharna on Monday against private schools at Collectorate Building, Bokaro. The protesters accused private schools of harassing parents to depositing fees till September. The association sought the intervention of the District Education Officer. The group led by Mahender Rai also invited state education minister Jagarnath Mahto  to participate in the protest. Mahto on Saturday deposited the school fees of his granddaughter after her name was struck off from the online classes. Two brothers drowned in a pond in Balhara village of Ghodtamba at Giridih on Sunday. The deceased were identified as Saurabh Kumar (15) and Sachin Kumar(9). They left the house saying that they were going to take a bath in the pond. But when they had not returned after a long time, their family launched a search and found their bicycle, cloth and slippers on the bank of the pond.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-293
21-09-2020||Jharkhand||Police solve UP contractor murder case in Giridih||Police have solved the murder of a contractor from Uttar Pradesg, whose headless body was found in a farmland at Parsan, Jamuniataad under Dhanwar police station, 21 days ago. A special investigation team headed by sub-divisional police officer (SDPO) Navin Kumar Singh, has arrested all the five accused in the homicide. Amit Renu, SP, Giridih, said that it was one of the difficult murder cases the police team handled here.  After the body was found, a massive search operation was conducted in the area. Almost 24 hours later, the severed was found in a water-filled pit, situated 500 meters away from the spot where the body was discovered. Neighbouring districts were notified to determine the identity of the person, but it did not throw up any leads. More than a week later, information relating to a missing man of similar age was received from Bhadoi police in Uttar Pradesh. Satyanderanath Mishra (39) alias Dablu alias Pandit, an affluent contractor from Bhadoi, left his house on 30 August, saying he was going to celebrate Muharram with his friends Maksud Ansari and Ibrahim Ansari at their native place in Giridih. His brother Harenderanth Mishra and other relatives came to Giridih and confirmed that the deceased was Pandit on seeing his photos, clothes and shoes. . Acting on information, police conducted a raid and arrested Ibrahim from his house in Herodih. During interrogation, Ibrahim confessed that he and his cousin Maksud worked in a construction company at Kolapur area in Bhadoi. They got acquainted with Pandit as he was a local contractor. After sometime, Maksud borrowed two lakh rupees from Pandit, but failed to return it on time. This prompted Pandit to visit Maksud’s house and ask for his money. During his visits, he came in contact with Maksud's wife and developed an affair with her. When Maksud came to know about this, he asked Pandit to stop visiting his house. But he did not listen, and continued with his visitations during his absence. Maksud shared his agony with Ibrahim and other close ones in Giridih and hatched a plan to kill Pandit. The SDPO informed that the police also arrested Maksud Ansari, his father Navi Miya, and Ibrahim’s father Khalil Miya, along with two of their friends Hazart and Nizam Miya. Following his arrest, Maksud confessed to the crime and said that his father Navi Miya supported his decision to kill Pandit. Maksud and Ibrahim drove down to Giridih with Pandit, where Hazarat and Nizam were waiting for them. They purchased alcohol and chicken on the way and partied on the farmland. Pandit was made to consume liquor and marijuana in excess to get him incapaciated. Maksud then beheaded him and disposed of the head. Later, they went to Ibrahim’s house and burnt their own blood stained shirts, along with Pandits mobile, belt and wallet. The police have recovered four mobile handsets, two motorbikes and ashes of the deceased’s mobile and wallet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-293
21-09-2020||Jharkhand||Food grain racket busted, police on the lookout for perpetrators||Following the discovery of a major food grain racket on Friday, police have started looking for absconding racketeers. The police raided the house of one Sanjay Mohnani and his brother Deepak Mohnani at Golmuri on Sunday, both identified as the ones running the racket of selling rice provided for below poverty line (BPL) people through public distribution system (PDS) shops. Kunal Kumar, officer-in-charge of Sakchi thana, where one of the cases has been registered against the Mohnani brothers, said that the two have either gone underground, or fled the city. "We raided the Mohnani house at Golmuri on Sunday and had also carried out the similar raid on Saturday as well as the day before.  Now we will have to  resort to obtaining `kurki-jabti' (attachment) warrant so that the absconders may be compelled to surrender either before the police or in the court," said Kumar while talking to The Telegraph Online. Meanwhile, the food and supply department on Saturday cancelled the license of a PDS shop that Sanjay Mohnani used to run.  The department has also cancelled the food-grain transportation tender of Deepak Mohnani. "Sanjay Mohnani used to run a PDS shop at Sakchi and had set up a godown privately for stocking rice and wheat procured by unfair means. Deepak Mohnani, who had a contract for transporting food-grains from Food Corporation of India's godown to the PDS shops across the East Singhbhum district, used to unload the food-grains at his brother's private godown instead of unloading them at the PDS shops.  Therefore we have cancelled the license of Sanjay's PDS shop and also the transportation contract of his brother Deepak.  Now we have decided to do the transportation of the food-grains from the FCI godown in Burmamines to the PDS shops across the district departmentally," East Singhbhum district Special Officer (Rationing) told The Telegraph Online. As per the system in the rationing department, on an average 35 kgs of rice and 10 kgs wheat at a rate of Re 1 per kg is given to a family every month from a PDS shop.  Racketeers like the Mohnani brothers collude with PDS shop owners to siphon off half of the total stock and sell them at Rs 15 per kg in the market. An insider informed the Mohnanis enjoyed the backing of politicians and also of the food and supply department which turned a blind eye when beneficiaries lodged complaints of not getting food-grains from a PDS shop regularly. A case in point is a PDS shop at Bagbera where beneficiaries had seized a mini truck of rice and wheat being taken out of the PDS shop owned by one Jitendra Yadav in August Despite there being eyewitness accounts and video clips of the incident, the department did not take any action against the PDS shop. The insider also said that out of the 250 PDS shop owners in East Singhbhum, most have a role to play in the food-grain rackets, depriving beneficiaries of their due.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-293
21-09-2020||Jharkhand||Jharkhand cities to host U-17 Women’s World Cup soccer camp ||Jharkhand capital Ranchi and Jamshedpur will jointly host the national preparatory camp for the under-17 women’s World Cup team from mid-October in a phase-wise manner. State sports department, after getting a nod from chief minister Hemant Soren on Saturday evening, has intimated the same to the Sports Authority of India (SAI) and All India Football Federation (AIFF) general secretary Kushal Das. “Jamshedpur would host the first leg of the national preparatory camp for FIFA Under-17 Women’s World Cup tentatively scheduled from October 15 till November end by which the physical upgradation works for accommodation of trainees (at Khelgaon near Hotwar in Ranchi) and ground preparation work (at Morabadi in Ranchi) would be completed. Thereafter the camp would shift to Ranchi. A joint team from SAI and state sports department had already expressed satisfaction at the infrastructure in Jamshedpur,” said state sports director Anil Kumar Singh. Significantly, a four-member team from SAI had inspected the facilities at Ranchi in July and given suggestions on the infrastructure to be required both at the ground and at accommodation front in view of the standard operating procedures prepared for the camp due to the Covid-19 pandemic. “There were some procedural delays in finalisation of schedule of rates for physical upgradation works in Ranchi which delayed the actual commencement of work. Till that time when everything is ready in Ranchi we have decided to conduct the national camp in Jamshedpur. We were awaiting CM’s nod which we got on Saturday evening,” said a close aide of Soren. In Jamshedpur, the players would practice at the JRD Tata Sports Complex utilising the state-of-the-arts facilities for football created in view of the Indian Super League (ISL) while they would be accommodated at the Ramada Hotel, barely 3km from JRD Tata Sports Complex. AIFF general secretary Das who is assisting as an expert to SAI for hosting of the FIFA football tournament after AIFF was temporarily derecognised by the Union sports ministry earlier this year, confirmed of the camp commencing from October 15. “We have picked Jharkhand as the venue for the camp as they were eager to host the camp and their chief minister Hemant Soren has assured full support,” said Das. The U-17 Women’s World Cup, which was scheduled for November 2020, was postponed because of the Covid-19 pandemic and the tournament is scheduled to be held from February 17 to March 7, 2021 in five cities of Ahmedabad, Bhubaneswar, Guwahati, Calcutta and Navi Mumbai. At the moment, eight footballers from remote villages of Jharkhand who are in the national probable have been accommodated in the Birsa Munda Stadium hostel at Morabadi with government looking after their accommodation, food and training on the directive of the state chief minister Hemant Soren (who also holds the sports portfolio) following media reports of their poor diets in their villages in July.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-293
