22-09-2020||Calcutta||Trio arrested for forcing out Madrasa teachers from Calcutta Guest House||Three persons were arrested on Tuesday for allegedly driving out 10 madrasa teachers from a guest house in Calcutta despite their pre-booking, police said. The trio, all employees of the guest house in Salt Lake where the incident occured, were arrested on the charge of discrimination against guests on religious grounds, a senior officer of the Bidhannagar Police Commissionerate said. They were detained on Monday evening for interrogation on the basis of a complaint lodged with the Bidhannagar East police station by the madrasa teachers who had come from Malda district for some official work at Bikash Bhavan, which houses the state Education Department, he said. "After we made entries in the register of the DL 39 guest house around 6 am on Monday, we were made to wait for three hours for rooms. Then, we were told that no room was available despite us showing them the documents of our pre- booking of three rooms. "We were then allotted three rooms for an hour at the nearby CL 164 guest house. Around 11 am, they asked us to immediately vacate the rooms without citing any reason," Mohammad Obaidur Rahman, one of the teachers, told reporters. Shikshak Oikyo Mukto Manch, an association of madrasa teachers in the state, has filed a separate police complaint. "In our Srirampur Madrasa in Malda, the majority of the teachers and the staffers are Hindus. The behaviour of the guest house employees has caused deep anguish to all of us," another teacher, Sadek Ali, said. The guest house authorities, on the other hand, said alternative arrangements were made for the madrasa teachers as no room was available at DL 39 guest house and there was a booking of another group at CL 164, which is why they were asked to leave. They claimed the staffers had not discriminated against the guests on religious grounds and promised to refund a part of the pre-booking amount.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-296
22-09-2020||Calcutta||Madrasa teachers turned out of Calcutta guest house||A group of 10 madrasa teachers from Malda who had booked a guesthouse in Salt Lake to freshen up before heading to a meeting at the state’s education department headquarters were turned out of the guesthouse a few hours after they had checked in and refused accommodation in another. One of the teachers said they got the impression that they were taken from one guesthouse to another and refused rooms because of their identity, their names, their appearance and their clothes. The teachers told The Telegraph they had been “stunned” at hearing the reason for their expulsion. “We had come to Calcutta earlier too in connection with work and usually stay at such lodges. This time we had come after several months because of the lockdown. We have never faced any problem before…. It simply breaks our heart to think this could happen in Bengal,” said Mahbubur Rahman, headmaster of Alipur Madrasah Shiksha Kendra in Kaliachak, Malda. The teachers, eight of them headmasters at their madrasas, were forced to take shelter under the East West Metro viaduct (the ground below the overhead tracks) near Bikash Bhavan amid the morning shower and left the city directly after finishing work. According to Rahman, they had started from Malda around 9.30pm on Sunday and reached Salt Lake around 6am on Monday. “A bike-borne youth who introduced himself as a guesthouse employee guided us to a guesthouse near CK Market. After we submitted our identity cards, we were allotted three rooms. At the time we had clearly mentioned that we would stay till 3.30pm. After freshening up, we went to the market for breakfast,” said Rahman. The group, barring one teacher who had fallen asleep in a room, had headed out for breakfast, Rahman said. After they returned around 9.30am, a guesthouse employee told them they would have to leave as there was another booking for 10am. “They promised us better rooms and although we protested initially, we agreed to check out the other guesthouse,” said Rahman. They were taken to a property at CJ2, the second guesthouse, where the teachers said they were made to wait 45 minutes in a hall and then told they could not be accommodated as rooms were under repair. Rahman then called up Moidul Islam, general secretary of the Paschimbanga Sikshak Aikya Mukta Mancha, a Left-leaning teachers’ organisation, who had made the bookings. Islam told The Telegraph that the guesthouse employee who had accepted the bookings and received the team in the morning told him some residents had spotted the teachers returning after breakfast and objected to their presence before the lodge authorities. Islam said: “‘They are all from your community,’ that employee said. He also said the situation could have been managed had there been members of any other community too in the group. The guesthouse owner too was unwilling (to keep them), he said, and expressed regret at his inability to help.” Tanmoy Mukherjee, one of the owners of the CL block guesthouse and the one in CJ block, said the teachers could not be allowed to stay because bookings had been received for the rooms on an online platform. “We received online bookings from 10am so we had no option but to ask them to move out. We tried to accommodate them in another of our guesthouses but there too the rooms were occupied or under repair,” said Mukherjee. Islam then asked the group to wait under the Metro viaduct and went there. Sadek Ali, headmaster of Krishnapur Madrasa Kendra, said he was immensely hurt. “We were born and brought up in this country. Who knew we would face this treatment!” Later at night, the teachers received calls from the director of madrasa education, Abid Hussain, and a senior official from the school education department. “Both of them said the grievance would be probed,” Islam said. A senior officer from the Bidhannagar commissionerate said on Monday night that officials were speaking to the guesthouse owners and the employees to find out what exactly had happened.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-296
22-09-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta High Court refuses state's plea on Covid patients' bodies||The high court on Monday turned down the state health department’s plea, seeking a modification of an earlier division bench order that directed it to hand over bodies of Covid patients to the next of kin. If a Covid patient’s body is handed over to the next of kin, he/she/they will have the right on it and can take the body to other places before going to the crematorium or burial ground, advocate-general Kishore Datta told the division bench, headed by Chief Justice T.B.N. Radhakrishnan. Datta had moved the petition on behalf of the principal secretary of the state health department. “The system may create a health hazard for other people. So, the court should modify its order and let the department conduct the last rites. The court can allow the patients’ relatives to see the body in hospital.” The bench refused to accept the health department’s plea but ordered that the next of kin of a patient would have to take the body straight to the nearest crematorium or burial ground from hospital. Following a plea by Vineet Ruia, who described himself as a social worker, another division bench had last week issued certain guidelines to conduct the last rites of people dying of Covid. The state government must hand over bodies of Covid patients to the next of kin, the bench had said. The state government had moved Calcutta High court against the order. Asked if the state government would move the Supreme Court against the order, a state law department officer said: “It will be decided in a day or two. But according to the health department, there is every possibility of further spread of the disease if bodies are handed over to the next of kin of patients.” The government has so far not handed over bodies of Covid patients to the next of kin. Its officials or agencies have conducted funerals and last rites. Families are given a 30-minute window to see a body in hospital before the body is taken to a crematorium or burial ground.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-297
22-09-2020||Calcutta||Six months on, schools still unfamiliar and unknown||Students in several city schools are attending classes online from various cities; some even from different countries and they have no idea how their school looks like. They have been admitted to a city school after their parents got transferred here or the family decided to shift to Calcutta. For hundreds of such students, six months into the session, the school is still “new and unknown”. The new school tries to “integrate” them into the system but a feeling of “isolation” persists among these students because their peers are acquaintances and not really friends, a parent said. A parent in Dubai said his two daughters had been admitted to a city school and that they were attending classes from the UAE. But at times they feel they are “neither here nor there”. A Class V student who came to the city in March asked a teacher recently if he could visit his “new school”. The school had to turn down the request because of the prevailing condition. “New students join every year across classes… it has always been a challenge for such students to make new friends and establish themselves in their peer group… but now it is harder because of the limited opportunity to interact and establish a connection with their peers,” Amita Prasad, the director of Indus Valley World School, said. Some of the new students engage in activities and interact with other students but it is doubtful if they make friends, Prasad said. A virtual tour of the school is no substitute for a real visit and students cannot “even visualise their school”, she said. Teachers across schools have noticed students not opening up. “When some girls were asked to introduce themselves they appeared hesitant and uncomfortable; they were quiet,” Aruna Gomes, the principal of Loreto House, said. The “bonding” among students happens outside the classroom, in the playground or during break time — all that is missing now, principals and teachers of several schools said. A person in Dubai got his daughters admitted to a CBSE school in Calcutta. The call had been taken months before the pandemic he said. “We had applied for transfer certificates from the school in Dubai… going back was slightly tricky and my daughters were mentally prepared that they would have to leave for Calcutta. Now, they seem to be in both places,” D. Banerjee said. His daughters have been admitted to Class VII and Class XI. “They look forward to joining their new school. The interaction with their peers is virtual, be it exchanging notes or texting... that cooperation is there, though,” he said. But it is not just talking about studies or sharing notes. “Not going to school has created a huge void and for new entrants it is natural to feel isolated at times…. They need to joke or do silly talk with their contemporaries,” Nupur Ghosh, the vice-principal of Mahadevi Birla World Academy, said. Children will feel they are “left out” because in school new students merge into the system; that is limited now, Farishta Dastur Mukerji, psychotherapist and a school counsellor, said. “What I feel and see is there is a feeling of being an outsider till the system includes them... connecting with each other starts after having physically met and they are bound to feel left out,” Dastur Mukerji, the counsellor at Calcutta International School, said. “Socialisation is a huge part of the process of going to school and that has been taken away from these kids. They do connect with each other over gadgets but that can be diluted.” In many schools, Class XI is an entry point and the “ice would break” within a month. But that is not happening and schools have had to improvise ways to make it easier for students. At Loreto House, students are given projects or assignments where they have to work together in groups but every student has to make a slide. In Indus Valley, teachers give responsibilities of various school activities to students. In Mahadevi Birla World Academy, peer mentors are appointed to look after new students. “In the value education period for Class XI, I give them a link and a topic to work on and leave the class. I rejoin towards the end of the class when they would make the presentation. These are ways to integrate new students into the system but it is nothing compared to school,” principal Gomes of Loreto House said. The limited time for online classes is another challenge that schools have been trying to overcome. “The timetable is structured; we do include new students in various activities but the scope of the school is limited when it comes to helping them form social relations,” director Prasad of Indus Valley World School said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-297
22-09-2020||Calcutta||When the city streets are car-free||Tuesday is World Car-free Day. Like last year, Kolkata Cycle Samaj wants to celebrate the day and spell out a few of its demands. The cyclists’ association based in the city stresses that as important as cars going off the road, even if symbolically     — not that Calcutta is going to be car-free even for a day — is drawing attention to the fact that the city lacks infrastructure for non-polluting vehicles  like the bicycle and an environment-friendly and user-friendly public transport, which the entire city will feel interested to use. “The idea of celebrating the day is to stress the importance of an evolved public transport system — non-motorised, sustainable and equitable,” says Raghu Jana, convenor, Kolkata Cycle Samaj. “The city public transport system should be accessible equally by all road users,” he adds. It is imperative that a comprehensive transport plan be drawn up, with space for cyclists, pedestrians and trams, say the activists. It has been almost a decade since the authorities looked at such a plan. The lockdown has made these priorities even sharper. “According to the 2011 Census, cycling was the third preferred choice of commute to work, 10 per cent of the trips, after walking (39 per cent) and public transport (31 per cent),” points out Bicycle Mayor of Calcutta Satanjib Gupta. He has been appointed to this post by BYCS, an Amsterdam-based social enterprise that believed the use of bicycles can transform cities. “But in Calcutta the infrastructure hardly reflects the modes of transport mentioned in the census report.” Yet, during the lockdown, the bicycle has made such a return. A huge number of people are cycling to their workplaces; the skies are an unbelievable blue and Calcutta’s air and noise pollution were reduced by 50-75 per cent during the early days of lockdown, according to data released by West Bengal Pollution Control Board. But the worrying part is, these look like only a brief respite. In Calcutta, it is feared that cars will be back in full glory once the lockdown is over. During the pandemic, many cities in the world have stopped the purchase of new cars. But let’s take a look at Calcutta’s figures. According to a recent study conducted by National Environmental Engineering Institute, goods carriers and buses contributed three-fourths of total vehicular pollution. All types of vehicles together contributed 22 per cent of PM10 and PM2.5 in ambient air in summer. In winter, the figure stood at 25 per cent for PM2.5. The study found that the contribution of private vehicles, both petrol and diesel variants, was marginal. Environmentalists have contested these figures, claiming vehicular pollution contributes to about 50 per cent of the city’s air pollution. Buses are huge pollutants. But the number of registered private buses in the city in 2018, according to www.statista.com, was a little over 16,000. Goods vehicles mostly ply during late night and early hours. The number of registered private cars in the city in 2018, according to www.statista.com, was around 6,17,000. According to Regional Transport Authority, the number of registered private vehicles in the city was 8,00,000. According to recent Calcutta police  figures, about 3,750 vehicles ply per minute between 8am and 8pm, the highest concentration being in central Calcutta. The role of cars in the city, as using road space and contributing to pollution, cannot be overestimated. “It will not do to even to switch to electric cars, which will pollute less, but will use the same amount of space. The idea should be to move to non-polluting forms of public transport,” says environmentalist Naba Dutta. On the first “journée sans voiture” (day without a car) held in September 2015 in Paris, the city was found to reduce exhaust emissions by 40 per cent. Will Calcutta ever want to find out what happens if it goes without cars?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-297
22-09-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta University: fewer questions for faster upload||The final-year undergraduate students of Calcutta University will have only two hours to answer questions, officials said. The papers will have fewer questions so that the examinees are required to write less and do not need more than half an hour to download the questions and upload the answers, as directed by the UGC last week. The UGC had on September 16 told the university that it was free to hold open-book exams as part of the end semester/ final-year test “so long as they are timed for two or three hours”. The CU pro-vice-chancellor for academic affairs, Ashis Chatterjee, on Monday informed the principals that each day’s test would be of two hours, the head of a college said. “The UGC has specified that students will have half an hour to download the questions and upload the answers and struck down the university’s previous decision that the examinees would be allowed 24 hours to upload the answers,” an official of the university said. “Fewer questions mean students will have to write less. They have to scan a lesser number of pages and will upload the scripts faster.” Pro-VC Chatterjee met college principals at Rajabazar Science College on Monday afternoon to discuss how to conduct the exams following the UGC instructions and told them they must submit the marks by October 18. The UGC in a separate advisory to the higher education department on September 16 said the results should be published by the end of October so admissions to postgraduate courses could begin on time. “This can be done only if the marks are submitted by October 18,” said an official. Repeated calls to the pro-VC went unanswered. It has been decided that the university will send the questions through email to the colleges on the exam days. The colleges will upload the questions on their website. Sources said that at Monday’s meeting the principals of colleges in the Sunderbans area sought to know how their students would send the answers in the stipulated time as the Net link there has been poor since Cyclone Amphan struck in May. “The pro-VC has left it to us to overcome the odds and said the UGC’s guidelines are sacrosanct,” said a principal. The principal of New Alipore College, Joydeep Sarangi, said they had purchased a software that would enable students to upload the scanned scripts on the college’s website. “As sending so many PDFs through email could pose a problem, we are asking students to upload the scripts on the website,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-297
22-09-2020||Calcutta||District govt hospital doctors to be brought to city Covid treatment centres||Doctors from government hospitals in districts will be brought to Calcutta and taken to Covid-19 treatment centres to allay fears about the disease, state government officials said on Monday. Members of the health department’s Covid monitoring team who are visiting hospitals in districts and in the immediate vicinity of Calcutta have found that Covid phobia that had once gripped many doctors in the city has spread among healthcare workers there. “Covid has claimed the lives of several doctors in Bengal over the past few weeks. That and the fact that more and more healthcare workers in government hospitals in districts are testing positive for the virus are among the reasons for the spread of the phobia,” an official said. There are allegations that doctors and nurses in some district hospitals were not going near Covid patients. In some hospitals, patients who needed ventilators were reportedly turned away because doctors were scared that intubating such patients could get them infected. “Doctors from these hospitals in districts will be brought to Calcutta in small groups. They will visit government hospitals in the city that are treating Covid patients, such as MR Bangur Superspeciality Hospital and Infectious Diseases Hospital in Beleghata. The doctors from the districts will be shown how their colleagues in the city hospitals are treating Covid patients by following all safety protocols,” said an official involved in Covid management in Bengal. The number of critical Covid patients and deaths resulting from the disease has been on the rise in districts. “It is crucial at this juncture to allay fears about Covid among healthcare workers in districts. Putting pressure on them to treat Covid patients will not work. We need to dispel the fear and counsel and train them,” the official said. At Calcutta hospitals, doctors from districts will be shown how their counterparts are ventilating Covid patients by wearing personal protective equipment. “Most of the doctors from districts have only theoretical knowledge about the safety measures, like it was in Calcutta in the initial days of the pandemic. So, when they are facing situations on the ground, they are gripped by panic,” said a health department official. A member of the Covid management monitoring team who had visited hospitals in several districts said many elderly doctors had told them that they had comorbidities like diabetes and hypertension and so were scared to approach Covid patients. “This has brought down the morale of their juniors, too,” he said. “Now doctors know about the safety measures but still some get infected. But that should not be the reason for not seeing Covid patients,” said Arunabha Sengupta, professor in the ENT department at SSKM Hospital. Sengupta, who has recently recovered from Covid, said he and his team of doctors were seeing around 300 to 400 patients at the OPD every day and performing seven to eight procedures.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-297
22-09-2020||Calcutta||Covid-hit economy tightens trafficking noose around girls||The cash crunch, resulting from a Covid-induced economic slump, is getting starker. And so is the vulnerability of daughters. Over 70 child marriages have been averted in two districts of Bengal since April, said rights activists. The districts, North and South 24-Parganas, are infamous for being trafficking hotbeds. For every averted case, at least two go unnoticed, they said. Activists have attributed the rise in the number of cases to the economic crisis triggered by Covid-19, which has landed thousands of families in abject poverty. Many parents are considering getting their minor daughters married to men who do not demand dowry. Traffickers are on the lurk for such vulnerable girls to force them into prostitution. Metro had in June reported how a string of child marriages was stopped in South 24-Parganas. The number has since kept rising. “We have stopped 32 child marriages till September 15. There are a dozen reports every month. Before the pandemic struck, we used to deal with a couple of cases every month on an average,” said Kakali Das of Goranbose Gram Bikash Kendra, a Canning-based NGO that works to curb trafficking and rehabilitate survivors. The NGO has coordinated with local police and the Childline India Foundation to intervene and stop child marriages in areas like Canning, Kultali and Basanti. Child marriage is often the first step towards trafficking of a girl, said Das. Earlier this month, a 14-year-old girl from Kultali was “rescued” from the outskirts of Bangalore. The girl was “reported missing” in August. “She got married to a man who took her to the southern state on the pretext of getting her a job. The girl sensed danger and managed to escape before he could sell her,” said Das. The girl is now at a shelter home in Bengal and is being counselled by Goranbose Gram Bikash Kendra. Things are no different in North 24-Parganas. “We have prevented over 40 child marriages in North 24-Parganas. In August, 10 marriages were prevented in Hingalganj and Hansnabad blocks,” said Sakila Khatun of Katakhali Empowerment and Youth Association. On August 29, Khatun received a call in the night. A girl — a Class VII student — was about to be married next morning. “A neighbour called to alert us. We could reach in time and stop the marriage,” said Khatun, whose organisation is a member of Partners in Anti-Trafficking, a network of NGOs. Several activists said traffickers were waiting for the resumption of commercial train services. “They are doing their homework now, by tapping vulnerable girls. Once trains start to run, the traffickers will try to take these girls out of the state,” a social worker said. The police force, its resources almost stretched to the limit following the outbreak of Covid-19, is struggling to “devote full attention” to curb trafficking, said another social worker, a member of Partners in Anti-Trafficking. The dedicated anti-human trafficking units are also having to cope with Covid-19 duties, he said. “We are doing our best. The regular awareness camps that used to be held at schools have stopped because the schools are shut. But we are coordinating with village panchayats and NGOs to create awareness,” said an officer in the anti-human trafficking unit in the Baruipur police district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-297
22-09-2020||Calcutta||Covid: Calcutta comorbidity survey extended to include all||The comorbidity survey that ended on Sunday has been extended for a few more days to ensure all households in the city are covered, Firhad Hakim, the chairperson of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation’s board of administrators, said on Monday. Metro had on Monday reported that close to 385,000 households of an estimated 1 million households in the city were still to be covered. The government is planning a mop-up exercise to ensure no household is left out of the survey, a state government official had said on Sunday. Most of the CMC’s 144 wards had some households left to be surveyed, a CMC official said on Monday. A message has been sent to borough heads of the CMC’s health department to continue the survey wherever households are still to be covered, the official said. “We have extended the survey’s duration. The survey will not end till all households are covered. It seems it will take another fortnight to complete the survey,” Hakim said on Monday. “We have already covered a large number of households. No one will be left out of the survey after a few more days.” The survey began on September 7 with a 14-day deadline to cover an estimated 1 million households in the city to prepare a list of people who suffer from diabetes, chronic kidney and lung diseases, hypertension and cancer among other diseases. The CMC, the state health department and the Covid Care Network, an organisation of doctors, health officials and people who have recovered from Covid were part of the surveying team. The CMC had planned to deploy 20 surveyors and two supervisors in each ward. But one of the main reasons why all households could not be surveyed was the shortage of the desired number of surveyors, the CMC official said on Monday. In many wards, the CMC did not get the full strength of surveyors, he said. In some large wards, the number of households was “unusually high” and the available number of workers could not visit all households. “Wards 106, 107, 108 and 109 in Borough XII that covers pockets of Kasba and Jadavpur are among the ward with many households left to be covered. These are densely populated wards; so, we need more time to reach all households,” he said. “Wards 56, 58 and 65 in Borough VII that covers the Topsia-Tiljala region are large too and we need more time to cover all households.” Comorbidity can affect the workings of vital organs and a new infection can spell more trouble for a person suffering from one or more such diseases, according to health experts. The surveyors recorded a person’s name, age, contact number and if he/she has cancer, diabetes, heart or kidney disease, hypertension, respiratory disease, liver disease or tuberculosis. The civic body will upload the data on its server and the information will be accessible to its doctors. This is the first time a survey of all households in Calcutta has been undertaken to create a database of the prevalence of comorbidity among people in the city. Once all the collected data is uploaded, a rigorous analysis of the data is needed, a CMC official said. The data can provide leads on the most common comorbid condition among Calcuttans and also the average age when Calcuttans start to suffer from comorbidity, the official said. “The presence of a comorbid condition is always a worrying factor. In case of Covid and dengue, people with comorbidity suffer more. The data will help the civic body tailor its response accordingly. It will act as crucial evidence for making public health policies in future,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-297
22-09-2020||Calcutta||Tweak in Rabindra Bharati University exam norms ||Rabindra Bharati University decided on Monday that the students appearing in the end semester exams would have half an hour before each day’s test to download the questions and will have to upload the answer scripts immediately after the exam ends. RBU, which had last week decided to hold open-book tests and allow students 24 hours to upload answers, has changed its decision following a UGC message to Calcutta University that examinees could not be given more than half an hour to download questions and upload answers. Although RBU did not receive any letter from the UGC, vice-chancellor Sabyasachi Basu Raychaudhury said they had decided to tweak their decision. “We will follow what has been advised by the UGC,” Basu Raychaudhury said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-297
22-09-2020||Calcutta||Kolkata park curbs to stay, says Firhad Hakim||Parks in the city will not open for full hours immediately as the afternoons and evenings could lead to gatherings and adda in violation of distancing norms, said Firhad Hakim, the chairperson of the board of administrators of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC). Hakim had on September 12 said the civic body had sought permission from the state home department to reopen the parks for full hours as Unlock 4 guidelines allow sporting activities in parks. While speaking to Metro on Monday, Hakim ruled out reopening the parks during afternoon and evening. All parks in the city are open from 5.30am to 8.30am every day. The CMC is the custodian of nearly 700 parks in Calcutta. The Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority is the custodian of two large parks in the city - Rabindra Sarobar in Dhakuria and Subhas Sarobar, in Beleghata. As the state urban development and municipal affairs minister, Hakim is also chairperson of the CMDA. “The parks will turn into adda zones if they are open in the evening. Right now we do not want that to happen as Covid-19 is still very much around. The parks will only remain open for morning walk,” Hakim said. The CMC is not objecting to the presence of workers involved in setting up Durga Puja pandals in parks, an official said. “Organisers seek permission for the pujas. So we are allowing them to keep some workers in parks to set up pandals,” the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-297
22-09-2020||Calcutta||Marble slab theft nets four in Calcutta||Four men were arrested early on Monday in connection with a theft of marble slabs from a godown off the Bypass, police said. The owner of the company that has the godown in Kalikapur had lodged a complaint with Survey Park police station on Sunday, saying marble slabs had been stolen from the godown for the past two years. Cops tried to scan the footage of CCTV cameras closest to the spot but found all were non-functional. They had been damaged by Cyclone Amphan, the police said. Acting on the complaint, officers stationed a team outside the godown on Sunday night. After waiting for over four hours, cops spotted four men trying to scale the boundary wall of Bhagwati Marble Enterprises in Kalikapur. Mohammad Shamim, 42, Jaffar Iqbal, 32, Mohammad Siraj, 18, and Mohammad Pappu, 20, were arrested on the spot. All live in the Lake Town area, the police said. A Tata Ace was found parked a few hundred metres from the company’s compound. It was meant to ferry marble slabs. At least 21 such slabs were found in the vehicle, the police said. An officer said the police were still to get any evidence to suggest the thieves had been active for the past two years. “We have received a complaint that this (theft) was going on for the past two years and that the thefts had cost the company Rs 10 lakh. We have started investigating the matter.” The four will be interrogated to find out what they used to do with the slabs, the police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-297
22-09-2020||Calcutta||Cables to stop kite injuries in Calcutta||Cables will be mounted on poles along crash barriers on either side of the Parama flyover to ensure kite strings don’t land on the road and threaten the lives of two-wheeler riders, the government has decided. The urban development department has chosen a 25m stretch between No. 4 bridge and Gobinda Khatik Road for the pilot project. Cables will be mounted on angular poles so that kite strings get stuck in them and don’t land on two-wheeler riders, police said. Engineers from the Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority, along with police officers, have already inspected the stretch a couple of times to understand how the poles will be fixed and the height till which the cables will be kept to ensure kite strings don’t land on the road. The work of fixing the poles and the cables will be carried out in the presence of cops, the police said. Officers will decide when the work will be carried out based on the traffic flow on the day selected. “CMDA engineers had sought permission and we have already granted them the necessary clearance. Once the design is ready, the work of installing the poles will start,” an officer in Lalbazar said. Kite strings have injured many two-wheeler riders on the Parama flyover. In May, Akhtar Khan, 40, a Watgunge resident, was killed after a kite string of the manja variety (string laced with glass powder and gum) slashed his throat while he was riding a scooter on the Parama flyover near Park Circus. His throat and the scooter had been found covered in the kite string. He had been declared dead at Calcutta National Medical College and Hospital. The police have so far failed to contain the menace. The National Green Tribunal has banned the sale of manja. In July, Calcutta High Court had directed the police to strictly enforce the ban on Chinese manja and nylon and synthetic threads used to fly kites. “We have decided on erecting angular poles on the crash barriers on either side of the flyover… it will add minimal weight to the structure,” a CMDA engineer said. “If the pilot project is successful, we will cover the entire flyover.” On August 31, Rohit Sau was left bleeding when a kite string slashed his chin while he was on his two-wheeler on the Parama flyover. Sau was lucky as he was moving at moderate speed and he had managed to grab the string and protect his throat, the police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-298
22-09-2020||Business||Shapoorji Pallonji Group says ‘time to separate from Tata’||Shapoorji Pallonji (SP) Group, the largest minority shareholder with 18.37 per cent stake in Tata Sons, on Tuesday said it is “time to separate from Tata” to end a relationship that has spanned over 70 years. Tata Sons is the holding company of Tata Group. In a press statement, the SP Group said: “It stated before the Supreme Court that a separation from the Tata Group is necessary due to the potential impact this continuing litigation could have on livelihoods and the economy.” “They stated that it was crucial that an early resolution is reached to arrive at a fair and equitable solution reflecting the value of the underlying tangible and intangible assets,” the statement added. The SP Group and Tatas have been engaged in a bitter legal battle ever since Cyrus Mistry was sacked as chairman of Tata Sons in October 2016. “Tata Sons has amplified its institutional efforts to suppress and inflict irreparable harm on the SP Group, in the midst of a global crisis triggered by the COVID pandemic,” the SP Group said. The Mistry family was in the midst of raising funds against the security of their personal assets to meet the crisis arising from the global pandemic. This move was undertaken to protect the livelihoods of its 60,000 employees and over 1,00,000 migrant workers, it added. “The action by Tata Sons to block this crucial fund raise, without any heed for the collateral consequences, is the latest demonstration of their vindictive mindset,” the statement said. Maintaining that the current situation has forced the Mistry family to sit back and reflect on the past, present and possible future for all stakeholders, the SP group said: “The past oppressive actions and the latest vindictive move by Tata Sons that impact the livelihoods of the wider SP Group community leads to the inexplicable conclusion that the mutual co-existence of both groups at Tata Sons would be infeasible.” The SP-Tata relationship, spanning over 70 years, was forged on mutual trust, good faith, and friendship. Today, it is with a heavy heart that the Mistry family believes that a separation of interests would best serve all stakeholder groups, it added. When contacted, Tata Sons spokespersons declined to comment. The SP Group claimed that as the largest minority shareholder owning an 18.37 per cent stake, the role hitherto played by it was always “one of guardianship with an aim to protect the best interests of the Tata group”. “The SP Group had always used its voting rights as a shareholder for the best interest of the Tata Group. It is a matter of record that prior to the year 2000, when the Tata Trusts, being Public Charitable Trusts, couldn’t exercise their voting rights, the same being held by a Public Trustee, the SP Group voted to protect the best interests of the Tata Group,” it said. The statement further said that after Cyrus Mistry was appointed as chairman of Tata Sons, he set about trying to establish a governance structure that would institutionalise accountability, and create the right checks and balances, without contravening the new Sebi insider trading law that regulated the flow of information across all stakeholders. “Unfortunately, he was removed in October 2016, when he attempted to implement these governance reforms,” it added. The statement by the SP Group further said: “It is extremely unfortunate that the current leadership of Tata Sons has not only continued to take value-destructive business decisions in a misguided effort to prove a point in these proceedings.” It is a matter of public record that several issues identified years earlier continue to plague the group, be it the operations of Tata Steel UK, where over the last three years alone the operational losses have increased by an additional Rs 11,000 crore, or the Group's aviation businesses. These actions, or lack thereof, have meant that the total debt in the major Tata group companies has increased by approximately Rs 1,00,000 crore in the past three years, it added. “Excluding TCS, the last quarter’s losses of all the listed group companies of approximately Rs 14,000 crore causes great concern. Unfortunately, the impact of these actions continue to hurt minority shareholders, be it the SP Group at Tata Sons or the millions of shareholders of the listed companies in the Tata Group,” the statement said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-282
22-09-2020||Business||Rajan plan to stem bad loan crisis||Former RBI governor Raghuram Rajan on Monday suggested the government to privatise select public sector banks, set up a bad bank to deal with NPAs and dilute the role of Department of Financial Services. The reforms are necessary to ensure the growth of banking government without  the periodic boom-bust cycles, said a paper titled “Indian Banks: A Time to Reform?” co-authored by Rajan and former Reserve Bank deputy governor Viral Acharya. “Re-privatisation of select PSBs can then be undertaken as part of a carefully calibrated strategy, bringing in private investors who have both financial expertise as well  as technological expertise; corporate houses must be kept from acquiring significant stakes, given their natural conflicts of interest,” the paper said. Noting that the government obtains enormous power from directing bank lending, it said sometimes this power is exercised to advance public goals such as financial inclusion or infrastructure finance, sometimes it is used to offer patronage to, or exercise control over, industrialists. “Winding down the department of financial services in the ministry of finance is essential, both as an affirmative signal of the intent to grant bank boards and management independence and as a commitment not to engage in “mission creep” when compulsions arise to use banks for serving costly social or political objectives,” the paper noted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-282
22-09-2020||Business||MP Birla trio oppose court order restraining Harsh Vardhan Lodha||Harsh Vardhan Lodha and three cable manufacturing companies of the MP Birla group filed appeals against the trial court order which restrained Lodha from holding any office in any group entity. Sources say Birla Corporation, the flagship of the group, will also file an appeal on Tuesday and a hearing at the division bench could start from Wednesday. The Lodhas are seeking an interim stay on the operation of the order. The legal setback to Lodha, who is the chairman of all group companies, appeared to have unsettled the investor community. On the first trading day after the single bench order was passed, all four listed companies came off sharply in an already weak market. While the broader market shed a little over 2 per cent — Nifty 50 closed 2.21 per cent lower — the Birla Corp stock fell by 8.19 per cent. The cable companies — Universal Cable, Birla Cable and Vindhya Telelinks — also fared worse than the market, correcting 6.29 per cent, 3.76 per cent and 3.68 per cent, respectively. The appeal filed by Lodha and the three firms would revolve around what constitutes the controlling block of shares in the manufacturing companies. According to the submission made on Monday, Lodha would argue that the estate of late Priyamvada Devi Birla, was only a minority shareholder in the companies. The estate, which is now governed by a committee of administrator pendente lite (APL committee), is one of the many shareholders of the larger promoter group, his counsel would argue before the division bench. Sources in the Lodha camp pointed out that estate is conclusively defined by the inventory of assets unanimously prepared by joint administrators and produced in court in 2013. Harsh Lodha — whose father late Rajendra Singh Lodha was handed the reign of MP Birla group in 2004 by a contentious will of late Priyamvada Birla — in his submission is also going to point out that despite the trial court acknowledging its limitation on jurisdiction over companies, it ordered all such promoter group entities to exercise voting rights in line with the direction of the APL committee. “The verdict seeks to change the composition of independent trust and societies run by trustees and managing committees by removing a member without giving any of them any hearing,” a source in the Lodha camp argued. Such entities hold over 14 per cent in Birla Corp. Birla camp had a different take. It argued that the controlling block of share — 62.9 per cent in Birla Corp — is part of the estate, a view taken by the single bench as well. The Birlas also contested that the inventory of the estate drawn up in 2013 is not full and final, noting that the Lodhas have made at least four submissions before the court seeking direction to prepare a final list. “How come Lodha is now in control of the MP Birla group today? It is because he had stepped into the shoes of his father R.S. Lodha, who was the executor of late Priyamvada Birla’s will. Today, the APL Committee is in her shoes,” said a Birla source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-283
22-09-2020||Business||Bengal excise duty worry for liquor makers||Two industry bodies representing major foreign liquor manufacturers in the country have written to the Bengal government to make changes to a proposed excise duty structure for liquor in the state or delay its implementation in the current year. The state had planned to bring in the new structure from September 2020 and had sought the industry’s opinion on setting the excise duties based on ex-distillery prices along with data on comparative prices of other states. But following requests from the industry for additional time to gather more data, the implementation has been deferred. The industry has estimated that the new structure, where there are 22 slabs of additional excise duty based on ex-distillery price, would inflate the cost of foreign liquor in the state by 40-90 per cent over those prevailing in March 2020. In its representation to the state, the International Spirits and Wines Association of India and the Confederation of Indian Alcoholic Beverage Companies have requested that the additional excise duty slabs be cut from 22 to 12, bringing in parity with neighbouring states and thwart the spread of spurious liquor. Diageo-USL, Pernod Ricard, ABD Limited, Radico Khaitan, Beam Suntory, Bacardi, Moet Hennessey, Brown-Forman, William Grant, Campari and Mohan Meakin are part of these associations. While the government has proposed that suppliers can charge 10 per cent higher than the lowest ex-distillery price, the associations want the state to consider this at 30 per cent and make the prices valid for a period of 12 months only. As an alternative the associations have also urged the government to consider the proposal of deferring the implementation of the new tax structure in 2020-21. According to the associations, when most states are rationalising taxes (Odisha, Delhi) in order to bring MRP at such levels that revenue is maximised, Bengal has proposed a tax structure which will take MRPs even higher. They have estimated a 40-45 per cent drop in volume and 25 per cent shortfall in revenue if the proposed taxation structure is implemented in its current shape and form. Sources however said that the government is not primarily in favour of deferring the rollout of the new tax structure any further, but would have to carefully weigh any revenue loss in the process.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-283
22-09-2020||Business||Telcos to pay 10% of AGR dues by March||Telecom operators, including Bharti Airtel and Vodafone Idea, which have pending adjusted gross revenue dues will have to pay 10 per cent of the total liability by March 31 irrespective of the part-payments made by them, according to government sources. Operational telecom operators are expected to pay Rs 12,921 crore by March 31, of which around 80 per cent have to be paid by Vodafone Idea and Bharti Airtel. “The Supreme Court order is very clear that telecom operators have to make 10 per cent payment of the total dues as demanded by the DoT by March 31, 2021. “The DoT has already raised demand for full AGR dues. The 10 per cent payment to be made by this March will be calculated on the total AGR liability,” a DoT official said. The officer said operators can clear the balance dues in 10 yearly instalments from the next financial year. According to the officer, Vodafone Idea will have to pay around Rs 5,825 crore and Bharti Airtel Rs 4,398 crore against the total demand of Rs 58,254 crore and Rs 43,980 crore, respectively.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-283
22-09-2020||Business||Mahindra & Mahindra mulls Ssangyong stake bid ||Mahindra & Mahindra (M&M) is understood to be considering a $258 million (300 billion won) bid for its stake in Ssangyong Motor Company (SYMC) made by HAAH Automotive Holdings Inc, a US-based automobile distributor. Mahindra holds almost 75 per cent in the South Korean auto maker. In August this year, M&M decided to reduce its stake in SYMC to less than 50 per cent even as the company indicated that it was open to the possibility of ceding control over SYMC in full or part. This was to induct potential investors into SYMC or to otherwise meet its funding requirements through other sources. According to M&M’s annual report for 2019-20, as of March 31 2020 its investments in SYMC stood at Rs 2,450 crore, while its ownership interest was at 74.65 per cent. Shares of M&M on Monday settled almost five per cent lower on the bourses. On the BSE, it ended at Rs 622.35 — a drop of 32.10, or 4.90 per cent, over its last close. M&M was recently in news when the company said that it has terminated share purchase agreement with CLP India to sell the entire stake held by its step down arm Mahindra Renewables in Neo Solren Pvt Ltd (NSPL) for Rs 104.67 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-283
22-09-2020||Business||Dalmia OCL to invest Rs 100 crore to step up local production||Dalmia OCL, the refractory manufacturing arm of cement and sugar major Dalmia group, plans to invest Rs 100 crore over the next five years in a bid to step up indigenous production in India and bring down dependance on imports, especially from China. Refractories are used in furnaces and kilns primarily in the steel and cement industry. At present, around 40 per cent of India’s requirement is met through imports. In a bid to de-risk and localise, Dalmia OCL on Monday announced the opening up of a 1.08-lakh-tonne brownfield capacity at Rajgangpur in Odisha to manufacture magnesia carbon refractory bricks. Phase 1 of the plant with a capacity of 36,000 tonnes has come up at an investment of Rs 20 crore. Two more phases would be added over the coming years. “Current investment has been Rs 20 crore and we will be investing Rs 100 crore over the next 3-5 years to expand refractory manufacturing,” said Sameer Nagpal, CEO, Dalmia OCL. The investment decision comes on the back of demand from the steel industry to localise the production of refractories in India amid rising geopolitical tension. Steel constitutes around 70 per cent of the refractory demand followed by cement at around 10-12 per cent and glass, non-ferrous metals and petrochemicals among the other sectors. The primary reason for import has been the incremental cost of manufacturing which is 5-7 per cent lower in China mainly due to their cost competitiveness. But with adequate handholding from the domestic industry and government, Dalmia OCL expects the cost in India can be brought down over the next 6-12 months. "It is important to do the initial hand holding by the customers. Some of them are demanding supply from India. Because of the momentum we have accelerated the setting up of capacity in India. We are also in discussion with the government on how to make domestic manufacturing more competitive,” Nagpal said. Tax benefits, production linked incentives, import duty changes and thrust on mining and exploration could speed up capacity expansion, he added. The company has 5 plants in India in Odisha, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Chattisgarh besides one plant each in Germany and China. Nagpal said that the company has spent more than Rs 100 crore in acquiring a German firm that will give access to crucial technology in the sector.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-283
22-09-2020||Business||Government must pick tab for waivers: Rajiv Mehershi panel||The Rajiv Mehershi panel on loan recast has proposed the government should bear the burden of any relief while the waiver of the contentious interest on interest be given only to a few borrowers, sources said. The report on the impact of the waiver of interest and the waiver of interest on interest, or compound interest, on loan moratorium has indicated banks are a financial intermediary and have a responsibility to their depositors. The government appointed panel is under ex CAG Rajiv Mehrishi. The panel has suggested the government should bear the burden and the sovereign should compensate the banks if relief has to be given. Given the huge burden of interest on interest faced by borrowers, the government can limit the waiver to the the most vulnerable segments such as affordable housing, MSMEs and smaller education loans. The committee has indicated a complete waiver of compound interes would tantamount to punishing the good borrowers for paying their loans on time. The Mehrishi committee  has reportedly arrived at a compound interest sum of around Rs 15,000 crore to Rs 20,000 crore and the sovereign should bear the burden if they be waived. Brokerage firm Macquarie had estimated that interest waiver will cost the banking system about Rs 2.1 lakh crore while waiver of compound interest will cost about Rs 15,000 crore. The ministry of finance had set up this three-member expert committee on September 10, comprising former CAG Rajiv Mehrishi, former monetary policy committee member Ravindra H Dholakia and the former managing director of SBI and IDBI Bank B Sriram. The report of the committee would assist the government in the assessment of providing relief to the bank borrowers on the issue of banks charging interest on loan installments deferred during the moratorium period due to the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-283
22-09-2020||Business||SBI charges 0.35% extra for loan recast ||State Bank of India (SBI) on Monday announced the details of its resolution framework to restructure Covid-19 related stress loans. Corporate borrowers will have to provide a personal guarantee of the promoters or a pledge of their shares. Individuals seeking a restructuring of their loans will have to pay an additional interest of 0.35 per cent annually over and above the current pricing for the remaining tenure of the loan though they will not be subject to any processing fee. The country’s largest bank also launched a facility on its website to help retail customers check their eligibility for the one-time loan restructuring. Last month, the RBI had announced a one-time restructuring scheme for personal loans and corporate borrowers affected by the pandemic. This will apply to only those accounts that existed in banks’  books as on March 1, 2020. Another crucial condition is that the accounts should be standard (performing) and also not in default for more than 30 days as on March 1, 2020. SBI managing director (retail & digital banking) C. S. Setty said while retail customers can check their eligibility, if found eligible they will have to visit the respective branches to complete the other formalities such as the signing of papers. As of now, around 3,500 retail customers of the bank have accessed the portal and of them 111 are eligible and have got their reference number generated, he said. The bank’s retail customer will be asked to fill his or her account number in the relevant segment on its website. After the completion of OTP validation and keying in the requisite information, customers will get to know their eligibility and receive a reference number. This reference number will be valid for 30 days and within which time customers can visit the branch to complete the required formalities. An  individual borrower will be considered as affected by the Covid-19 pandemic if his or her salary in August 2020 got reduced  compared with February 2020, or there is a reduction/suspension in salary during the lockdown period. The individual can get home and other related loans, education, auto and personal loans restructured. The tenure of the loan can be extended for maximum 24 months under the framework for Covid -19 related stress. The restructuring process will be complete after the verification of documents and execution of simple documents at the branch or the processing centre. Once an application is submitted, it will be processed within 7-10 working days. The customer will have to upload or submit documents like salary slips for the month of February and latest salary slip apart from a declaration of estimated salary or income immediately after the end of the desired moratorium period (maximum 24 months) or a letter of discharge from job in case of job loss. However, customers whose application has been accepted will be required to pay additional interest of 0.35 per cent per annum over and above their current pricing for the remaining tenure of the loan. SBI said that this is to offset partial cost of additional provisions required to be made. For non-personal borrowers, SBI said that in case of unlisted entities, personal guarantee of the promoters will have to be furnished and for listed companies, promoters will have to pledge their shares. In these cases, a processing fee or upfront fee of 0.25 per cent of the `aggregate limits’ will be payable. SBI added that for loans with aggregate exposure of Rs 1500 crore and above from the banking system, last date for submitting application is November 15 and for others, the last date to apply for relief under the November 30.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-283
22-09-2020||Business||Poor market conditions do not affect CAMS first day of bidding||The disappointing conditions in the market did not impact the initial share sale of Computer Age Management Services (CAMS), which was subscribed 82 per cent on the first day of bidding. Warburg Pincus-backed CAMS received bids for 1,05,75,864 shares against 1,28,27,370 shares offered. The qualified institutional buyer category was subscribed 25 per cent, while the retail individual investor segment was subscribed 1.40 times. Shares of Route Mobile Ltd on Monday made a stellar stock market debut as they jumped 86 per cent at close of trade against its issue price of Rs 350. During the day,it rose to a high of Rs 735, a gain of 110 per cent. It later closed at Rs 651.10, higher by 86 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-283
22-09-2020||Business||Stocks collapse on fresh virus scare||Wall Street’s main indices tumbled to their lowest in nearly seven weeks on Monday, with the Dow shedding as much as 900 points, as worries about fresh coronavirus-driven lockdowns spilled over from Europe. Back home, the Sensex crashed 812 points, while the Nifty finished below the 11300-mark. While the selloff was in line with global trends, investor wealth worth Rs 4.23 lakh crore was wiped off. Investors were jittery following reports of Denmark, Greece and Spain imposing fresh restrictions on activities to tackle a surge in Covid-19 infections even as Britain was considering a second nation-wide lockdown. The 30-share Sensex opened lower at 38812.69 and fell below the 38000-mark to hit a day’s low of 37938.53. It finally ended 811.68 points, or 2.09 per cent, lower at 38034,14, falling for the third straight session. The broader Nifty cracked 254.40 points, or 2.21 per cent, to finish at 11250.55. “The markets sold off in a major way because of several factors such as reports about irregular financial dealings involving some of the major international banks and fears of a second-wave of pandemic in many parts of Europe. With the markets having run ahead of the economy, it is only probable that there will be higher level of volatility,’’ said Joseph Thomas, head of research,  Emkay Wealth Management. In the Sensex pack IndusInd Bank was the top loser as it fell 8.67 per cent, followed by Bharti Airtel, Tata Steel, ICICI Bank, M&M, Maruti, Axis Bank and Bajaj Finance. Only three stocks ended in the green -- Kotak Bank, Infosys and TCS, rising up to 0.86 per cent. Meanwhile, shares of Route Mobile made a strong debut as they jumped 86 per cent at close of trade against its issue price of Rs 350. On the BSE, it got listed at Rs 708, reflecting a jump of 102.28 per cent from the issue price. During the day,it rose to a high of Rs 735, registering a gain of 110 per cent. It later closed at Rs 651.10, higher by 86 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-283
22-09-2020||Business||Wheat MSP hiked by 2.6% to douse ire ||The Centre has raised the minimum support price of wheat by Rs 50, or 2.6 per cent, to Rs 1,975 per quintal amid growing farmer unrest against two pieces of legislation that seeks to encourage contract farming and allow farmers to directly sell their produce to institutional buyers such as big traders and retailers by bypassing state-regulated mandis. Besides, MSPs of lentil (masoor), gram, barley, safflower and mustard/rapeseed have been increased. The move came a day after Parliament approved two agriculture sector-reform bills which have been bitterly opposed by the opposition parties such as the Congress and Trinamul as well as from within ruling NDA alliance over apprehension that the new legislations might virtually end MSP-based procurement by the government. Farmer groups in Punjab, Haryana and some other states are also protesting the two bills — The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020 and The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020. Tomar said the MSPs of six rabi crops were approved by the Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA) chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday, a move aimed at encouraging farmers ahead of the sowing operations of winter crops. Announcing the increased MSPs for the six rabi crops for 2020-21 crop year (July-June) and 2021-22 marketing season, Tomar said MSP of gram has been increased by Rs 225 to Rs 5,100 per quintal. MSP of barley has been hiked by Rs 75 to Rs 1,600 per quintal. Lentil MSP has been hiked by Rs 300 to Rs 5,100 per quintal. MSP of mustard/ rapeseed have been raised by Rs 225 to Rs 4,650 per quintal, while that of saffflower has been hiked by Rs 112 to Rs 5,327 per quintal. Analysts said the Modi-government support price does not address the structural shift in its agricultural policy which would have a significant impact on the farmers’ livelihood and food security of the country. Biswajit Dhar of the Jawaharlal Nehru University said the two farm bills were meant to transform Indian agriculture to be export oriented. But the country’s bilateral FTA engagements as well as in the WTO, partner countries are unlikely to accept India’s export oriented stance, while its own market remains largely protected behind high tariffs. “But, before comprehensively opening India’s market to import, the government must have a plan in place for sustaining domestic food security and to also protect the livelihoods of almost 60 per cent of the workforce that is directly or indirectly dependent on agriculture,” Dhar said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-283
22-09-2020||India||Nepal stops distribution of textbook with new map ||Nepal has stopped the distribution of a new textbook that includes a revised political map showing three strategically-important Indian areas as part of its territory, saying there were a number of factual errors in it, according to a media report on Tuesday. India has already termed as untenable the "artificial enlargement" of the territorial claims by Nepal after its Parliament unanimously approved the new political map of the country featuring Lipulekh, Kalapani and Limpiyadhura areas which India maintains belongs to it. A Cabinet meeting on Tuesday instructed the Ministry of Education not to distribute and print any more copies of the text book meant for class IX to XII as there were some reservations from the Ministry of Land Management and Cooperatives and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, The Kathmandu Post reported. The Ministry of Education does not have the authority to change Nepal's geographical area and there are faults in the book, said spokesperson for the Ministry of Land Reform and Cooperatives Janak Raj Joshi. There are errors in the book prepared by the Ministry of Education on a subject it has no expertise in, he said, adding that the higher authorities have been asked to take corrective measures. The concerned body of the Nepal government is yet to officially declare the revised geographical area of the country. The Department of Survey, which is the official agency that declares the total area of the country, however, hasn't made any decision on the area, Joshi said. Education Minister Giriraj Mani Pokharel on September 15 released the 110-page book titled, Self Study Material on Nepal's Territory and Border, which dwells around historical facts about the country's territory and its border dispute mainly with India. The book states Nepal's new area to be 147,641.28 square kilometres including the 460.28 sq km area of the Kalapani area which was included in Nepal's political map on May 20 by the Cabinet. Minister for Education Pokharel has written a six-page preface for the book in which he has mentioned about Nepal's border disputes and other related issues. He said that he had launched a campaign to protect the Nepalese territory, including the areas of Kalapani, Lipulekh and Limpiyadhura. However, Pokharel told The Kathmandu Post that the distribution of the book has been halted for now. After Nepal's Parliament approved the revised political map comprising Kalapani, Lipulekh and Limpiyadhura areas, the Cabinet had endorsed the new map and decided to use it in government offices and print school text books with the new map. Nepal in May released the revised political and administrative map of the country laying claim over the three strategically important areas in Uttarakhand, more than six months after India published a new map in November 2019. Following the endorsement of the new map by the Nepal Cabinet, then government spokesperson and Finance Minister Yuvaraj Khatiwada told the media that the government had decided to update the schedule of the Constitution and school curriculum incorporating the new political map. India in its response said that it had already made its position clear on it. "This artificial enlargement of claims is not based on historical fact or evidence and is not tenable. It is also violative of our current understanding to hold talks on outstanding boundary issues," the Ministry of External Affairs had said. The India-Nepal bilateral ties came under strain after Defence Minister Rajnath Singh inaugurated an 80-km-long strategically crucial road connecting the Lipulekh pass with Dharchula in Uttarakhand on May 8. Nepal reacted sharply to the inauguration of the road claiming that it passed through Nepalese territory. India rejected the claim asserting that the road lies completely within its territory. (PTI)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-654
22-09-2020||India||Seven bills passed in three and a half hours in Rajya Sabha||In one of the most productive days in its history, Rajya Sabha on Tuesday in a matter of three and half hours passed seven key bills including one that removes cereals, pulses and onion from the essential commodities list and another that abolishes penalty for certain offences by companies. This after most of the opposition including the Congress, Left parties, the TMC, the Samajwadi Party and the NCP decided to boycott House proceedings in protest against the suspension of eight MPs for the remainder of the session for unruly behaviour. Only members from the ruling BJP and its ally JD-U and those of parties such as AIADMK, BJD, YSR-Congress and TDP, which have been extending support to the Modi government on various issues, participated in the debates on the bills. In most bills, the members participation was sparse and the minister's reply brief. The Upper House took up government legislative business after nearly an hour of discussion over the conduct of opposition MPs during the passage of two agriculture reform bills on Sunday, with Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu saying the suspension could be revoked if the members expressed regret over their action. First, it passed a bill to declare five newly-established Indian Institutes of Information Technology (IIITs) as institutions of national importance. The crucial Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, which removes cereals, pulses, oilseeds, edible oils, onion and potatoes from the list of essential commodities and removes stockholding limits on them, was passed next. This bill is part of the agriculture reforms bills that the government is pushing to raise farm incomes. The bills passed on Sunday gave farmers the freedom to sell produce anywhere in the country and enter into forward contracts with companies. Rajya Sabha also passed amendments to the Bank Regulation Act to bring cooperative banks under the supervision of the RBI in a bid to protect the interest of depositors. Thereafter the Companies (Amendment) Bill, 2020, which removes the penalty for certain offences, was passed. The National Forensic Sciences University Bill, 2020 and the Rashtriya Rakash University Bill were passed in quick succession. Thereafter the Taxation and Other Laws (Relaxation and Amendment of Certain Provisions) Bill, 2020 to relax time limit on compliance with tax laws, GST payment and filing in view of the coronavirus pandemic. The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020 as well as the Taxation and Other Laws (Relaxation and Amendment of Certain Provisions) Bill, 2020 replace emergency ordinances. The sitting of the Rajya Sabha was extended by just over an hour beyond the scheduled time to allow the passage of the bills. The legislative business started at 10.29 hours and ended at 14.03 hrs - 214 minutes in all. All the seven bills have already been passed by Lok Sabha and will now be sent to the President for assent. Once he gives his assent, they will become the law.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-654
22-09-2020||India||Congress leads Opposition walkout in Rajya Sabha, wants suspension of 8 MPs revoked  ||Several Opposition parties, led by the Congress, staged a walkout from Rajya Sabha on Tuesday, saying they would boycott the rest of the session unless the suspension of eight members were revoked. Subsequently, the 8 suspended MPs ended their overnight sit-in inside Parliament House complex. "All the Opposition parties have boycotted the rest of the session (in Rajya Sabha), nobody is attending the session. They appealed to us to withdraw the dharma and since nobody is attending the session till the suspension is revoked, there is no point in continuing with the dharna," suspended Congress MP Nasir Hussain told PTI. The Monsoon Session is scheduled to end on October 1. The Congress was the first to walk out from the House along with members of the AAP, TMC and Left parties. The members of all the three parties are among those who have been suspended by the House for the remaining part of the monsoon session. Some parties like the NCP, SP, Shiv Sena and RJD also staged a walkout later. Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu appealed to members of all Opposition parties again, asking them to rethink their decision of boycotting the House proceedings. “I appeal to all members to rethink their decision of boycott and participate in the discussion," Naidu said in the House. Earlier, leader of the Opposition Ghulam Nabi Azad said they would boycott the proceedings of the House till the suspension of eight members was revoked. Speaking after the Zero Hour, Azad also demanded that the government bring a bill to ensure private players did not procure food grains below the minimum support price (MSP) fixed by the government. He also asked the government that the MSP should be fixed from time to time as per the C2 Swaminathan formula. The eight Opposition MPs, who were suspended on Monday and spent the night on the lawns near Mahatma Gandhi's statue, are: Rajeev Satav, Syed Nasir Hussain and Ripun Bora of the Congress, Derek O’Brien and Dola Sen of Trinamul Congress, Elamaram Kareem and K. K. Ragesh of the CPM and Sanjay Singh of AAP. The morning began with Rajya Sabha Deputy Chairman Harivansh Singh choosing to meet the protesting MPs on the lawns and offering them tea. Prime Minister Narendra Modi described his gesture as proof of his greatness, but several Opposition MPs refused to have tea, maintaining all along that the deputy chairperson was in the wrong. At least one the protesting MPs said Harivansh’s appearance with a posse of cameramen looked like a gimmick. "To personally serve tea to those who attacked and insulted him a few days ago as well as those sitting on dharna shows that Shri Harivansh Ji has been blessed with a humble mind and a big heart. It shows his greatness. I join the people of India in congratulating Harivansh Ji," the Prime Minister tweeted. AAP's Sanjay Singh tweeted a picture from the protest site in the morning, saying the "whole night was spent under the open sky in front of Bapu's statue". "The protest in favour of farmers' rights is continuing," he added. When the Rajya Sabha deputy chairman arrived, a senior MP told him to meet them without the cameras and sit with them. "Another senior MP also told him that while bringing tea was a nice gesture, he was still in the wrong in what he did. He was told that he was the one who broke the rules," a protesting MP told PTI. Several leaders said they did not accept the tea and snacks offered by the deputy chairman. "I did not have the tea brought by him," Sanjay Singh said. Harivansh has been in the thick of things since the suspension drama unfolded. The eight MPs were suspended for the remaining part of the current session over their "misbehavior" with the deputy chairman during the passage of the farm Bills on Sunday. Later, Harivansh expressed his deep anguish and pain at the Opposition MPs’ "humiliating" conduct towards him and announced a 24-hour fast to inspire a feeling of "self-purification" in them. In a letter to Rajya Sabha Chairperson M Venkaiah Naidu, Harivansh recounted the ruckus in the House on Sunday during the passage of the farm bills, and said members engaged in "violent" conduct in the name of democracy, tried to frighten the Chair and tore to shreds every norm and convention of the House. This sight of "disrobing of democracy" jolted his mind and heart and he could not sleep for the whole night, the Bihar MP wrote in the letter underscoring his agony and pain at the development. Whatever happened in front of me on September 20 has caused unimaginable loss to the dignity of House and Chair, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-654
22-09-2020||India||Street vendors struggle to feed families||A stack of unsold shawls is an unsettling sight for street vendor K. Kunjalata Devi, reminding her of the daily struggle to feed her family as Covid-19 threatens the livelihoods of millions of informal traders across India. India — one of the countries worst-hit by the coronavirus — has eased most lockdown restrictions and sought to reopen its battered economy, but some curbs on street trade remain and many customers are staying away. That is taking a heavy toll on the nation’s ubiquitous street vendors, who sell everything from snacks and cups of tea to toys and shoes at traffic lights, on pavements or from carts. “Financially, we are shattered and that has led to a near mental breakdown with stress and tension building up every passing day,” said Devi, 64, who had been selling the handwoven shawls for four decades before the lockdown hit in March. Devi and several thousand fellow vendors at a market run by women in Manipur have still not been able to return to their stalls because authorities ruled that the many elderly vendors were at high risk from the virus. “Making ends meet and having two meals a day is now a big problem... life for many of us has been hell,” Devi, the sole breadwinner in her household, said by phone from the state capital, Imphal. Coronavirus infections are rising faster in India than anywhere else in the world as it repeatedly reports the highest global daily caseloads, with the total surging to 5.4 million on Sunday, according to the latest official data. It is the world’s second-worst affected country after the United States, which has 6.7 million cases. Imphal mayor L. Lokesore said the state government would provide Rs 10,000 in assistance to women like Devi. “We have already processed their documents and very soon we shall release the payments,” he said. In June, the Centre launched a scheme offering collateral-free loans of Rs 10,000 to about 5 million street vendors — about half of the country’s total, according to the National Association of Street Vendors of India. Of 15 street vendors interviewed by the Thomson Reuters Foundation in New Delhi, only three said they had applied for the loan. Others said they did not plan to apply, citing reasons including red tape or lack of interest in the amount on offer. “It’s a lot of effort for just pocket change. They don’t realise how much we have to spend on raw material, transport and helpers,” said Pappu Gupta, 50, who runs a food stall near Connaught Place, the capital’s central business district. Nearby, roadside cobbler Santosh Kumar said: “What’s the point of a loan if people are too scared to come out? Who will I expand my business for?” Calling street vendors an “inseparable constituent of the urban informal economy”, Rajeev Jain, a spokesman for the ministry of housing and urban affairs, said 470,000 loans had been approved of the 1.3 million applications received. Ranjana, 38, used to sell thousands of rupees worth of colourful, hand-embroidered bags and cushion covers to foreign tourists before the lockdown. Now, she gets two customers on a good day and has started wearing a face mask and using hand sanitiser, hoping that will convince buyers to come back. “People need to see that we’re the ones who can help fix the economy,” said Ranjana, who goes by one name. “If you buy from us, we can then spend money on artisans, rickshaw drivers, tea vendors... we can generate growth.” Vinod, who declined to give his full name, said that in 30 years of selling tea in Delhi he had never struggled so badly. “There is no hope in sight.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-654
22-09-2020||India||Why farmer Nimai Ray feels he has lost his independence||Nimai Ray, an MA in sociology and a farmer, feels the two farm bills that were pushed through in Parliament on Sunday have cost him his independence. “It’s like your independence has been taken away and you are working as a labourer in some company,” Ray, 56, told The Telegraph on Monday. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has described the passage of the bills as “a watershed moment in the history of Indian agriculture” and the Opposition has labelled them a “death warrant” on the farmer. But the fears of farmers like Ray, imaginary or otherwise, articulate loud and clear the pitfalls of securing legislative approval without adhering to the basic principles of a parliamentary democracy: proper debate, scrutiny and consultation. The fears expressed by Ray, who cultivates multiple crops on 12 acres in Jajpur district of Odisha, underscore the importance of transparency, communication and precise drafting while dealing with topics as sensitive as land and food. “When I got my MA in sociology in 1988, I could have opted for a government or private-sector job, but I decided to live as a farmer. I have worked hard to create my identity as a farmer,” Ray said. “With the farm bill coming into force, national and international players will come into the picture and we will not be able to hold on to our independent identity. Though there may seem to be some immediate gains for farmers as the market will open up, the bills have long-term repercussions that everyone may not realise at the moment.” The big fear: The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, one of the bills cleared on Sunday, allows growers to directly sell their produce to institutional buyers such as big traders and retailers. Once the bill is signed into law, the farmers can take their produce beyond the premises of what are known as “APMC markets or mandis”. Under the Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) Act, a law more than 55 years old, it is compulsory for farmers to take their products to regulated wholesale markets where commission agents help the growers sell their harvest to either the state-run food procurement agency or private traders. The stated aim of the APMCs is to protect farmers from being exploited by big institutional buyers, but over the years they have become a powerful tool for political parties to control the farm trade. Many farmer organisations oppose the change that allows big players to buy directly from them, saying it will leave the smaller growers with little bargaining power. Nearly 85 per cent of India’s poor farmers own less than 5 acres, and they find it difficult to directly negotiate with large buyers. What has deepened the fear is the government’s refusal to categorically state in the bill that the provision of a minimum support price (MSP) would be guaranteed. The Centre has been saying the MSP will be there but “saying” is not the same as incorporating it in the bill in black and white. A counter-argument has been that once an MSP is set, no private player will pay more than that, and the MSP will become the unofficial “maximum” price or a ceiling that will leave farmers at a disadvantage. Trust deficit: The bill has been rammed through before a consensus emerged. Besides, what has been unfolding in the past few years has been far from reassuring. Ray, the farmer, said: “What happened to the hundreds of small grocery shops in urban areas? After big players entered the market, customers started getting things online. They are giving more offers. The small grocery shops started closing down.” Hypermarkets and e-commerce are still a work in progress in India. While unrealistic discounts offered by the big players have hurt small shops, some traders have gained from the easier availability of wholesale stocks and consumers have enjoyed wider choice. In the lockdown, small groceries thrived while many big stores had to be closed. Ray added: “One can see the monopolisation in the telecom sector. A similar situation will crop up in the farming sector too. The big companies will enter and take away the farm produce at higher prices. No one will turn up at government mandis to sell their produce. The mandis will be closed down. The farmers will be forced to dance to the tune of the big companies that will dictate the price.” Contract farming: The second bill, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, allows contract farming. Farmers and buyers can enter into agreements before cultivation at a guaranteed price. A dispute settlement mechanism has been prescribed. On paper, such an arrangement should help the farmer as it removes uncertainties about the demand for the crop, the size and the price. Trust deficit: But age-old fears, aggravated by a perception that a BJP-friendly oligarchy is being promoted, are a reality. Ray, the farmer, said: “It will open the door for the conversion of farmers into labourers. We used to cultivate the land of our forefathers. Now, drawn by the lure of money, some farmers may hand over their land to affluent farmers. Later, the big players will take the land and decide what is to be cultivated. Farmers who once owned the land will now work on that land as some or other company’s worker. He will become a labourer in his own land. We don’t want that.” However, one-third of fruits and vegetables produced in India perish before reaching the food plate. Key among the reasons are the lack of a cold chain infrastructure and an inadequate capacity to process food. The entry of the organised sector with attendant investments may help address some of these issues, leading to more income for the farmers. States' fear: The grain bowl states of Punjab and Haryana fear that if big institutions start buying directly from the farmers, the state governments will lose out on the tax that these buyers have to pay at wholesale markets. Political sources say that had the concerns about the MSP and the states’ revenues been addressed, the opposition would not have been so fierce. The ‘Middlemen’: For decades, some affluent Indians have been justifying their reluctance to pay better prices for farm produce by saying the “middlemen” take the lion’s share, leaving a pittance for the farmer. Political parties too have promoted this theory, blaming every problem on the faceless “middlemen”. The current controversy has shed light on how commission agents (the “middlemen”) have been discharging useful functions as intermediaries do in most segments where distance separates the producing source and the consumption point. The government argues that the middlemen at wholesale markets form an extra link in the supply chain, and that their commission pushes up the prices for consumers. The commission agents help the farmers grade, weigh, pack and sell their harvest to buyers. They also ensure timely payments to the farmers. The agents are also often a source of credit for farmers after droughts or crop failures, or before a daughter’s wedding. Trust deficit: Some fear that the agents, who form the backbone of the wholesale markets, will be replaced by a set of enforcers on the payroll of the big buyers. Farmer leaders have said that wholesale markets, which play a crucial role in ensuring timely payments to small farmers, would gradually disappear if large players buy directly from the growers. Without the offer of an alternative arrangement, such as private markets or direct-purchase centres, the new rule does not make any sense, growers have said. Additional reporting by Reuters||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-654
22-09-2020||India||Eight Rajya Sabha MPs suspended for the rest of the session ||Eight Rajya Sabha MPs from four parties who had led the protests against the farm bills in the House were suspended on Monday for the rest of the session by chairperson M. Venkaiah Naidu, who disallowed the Opposition’s no-confidence motion against his deputy Harivansh. The MPs stayed put in the House, despite several reminders from the Chair that the rules mandate they leave immediately, resulting in successive adjournments. As a result, not much business was transacted in the Rajya Sabha, which adjourned for the day an hour ahead of schedule. The eight MPs then moved to the front lawns next to the Mahatma Gandhi statue to stage an indefinite dharna. Leaders of several Opposition parties and even the TRS — which usually stands with the government on contentious issues — joined their protest through the day against the “assassination of parliamentary democracy’’. As the sit-in continued into the night, several MPs, including Ahmed Patel of the Congress and the RJD’s Manoj Jha, joined their suspended colleagues in solidarity. Sanjay Singh of AAP and Dola Sen of Trinamul Congress, who are among the suspended eight, kept spirits high with protest songs. The Opposition is also demanding that President Ram Nath Kovind return the two farm bills to the Rajya Sabha for proper consideration and approval under Article 111 of the Constitution. The Opposition will seek an appointment with the President to present their case, a senior  leader said. The bills were passed on Sunday by voice vote after demands for a division (paper or electronic vote) were not accepted. The Opposition’s contention is that proper procedure was not followed by the presiding officer during the passage of the bills, resulting in the ruckus. On Monday, the day began in the Rajya Sabha on a quiet note with Chairman Naidu getting the papers listed tabled and allowing special mentions for about 20 minutes. Thereafter, referring to the pandemonium during which mikes were broken and MPs clambered on to the parliamentary reporters’ table to protest, he said: “I was so pained yesterday. All social distancing and Covid-19-related precautions were violated by some members in the House yesterday. It pained me a lot because of what happened yesterday. It defies logic. It was really a bad day for the Rajya Sabha.’’ Defending the deputy Chairman, Naidu said division could not be taken up because of disruptions. “If marshals were not called on time, what would have happened to the deputy Chairman? I am worried. He says that he was abused with objectionable words,’’ he said. Citing the record of Sunday’s proceedings, Naidu said: “The deputy Chairman had persistently requested the members to go to their seats and participate in the debate and move amendments. Obviously, in view of the continuous disruptions in the House, the division could not have taken place.’’ Before allowing the government to move the motion for suspension of Rajeev Satav, Syed Nasir Hussain and Ripun Bora of the Congress, Derek O’Brien and Dola Sen of Trinamul Congress, Elamaram Kareem and K. K. Ragesh of the CPM and Sanjay Singh of AAP, Naidu declared the Opposition’s no-confidence motion inadmissible as 14 days’ notice had not been given as is mandated under Article 90(c) of the Constitution. The disciplinary action against the eight MPs has been taken under Rule 255 and 256. The government’s motion did not refer to any rule. The motion moved by junior parliamentary affairs minister V. Muraleedharan said: “That the following members be suspended from the services of the House for the remaining part of the current session for their unruly behaviour especially with the Chair and their gross disorderly conduct in violation of the rules and etiquettes of Rajya Sabha, thereby bringing disrepute to this august House and causing insult to the Office of Hon. Deputy Chairman, yesterday, i.e. the 20th September, 2020.’’ Later, law and justice minister Ravi Shankar Prasad accused the Opposition of “humiliating” deputy Chairman Harivansh, calling him an “eminent Indian” from Bihar, seeking to draw electoral mileage in poll-bound Bihar. “An eminent Indian who hails from Bihar, who has made a mark not only in the country but the globe, was being humiliated and Congress party and the RJD were encouraging this in the most unabashed manner,” Prasad said, speaking on behalf of the government. “The people of Bihar will give a reply of this. The country too will give. This will not be tolerated,” he added. “I want to say this very clearly. We don’t want to make it a political issue but the way such an intellectual son of Bihar, editor, journalist was humiliated… People of Bihar are hurt and the Opposition will have to face it,” Prasad said. Bihar is scheduled to vote in November. The minister hails from the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-654
22-09-2020||India||Excess deaths among dialysis patients||Patients in India undergoing dialysis under government health insurance cover faced 25 per cent excess mortality during the nationwide lockdown, a study to assess the lockdown’s impact on health outcomes among kidney patients has suggested. The study by Stanford University researchers has found that mortality among dialysis patients increased sharply from 2.72 per cent during March to 4.56 per cent during May, an increase never seen over the previous year. The mortality levels reduced to 3.42 per cent in June and 2.96 per cent in July, leading to an overall death rate between April and July 2020 that was 25 per cent higher than the mortality during the same months in 2019, the researchers said. “We see this sharp spike in the death rate in May; it falls over the next two months but remains higher than it was in March,” Radhika Jain, a post-doctoral fellow studying health policy at Stanford, told The Telegraph over the telephone. “These are the unintended consequences of the lockdown,” she said. The Stanford study is among the first to assess how the death rates among dialysis patients changed during India’s lockdown. An earlier study by medical researchers had tracked a reduction in demand for dialysis services across eight government and 11 private hospitals in India. Jain and Pascaline Dupas, professor of economics at Stanford, used a unique strategy to study death rates — phone calls to households with patients undergoing dialysis. They picked a sample of 2,110 patients on dialysis in Rajasthan and called their households during and after the lockdown. They found that 63 per cent patients had experienced a disruption to their dialysis care services because of the lockdown. The commonest causes were travel barriers, hospital closures or refusals by hospitals to provide dialysis services. Over 40 per cent of the patients reported being unable to reach their hospitals while 15 per cent found their hospitals shut or were turned away by hospitals. About 17 per cent of the patients could not obtain the necessary medicines and 11 per cent had to pay extra hospital charges. The study found that monthly dialysis visits decreased by 6 per cent between March and April — the same level of decrease reported by the National Health Authority, the government agency implementing the nationwide government-paid health insurance programme. The researchers’ calculation of a 25 per cent excess mortality implies that if 100 patients on dialysis had died between April and July 2019, a total of 125 died between April and July 2020. The study also found that women and socially disadvantaged groups experienced larger increases in mortality than men or groups with socio-economic capital. “We looked at a sample population in Rajasthan, but we believe our findings are indicative of the likely effects of the lockdown across India,” Jain said. The findings, the researchers said, corroborate concerns that a universal lockdown of the kind India had imposed abruptly at four hours’ notice can have large and adverse impacts on healthcare-seeking behaviour, hitting vulnerable populations the hardest. “These results look quite realistic,” said Vivekanand Jha, senior nephrologist and executive director of The George Institute for Global Health, New Delhi, who was not associated with the Stanford study but was part of the independent 19-hospital survey two months ago. Jha and his colleagues from the Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences, Lucknow, and other hospitals had found that 704 (28 per cent) of a group of 2,517 dialysis patients had experienced one or more disruptions in dialysis during the lockdown. About 4 per cent (104 of the 2,517 patients) had stopped reporting for dialysis. “We had found large-scale disruptions in hospital-based care in multiple centres – the Stanford group has gone beyond and confirmed the impact on mortality,” Jha said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-654
22-09-2020||India||Govt omits causes in latest data on farm suicides||The Centre on Monday told the Rajya Sabha its latest data on farm suicides had omitted the causes because the matter had become “untenable” with many states and Union territories reporting “nil” agriculture-sector suicides. Junior home minister G. Kishan Reddy did not explain why the states’ “nil” figures had rendered the reasons rather than the suicide figures themselves untenable, nor did his written reply leave any scope for questioning. Congress member P.L. Punia had asked why the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) had done away with listing the causes for farmer suicides in its annual report on accidents and suicides. “As informed by NCRB, many states/ UTs had reported ‘nil’ data on suicides by farmers/ cultivators and agricultural labourers... even while reporting suicides in other professions,” Reddy said. “Due to this limitation, national data on causes of suicide in farming sector was untenable and not published separately.” The NCRB, which functions under the Union home ministry, had tracked farmer suicides and their reasons every year from 1995 to 2015 before the government withheld the data on farm suicides for three years. Civil rights activists had accused the Centre of deliberately suppressing farm suicide figures just the way it was hiding unemployment data, but the government said the states weren’t sending farm suicide data. This year, the NCRB has published farm suicide data for both 2018 and 2019 without mentioning or categorising the reasons. Its report counts 10,281 farm suicides (5,957 farmers and 4,324 agricultural labourers) last year, down from 10,357 the previous year. Till 2015, the NCRB would not just enumerate the reasons behind farm suicides but classify them under categories such as farm distress, crop failure, loans, family problems and illness. Under the head of “loans”, there were sub-categories on the source, such as banks, moneylenders and micro-finance institutions. The report also included data on the socio-economic status and land-holding of each victim. But the latest report does not even report the farm suicides separately — it has included them under the category “suicides by profession”. The only break-up it gives is in terms of male and female (5,563 male farmers and 394 women farmers, and 3,749 male and 575 women farm labourers, killed themselves in 2019). The states and Union territories that reported zero farm-sector suicides were Bengal, Bihar, Odisha, Uttarakhand, Manipur, Chandigarh, Daman and Diu, Delhi, Lakshadweep and Puducherry. Home ministry sources said it had repeatedly nudged these states to revalidate and send the data. Maharashtra accounted for 38.3 per cent of farm suicides last year, followed by Karnataka (19.4), Andhra Pradesh (10), Madhya Pradesh (5.3), Telangana and Chhattisgarh (4.9 each). Farm suicides accounted for 7.4 per cent of the total suicides in the country in 2019, the report says. Suicides among day labourers have risen from 30,132 last year to 32,559 in the year of Covid-19 and lockdown, the NCRB report shows. Among the victims were 29,092 men and 3,467 women.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-654
22-09-2020||India||Narendra Modi offers potato logic to farmers||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday claimed that “ground reports” suggested the fruits of the new farm laws had begun reaching the farmers, trying to placate the agitating cultivators who say the newly enacted legislation would lead to their exploitation by big business. Modi was speaking a day after his government had forced two farm bills through the Rajya Sabha via voice vote amid Opposition protests. Wooing the angry farmers while launching development projects for poll-bound Bihar, the Prime Minister said the benefits of the early-June ordinances that heralded the new laws were already visible on the ground. “Aise states jahan par aloo bahut hota hai, wahan se report hai, June-July ke dauran thok kharidaron ne kisano ko achchhi bhav de kar sidhe cold storage se hi aloo kharid liya (Reports from states that grow potatoes in abundance show that the big traders paid good prices to the farmers in June-July, buying their potatoes directly from the cold storage),” the Prime Minister said. He said the “pressure” created by this led to farmers receiving better prices in the mandis (wholesale markets) too. Modi said reports from Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan suggested that oil mills had bought mustard seeds directly from the farmers at prices 20 to 30 per cent higher than usual. He said farmers in Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Bengal had received 15 to 25 per cent more for their dal (lentils) as the “dal mills” had brought the produce directly from them. The Prime Minister’s outreach comes at a time intense farmer protests against the new bills have been reported from Punjab and Haryana, amid suggestions that the agitation could spread to other states. Modi has also been under pressure from allies, with the Akali Dal quitting the government in protest at the farm bills. The Akalis, who met President Ram Nath Kovind on Monday and requested him to withhold assent to the new laws, would decide in a week whether to remain in the NDA, party chief Sukhbir Singh Badal has said. Modi sought to address fears that the new legislation would lead to closure of the mandis and bring the farmers under the thumb of the big agri-market players. “This legislation has nothing to do with the mandis. They will continue to function,” the Prime Minister said, citing how his government had helped modernise the mandis by equipping them with computers. He argued the farmers would benefit from the new laws if they form associations and enter into agreements or contracts with the buyers. Modi said more than 85 per cent of India’s farmers had small landholdings. “Their input cost is high and they don’t get a good price. If they come together and form associations, they stand to benefit a lot,” he said. Citing an example, he said that if a young entrepreneur wanted to set up a chips factory, he could now directly approach the farmers, declare the quality and quantity of the potatoes he needed and enter into a contract with them. This, he argued, would benefit the farmers. Modi said the new laws were a necessity for 21st-century India, and that his government was freeing the farmers from their age-old shackles. He took an indirect dig at the Opposition, saying some people were instigating the farmers because they found their “control slipping away” following the enactment of the new laws. “These are the same people who kept sitting on the recommendations of the Swaminathan Committee on the MSP (minimum support price) for years,” the Prime Minister said. He claimed no other government had done as much to raise the MSP as his had. The Swaminathan report of 2006 had suggested a formula that would have raised the MSP. The Modi government claims to have implemented most of the report’s recommendations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-654
22-09-2020||India||Congress plans national agitation over farm bills||The Congress on Monday announced a nationwide agitation plan from Thursday against the undemocratic imposition of a regressive system on the farmers and vowed to turn it into a people’s movement unless the “black laws” were withdrawn. Describing the attitude of the Narendra Modi government as dictatorial, the Congress not only lent its “full support to the agitating farmers” but also worked out its own agitation programme despite the coronavirus-induced restrictions. The Congress leadership believes the issues of farmers and youths — two sections of the society that cut across caste and religious barriers — could play a decisive role in its revival strategy. The party has been highlighting the unemployment crisis to lure youths away from the BJP. While the party will create awareness on the farm bills by holding press conferences across the country over the next few days, every state unit has been directed to organise protest marches culminating in the submission of memoranda to governors. Party chief ministers, legislature party leaders, state chiefs, MPs, MLAs and senior leaders have been asked to participate in the march. While Mahatma Gandhi’s birth anniversary on October 2 will be observed as “Kisan-Mazdoor bachao diwas” along with sit-in protests at every district headquarters, state-level farmers’ conference will be organised across the country on October 10. This will be followed by a nationwide signature campaign in which Congress workers will spread out in villages to collect signatures from farmers who are opposed to these legislations. These signatures will be submitted to the President on November 14, the birth anniversary of Jawaharlal Nehru. Congress leaders have also been allowed to participate in protests by farmer unions. The All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Samiti (AIKSCC) on Monday announced a separate agitation programme along with social boycott of any party that supports these laws. At a press conference on Monday, the AIKSCC said the government was trying to mislead the farmers in its brazen attempt to help corporate houses and traders. The Congress worked out the agitation plan at a meeting of general secretaries and state in-charges on Monday afternoon. After the meeting, senior leader Ahmed Patel said: “Democracy is being strangled in and outside Parliament and the government is gradually imposing dictatorship on India. The government is bulldozing its way as if Opposition and views of the people do not matter in democracy. We will not allow this to happen.” K.C. Venugopal, general secretary in-charge of the organisation, said: “What is the problem if the Opposition demanded wider consultation and deeper examination of the issues when there are serious apprehensions in the minds of the farmers? It is unfortunate that the Prime Minister himself is misleading the nation. The Congress is totally with the farmers and this agitation will continue till these black laws are withdrawn.” Party’s communications chief Randeep Surjewala said: “The Prime Minister says the Opposition is misleading the farmers. Why can’t the commitment that no crop can be purchased below MSP (minimum support price) be written in the law? Let there be an in-built guarantee. But the government has to abolish the mandi system and procurement system and slowly scrap the public distribution system as well. Modi is not willing to listen to the farmers; he listens only to his financers.” Questioning the Prime Minister’s understanding of agriculture, Surjewala said: “Look at Modi’s latest tweet, he doesn’t know the difference between kharif and rabi crops. He doesn’t know paddy is kharif crop, not rabi. He doesn’t know arhar (pulse) is kharif crop, not rabi. How will he help the farmers? That’s why it is said little knowledge is a dangerous thing.” The Prime Minister’s official Twitter handle had posted: “This year, record procurement of wheat was done in the Rabi season despite Corona. This year, wheat, paddy, pulses and oilseeds worth Rs 1.13 lakh crore was purchased at MSP in the Rabi season.” Former finance minister P. Chidambaram tweeted: “The Prime Minister and other ministers have promised that MSP will be guaranteed to the farmer. Pray tell us HOW? How will the government know which farmer sold what produce to which trader? There will be millions of private transactions every day in thousands of villages all over India. “How will the Government guarantee MSP is paid in these transactions? Under which law is a private purchaser obliged to pay MSP to the farmer in a private transaction? The Modi Government should stop lying to the farmers and making false promises. The promise of guaranteeing MSP in private transactions is like the promise to deposit Rs 15 lakh in the bank account of every Indian.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-655
22-09-2020||India||Jamia Millia Islamia to conduct in-person exams ||At a time when Covid-19 infections are at its peak, Jamia Millia Islamia university has decided to hold annual examination for private students in pen and paper mode from Tuesday. The move is seen as a health risk for students and staff who will do the invigilation duty. University registrar A.P. Siddiqui has issued an order asking teaching and non-teaching staff to come for the examination duty. The duty includes checking admit card and taking attendance of each examinee, distribution of question papers in centres, collection of answer sheets and submission with the university authorities. Many teachers and non-teaching staff fear that this measure would “unnecessarily” expose them to Covid infections. Prof. Syed Afzal Murtaza Rizvi from the department of computer science has written to the registrar to defer the test for now. An email was sent to the registrar but no comments could be obtained.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-655
22-09-2020||India||SC mulls law on Shaheen Bagh protests||The Supreme Court on Monday said it would lay down a law with regard to citizens’ right to protest on roads as an expression of free speech vis-à-vis the rights of other citizens to seek protection from such inconvenience in the context of the Shaheen Bagh protests in Delhi against the Citizenship Amendment Act, 2019. The protests were withdrawn in April this year following the coronavirus-induced countrywide lockdown. The matter, which was last heard in February, came up briefly on Monday before a bench headed by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul during which solicitor-general Tushar Mehta suggested that the petition should be disposed of as infructuous since the protesters have already vacated the place. However, the two separate PIL petitioners opposed the suggestion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-655
22-09-2020||India||Seven-day lockdown begins in Gangtok||Residents of Sikkim capital Gangtok observed a complete lockdown on Monday at a time life started becoming normal in towns and cities of the country because of the relaxations announced by the Centre and different state governments. This is the first day of the seven-day lockdown that has been clamped in the Gangtok Municipal Corporation (GMC) area after there was a spike in Covid-19 cases. The contagion has infected three state ministers and two MLAs. The lockdown will be in force till September 27, said sources. “Only essential services like medical shops and grocery stores have been exempted from the lockdown. On Monday, it was total and we appreciate the cooperation extended by people in our effort to stop the spread of the disease,’ said a senior police officer. In Sikkim, the Covid mortality rate is 1.2 per cent, which is less than the national average of 1.6. Till Sunday, 29 out of the 2,391 Covid patients had died in the state. So far as the recovery rate of patients is concerned, it is 79.2 per cent, marginally less than the national average of 80.1 per cent. Two infants — a male baby and a female, who were tested Covid-19 positive when they were barely two days old —  have recovered fully. Born to two different corona-positive mothers at the New STNM Hospital, they had themselves tested positive two days after their birth. While the male baby was born on September 8, the female baby was born a day later. “Their mothers were tested Covid positive at the hospital and their babies too were subsequently tested positive. While the male child was discharged on September 16, the female child was discharged on Monday,” said Pempa T. Bhutia, the director general-cum-secretary of Sikkim health department. The P.S. Tamang government has decided to make arrangements for buses to ferry candidates to examination centres. Scores of examinees are due to appear for CBSE compartmental examinations for Classes X and XII, in term-end examinations of IGNOU and in NET at different centres in Gangtok. Bhim Thatal, the director of elementary education and samagra shiksha and spokesman for the state education department, said buses of the Sikkim Nationalised Transport would be available for examinees at three different entry points to the GMC area, including Ranipool, Ranka and Tashi View Point. “Students are required to reach these three points on their own. To avail themselves of the bus service, candidates have been advised to register with the education department with relevant documents,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-655
22-09-2020||India||Shelved book on Delhi riot sees ‘jihadis’, not victims||A group of activists has released a 51-page review of a leaked copy of the manuscript of a book, shelved by Bloomsbury last month, that blames the February riots in Delhi on the protests against the new citizenship matrix. According to the reviewers, the leaked manuscript of Delhi Riots 2020: The Untold Story mentions the expressions “urban Naxal”, “jihadi” and combinations of them a total 115 times while the word “victim” occurs just 16 times. The review wonders about a possible “conspiracy” between the authors and the police, highlighting how the riot chargesheets mirror the book’s theories. Bloomsbury had dropped the book after protests from authors and academics who accused the volume of portraying the riot victims as the perpetrators. The three authors complained to the Delhi police commissioner earlier this month that Bloomsbury had deliberately leaked a copy of the manuscript and that several people had used it to criticise the unpublished text, which the trio claimed was property stolen from them. The book — written by lawyer Monika Arora and academics Prerna Malhotra and Sonali Chitalkar — was released online on Sunday, with the same title, by local publisher Garuda Prakashan. American Hindutva commentator Rajiv Malhotra was chief guest at the event. The review has been published online by a group of NGOs that promote secularism: Karwan-e-Mohabbat led by former bureaucrat Harsh Mander, Act Now for Harmony and Democracy led by Shabnam Hashmi, and the Muslim Women’s Forum, steered by former Planning Commission member Syeda Hameed. “During a programme on NDTV telecast on 26 August 2020, one of the authors questioned the anchor’s authority asking if he had read the book, and said that reports critical of the book were coming from ‘fake portals’,” the review says. “We conclude that the authors wanted people to have an informed opinion based on their close reading of the book. What we found is contained in the pages that follow — passages from the book with false claims, factual inaccuracies, and distorted/ selective presentations. As reviewers, we have simply used the yardstick of evidence and fact and lack thereof. There are many statements in this book that amount to libel.” The review adds: “It is fair to say that in this book, all people who express liberal views and take public positions against the ruling BJP are urban-Naxal. All Muslims — men, women and children — are jihadi. The tale takes a broad sweep, invokes images of ISIS, Syria and Egypt, and quotes from purported Maoist pamphlets about guerrilla warfare. “In a 190-page book about the Delhi riots, the approximate number of times these words/phrases appear (not counting titles and references) is as follows: urban-Naxal — 45, jihadi — 42, urban-Naxal-jihadi (occurring in close combination) — 28; Syria — 13; ISIS — 24; PFI — 17; Left — 46; international (media/internationalising the issue): 16. “This is more times than the names of any of the victims of this tragedy. This is more times than the word ‘victim’ itself which appears only some 16 times.” “PFI” is the Popular Front of India, an extremist Muslim group. The book appears part of a “conspiracy” between the authors and the police, the review says. “The theories in this book have been replicated down to details in the chargesheets being filed by the Delhi police in the Delhi riots cases,” it says. “These criminal cases have already incarcerated scores of people who participated in the movement against the CAA…. Each chargesheet begins its narrative with the movement against the CAA, it then goes on to talk about conspiracy, pre-planning, networks, and so on, with no evidence whatsoever.” The review follows the same structure as the book, with six chapters, each with a list of falsehoods quoted and rebutted, sometimes with Internet links. According to the reviewers, the leaked version of the foreword that former Punjab director-general of police P.C. Dogra wrote for the Bloomsbury book, has quotes falsely attributed to India’s first Prime Minister, Jawaharlal Nehru, and Delhi University professor Nandini Sundar. Dogra was among 26 former DGPs who issued a statement on Friday saying former police officers, including former DGP and ambassador Julio Ribeiro, had “no right to suspect or question the integrity and professionalism of their successors in the Indian Police Service”. Ribeiro had twice written to Delhi police commissioner S.N. Srivastava, asking whether his officers “have been true to their oath” — an allusion to the allegations of bias in the riot probe — and that “Gandhians have lost favour with this regime!” In their statement, the 26 former DGPs attributed an incendiary slogan to jailed rights activist Umar Khalid without citing any source. The review concludes saying: “This purported ‘fact-finding’ amasses imagery and dog whistling to hint at a conspiracy and build image of the ‘global brutal killer Muslim’ without a shred of evidence.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-655
22-09-2020||India||Taj Mahal opened for public after 188 days||Agra's Taj Mahal was opened to tourists on Monday after 188 days of its CovidD-19-led closure. The Taj Mahal and Agra Fort were closed to tourists from March 17 amid the Covid-19 outbreak in the country. With a Delhi resident entering the 17th-century ivory-white marble monument on the southern bank of the Yamuna from its western gate and a Chinese woman from its eastern gate, the duo became the first visitors to the monument after its reopening. Chinese tourist described the Taj Mahal as a very beautiful building , while Delhi resident Shubham Singh too appeared exalted on becoming one of the first visitors to the monument after its reopening. Naees, a resident of Spain, too visiting the Taj mahal on the first day, said she was very eager to see the monument and her wish has been fulfilled. Earlier, sanitization work was done inside the Taj Mahal under the supervision of Superintending Archaeologist Basant Kumar Swarnakar. With the opening of Taj Mahal, there was an atmosphere of happiness among the people associated with the tourism business. Tourist guide Nitin Singh said tourists will soon start visiting the Taj Mahal as before and people associated with the tourism will benefit. The Taj Mahal, Agra Fort and other religious places opened in Agra on Monday, though emporiums have not yet been opened. Tourists coming to see the Taj will have to follow the anti-Covid precautions and guidelines issued by the administration and Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) because of the Covid-19 spread. According to the new guideline, a maximum of 5,000 tourists will enter the monument every day and maximum 2,500 tourists will enter the Agra Fort. Tourists have to book tickets online from the ASI website. Access is being given after scanning the QR code on the monuments. In this regard, officials of the Department of Archeology say that the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) is being followed at Taj Mahal and Agra Fort. Tourists will have to make all payments, including parking, digitally. It will be compulsory for tourists to follow physical distancing and wear masks. Tourists have to stay away from the walls and railings of the buildings. Tourists are allowed to enter the monuments only after their thermal screening and only those with no symptoms are being allowed to enter the premises.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-655
22-09-2020||India||Hindu Army members arrested for 'Krishna Janmabhoomi movement' call||Twenty-two members of the Hindu Army were arrested on Sunday night after the fringe group announced a “Krishna Janmabhoomi movement” — a longstanding Sangh parivar demand to remove the Shahi Idgah mosque adjacent to a Krishna temple in Mathura. The outfit had put up posters across Mathura town declaring the movement would start from 11am on Monday and urged supporters of all Hindutva groups to gather at the site. Such a movement would be expected to help the BJP in the 2022 Assembly elections. “A large number of Hindu Army members began assembling near the temple on Sunday evening without permission from the local administration,” Mathura superintendent of police Uday Shankar said. “They were trying to conduct objectionable activities. We arrested 22 of them under Section 151 of the Code of Criminal Procedure to prevent the commission of cognisable offences.” The VHP and the BJP had in the mid-1980s resolved to “reclaim” the purported birthplaces of Ram and Krishna in Ayodhya and Mathura, and the Kashi Vishwanath temple in Varanasi, by demolishing the Babri Masjid, Shahi Idgah and the Gyanvapi Mosque that shared the premises. After being put on the back burner during the Ram temple campaign, the Mathura and Kashi demands have gained momentum since the Supreme Court handed the disputed Ayodhya land to Hindus last November. While the BJP’s top leadership has taken care to play down the possibility of temple movements in Mathura and Varanasi, the party’s motormouths have aggressively endorsed both issues. The Hindu Army, a decade-old organisation, has been known to canvass votes for the BJP. Parivar outfits tend to raise the Mathura issue before almost every election. “We had sought permission to launch the Krishna Janmabhoomi movement but the Mathura administration ignored the demand,” Hindu Army chief Manish Yadav, who has been arrested, told reporters at a police station in Mathura, 400km west of Lucknow. “We want the Islamic structures removed from Krishna’s birthplace and the site handed over to us.” Cases seeking the removal of the Gyanvapi Mosque and the Shahi Idgah are pending with the lower courts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-655
22-09-2020||India||Cop ‘assault’ on J&K reporter||A Srinagar journalist was summoned by Kashmir’s cyber police chief and allegedly beaten and abused at a police station for writing a news report accusing the cops of silencing social media users critical of the government. Auqib Javeed, the journalist, spoke out on Monday after initially deciding to stay silent as Saturday’s experience had left him “traumatised, anxious and nervous”. “I was awake most of that night, haunted by the physical assault and their abuse,” he wrote in Article-14, the same news portal that had published the report that had angered the police. “But later, I realised my silence would set a precedent and embolden the police to treat other journalists similarly. So I write this, for myself and for my colleagues who often work on the razor’s edge -- that is journalism in Kashmir.” Javeed has since tweeted that he fears for his life. “If anything happens to me they (the police) will be responsible,” he said. The cyber police, who play a key role in counter-insurgency operations, said the journalist’s “allegation of excesses” was “factually incorrect”. The unit has summoned several journalists in recent months in connection with their professional work, and the police have booked two journalists under the anti-terror law UAPA. Javeed’s ordeal came a day after the cyber police chief, SP Tahir Ashraf, had publicly warned him of “legal action” for writing a “fake and misleading story” that was “jeopardising the good work done by Cyber Police Station Kashmir”. However, talking to The Telegraph on Monday, the only specific factual mistake in the report Ashraf could identify was a detail about the exact location of the cyber police station. Javeed’s report, published last week, had claimed the cyber police had dubbed 300 social media accounts the “cyber-bullying group”. Its headline read: “The real cyber bully: Police in Kashmir question Twitter users”. The report had claimed that social media users were being “questioned, hectored by police and left off only after promising not to issue posts against the government and its policies”. Javeed said that after being summoned, he had travelled 60km from his home in Bandipora to Srinagar on Saturday, accompanied by two journalists from the Kashmir Press Club, to meet Ashraf. He said the trio were frisked and their phones taken away. A policeman asked Javeed to accompany him while his two colleagues waited in another room. “(Thereafter) a masked policeman slapped me hard on my left cheek. He did sound like a local. ‘Kis liye aaya hai tu (Why have you come)?’ he demanded,” Javeed wrote. “Once I recovered from the shock of the slap, I said, ‘SP saab has called me.’ He slapped me hard again and left.” Javeed was taken to Ashraf’s room, where the officer reportedly asked him how he had dared write that the cyber police were “bullying people?” “He started abusing my mother and sister and kept up the shouting,” Javeed wrote. He said Ashraf told him: “Ab mai tujhe dikhavu ga saalay (I shall now teach you a lesson).” Javeed said that from the police station, he called his editor Samar Harlankar who reluctantly agreed to change the headline, given his ordeal. But, Javeed said, he and Article-14 refused to accept Ashraf’s claim that the report was “fake and baseless” and there should be a retraction. Ashraf told this newspaper he had objected to the headline as well as the report’s claim that the cyber police were operating from the “notorious” Cargo Centre, headquarters of the counter-insurgency Special Operations Group. “This story, accompanied by a picture of that building and mentioning that a cyber police station has been established inside the notorious detention centre, was fake and misleading,” Ashraf said. The cyber police unit is located near the Cargo Centre. Before being upgraded into a full-fledged cyber police station last October, it had operated out of the Cargo Centre for years. In a statement, the cyber police said Javeed had regretted the “incorrect details and assured that the story will be tweaked accordingly”. “The allegation of excesses by police officials/ officer, published subsequently by Article-14 and other social media handle are misleading and factually incorrect, hence refuted,” it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-655
22-09-2020||India||Haze over Social Security Code Bill||A bill introduced last week that proposes social security measures for unorganised workers including pension, life and disability cover, and health and maternity benefits has left the issue of funding hazy, labour economists have said. They have argued that one of the four funding options the Social Security Code Bill suggests — a multiplicity that they believe reflects government indecision — is particularly problematic because it seeks contributions from the beneficiary. A two-year-old contributory pension scheme for unorganised workers already exists, the economists say, and has witnessed abysmal enrolment and significant payment defaults because informal workers find it difficult to pay premium regularly. The Social Security Code Bill is one of three draft labour reform laws that were introduced in the Lok Sabha on Saturday after incorporating some of the modifications suggested by a standing committee. It seeks to subsume nine existing laws including the Employees’ Provident Funds Act and the Payment of Gratuity Act. It mandates the Centre to formulate and notify welfare schemes for unorganised workers and says the states can adopt similar measures too. The bill stipulates the creation of a social security fund, the money coming (a) wholly from the Centre; (b) from the Centre and the states; (c) from the Centre, states and contributions from the beneficiaries or the employers; or (d) from any source including the Corporate Social Responsibility funds paid by companies. Shyam Sundar, professor of Human Resource Management at XLRI, Xavier School of Management, Jamshedpur, said the bill’s assurances about social security were unconvincing because there’s “no clarity on funding”. “The bill is disappointing as the government is unable to provide a roadmap on social security,” Sundar said. Referring to the option of seeking contributions from the workers, he highlighted the problems with the Pradhan Mantri Shram Yogi Maan-dhan, a contributory pension scheme the Centre had launched in 2018 for unorganised workers. The scheme allowed unorganised workers aged 18 to 40 to become members by paying monthly contributions between Rs 55 and Rs 200, depending on the age at which they were signing up. After turning 60, each beneficiary would be paid a monthly pension of Rs 3,000. On Monday, labour minister Santosh Gangwar revealed, in reply to a written question in the Rajya Sabha, that the scheme had enrolled 44.44 lakh members. Labour economist and former JNU professor Santosh Mehrotra said this was just over one per cent of India’s unorganised workers, who formed 93 per cent of the country’s workforce of 466 million. Mehrotra added that India was becoming an ageing nation and the government needed to ensure universal social security coverage. Sundar said the Shram Yogi scheme was failing to attract members because of its long gestation period and because unorganised workers feel unsure about paying regular contributions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-655
22-09-2020||India||Congress peeved at RJD over seat sharing||The Rashtriya Janata Dal is willing to spare maximum 63 seats for its Grand Alliance partner Congress. It is also trying to dump the seats it has never won on the Grand Old Party. The Congress is peeved over the RJD move and these issues will be among the major bones of contention as the two parties sit across the table for the first time in Delhi on Monday evening and Tuesday to negotiate seat-sharing for the forthcoming Bihar Assembly elections. Senior leaders from both the parties will participate in the negotiations. While RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav is expected to attend it, Rajya Sabha member Ahmad Patel will lead the Congress team. “The talks are in the final phase but the RJD is willing to spare just 63 seats for us. It is also trying to dump weak seats on our party. These are seats that it has either never won, or has failed to retain in the last few elections. We are a national party and this is unacceptable to us,” a senior Congress leader told The Telegraph on the condition of anonymity. These ‘weak’ seats include four seats in the state capital, Mokama, Danapur, Bagaha, Chanpatia, Belsand, Hayaghat, Kalyanpur, Muzaffarpur town, Sheohar, Gaya town, Purnea town, a couple of seats in Nalanda district and elsewhere. The BJP has successively won many of these seats. Of the total 243 seats in the Bihar Legislative Assembly, the Congress contested 41 in the 2015 state polls and won 27 as part of the then Grand Alliance with RJD and chief minister Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal United (JDU), which fought on 101 seats each and emerged victorious on 80 and 71 seats, respectively. The alliance went on to form the government. This time the JDU is not a part of the Grand Alliance, leaving 101 seats to be redistributed. But then, several other parties like the Rashtriya Lok Samta Party, Vikassheel Insan Party, Jharkhand Mukti Morcha, Nationalist Congress Party, CPI, CPM and CPI-ML, want to contest under the alliance umbrella. Asked about the scenario Congress spokesperson and former MLA Harkhu Jha said: “There is progress in the seat-sharing negotiations. Some delay is happening, but that is due to the presence of many smaller parties and the attempts to adjust the seats among them. However, the deal will be announced soon.” Sources in the Congress said that the party has conducted internal assessment and prepared a list of 112 Assembly seats that it wants to contest. They also said that the party does not want less than 80 seats. The negotiations will be done on this basis. State Congress legislature party leader and Kahalgaon MLA Sadanand Singh asserted, “The high command will honour the sentiments of party workers and leaders who want to contest on more seats. This will boost the enthusiasm among our rank and file. I believe it will also focus on the need to make our party stronger in future.” Meanwhile, the RJD evaded questions on the basis on which seat sharing would happen, and whether the talks have hit a hurdle due to disagreement over the number of seats. “Seats are not important in the Grand Alliance. The focus is on how to win the elections and dislodge the NDA government in the state. There is no disagreement on seats. Winnability will be the foremost criteria for the distribution of Assembly constituencies,” RJD spokesperson Mritunjay Tiwary told The Telegraph. The seat sharing deal in the Grand Alliance is expected to be announced later this month.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-655
22-09-2020||West Bengal||Rain racks Mirik in Darjeeling district||A number of localities at Mirik in Darjeeling district were waterlogged and minor landslides occurred after a sudden bout of heavy rain on Monday. A road that connects the town from Alley Ground — a prominent area in Mirik —remained closed for hours as landslides occurred along the route. “Around 8am today (Monday), it started raining in Mirik and the surrounding areas. Areas like Mahendragaon, Sorasaley and Krishnanagar of the town were mostly affected. At least five houses in wards 8 and 9 were damaged. We visited the affected areas and assured residents of all help,” said L.B. Rai, the chairman of Mirik municipality. “A landslide had occurred on the Alley Road. As a result, traffic came to a halt for around four hours along the road. Later in the day, the debris was cleared,” he added. The picture shows a submerged road in the town. The waterlogging have made the residents flag issues like poor drainage system in some areas of the town like Krishnanagar that is adjacent to the famous Mirik Lake. Along with Rai, Mirik subdivisional officer Ashwini Roy also inspected the affected spots. “Waterlogging was reported in Krishnanagar because the drains get clogged. Later, we could drain out the water. A report on the damage will be sent to the state government,” said an official. Mirik is around 50km from Siliguri. Outside the Mirik town, waterlogging was reported from Bunkulung and Soureni. “The India Meteorological Department has issued an alert of heavy rain across north Bengal in the next two-three days. There are chances of landslides in the hills. We are on alert and officials posted in various blocks have been asked to be prepared,” said an official of the Kalimpong district administration.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-366
22-09-2020||West Bengal||Bengal government seeks data on projects||The Bengal government has asked all district magistrates to furnish data on projects implemented since 2011 under 56 specific heads by September 29, the directive makes it clear that the ruling dispensation is spinning a narrative around development as part of its preparations for next year’s Assembly polls. “Before every district review meeting, the chief minister’s office normally seeks progress reports on various projects. But the way it has sought this time is different,” said a senior government official. All district magistrates have been asked to furnish reports under 56 heads, including setting of new schools, hostels, cold storages, rural roads, hospitals, bridges, fire stations since 2011. “A clear format has been sent to us. We have to fill in the chart and send it back to the CMO. It seems that the facts would be used for a detailed publication,” said a district magistrate. Earlier, the CMO had asked the DMs to prepare a booklet for each of the 294 Assembly segments with details on how the Trinamul dispensation brought a change in the lives of common people since 2011. “Now, with the progress reports on 56 development areas, it is clear the ruling establishment is set to widen its campaign based on development to reach out to common people. It is also clear that the chief minister is set to counter the BJP’s hatred campaign with her development issues,” said a minister. Sources in the state government said the CMO had asked the DMs to furnish progress reports on 56 development areas only to ensure that all the projects started in the past few years could be completed before the elections. “The chief minister is getting ready for the polls. As soon as the Covid-19 situation comes under control, she would start visiting the districts armed with the achievements of her government,” said a source. Trinamul insiders have said the large scale drive to conduct the campaign on the government’s success in carrying out the development projects is the brainchild of team Prashant Kishore — the poll strategist hired by the ruling party.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-366
22-09-2020||West Bengal||Tea bonus in parts dampens cheer||The Darjeeling Tea Association (DTA) on Sunday agreed to pay annual bonus to tea garden workers in two instalments of 15 and 5 per cent, but the announcement failed to bring much cheer in the hills as  most trade unions — barring the Binay Tamang camp of Gorkha Janmukti Morcha — protested against the phased payment. Even the Trinamul Congress union, an ally of the Morcha, protested against the instalment agreement that the Binay camp had cleared. The tea gardens from the plains of Darjeeling, Jalpaiguri and Alipurduar districts agreed to pay bonus at the rate of 20 per cent of the workers’ annual earnings at one go. Sandeep Mukherjee, principal advisor, Darjeeling Tea Association (DTA), said: “It has been agreed that 15 per cent of the bonus will be paid by October 10 and the remaining 5 per cent before Diwali.” Sixty-six gardens from the hills are with the DTA while 12 gardens are members of the Indian Tea Association. Though there are technically 87 tea gardens under Darjeeling Tea Industry as per lease documents, many have been merged for management reasons into 78 gardens. Last year, too, hill gardens had agreed to pay bonus in two instalments of 12 and 8 per cent, respectively. While the first bonus was to be paid during Puja time, the second was to be paid by December 31. Unions admitted that some gardens did not honour the December 31 agreement. N.B. Khawash, general secretary, Chaibagan Trinamul Congress Mazdoor Union said: “We are against the instalment mode of payment as we have a bitter experience regarding second instalments. Longview tea garden has not yet paid last year’s second instalment while Rohini (another tea garden) paid just day before yesterday (Saturday).” During this year’s negotiations, three distinct groups emerged in the hills. Apart from Binay Tamang’s Darjeeling Terai Dooars Plantation Labour Union (DTDPLU), the other group was Joint Forum, comprising 20-odd unions, and Trinamul’s Chaibagan union. Suraj Pathak, CPM leader and member of Joint Forum, said: “We smell a nexus between the union (Binay camp) and management. The management is trying to deal with only one union which is extremely bad for the industry.” Pathak said Opposition parties had registered their protest on the instalment mode of payment and hence were not party to this clause of the agreement. The Binay Tamang camp dismissed the allegations. Bharat Thakuri, general secretary, DTDPLU (Binay camp) said all unions were in unison with the 20 per cent bonus rate demand — the highest rate permissible. “The job of other unions is to make allegations and we have nothing to say,” said Thakuri. He added the management had refused to hike beyond 18.5 per cent, and then proposed two instalments of 10 per cent each, one before Puja and another by December 31, “which we (the DTDPLU) refused”. The Morcha leader said that with the management insisting on instalments, they proposed a 18 per cent and 2 per cent break-up that the management refused. “We settled at 15 and 5 per cent as other unions were not taking initiative. The payment (of the two parts) will be made within a difference of 15 days,” said Thakuri.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-366
22-09-2020||West Bengal||Talent line-up spurs cricket stadium plea in Siliguri||Back-to-back successes of budding cricketers from Siliguri has made sports lovers, especially cricket lovers, raise the demand for a cricket stadium in the city. Siliguri — famed for Wriddhiman Saha and Richa Ghosh, both regulars in Team India now — has been consistently coming up with new talents in cricket and some of them are making it to different state teams these days. Representatives of the Siliguri Cricket Lovers’ Welfare Organisation on Monday submitted a memo addressed to chief minister Mamata Banerjee through state tourism minister Gautam Deb, demanding a cricket ground in the city. “In our memorandum, we have said around 15 acres owned by the Siliguri Jalpaiguri Development Authority is lying vacant at Kawakhali (on the southwest end of Siliguri). The cricket ground can come up on the site,” said Manoj Verma, association president. Mohammad Shahbaz Anwar, who scored 1,130 runs in nine matches in the last Col CK Nayudu Trophy, including five centuries and six half-centuries, was recently selected by the Sikkim Cricket Association for its Ranji team. Mithilesh Das, another promising cricketer, got a call for a conditioning camp where players would be selected for the Bengal team for Ranji Trophy matches. Among girls, Richa apart, Priyanka Kurmi made it to the senior Bengal team, Nikita Sha and Puja Adhikary have been roped in for the state Under-19 team recently. Wriddhiman’s coach in his home town, Jayanta Bhowmik, who’s also the cricket secretary of Siliguri Mahakuma Krira Parishad (SMKP), the sub-divisional sports body of Siliguri, said the coaching fraternity was not surprised at the boys doing well. The real achievement, he said, was that the girls were performing so well. He said a cricket ground was sorely needed in the city to hone such promising talents. Another cricket coach of the city pointed that success of cricketers clearly suggests that there is no dearth of budding cricketers in the city.  “But we need some proper infrastructure, at least an exclusive cricket ground for nurturing these talents,” he said. Many people in Siliguri have raised the demand for an cricket stadium of international standards in the city. A few months back, the Siliguri Jalpaiguri Development Authority (SJDA) marked the area in Kawakhali on the southwest end of Siliguri to develop a cricket ground. “The plot has been earmarked for a proposed cricket ground that later can be developed into a full-fledged cricket stadium. Such an exclusive ground is necessary for cricketers here. Every year, we face problems to host cricket league matches as there is no such ground. We intend to finalise the proposal to develop the ground at the upcoming board meeting of the SJDA. We will also speak with the state sports department on the project,” said Nantu Paul, vice-chairman of the SJDA.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-366
22-09-2020||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee spots ‘naked king’ and Hitler clone||Mamata Banerjee on Monday called Narendra Modi “the naked king”, his government “fascist” and accused the BJP of killing democracy as she joined chorus of protest against the farm bills passed on “black Sunday” and the suspension of eight Rajya Sabha members, including two from the Trinamul Congress. Hours after the Prime Minister had himself issued a statement, defending the Centre’s farm legislations, the Trinamul Congress chief alleged Modi was running the nation in a “Hitleresque fashion”, pushing it to a famine, while promising to take the fight on the floor of the Parliament to the streets. “Robbing everyone in broad daylight…. Disempowering everybody else. Only one will rule from a room? Why do we keep warning ourselves about Hitler? The country is being run in a Hitleresque fashion. Total fascism being used to run it…. History will remember yesterday as a black Sunday,” said Mamata in a news conference in the evening. “Misleading the people totally. O naked king, where are your clothes (reference to Hans Christian Andersen’s 19th century literary folktale The Emperor’s New Clothes)? If now the people ask that, what will the BJP say in response?” asked the Bengal chief minister. Aware of the importance of issues such as farmers’ rights, Mamata announced not only her own party’s movements but also urged all nonBJP forces to come forward for the farmers and the common man. On Monday morning, soon after the Rajya Sabha suspended the eight MPs, including Trinamul’s Derek O’Brien and Dola Sen, for the remainder part of the monsoon session over their “unruly behaviour” during the passage of the farm bills, Mamata took to Twitter. “Suspension of the 8 MPs who fought to protect farmers interests is unfortunate & reflective of this autocratic Govt’s mindset that doesn’t respect democratic norms & principles. We won’t bow down & we’ll fight this fascist Govt in Parliament & on the streets. #BJPKilledDemocracy,” she posted. With her party and poll strategist Prashant Kishor’s IPac picking it up the hashtag “#BJPKilledDemocracy” began trending nationally on Twitter, with tens of thousands of tweets in a matter of hours. Having generated noise on social media, Mamata went to the mainstream media in the evening. “The Centre is enabling the rise of middlemen, who will rob the farmers in broad daylight…. Deliberately pushing the nation into a famine. The pandemic, Corona is on, which they couldn’t prevent… now they are creating a famine and telling farmers mawro na (go die). This is reminiscent of the Bengal Famine of 1943 under the British Raj,” she said at a news conference. “Only because they have majority there?. Every party has majority in the places it rules. There have been many governments with a total majority since Independence Nobody has the right to sell the country, murder democracy and bulldoze the federal structure on a whim because they have majority,” she added. Mamata said what had happened on Sunday was, at best, “utterly condemnable”. “Working for the people, we do not care about a censure motion from the BJP. We think Trinamul Congress and other Opposition parties, what they did together, did absolutely the right thing. We are proud of them. Whom the BJP censures does not matter, because the people across the country are censuring the BJP,” she said. For the first time since her anticitizenship matrix movement — discontinued because of the pandemic — Mamata gave a call for a panIndia joining of forces against the BJP. “We think now is the time for every (non-BJP) party across the nation to build movements…. I am all for this panIndia alliance with the people. For that, if Trinamul has to take the backseat, I am readily willing. The people should occupy the front rows of this. Let the parties back them from behind. This BJP government must go,” she said. “These are dangerous times for the whole nation. Lies are presented as truths and truths as lies, through the abuse of social and mainstream media by the BJP, for years now. Anybody raises a voice for the truth, they will raise questions on their patriotism. Do not teach us patriotism, Bengal is the birthplace of the very sentiment,” she added. Mamata accused the Modi government of trying to further make the labour codes unfavourable for employees. “Economy destroyed, they failed on all fronts…. They cannot even catch an earthworm, but have the audacity to chase pythons,” she said. State Youth Congress chief Shadab Khan led a protest against the farm bills outside the Raj Bhavan in Calcutta on Monday afternoon. After a demonstration and “gherao” of the Raj Bhavan, Khan and some other participants in the programme were detained by the police from the site and released later. Similar programmes were carried out in all district headquarters across the state by the youth wing of the Congress.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-366
22-09-2020||West Bengal||Longview tea estate to reopen tomorrow||Work is set to resume from Wednesday at the Longview tea estate, some 20km from here under the Kurseong subdivision of Darjeeling district, ending a month-long impasse over dues. On Monday, a tripartite meeting was organised by state labour department in Siliguri to facilitate its reopening. “Representatives from the management side and from tea trade unions were present (besides officials from the labour department)...it was decided that the garden would reopen on September 23,” said Md Rizwan, additional labour commissioner of Siliguri. “The management agreed to clear the arrears, including the bonus of last year, by October 7. In total, it would be around Rs 80 lakh...an agreement has been signed among the parties present at the meeting,” added Rizwan. Since August 21, the 500-hectare garden was closed as the management had announced suspension of work alleging lawlessness, around 10 days after workers launched a sit-in demonstration, demanding payment of their dues. The announcement of suspension of work at the garden had left as many as 1,200-odd workers jobless. After Longview had closed down, a number of political leaders, including Anit Thapa, chairman of the BoA of Gorkhaland Territorial Administration, visited the garden and assured all help to workers. “The workers are happy as ahead of the upcoming festivities (Durga Puja), the management has decided to reopen the garden. We hope the management will honour the agreement and clear the workers’ dues,” said Pranam Rasaily, president of the Kurseong branch committee of Darjeeling Terai Dooars Plantation Workers Union, the trade union front of the Morcha. Sources in the state labour department said 16 other tea gardens are closed in the region now. “The state is taking all necessary initiatives to reopen these gardens, some of which are closed for many years now,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-366
22-09-2020||West Bengal||Siliguri parents protest ‘extra school fees’  ||Guardians of students of some private schools in and around Siliguri demonstrated in front of the office of the district inspector (DI) of schools here on Monday, alleging that some institutions were asking for fees other than that for tuition. Parents demanded that the Bengal state education department take steps to stop this practice  when classes are being held online in the wake of the pandemic. “We are ready to pay tuition fees as schools are hosting online classes and online exams. But some schools are creating pressure on guardians and demanding session fees and a portion of bus fees. Some guardians have been told that if they do not pay these fees, their wards would be expelled from school,” said a demonstrator. Sandipan Bhattacharya, the president of Guardians Forum of North Bengal (GNFB), the largest forum of guardians of students who study in private schools of the region, said the problem of fees continues to persist. According to him, according to a notice issued by the principal secretary of state education department, the district magistrate of Darjeeling ordered the DI of schools to arrange a meeting with guardians and school authorities. “The district magistrate had issued the order in August and it is almost a month now but no action has been taken by the DI. We have submitted three memorandums to the DI and want a meeting immediately so that the issue of paying fees is resolved,” he said. After a demonstration of over 90 minutes, the delegation met DI Rajib Pramanik and spoke to him. The delegation of guardians also met S. Poonambalam, the district magistrate of Darjeeling, who was in Siliguri on Monday. “The district magistrate told us he would form a team to look into the issue. He asked for details of such schools creating pressure on guardians,” Bhattacharya added. Pramanik, the DI, said he would try to arrange a meeting of the guardians and private schools soon. “I have listened to their demands. We will see to it that the meeting is held at the earliest,” Pramanik said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-366
22-09-2020||West Bengal||Patient death spurs no-test uproar in East Midnapore||The death of an 80-year-old woman at East Midnapore's Tamluk district hospital last Friday and allegations by her family that hospital authorities “refused” her a rapid antigen test despite her failing health has brought the focus on the delay in using the RT-PCR machine to test Covid-19 swab samples. Sources said the hospital had installed the confirmatory RT-PCR (Real Time Polymerase Chain Reaction) test machine in July at a cost of Rs 1 crore and in August hired eight laboratory technicians to conduct Covid tests. Asked about the delay in conducting RT-PCR tests at the hospital, district chief medical officer (health) Nitai Mondal said: “We are ready with our infrastructure and AIIMS, Bhubaneswar, has approved RT-PCR tests at the hospital but the ICMR (Indian Council of Medical Research) is yet to give us the login ID and password without which we can’t access the council’s central server.” As part of the ICMR’s project to set up a National Clinical Registry of COVID-19, hospitals conducting RT-PCR tests need to be linked to the council’s server. The results are used to improve treatment procedures and analyse the pandemic trend. At present, the Tamluk hospital typically sends its RT-PCR swabs to Calcutta's RG Kar hospital from where it takes three to four days to process the test and send the report. But as it waits for RT-PCR tests to start, it is facing charges of refusing rapid antigen tests to all symptomatic patients in the wake of last month’s incident where the RT-PCR result of a patient (which was positive) contradicted the antigen test two days after his death. The 80-year-old woman's death has caused a fresh uproar against the hospital, whose superintendent Gopal Das has been under public scrutiny for alleged dereliction of duty in managing Covid. Hospital officials admit they “cannot afford more image problems”. Sources said there had been over 100 deaths at the hospital’s isolation ward since March. The aged woman had been rushed to the hospital on Thursday morning and was reportedly left in the isolation ward for nearly three hours without emergency treatment before she died on Friday night. “We repeatedly pleaded with authorities to grant her a rapid test so she could be admitted to the emergency ward. She was clearly showing signs of acute symptoms,” said the bereaved son. On Saturday, members of the deceased woman’s family accompanied others to protest at the hospital’s main building. Hospital superintendent Gopal Das declined comment, but members of the patient’s family said he had “blatantly refused” to help them on Friday night and “clearly stated that the hospital’s interests were above the patient’s”. Mondal said that officials at Tamluk “appeared to have violated” a directive that stated emergency patients were to be tested within two hours. “We will conduct an inquiry,” he said. Nilkanta Nayak, district president of the West Bengal Health Workers' Association, said that officials at Tamluk were “repeating their errors” and “should be brought in line”. Sources said the situation was different at other district superspecialty hospitals in Nandigram, Egra and Panskura, all of which are equipped with rapid testing facilities open to all admitted patients, as well as TrueNat machines, small battery-operated gadgets that scan swab samples collected from the throat and nose.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-366
22-09-2020||West Bengal||Rs 114 crore for safer power distribution in Bengal||West Bengal Electricity Distribution Company Limited (WBSEDCL) will spend around Rs 114 crore to introduce a safer power distribution system across Jalpaiguri district and two adjoining areas — Gorubathan block of Kalimpong and Mekhliganj subdivision of Cooch Behar. “We will introduce insulated cables that are safe for providing power in households and commercial areas. They would reduce accidents from electrocution. The new system, technically known as high-voltage distribution system (HVDS) also helps maintain steady voltage during power supply. In all, the project would cover around 5.5 lakh consumers,” said Bishnu Dutta, regional manager of WBSEDCL in Jalpaiguri. The project, he said, would be implemented with financial assistance from World Bank. On Monday, the project was approved and formally announced during videoconferencing held with officials of the state power department. Once new cables replace the existing distribution wires, power supply would not snap during storms when uprooted trees fall, he added. “We will use existing electric poles to lay cables. Also, 1,000-odd transformers would be installed under this project and two power substations will come up in Berubari (of Jalpaiguri Sadar block) and Matialli block,” Dutta said. Abhishek Kumar Tiwary, district magistrate of Jalpaiguri present at the video conference, said consumers under the project should cooperate with the power company. “Once the project is complete, it will improve electricity distribution across the district and in parts of two neighbouring districts. People should cooperate with WBSEDCL as it needs to take up an elaborate task (laying the cables),” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-367
22-09-2020||West Bengal||Bengal terror suspects got bomb making lessons: NIA||Some of the youths arrested from Murshidabad for their alleged connection with the banned terror outfit al Qaida were learning how to prepare Improvised Explosive Devices (IEDs) by taking lessons from their handlers, National Investigation Agency sleuths have claimed. The purported bomb-making lessons would be imparted through the Internet by “handlers” who had been in touch with the youths for the past four months. The six terror suspects are migrant workers who came in contact with the alleged handlers when they went outside Bengal. Sources in the NIA said some of the arrested youths had started taking training on handling arms and “even preparing complex circuits for IEDs”. In the early hours of Saturday a team of NIA officers had arrested six youths from different parts of Murshidabad apparently after tracking them for several months. Three of their acquaintances were also rounded up in Ernakulam, Kerala, by a separate NIA team on the same day. The information gathered by the investigators, a source said, indicates that the youths had been operating in a planned manner under the guidance of their handlers. “Take the case of Abu Sufiyan, who was a tailor... He has been handling explosives materials for some time inside an underground room of his house in Raninagar. We have found a six volt battery, metallic plates and some sockets for bombs, apart from mobile phones, in the underground room,” said an NIA source. “What would a tailor do with sockets and explosive materials?” None of Abu’s neighbours at Kalinagar in Raninagar had any clue of the underground room that would remain covered with a thick metallic plate on the floor of his small house till his arrest. Sources in the central agency said the arrested men were members of Ghaza-e-Hind that had its roots in Kashmir and links with al Qaida. The arrested — including the three held in Ernakulam who trace their roots to Murshidabad — were part of a sleeper cell of the outfit which, according to the NIA, has been trying to spread its network in bordering districts of Bengal. Many terror outfits operate through sleeper cells  and arrange for fake identity cards before sending some of the members to specific destinations where they would usually take up odd jobs of labourers. “Seikha Rahamatulla alias Sajid, the mastermind of the Khagragah blast in 2014, had several fake voter ID cards and driving licences while living at Mukimnagar in Lalgola of Murshidabad,” said a senior officer of Bengal police. “No one would have had any clue if the bombs didn’t explode accidentally in Burdwan.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-367
22-09-2020||West Bengal||Covid: 3,165 cases and 62 deaths in Bengal||Bengal on Monday logged 3,165 Covid-19 cases, 62 deaths and 3,011 recoveries as the total number of patients went past 2.28 lakh, of whom nearly 1.99 lakh recovered and 4,421 succumbed to the disease. With a rise by 92, to 24,898 now, Bengal reported a rise in the total count of active Covid-19 cases for the 14th consecutive day, which has come after a 15-day streak of fall in that total. “It has been somewhat of a seesaw in the total of active cases. We are trying to get back to that position, where we have more recoveries than new cases daily. Our estimates suggest we are likely to achieve that by the end of this month,” said a Bengal minister. The recovery rate rose further to 87.16, while the national rate is 80.33. Of the total 4,421 deaths reported, Calcutta alone accounted for 1,600, with 19 reported on Monday. The state reported 3,782 deaths (85.5 per cent) as those with comorbidity “present”. “There has been a slight spike, over the past month, in mortality rates of the lower age groups of 0-16 and 16-30, besides that of 61-75, the biggest contributor (in absolute numbers) to the Covid-19 toll. On the other hand, the mortality rates of the 46-60 and the 75-plus groups have dipped over that same period,” said the minister. Bengal’s overall mortality rate remained at 1.93, still substantially behind the national rate of 1.59 per cent. “The 61-75 age group is our main focus now, for reducing mortality. Over 3,000 (80 per cent) of the comorbid deaths have been reported from that bracket. Lowering the fatality count there will improve the overall mortality rate of the state,” said the minister. With nearly 9.5 lakh tests being already conducted in September, the total test count went past 28 lakh on Monday, at 31,487 tests per million people. “Having begun testing in early February, we managed a total of 14.87 lakh tests till a month ago. In a month, we have nearly doubled that, at 28.34 lakh,” said the minister. Steady rise in the tests, coupled with no major increase in the number of new cases, has improved the positive confirmation rate from 8.9 on August 23 to 8.06 per cent. The state reported 33.14 per cent occupancy on 12,675 beds earmarked for Covid-19 at 92 dedicated hospitals. Over 2.38 lakh telemedicine consultations for the pandemic were provided, including 4,038 in the past 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-367
22-09-2020||North East||Plea to Modi on Arunachal highway project||A senior BJP leader from Arunachal Pradesh has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi drawing his attention to a proposed national highway project cleared “in principle” in 2017 but allegedly awaiting formal clearance from the Prime Minister’s Office even after the final feasibility report was cleared in 2018. The proposed highway from Meb-Geko to Itanagar via Gerukamukh/Gogamukh in Assam, would not only cut distance between three remote districts of Upper Subansiri, Siang and Kamle and state capital Itanagar by around 145km and 185km on two existing roads but also give a boost to the local economy and the speedy movement of troops, heavy artillery and logistic support systems in the event of any national emergency, Larbin Nasi, former MLA and executive member of the state BJP, told The Telegraph. The existing road from Daporijo, one of the remotest district headquarters, of Upper Subansiri, strategically located near the India-China border, to Itanagar via Ziro has a distance of 335km and the alternative route via Basar/Likabali is 375km. Both the roads have been in a deplorable condition ever since they were taken over by the ministry of road transport and highways from the Border Roads Organisation since 2009, Nasi said in his letter to Modi. The former MLA has also highlighted the importance of the proposed highway by stressing that Ashsapila, Maja and Sera-7 border posts under the control of Indian Army are reportedly under serious threat now. The Chinese have reportedly built up massive infrastructure and road connectivity near these posts — Sera-1 to Sera-9 — whereas there is no road on the Indian side. China considers Arunachal Pradesh as part of South Tibet. In the 1962 Indo-China war, the state was affected, including Upper Subansiri, which is “as the crow flies it is about 90km from border”. “The only means to reach these posts and patrol by the Indian Army is through porter track and temporary ladders and suspension bridges for several days in inhospitable and harsh mountain terrains from administrative circles of Nacho, Limeking and Taksing. If these posts are captured by China, PLA (People’s Liberation Army) will be in (an) advantageous position because of their heights. As such, the threat of intrusion by PLA is imminent and is all the more vulnerable now with porous international border. The construction of this highway has become all the more relevant and urgent in view of current border conflict,” Nasi said. The people of the three districts have a long-standing demand for a shorter route originating from Meb-Geko near Daporijo connecting Gerukamukh/Gogamukh in Assam. “This would be the shortest route from Daporijo to Itanagar, a distance of around 190km compared to the distance on the two existing roads, which are 375km and 334km. The Union transport and highways minister had on January 13, 2017, declared the route a national highway in principle, much to the relief and succour to the people of the three districts,” Nasi, also the chairman of the Ziro-Tai-Ananda Bagan Highway Committee, said. The matter (decision to declare the national highway) is reportedly still pending with the PMO even after the final feasibility report was cleared by the competent authority of the road transport ministry . “In the best interest of national security, we appeal to the Prime Minister that the shortest route be declared as a national highway,” Nasi said. Though often highway or development projects get stalled or shelved because there are issues with the local populace but that is not the case with this project. “Most importantly, unlike any other project in Arunachal Pradesh, the land owners all along the proposed road have volunteered to donate their land free of cost. Intimation to this effect was conveyed to secretary, ministry of road transport and highways, by the state government on August 1, 2018,” he said. Lardik Kare, secretary-general, Tagin Cultural Society, told this newspaper that the national highway demand was an old issue. “The PMO should consider it seriously given our ties with China. Not expediting the project is also unfair to the people of the three underdeveloped districts,” Kare said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-44
22-09-2020||Opinion||Learn gratitude: Education during the Covid-19 pandemic||Sir — As the academic session begins, students are already being asked to aim for high-paying jobs. Even considering job opportunities in such a grim situation is a luxury few can afford. According to a study by Unicef and Save the Children, 1.2 billion children lack access to education, housing, food and sanitation, a 15 per cent hike since the Covid-19 outbreak. In the light of these dismal figures, parents must teach their children gratitude rather than push them towards mercenary goals. Bani Saha,Calcutta Call to action Sir — The criminal nexus that is Indian politics has become a blight on Indian democracy (“Safe seat”, Sept 18). The blind pursuit of power has led political parties to continue to field candidates with criminal histories for elections. Nearly half of all the newly-elected Lok Sabha members have criminal charges against them. The Supreme Court’s earlier refusal to debar politicians facing criminal charges from contesting elections — the apex court argued that it is up to Parliament to keep criminals away from politics — came as a reprieve for many. The recommendation by the Supreme Court to set up special courts in every district for trying cases against sitting and former members of parliament and members of legislative assemblies is welcome. However, there is ample evidence to suggest that political parties themselves are reluctant to rid politics of crime. There are already 12 courts designated to fast-tracking such cases but numbers suggest that not much headway has been made. The special courts must be regularly monitored to ensure progress. Perhaps it would help if the Election Commission is granted greater power to disqualify candidates and deregister political parties in case they conceal vital information about candidates with criminal offences. Urgent reforms of the electoral and justice delivery systems are the need of the hour. S.S. Paul,Nadia Sir — The number of cases pending against legislators according to the report submitted to the Supreme Court is shocking. Apparently, there are 2,556 cases pending against sitting MPs and MLAs in 22 states with the number rising to a further 4,442 when former policymakers are included in the count. This fails to portray a respectable picture of the individuals representing the Indian people in Parliament. The situation must be addressed immediately by those at the helm. S. Bhattacherjee,Kharagpur Sir — The recommendation by the Supreme Court to form special courts in every district to expedite pending trials of criminal cases against legislators is encouraging. It has also directed the high courts to review within two months all such cases where trial has been stayed. It is of utmost importance that politics is purged of criminal influence as much as possible. All attempts by the judiciary as well as the Election Commission to purge politics of criminals has failed so far. But unless it is freed from the clutches of money and muscle power, there can be no change in Indian politics. D.V.G. Sankararao, Nellimarla, Andhra Pradesh Sir — While the report submitted to the Supreme Court puts a number on the pending criminal charges against sitting MPs and MLAs as well as former legislators, the phenomenon itself is not surprising. It is, however, appaling that cases dating back almost four decades — two in West Bengal and Punjab are from 1981 and 1983 respectively — are still pending in court. It is high time that politicians are held accountable for their actions. Anamika Sarkar, Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-144
22-09-2020||Opinion||At odds: To ciminalize suicide, or not to?||The corpus of legislation in India is extensive. It is, therefore, not entirely unexpected that the laws governing the same issue may turn out to be contradictory in nature. It thus falls upon the judiciary to examine existing laws and interpret them lucidly so that Parliament can then iron out discrepancies among legislations. That, hearteningly, is what seems to have happened with the Supreme Court drawing attention to one such anomaly. The apex court pointed out the inherent dichotomy between Section 309 of the Indian Penal Code, which treats attempted suicide as a crime, and the Mental Healthcare Act, 2017, which effectively decriminalizes suicide by reading down Section 309, and sought a response from the Union government on the contradiction. There are a number of facets to such an observation that warrant close attention, not least of which is the fact that there is an urgent need to weed out laws that are no longer consistent with the spirit of the times. Section 309 of the IPC is, to cite one example, a regressive colonial-era law that is at odds with the growing perception of mental illness — it often leads to suicide — as a condition that must be treated, not discriminated against. The Mental Healthcare Act, on the other hand, is a progressive legislation, pushing for an interpretation of suicide that is consistent with modern research. Indeed, this scientific, humane spirit informs Section 115 of the Act, which recognizes mental illness as a key contributor to individuals’ decision to end their own lives. This argument is of immense importance given the stigma that surrounds mental ailments — a large part of the reason why families are reluctant to record the cause of death of a loved one as suicide. A study last year had found that around 28 per cent of people did not consider suicide to be linked to mental illness, thus preventing timely interventions from taking place. Is it any wonder that India accounts for the largest number of global suicides and a third of the world’s suicides committed by women each year? Given the lack of awareness, it is of utmost importance to not only provide medical facilities to those in need of help, but also actively address deep-rooted prejudices that sully the public discourse on suicide and contribute to the shame and silence around it. There is scope for legal reform too, given the direction of international legislation. Canada decriminalized suicide way back in 1972; Ireland did so in 1993. The legal and public discourse must consider that decriminalization of suicide could be a crucial, introductory step to begin a fruitful conversation on suicide prevention.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-144
22-09-2020||Opinion||New vista: Govt suspends MPLADS||Prescience is supposed to be a good thing. But its results can be unexpected. India’s Bharatiya Janata Party-led government seems to have foreseen that the Covid-19 pandemic will continue till 2022. Little else can explain its decision to suspend funds for the Members of Parliament Local Area Development Scheme for 2020-21 and 2021-22 for stated reasons of the pandemic. There is no doubt that austerity measures are needed. Hence members of parliament in both Houses had no problems with the 30 per cent salary cut being imposed on them. Besides providing the saved amount for measures to fight Covid-19, this would also be a signal for a population suffering from job losses and reduced incomes that their elected representatives wish to share and help. So while this decision was accepted, Opposition MPs objected vociferously to the suspension of MPLADS. It means that the needs of the people, many of them exacerbated by the conditions of the pandemic, cannot be met by their local MPs. People’s well-being is a priority during these difficult times; why stop MPs from helping their constituencies? The answer lies in the BJP-led government’s sustained thrust towards centralization. The Centre will decide which segment of the people is to benefit from funds, and the Union government must be seen to stretch out the helping hand. That is, if the saved MPLADS money is to be used for this purpose at all. It is not just that MPLADS is being suspended for two years — temporarily, the government has said. According to a letter by the Planning Board vice-chairman, the government had also delayed releasing Rs 150 crore incurred in the previous Lok Sabha; the Centre has made clear that there is no budget head under which earlier instalments can be released. Since local development often requires small contractors, it is not clear who is to pay them in times of scarcity for work already done. Opposition MPs had many suggestions, one being that instead of Rs 5 crore, legislators be given half the amount for development this year. The government remained unmoved. And the repeated question why the Central Vista and bullet train projects should continue in times of austerity and suffering was not worth answering.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-145
22-09-2020||Opinion||Trust and democracy||Does democracy need the trust of the people? Many people think that the loss of people’s trust in establishment parties in the United States of America and Europe has led to the rise of populist leaders like Donald Trump in the US, Marine Le Pen in France or Norbert Hofer in Austria. The loss of public trust in government has been particularly visible since the financial crisis of 2008-09, and has led to a growth of literature on political trust and distrust in the last two decades. In his seminal book, A Systems Analysis of Political Life, the political theorist, David Easton, argued that public trust in political authorities and institutions provides diffused support that the authorities can always fall back on in times of crisis. What does trust mean? Trust in government represents the confidence of citizens in the actions of the “government to do what is right and perceived fair.” There must thus be some congruence between what the people think is right and fair and what the government does. It is an important foundation on which legitimacy, stability and policy effectiveness of the political system depend. Erosion of trust is usually a slow, gradual process. In a democracy, the citizens take the electoral route to express a temporary withdrawal of trust from a government. But if electoral victory is a necessary indicator of public trust in a government, it is not a sufficient indicator. For electoral victories may be wafer-thin or may even be founded on minority votes in a ‘first past the post’ system. Or critical institutions may be so curbed by a government that electoral malpractices can be swept under the carpet. So we find electoral authoritarianism arising out of what was democracy. When that happens, trust is replaced by distrust. Thinkers like Madison, Hume and Bentham thought that some amount of distrust towards the government could act as a safeguard for democracy. For distrust will demand transparency. This view is labelled, ‘liberal distrust’. In this sense, declining trust or growth of distrust does not necessarily cause a crisis of democracy; rather it works as a warning to the ruling dispensation about the oncoming dangers. Whether a party in power or its leader would heed such warning is a matter of conjecture. In fact, it goes against the global experience. The more the leaders in the party in power become arrogant, the more they suspect public distrust. Our own experience in India testifies to it. Distrust towards the government can be the result of public experience of governmental incompetence. It can be the result of a well-founded public perception that the government’s actions are not in public interest. For instance, there are signs that the Trump administration’s approach to the Covid-19 problem is regarded by large sections of the American people to have betrayed public interest. Similarly, the manner in which the migrant labourers’ issue has been handled by public authorities in India during the lockdown was considered to be incompetent. Repeated experience of such instances will lead citizens to conclude that the government cannot be trusted as a competent protector of public interest. But the most important source of distrust is the citizens’ perception that the government’s conduct violates their sense of fairness. A democratic government transiting to the authoritarian mode is certain to violate the citizens’ sense of right and fairness. This can take many forms. It will try to discredit all Opposition and claim monopoly on representing the people. Contemporary authoritarian voices uniformly describe established political parties as ‘dysfunctional’, the press as purveyors of ‘fake news’, intellectuals as ‘arrogant liberals’. Even if the executive branch exhibits signs of authoritarianism, the system may not lose trust provided the other branches of government — the legislature and the judiciary — continue to act fairly. Similarly, if investigative and enforcement agencies, the intelligence branch, election machinery, audit authorities and so on remain uncontaminated by the executive, the system may correct itself and the executive put under leash. But if the executive has already made them subservient, the case may become hopeless. In younger democracies like India, these agencies easily succumb to executive pressure. In the citizen-State relationship, the State has all the power, the citizen has none. The judiciary, the last resort for powerless citizens to appeal to, is also the last gatekeeper of citizens’ trust in government. At the dawn of the modern State in medieval Europe, the kings and the lords realized the importance of the administration of justice: in fact, they found that efficient administration of justice could enhance the authority and the power of the kings. “By 1215 the barons of England thought that a permanent, central court of justice was essential for the good government of England.” Packing courts with camp followers has been a dream of most right-wing presidents. Such a strategy of converting an independent judiciary into  ‘executive courts’ would be a sure way of destroying the foundation of citizens’ trust in government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-145
22-09-2020||Opinion||Bare impunity ||There is a pithy Gujarati word that keeps coming to mind while observing recent political events. That word is 'nagai'. Nagai (pronounced naa-gai) has, as its root, the Sanskrit word for naked which is 'nagna', which often becomes 'nanga' or 'naga' in other languages. The Gujarati nagai, however, does not refer to physical nakedness but to the divestment of all moral or ethical covering, a naked brazenness, a shameless public display of criminal impunity. One good example of this is the US Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell. When a judge of the Supreme Court of the United States of America died in 2016, the then president, Barack Obama, used his prerogative to nominate Merrick Garland as replacement. A nomination for the US Supreme Court needs to be examined and passed by the US Senate and, unless the nominee is highly controversial, this is usually a formality. Now, the Republicans under McConnell have a majority in the Senate and McConnell with the help of his Republican colleagues refused to hear Garland’s nomination for one whole year, effectively nullifying it and allowing the newly-elected Donald Trump to put his choice on the bench in 2017. McConnell’s argument, absurd and unprecedented, was that Obama was in his last year as president, a lame duck, and the new judge should only be appointed by a freshly-elected president. Taken to its logical conclusion, this argument essentially maintained that a president, although elected to govern for a full four years, had no right to make any executive decisions in the last year of his term. McConnell’s was a partisan, political street thug’s manoeuvre, damaging to his country’s Constitution and democratic structure while setting a terrible precedent, but it was technically within the bounds of the law; Obama had no legal recourse; there was nothing he could do to force the Senate to examine his candidate and vote on him. Cut to last week. Ruth Bader Ginsburg had hung on as a Supreme Court Justice despite terrible health (US Supreme Court justices are appointed for life unless they themselves choose to retire) to prevent Trump from appointing yet another reactionary, right-wing judge in her place. She was striving to stay on till the next (hopefully Democrat) president was sworn in, but it was not to be. In 2016, McConnell had argued vociferously that a president despite having one full year to go on his term should not get to appoint a new Supreme Court judge. In 2020, with only two months to go till the presidential election, McConnell has declared he is eager to fast-track any Trump nomination through the Senate in order to capture the precious seat on the Supreme Court bench. Here, the Senate majority leader is showing his nagai spectacularly, yet unsurprisingly. Earlier this year, when the US Congress voted to impeach Trump and sent the matter up to the Senate, McConnell and his pals buried the impeachment without even the pretence of fairness: they cancelled the case without allowing any witness to testify before the Senate. Normal procedure would have meant the witnesses would have testified, laying out the substantial case against Trump, after which the Senate, with its Republican majority, could still have acquitted their man. But this would have been politically costly; the public would have heard the witness testimonies and the senators voting to absolve Trump of allegations of serious crimes would have been exposed, further disrobed of their ethical pretensions. Better then to deploy a containing nagai and hope the public would forget about the whole thing in a few weeks’ time. Witnessing all this, one is reminded of a famous analogy deployed by Narendra Modi when he was chief minister of Gujarat in early 2002. When 59 people died in a train fire allegedly set off by hooligans from a minority community, the seemingly pre-planned retaliation by the majority community took an awful toll on innocent people from the minority community all over Mr Modi’s state. Asked about the mass violence, arson, deaths and rapes inflicted on the minority community, our current prime minister had then famously quoted Isaac Newton: ‘Every action has an opposite reaction.’ He implied clearly that since members of the minority community had started the fire, it was no surprise that the community got badly burnt. In the case of Mitch McConnell, this rule of kriya-pratikriya means that if the Democrats win the presidency and take control of the Senate (neither of which is an outlandish projection) to add to their majority in the Congress, they will feel licensed to do things that would otherwise have been legal but morally out of bounds. One of these is to quickly vote to expand the Supreme Court bench from the current 9 to, say, 15, and fill the new seats with young and robustly healthy liberal judges who would tilt the balance of the bench from 6-3 in favour of conservative Republicans to 6-9 in favour of progressive lefty judges whom one could perhaps call Baderites in memory of the recently departed great woman. On top of this, it might be possible to get into impeachment proceedings against Brett Kavanaugh who had serious allegations of sexual misconduct swatted aside at his confirmation hearings when he became Trump’s second appointment to the Supreme Court. As for the Emperor of Nakedness himself, a successful impeachment and ejection from the White House might have been seen as punishment enough, but now a new administration and justice department may find it has the public support to investigate and prosecute Trump, not least to set an example that using foul means to attain power and using that power in a foul way can be rewarded with a long jail term. Closer home, perhaps we should attach another famous axiom to the Newtonian one unfurled by Mr Modi in 2002. Many (including this writer) have quoted the line from Michel Foucault before and many will paraphrase it again: ‘every exercise of power comes with a cost.’ It’s a line and an idea that should be drummed into every politician in government; into every Speaker who rides roughshod over a proper vote; into every bent policeman who obeys illegal orders and goes after the opponents of his political masters rather than criminals who, standing next to the cops, declare their intention of causing mayhem before actually doing so; into the operatives of every investigative agency who chose to behave like the private militias of the people in power rather than guardians of law and order and the Constitution; into every uniformed man who makes a malicious arrest and then uses bad laws to punish the arrested by keeping them in jail rather than producing them in a fair court; and into every judge from the lowest courts to the highest benches in the country. To repeat: Every exercise of power has a cost, every nagai and misuse will have a cost, not just to others but to you, every corrupt or mala fide action will incite reactions that will come and bite you back in nasty ways that you cannot foresee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-145
22-09-2020||Jharkhand||Businessman murder: Criminals in Ranchi, Jamshedpur, Bokaro involved, say police||The murder of a businessman on September 6 at Ritudih in the Maraphari police station area was planned by a hardened criminal in Bokaro, executed with the help of his associate currently lodged in Ranchi jail and committed by Jamshedpur- and Bokaro-based miscreants. The vehicle used in the crime was stolen from Dhanbad. The intention for the crime was robbery and to create terror in the area, which the businessman had opposed, prompting the criminals to open fire on him. The incident occurred around 7.30pm on September 6. Three motorcycle-borne criminals visited the shop of brothers Raju and Suresh Gupta. They pointed pistols at them and asked for cash, but the brothers resisted. The goons then sprayed bullets on them and fled. While Raju died on the spot, Suresh suffered a bullet injury. The incident made local businessmen and political leaders demand the arrest of the criminals involved. Bokaro superintendent of police (SP) Chandan Kumar Jha on Tuesday said at a news conference that following the incident, the force formed a special investigation team (SIT) led by deputy SP (city) Gyan Ranjan. The team found a bag at the crime scene, which indicated that the motive for the crime was robbery. The SIT found out that the motorcycle used in the crime was stolen from Bank Moad area of Dhanbad. The police then turned their attention to arresting Jamshedpur resident Bhanu Manjhi. Fortunately, Manjhi was arrested on September 21 by Jamshedpur police in connection with another case. Jha then interrogated Manjhi, who spoke of his involvement in the murder. He also revealed the names of Akash Singh Deo of Jamshedpur and Aamir Ansari of Bokaro who carried out the crime. Manjhi also said Sahnawaz Ahmed, a resident of Azadnagar in Bokaro, had planned the incident. Ahmed involved one of his close associates, Rajeev Ram, who is currently lodged in Ranchi jail. It was Ram on whose direction Manjhi, Deo and Aamir committed the crime on that day, said Jha. Jha later conducted raids and arrested Deo in Jamshedpur. They brought him to Bokaro on Tuesday. Ahmed and Aamir were both lodged in Bokaro jail. Jha said: “Five persons were involved in the crime. We will get vital information from Ahmed and Ram once they are taken into police custody.” Jha added: “The motive behind the murder was robbery and to create a reign of terror. The police have recovered two country-made pistols and live cartridges from the possession of Deo.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-291
22-09-2020||Jharkhand||Hatia dam: water rationing to end from Wednesday||Over two lakh residents dependent on the Hatia dam for water supply for domestic use can heave a sigh of relief as the authorities have decided to end water rationing effective from Wednesday. Residents living in Hatia, Dhurwa, parts of Doranda, Hinoo and other localities in and around the dam’s catchment area were forced to avail water supply only five days a week since April due to a fall in the reservior’s water level. There was no supply on Mondays and Thursdays. Suresh Prasad, executive engineer of the water supply department and in charge of Hatia dam, said the recent rains have improved the water level in the dam. “The dam’s water level is currently over 28ft, far above the danger mark. On an average, we supply 10 million gallons of water daily. So by that rate, we now have water till July 2021. Hence, we have decided to end water rationing from Wednesday,” he said. The dam’s water levels plunged to an alarming 4ft against its total storage capacity of 39ft towards the end of July in the middle of this year’s monsoon, triggering panic among officials. State water resources minister Mithilesh Thakur too had visited the dam to take stock of the situation while forming a special team to probe why the Hatia dam was drying up. The department also began working on sourcing water from the Rukka dam to feed parched areas under Hatia dam’s command areas. However, subsequent rains since then have led to an increase in the dam’s water level, giving some respite to the officials. An official of the Hatia dam said the reservoir needs to be further deepened by clearing its silt in order to revive its underground water recharging capacity. “Additionally, there is a need to explore alternative options for supplying water by identifying new reservoirs to feed the entire Ranchi district which is expanding both in terms of population and size,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-291
22-09-2020||Jharkhand||Das defends 2016 jobs policy, says Hemant govt should move SC||Former chief minister Raghubar Das has come out in defence of the 2016 recruitment policy that has been scrapped by Jharkhand High Court and accused the Hemant Soren government of acting out of political vendetta in not defending it convincingly in court. The policy, which was drafted and implemented during Das’s tenure, had reserved all class III and IV government jobs in 13 scheduled districts for local applicants. The court, while hearing a series of petitions against it, ruled against the policy on Monday, saying it violated fundamental rights. The court cancelled the ongoing recruitment process of 17,572 high school teachers. As a result, the fate of thousands of applicants, including those who have been hired on the basis of the policy, is now uncertain. Das said that the policy was in favour of tribals and moolvasis. It was notified by Jharkhand governor, who was empowered to frame laws in scheduled areas under the provisions of the Fifth Schedule of the Constitution. The idea, he explained, was to provide them equal opportunities in jobs. “The main idea behind reserving jobs for locals in 13 scheduled districts was to provide them equal opportunities. Jharkhand was facing an acute crisis of teachers which was affecting the overall education system. This apart, the scheduled areas struggled with infrastructure and development as a result of which those living in these areas often failed to compete with those with better resources in non-scheduled areas. Taking all these aspects into consideration, we drafted a policy for scheduled and non-scheduled areas which was completely in sync with the Constitution of India,” Das said. “However, the current government failed to impress upon the court the right intentions behind this policy only because of political vendetta,” he added. The ruling JMM countered Das by stating that the former chief minister should accept responsibility for rendering thousands jobless overnight.  "We had objected to the policy, saying it would not stand judicial scrutiny. Now, that's what has happened. Who will take the responsibility of duping thousands in the name of employment now?” said JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharjee. Das went to suggest that the Hemant Soren government appeal against the high court order in Supreme Court if it was serious about uplifting adivasis and moolvasis. “The JMM-Congress-RJD government should challenge the order in Supreme Court only if it wants to create jobs for tribals and indigenous people of this state. Ironically, in last 14 years before five years of BJP rule, the JMM and other parties that claim to be pro-tribal did nothing to define a local residents’ policy. But it was our government which worked towards it sincerely,” Das said. He went on to attack the coalition government, saying it had done precious little since it came to power in December last year. “They (coalition) promised five lakh jobs every year in their election manifesto but it is doing the exact opposite now,” Das said. JMM’s Bhattacharya said the BJP misled everyone via a faulty policy to use people as vote banks. "But intoxicated in power, the BJP did no pay heed to anyone and went on breaking all rules and laws during its stint in the state,” the JMM spokesman said. The state government is now waiting for a copy of the high court judgement before planning its next move, chief Hemant Soren told reporters on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-291
22-09-2020||Jharkhand||Row over nixed jobs policy mars last day of monsoon session of Assembly||Uproarious scenes marked the last day of the Jharkhand Assembly's monsoon session, with the Speaker adjourning the House twice during the day as BJP members created a ruckus, demanding a discussion over cancellation of a job policy by the high court. The Jharkhand High Court had on Monday scrapped the recruitment of over thousands of teachers and officials, finalised in accordance with a 2016 policy, which prescribed 100 per cent reservation in grade III and grade IV government jobs for local candidates in 13 scheduled districts. The court declared the policy, which came into being during the BJP rule, as null and void, saying that 100 per cent reservation for jobs violated Fundamental Rights. Shortly after Question Hour began, BJP MLAs sought a discussion on unemployment, and the fate of candidates who had lost job due to the high court's decision. The party had earlier moved an adjournment motion in the Assembly in this regard. Speaker Rabindra Nath Mahato, however, refused to entertain their demand, prompting the BJP legislators to storm the Well of the House and raise slogans against the JMM-led state government. Mahato said he would not tolerate "hooliganism" and asked the protesting MLAs to stop the ruckus, to which BJP legislator Randhir Singh said they would not budge and the "House shall continue to run in this manner". Singh was subsequently marshalled out of the House. Talking to reporters outside, the BJP MLA said, "Is it hooliganism to oppose the government?" As the din continued, BJP MLA Bhanupratap Shahi sought a statement on the high court verdict from chief minister Hemant Soren, who was not present in the House at the time. The Speaker then adjourned the Assembly for an hour. The CM arrived in the House when the proceedings resumed at 12.30 pm and said his government was suffering due to the mistakes made by the erstwhile BJP dispensation. The previous government went against the Constitution and reserved all class III and IV government jobs for local people in 13 scheduled districts, as a result of which the high court scrapped the policy, he said. Hemant said, "Jaisi karni, waisi bharni (as you sow, so you shall reap)", targeting the previous government, following which the BJP MLAs created another uproar in the House, claiming that the policy was made in the interest of local people, and the government did not present proper arguments in its favour in the high court. The Speaker adjourned the House again till 2 pm.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-291
22-09-2020||Jharkhand||Over 170 booked in Ranchi for violating home quarantine norms||The Ranchi district administration has lodged FIRs against at least 170 people in the past two months for violating home quarantine norms after returning to the Jharkhand capital from other states, officials said. The violators were booked under sections of the Disaster Management Act in Ranchi for leaving their homes during the mandatory 14-day quarantine period and posing a risk to the wellbeing of other citizens, officials from the district administration said. The government, officials added, was committed to ensuring that travelers from other states, and those who return to Jharkhand after visiting other states, must stay in home quarantine for 14 days or face legal consequences. “Around 170 people have been booked under sections of the Disaster Management Act in Ranchi in the past two months for violating home quarantine norms. These include travelers from other states, and the ones who returned to Ranchi,” said Ranchi sub-divisional officer Sameera S. The district administration constituted special teams to keep a tab on such travelers. During inspections, the teams found that many people, supposed to stay at home, were either going to office, visiting relatives and even going to banks and other public places, sources said. In the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, the government had on July 17 made it mandatory for all visitors from other states to stay in home quarantine for at least 14 days. Officials in Jharkhand also put VIPs like BJP MP Sakshi Maharaj on quarantine when he visited Giridih last month. He was not allowed to leave until he tested negative for Covid-19. As per the Jharkhand Contagious Disease Ordinance, a person violating the preventive measures for Covid-19 could be slapped a fine of up to Rs 1 lakh and imprisoned for up to two years. Earlier in August, authorities had lodged an FIR against RJD leader Tej Prasad Yadav for allegedly violating lockdown rules. Ranchi is the worst-affected district in Jharkhand in terms of Covid cases. As per records with the health department, as many as 15,707 coronavirus infection have surfaced in the district so far, which is around 25 per cent of the total Covid tally in Jharkhand. The district has also reported 101 Covid casualties, which is the second highest among all 24 districts in Jharkhand. The district administration here recently started door-to-door screening of Ranchi residents to identify asymptomatic cases of infection and spread awareness about the precautions needed to be taken. It has also constituted teams to monitor oxygen levels of asymptomatic Covid patients in home isolation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-292
22-09-2020||Jharkhand||Life-terms for five held guilty of gangster’s shooting in court||Five persons, held guilty earlier for the sensational murder of gangster Sushil Srivastava, were on Tuesday sentenced to life imprisonment and multiple fines with the district court premises, where the sensational daylight shooting took place in June 2015, cordoned off like a fortress since morning. In all, 42 witnesses recorded their statements after which the court of additional district and session judge-VI Amit Shekhar had pronounced the five guilty on September 11. They are mastermind Vikas Tiwary, Dileep Sahu, Vishal Kumar Singh, Rahul Dev Pandey and Santosh Dev Pandey. Additional public prosecutor Bharat Ram said all five were awarded life imprisonment, but two of the convicts, Vikas Tiwary and Santosh Pandey, would have to remain in jail till death. Tiwary is presently lodged in Palamau jail while Santosh and Rahul are in Loknayak Jai Prakash Narayan Central jail. The two others, namely, Dileep and Vishal, were taken into custody on September 11 after they were pronounced guilty. Shambhu Nath Tiwary who is the father of Vikas Tiwary was given the benefit of doubt and acquitted. One accused, Deepak Sahu, is still at large. The entire court premises was sealed with policemen deployed at the two gates in large numbers since the morning on Tuesday. No one other than lawyers were allowed entry with SP Karthik S personally supervising security arrangements. The shooting took place on June 2, 2015 at 10.40am on the civil court premises. Srivastava (53) came out of the court building after being produced before a judge in connection with a murder case in Ramgarh. Two of his aides - Gyas Khan and Kamal Khan - who were out on bail in the same case reached out to greet him when amid a cloud of smoke there was firing. Srivastava’s aides took three bullets each and instantly fell to the ground dead. Srivastava instinctively flattened himself on the ground, but two gunmen  came out of hiding from behind an SUV on the court premises and pumped eight bullets into his body from point-blank range. Police investigation confirmed the involvement of one Vikas Tiwary as the mastermind who was also leader of the notorious Bhola Pandey Gang. The murder was planned to avenge the death of former gang chief Kishore Pandey in Jamshedpur. Soon after the incident, police sealed the borders of the district to catch the mastermind Vikas. But he managed to escape from Hazaribagh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-292
22-09-2020||Jharkhand||Tata Steel senior manager dies in mishap at plant||A 27-year-old Tata Steel senior manager (operations), posted at the cold rolling mill, (CRM), died in a mishap in the plant early on Tuesday morning. A resident of Adityapur, Sheeraz Zama Khan died in the accident which occurred at 5am when he got trapped in the galvanising line, probably while attending to a fault. "We are extremely sorry about the unfortunate death of Sheeraz Zama Khan, a senior manager (Operations) at CRM. He was in the C-shift duty when he got trapped in the galvanizing line and died.  Prima facie evidence indicates that he was attending to a fault in the line. The matter is being investigated and the area around the accident site has been cordoned off," said Kulvin Suri, Tata Steel chief of corporate communications told The Telegraph Online Suri said the family of the mishap victim had been informed. “The company expresses a deep sense of grief and stands by the family in this difficult moment. The bereaved family will get all support as per company policy,” he said, adding that Tata Steel was committed to the health and safety of its employees and has always strived towards ensuring a safe workplace for all its employees. Soon after receiving information about the accident, DSP Arvind Kumar and cops from Bistupur police station reached the spot to launch a probe. Factory inspector (Jamshedpur circle) Vineet Kumar also inspected the spot of the mishap. He went around the cold rolling plant and recorded statements of employees and officials. "The matter is being probed. We recorded statements of employees and officials of the plant. We will prepare an inquiry report," said Kumar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-292
22-09-2020||Jharkhand||Dhanbad in urgent need of hearses, only one of two work||Dhanbad Municipal Corporation (DMC) is left with only one of two hearses, bought at cost of Rs 10 lakh each in 2017, leading to a peculiar crisis for the needy who were promised free access to them in case of bereavements. One of the hearses is idling for more than six months, awaiting urgent repairs while the other one in operations is in bad shape. Because of poor maintenance, sources in DMC admitted, the seats were loose and coming off. Those who have used the vehicle recently say it is a terribly uncomfortable ride. Social activist Kumar Madhurendra Singh said those living in adjoining villages of Dhanbad and slums were in desperate need for a hearse. “Many a times they face a lot of difficulty since there is no vehicle to carry the dead. Sometimes, families are forced to use autorickshaws. Some have to carry dead bodies on their shoulders,” said Singh, who is former president of Bartand Chamber of Commerce, a unit of the Federation of Dhanbad Zila Chamber of Commmerce and Industry. Singh has written to municipal commissioner Satyendra Kumar, asking him to expedite repairs of both the hearses that are meant for the service of the poor. “Both vehicles were launched with much fanfare in August, 2017 to provide free of cost service to residents of Dhanbad. However, they have been rendered unusable now due to lack of maintenance,” he said. Apart from the two hearses run by DMC, the Bengali Welfare Society has been running a hears since 2011. The social organisation, however, levies a nominal charge for its use. DMC transport in-charge Uday Kachhap said one of the two hearses was being repaired. “It will be available for use soon. The repair of second vehicle will also be carried out after the first vehicle is back from repairs,” he said, adding that they did not want to send both hearses for repair together.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-292
22-09-2020||Jharkhand||Covid recovery rate jumps above 80 per cent in Jharkhand ||Jharkhand’s Covid-19 recovery rate went above 80 per cent for the first time since the emergence of the virus in the state after 1599 patients recovered from the lethal infection on Monday, figures released by the state health department stated. The national Covid recovery rate on Monday was 80.10 per cent against Jharkhand’s 80.55 per cent. The number of active cases dropped in Ranchi as well as East Singhbhum, two of the worst-affected districts in Jharkhand, despite 1321 people testing positive for the viral infection across the state in the past 24 hours. Meanwhile, Ranchi Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) SK Jha tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday, health officials said. Jha has gone into home quarantine, and a team of doctors is keeping a tab on his health, the officials added. At least 259 patients recovered in Ranchi against 176 fresh cases of infection, while East Singhbhum reported 402 recoveries against 361 cases. The number of active cases, however, shot up in Dhanbad after 111 people were found infected there and 34 patients recovered on the day. As per government data, there were 3,394 active cases in Ranchi, 2,522 active cases in East Singhbhum and 968 active cases in Dhanbad by Saturday evening. Of the 72,673 people infected by Covid-19 virus in Jharkhand so far, 58,543 have recovered and 13,504 were still battling the virus, stated a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) on Monday night. The Covid toll, however, jumped to 626 on Monday in the state as eight more patients died during treatment. The Covid mortality rate in Jharkhand was 0.86 per cent, which is lower than the national average of 1.60 per cent. Three of the eight Covid casualties reported in Jharkhand on Monday occurred in East Singhbhum, a district that accounts for nearly 50 per cent of state’s Covid fatalities, government data stated. The district has reported 271 Covid deaths so far. Meanwhile, three patients died in Dhanbad and one each in Ranchi and Deoghar. The government on Monday tested swab samples of 37,483 people and 16162 of them came negative. So far, health workers across Jharkhand have collected swab samples of 1.81 lakh people and tested 1.80 lakh of them. As per 2011 census, the state has a population of 3.29 crore, which means that not even 1 per cent of Jharkhand residents have been tested for the virus yet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-292
22-09-2020||Jharkhand||Blast at DVC plant, 2 seriously injured||Two labourers suffered burn injuries from a blast at Koderma Thermal power station on Sunday. The plant, situated in Banjhedih area in Jai Nagar block, is owned by Damodar Valley Corporation. Workers at the plant rushed the injured labourers to KTPS hospital. The hospital, seeing the severity of their injuries, referred them to RIIMS in Ranchi. Vijay Paswan, convenor of a labour union in Banjhedih, said the incident took place due to DVC’s negligence. He has called for an agitation if the injured are not provided with better treatment facilities. BJP's Jai Nagar president Ramdev Modi said DVC was not adhering to the safety guidelines which resulted in the blast. He demanded a compensation for the duo. The injured Rajendra Yadav and Ranjeet Yadav are residents of Banjhedih and Singardih areas respectively. DVC officials have not issued any statement on the accident. The two injured are undergoing treatment in Devkamal hospital in Ranchi. Police arrested Tuntun Yadav and Bhanu Majhi, two notorious criminals, from Mango and Kadma thana area on Monday. Bhanu Majhi, arrested from Uliyan Gurudwara, was arrested on murder and extortion charges. He had murdered a 22-year-old youth at Bhatia Bustee. On Monday, Bhanu had fired at the murder victim’s brother for deposing in court. On Friday he fired at a scrap depot owner along the Marine Drive under Sonari thana area for being unable to pay Rs 2 lakh as extortion money. The OC, Kadma thana, Ranjit Kumar said, Bhanu had committed a murder a fortnight ago in Bokaro and had taken refuge at Jamshedpur where he was extorting businessmen. He was arrested after a tip-off. Bhanu was sent to Ghaghidih Central Jail. Tuntun Yadav was arrested for allegedly demanding Rs 25,000 from a grill manufacturer of Mango on Saturday. Mango thana OC, Mithilesh Kumar said that Tuntun had returned from jail a month ago and had been demanding Rs 25,000 every month Vijendra Kumar. He held a pistol to the grill manufacturer’s head on Saturday night. An FIR was lodged against him leading to his arrest. Tuntun was also sent to Ghaghidih Central Jail. A Ramgarh petrol pump employee’s bag containing Rs six lakh was snatched by five criminals on Monday. The employee, Rajendra Bedia, was on his way to deposit the money in a bank. Police sealed the borders, conducted checking drive and circulated information about the criminals. Officials said the crime could not have been committed without proper planning. Simaria police in Chatra arrested an opium smuggler on Monday. The police had launched a vehicle check drive after a tip-off on the Bagra-Jabra road. Three people on two bikes tried to evade the police. Two managed to escape while one was arrested, identified as Sunil Kumar. Police recovered 2 kg opium from him worth Rs.2 lakh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-292
22-09-2020||Jharkhand||New Covid health centre at Patliputra Medical College and Hospital||A 300-bed dedicated Covid health centre was inaugurated on Monday at PG hospital block of Patliputra Medical College and Hospital (presently Shahid Nirmal Mahto Memorial Medical College and Hospital) in Dhanbad. The facility is equipped with a yoga Centre, library and music room. Maithon Power Limited HR head Mritunjay Rai, Centre nodal officer Dr DP Bhushan, and Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner Uma Shankar Singh were present, among others. Speaking at the occasion, Singh said that CEO of Maithon Power Limited, Ramesh Jha, provided financial assistance under the Centre-mandated corporate social responsibility fund (CSR) for development. He also mentioned that additional collector of Dhanbad, Shyam Narayan Ram and head of the department of orthopaedics at PMCH, Dr DP Bhushan played crucial roles in establishing the centre. He further noted that the district administration is committed to provide all kinds of facilities for better treatment of covid patients, besides other facilities for over 30 lakh residents of the district. "The common resident need not worry about anything as doctors are also working with utmost dedication to provide best medical care," Singh claimed. He further informed that the district had just a 100-bed dedicated covid hospital at Jagjivan Nagar two months ago, which has now increased to 1005 beds including 300 at PMCH PG block, 200 at Nirsa Polytechnic;100 each at Sadar Hospital, Zonal Training Institute of Railway in Bhuli, PMCH Cath lab; 50 at Regional Hospital Bhuli; 30 at Tata Central Hospital at Jamadoba and 25 at SSLNT Hospital. "We are also working to launch the plasma therapy treatment facility in PMCH. Three doctors and GNM, along with lab technicians, have obtained necessary training. All kinds of infrastructure have also been developed in the  PMCH blood bank " Singh noted. “Only the mandatory license for the launch of plasma therapy remains pending. NGO Shubh Sandesh has been roped in by the district administration for encouraging and counselling plasma donors in the district,” he added. "We are carrying out special Covid testing camps all across the district on a daily basis since September 15 in order to check the spread of infection and identify and isolate patients to provide them with necessary treatment" said Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-292
22-09-2020||Jharkhand||CAG flags Jharkhand finance issues ||The Jharkhand government is certainly not in the pink of its financial health, the Comptroller and Auditor General of India report indicates. “The Jharkhand government should rationalise its investments and loans advanced to various entities so that the return on investments and loans at least matches the government borrowing cost,” the CAG recommended in the audit report on state finances for 2018-19 that was laid in the Jharkhand Assembly on Monday. The state had not achieved revenue surplus and fiscal deficit to gross state domestic product (GSDP) ratio as was targeted in the medium term fiscal policy (MTFP) statement, the report pointed out, adding it also did not achieve the normative projection of the Fourteenth Finance Commission in respect of outstanding debt to GSDP ratio for the year ended March 2019. The fiscal deficit of Rs 6,629 crore in that year was 2.16 per cent of GSDP against 3.25 per cent recommended by the 14th Finance Commission and 2.61 per cent targeted under MTFP. Primary deficit of the state improved significantly from Rs 7,271 crore in 2017-18 to Rs 1,777 crore in 2018-19. Though revenue receipt increased by 6.44 per cent — from previous year’s Rs 52,756 to Rs 56,152 crore — it was lower than budget estimate of Rs 69,578 crore, CAG report said, adding revenue expenditure of Rs 50,631 crore against estimated Rs 61,523 crore was even less than previous year’s amount of Rs 50,952 while capital expenditure also decreased by 10.38 per cent. Major government departments such as agriculture, rural development, urban development, education, forest and welfare did not utilise the budget grants in full, resulting in savings of Rs 20,223.74 crore, the report further said. In case of 21 grants, 62.48 per cent of the total expenditure of Rs 10,151.23 crore was made in the last quarter of the financial year and 36.37 per cent in March 2019 alone, the report further said, indicating a tendency of hurriedly exhausting the grant. Utilisation certificates in respect of grants-in-aid bills for Rs 53,379 crore that were drawn by different departments till March 2018 remained outstanding at the end of March 2019, the report further pointed out and added detailed contingent bills for Rs 5,479 crore were also due till that time. In the second and penultimate day of the monsoon session of the Assembly, chief minister Hemant Soren assured that the government would look into the demand of assistant police personnel who had been camping at Ranchi’s Morbadi ground since September 12 for pressing their demand for regularisation of their service. Describing it to be “the burden given by the previous government” Soren assured that the case of the assistant police personnel would be considered sympathetically..||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-292
22-09-2020||Jharkhand||Covid: Bokaro records 90% recovery||Bokaro recorded a Covid-19 recovery rate of 90.41 %, about 11 % higher than the country and state’s rate. Jharkhand’s recovery rate is 79.80 % and the countrys’ 79.70 %. Bokaro registered 0.60 % mortality rate, less than Jharkhand’s 0.86 % and the country’s 1.60 %. The health department had conducted five mega Covid-19 camps in the last 21 days, testing more than 30,000 people in the district. “At present there are 299 active cases and the majority of them are recovering well. They will also get discharged in a few days once it comes positive. While the mortality rate is as low as 0.60 % with only 20 deaths registered yet,” said Dr A K Pathak, civil surgeon. The district is witnessing a sharp decline in the number of cases in the last five days. “There was a spike in cases between August 25 and September 15, which is now on the decline,” said Pathak. In a camp organised in Mohan Kumar Mangalam Stadium of Bokaro Township on Monday, sampling was done on 904 people. Of them only 10 tested positive. They were mostly BSL staff.  This was the lowest figure of positive cases detected in the organised Covid camp till date. In the first camp conducted at 14 places in the district on August 31 there were 9000 people tested of which 130 were positive. The figure increased in the second camp organised in 16 places on September 8. Of the 9552 people tested, 335 of them tested positive. The third mega camp organised on September 18 at 11 places recorded 91 positive cases among the 7283 people tested. Decline in the number of cases continued in the fourth camp on September 20 in which 7200 residents mostly from slum areas were tested and 56 of them tested positive. Nodal officer, Dr Rakesh Gautam said, “Initially the patients which were coming till July were asymptomatic, later symptomatic patients started coming who were treated well. Apart from administering medicine as ICMR guidelines we were focused on building their immunity and also encouraged them to be positive. That practically works”. District disaster management officer, Shakti Kumar said at present the number of containment zones has come down to 42 and are mostly in urban areas. Residents found the declining numbers encouraging. DC, Bokaro, Rajesh Kumar Singh appealed to people to wear masks and maintain social distance to keep themselves safe.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-292
