23-09-2020||Calcutta||Supreme Court on CMC polls, board||The Supreme Court has sought responses from the Bengal government, the State Election Commission and the Calcutta Municipal Corporation on a petition assailing the Calcutta High Court order upholding the state’s decision to postpone the municipal elections and form a board to function instead after the expiry of the five-year term of the councillors in May 2020. A bench of Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul, Justice Anirudh Bose and Justice Krishna Kumar had on Monday issued notice on the appeal filed by Pratap Banerjee, challenging the high court’s order passed on August 25, which had agreed with the state’s contention that the present situation because of Covid was not conducive to holding elections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-295
23-09-2020||Calcutta||CMC budget focus on solid waste, water||Solid waste management and water supply were allocated the maximum share of funds in the Calcutta Municipal Corporation budget presented on Tuesday. Solid waste management has been allocated Rs 606 crore and water supply Rs 408 crore for 2020-21. “We presented the budget for 2020-21 today. If the budget was not presented, the CMC’s functioning would have stopped from October,” Firhad Hakim, the chairperson of the board of the CMC’s board of administrators, said on Tuesday. “We waited this long because a petition challenging the formation of the board of administrators to run the corporation was being heard by the Supreme Court.” Hakim had presented a vote-on-account in March as the mayor of Calcutta. Since the tenure of the elected board was to expire on May 7 and fresh elections were pending, a full budget was not presented then. The elections could not be held because of the pandemic and the state government appointed a board of administrators to run the CMC. Hakim was made the board’s chairperson, a decision the Opposition had criticised. An outgoing Left Front councillor questioned if the board, which is not an elected one, had the power to present a full budget. Baiswanor Chattopadhyay, a board member in charge of law, said: “The board has been given full powers of an elected mayoral council. To run the affairs of the CMC for the rest of the year, it was necessary to present a budget. We have not done anything illegal.” The CMC’s solid waste management and the health departments are doing the most of Covid-related work, an official said. Hakim said the tax rates and fees had been kept almost the same as last year. While there is a separate Covid fund, these departments have other routine responsibilities, too, the official said. Some projects for augmenting the capacity of water treatment plants have been planned. Also, a new water treatment plant near Garia Dhalai bridge has been planned, he said. The roadways department was allocated Rs 325 crore and the health department Rs 163 crore. The funds for the roadways department are meant for repairs and relaying of major arterial roads. There is a separate fund to repair small roads, an official said. The work is carried out by the civil engineering department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-295
23-09-2020||Calcutta||Traffic officer held on molestation charges by transpeople||The additional officer-in-charge of a city police traffic guard has been arrested on charges of assault and outraging the modesty of transpeople on Central Avenue on Monday night. The officer has been suspended and a departmental inquiry started against him, police said. The three transpeople have said in their complaint with Bowbazar police station that they had been verbally abused and physically molested by a drunk. They later realised he is a police officer, they have said. “We came from Dum Dum and parked our car along Central Avenue in front of a restaurant near Bowbazar around 8pm,” one of them said. “Suddenly a man started knocking on the driver’s window. The moment our driver rolled down the glass, we sensed he was reeking of alcohol.” In their complaint they have said the man — later identified as Abhishek Bhattacharya, the additional officer in-charge of the south west traffic guard — had started hurling abuses at them without any provocation and had attacked their driver when they protested his misbehaviour. “The man twisted our driver’s arm and started misbehaving with us. One of us dialled 100. But cops reached late,” one of them alleged. After being alerted from Lalbazar, officers of Bowbazar police station had gone to the spot. The transpeople have alleged that cops had tried to protect the man as he is part of the police force. Senior officers refuted the allegations. Like any other investigation, the accused person was detained and then arrested after scanning CCTV footage that had prima facie evidence against him. Bhattacharya has been charged with assault, outrage of modesty, causing outrage of modesty with words and gestures, and wrongful restraint. He has been booked under the Transgender act, too. The three transpeople and their driver were taken to Calcutta Medical College and Hospital. The driver’s arm had to be plastered for hairline fracture, the police said. Bhattacharya was produced in Bankshall court on Tuesday. He has been released on bail. “Such incidents malign the entire force. The purpose of security arrangement is lost if off-duty officers start behaving like this,” a traffic police officer said. Bhattacharya was off-duty. He was returning to his quarters in central Calcutta when the alleged confrontation with the transpeople took place, another officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-296
23-09-2020||Calcutta||Noapara among three busiest Metro stations||Noapara has emerged among the top three busiest Metro stations, a week into the resumption of commercial services. The passenger volume of Metro has been way lower than what officials had expected. But the terminal station in the north is on a par with stations like Rabindra Sadan and Esplanade that usually trail Dum Dum in terms of passenger volume, a Metro official said (see chart). “Between Thursday and Monday, Dum Dum recorded 15,557 passengers. The next three most-busy stations were Rabindra Sadan (7,526), Noapara (7,111) and Esplanade (5,986),” Indrani Banerjee, the Metro spokesperson, said. The diversions in the absence of the Tallah bridge and the closure of Dunlop bridge for repairs has led to long snarls on BT Road. Thousands of officegoers from Dunlop, Bonhooghly, Belghoria, Bally, Dakshineswar and other areas on the city’s northern outskirts, who used to reach the city by bus via BT Road, are now opting for the Metro from Noapara. Before the pandemic, the average daily footfall at Noapara was 10,000. It was then not counted as a busy station on the Metro route that saw more than 600,000 passengers every day. Since the resumption of services, the station’s share in the total passenger volume has been on the higher side. The number of e-passes downloaded for Noapara station has been on the higher side. “At least 3,550 passes were booked on Monday, 2,800 on Saturday and 3,000 on Friday,” an official of the agency that has developed the e-pass technology said. A colour-coded e-pass is now mandatory to enter a station and a smart card is needed to travel on a train. Since September 14, when commercial services resumed, there has been a gap between the number of passes booked and the trips made. Around 10am on Tuesday, scores of people were seen waiting on the Noapara platform. A train that started from the station had most seats occupied. Many who boarded the train at Dum Dum had to stand because most seats were occupied. Every alternate seat is now marked with a cross to ensure passengers follow distancing rules. Outside Noapara station, there were more than 30 people waiting in a queue to enter the station around 10.40am. Autos were parked on one side of the road and Tata Magics on the other. The roads leading to the station are narrow. The Noapara bus stand is around a kilometre from the station. Autos and small vehicles such as Tata Magics are the only public transport options for people travelling to and from the station. Autos usually ply between Dunlop, Bonhooghly and Noapara and the Tata Magics between Noapara and Rajchandrapur via Bally and Dakshineswar. Autos take the road along the Bagjola canal to ferry commuters between Noapara station and Dunlop and Bonhooghly. The road has seen some patchwork repairs. “The suspension of Metro services had crippled our livelihood. Now that trains have started running, we can earn something,” Sukanta Saha, the secretary of the auto drivers’ union on the Noapara-Dunlop route. At least 100 autos ply on the route, Saha said. Saurabh Ghosh, a Belghoria resident, said he was relieved that Metro services had resumed. Ghosh repairs medical and surgical instruments and has to visit private hospitals off the Bypass almost every day. When the Metro was suspended, he used to take a bus to Ultadanga and then another to Garia, he said. The journey took him more than two hours every day. “On a Metro, it takes an hour to reach New Garia from Noapara. The journey is more comfortable, too,” Ghosh said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-296
23-09-2020||Calcutta||Jadavpur University to run helplines; final semester exams from October 1||Jadavpur University will run a helpline service for students who find it difficult to upload answer scripts immediately after exams, the university said in a notice issued on Tuesday. The final semester exams for final-year undergraduate and postgraduate students will be held from October 1 to 11, the notice said. Each department will have a helpline number. Question papers will be mailed to students and they will have the numbers mentioned on them, a university official said. Each department will have a coordinator to oversee the operations of the helpline, vice-chancellor Suranjan Das said while listing the potential problems a student might face while uploading answer scripts and mailing them back. A power outage can happen at the time of mailing back the scripts or some technical glitch in a cyber cafe can come in the way of mailing them back, Das said. “In that case a student can call on the number and explain the kind of constraint he/she is facing. We will decide on the kind of assistance they can be provided with based on the nature of the difficulty they are facing… everything will be done following rules and regulations,” Das said. A student can be given some additional time for the situation to improve so that he/she can send the scripts, a university official said. If things still don’t improve, the university will engage courier service to collect the scripts, the official said. “We have already spoken to some courier companies. But students must cite genuine grounds to get the service.” If a student says he/she is facing difficulty in mailing back the scripts, he/she can be asked to send them over WhatsApp, Partha Pratim Roy, a teacher of the physics department, said. “Although the preferred mode is email, we can ask them to go for WhatsApp in case of an emergency. The WhatsApp number will be shared on the helpline then,” Roy said. Details of the helplines will be uploaded on the university’s website, VC Das said. Exams will be conducted in non-contact distance mode using digital platform to maintain distancing rules during the pandemic, the notice signed by Chiranjib Bhattacharjee, a pro-VC, said. Visually impaired candidates will send their answer scripts using voice mail. Arts and science exams will be of two hours’ duration. Only MSc Biotechnology and MSc Instrumentation Science will be of three hours’ duration. Students have been asked to mark all pages numerically and write their roll numbers on all pages. In an attempt to bridge the digital divide, the university has decided to recharge the data packs of 800-odd students immediately. “Since digital platforms will be used to upload answer scripts, we believe some final-year students, included among the 800-odd students, will need the data packs,” an official said. Elaborate arrangements have been made so that no student misses out on the exams, Das said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-296
23-09-2020||Calcutta||Govt committee to explore setting up of cycle lanes||A committee of government officials and an external expert has been set up to explore possibilities of creating dedicated cycle lanes in the city and among its members is a representative of the city police, officials said. The police recently turned down a plea to have dedicated cycle lanes in Calcutta. However, on Tuesday, Santosh Pandey, the joint commissioner (traffic) of Calcutta police, said they were not shutting the door on the proposal to have cycle lanes. There were challenges in carving out space for cycles on existing roads but a plan can be worked out if all stakeholders chipped in, he said. Among members of the committee are a professor of IIT Kharagpur, who is also an urban transportation specialist. Representatives of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation, Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority, transport department, Hooghly River Bridge Commissioners, environment department and Calcutta police are the other members. “We are ready to explore possibilities of having cycle lanes on city roads. We are not completely shutting out the proposal. Let suggestions come,” Pandey said. “There are issues like parking along the kerbs. The CMC has to think about it if cycle lanes are to be created next to the pavement.” Metro had on Friday reported that the city police had turned down a proposal from the CMDA to have dedicated lanes for cycles. Pandey’s statements on Tuesday signalled a shift from the police’s earlier stand. Cycles have become the preferred mode of transport for many people since the Covid-19 pandemic began as they allow people to maintain a safe distance from others, something that is not possible in buses or autorickshaws. Cycles are being promoted across the world as a cleaner and greener transport that can help reduce carbon emissions as the world braces to combat the impact of climate change. In Calcutta, however, most roads are out of bounds for cyclists. “Cycles are allowed in lanes and bylanes, not on arterial roads,” an officer said. Critics of this policy said this was absurd as no one one would be able to reach their destination on a cycle if most roads are out of bounds for cyclists. Satanjib Gupta, the “bicycle mayor” of Calcutta, said: “Ours is the only city in India where there are restrictions on cyclists on arterial roads. Even a congested city like Mumbai has no such restriction.” “Bicycle mayor” is an honorary position given to cycling enthusiasts by a Netherlands-based organisation named BYCS, which promotes cycling across the globe. Forty-four Indian cities have bicycle mayors, said Gupta. Faridabad, he said, has carved out space from roads for cycles. “They did it about a fortnight ago. The information was shared in our network of cyclists. If they can do it, why can’t Calcutta?” asked Gupta. Sathya Sankaran, the bicycle mayor of Bangalore, said: “17km of road length in the tech town is getting dedicated cycle lanes. Besides, cycle lanes are being carved out along 30km of road length in the Vidhan Soudha-Raj Bhavan area.” Roads where cycle lanes are being created are all wider than 15 metres. In narrower roads, bicycles share space with all other modes of transport, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-296
23-09-2020||Calcutta||Permission to seek fresh applications for admission to undergraduate courses||The state higher education department has granted permission to colleges and universities to seek fresh applications for admission to undergraduate courses after noticing a large number of seats lying vacant. The colleges can reopen their admission portal for receiving fresh applications but the admission process will have to be completed by October 30, a government notification said. “It is observed that a good number of seats are still lying vacant in different General degree colleges and Unitary universities. The competent authority of the department has given due consideration to this fact and decided that the colleges/Universities, where seats are lying vacant, may reopen the admission portal for receiving the fresh appli-cations and complete the admission process by 30th October, 2020,” the notification reads. Many students have applied in multiple colleges in subjects that are in demand. But they have not been able to secure a seat in their chosen subjects in any of the institutions where they submitted applications. Many such students were worried about losing a year. “Such students can now apply afresh in institutions where there are vacancies. That will help them prevent loss of a year,” an official of Calcutta University said. The government had barred colleges and universities from accepting applications from candidates beyond the date fixed for the online submission of admission forms. August 26 was the last date for accepting applications. The last date for closing the admission process was September 25 but that has been extended till October 30. The principal of a college in south Calcutta said only four out of 25 seats in philosophy and two out of as many seats in Sanskrit have been filled. Seats are vacant in economics and Bengali, too. The head of another college said many seats in subjects like Bengali, political science and Urdu were vacant. Lady Brabourne College has vacancies in Persian, Hindi, Sanskrit and philosophy. The college has decided to publish a “wish list” for students who had applied in the first round but failed to get a seat in the subject of their choice. These students can opt for any of the subjects that have vacant seats. “We will wait for some time to see the students’ response. If there is no response, we will reopen our portal and seek fresh applications,” principal Shiuli Sarkar said. Most have complained about vacancies, particularly in reserved categories, an official of CU said. Around 45 per cent seats in all subjects in BA, BSc and BCom courses are reserved for SC, ST, OBC-A and OBC-B candidates and students with disabilities. But in some colleges seats for general category students, too, are lying vacant in subjects that are “not much in demand among students”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-296
23-09-2020||Calcutta||Husband steals scooter to ‘gift wife’ ||Time and court will tell if the account holds but a lockdown story that will initially bring out the titters and then possibly a tear or two has been added to the police files in the city. A scooterist who saw a woman park her scooter in Behala and leave the key behind by mistake parked his two-wheeler next to hers and allegedly rode away in the other vehicle with the intention of giving it to his wife as a birthday gift. Subsequent investigations and eyewitness accounts suggest the man then came back in an autorickshaw to take his own scooter back home. However, before he could clean the stolen scooter and present it to his wife, he was arrested and charged with theft. The complexion of what might have been little more than the misadventure of a reckless husband changed once he told his story to the police who are yet to corroborate it. The 39-year-old man told the police that he had wanted to present his wife with a scooter identical to his but the lockdown had left him in a financial crunch. An officer said: “He claimed that he worked for a private firm in Ahmedabad but lost his job during the lockdown. He now works for an insurance company but said he was not in a position to buy his wife a scooter she had been asking for.” “He said he had gone back to the theft spot in an auto to bring back his scooter. He had planned to gift the stolen scooter to his wife after cleaning it but the police team reached his house before that,” the officer added. The stolen scooter belonged to Moumita Karmakar, a Thakurpukur resident who rode her scooter to work on Monday as she usually does. She forgot to take the keys from the ignition after parking the two-wheeler near Behala Blind Boys’ Academy. Hours later, when she stepped out of her office, her scooter was missing. Karmakar went to Behala police station to report the theft. Officers started looking at footage from CCTV cameras in the neighbourhood and spotted a man approaching the parked scooter and riding away. “It was not apparent from the footage that he had parked his two-wheeler nearby. The picture quality was grainy. He was wearing a mask, making our task to identify him a little more difficult,” an officer said. Armed with still photographs of the man obtained from the CCTV footage, the police started looking around and found multiple witnesses who said they saw him park one vehicle, drive away another and return to the spot to take away the first vehicle. After a few hours’ search, the police could zero in on the man and found two scooters parked outside his two-storey home in Haridevpur, around 2km from the spot where Karmakar had parked her scooter. Booked under a non-bailable section of theft, he will be produced before the court on Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-296
23-09-2020||Calcutta||Crunch forces big Durga Puja to opt for smaller idols||In its 52nd year, the organisers of Durga Puja at Mohammad Ali Park are doing something for the first time — they have opted for a smaller ekchala idol. With the pandemic playing havoc and sponsors yet to respond, the organisers have been forced to slash their budget to nearly one-fourth of the amount they used to collect in previous years. And the first casualty is the idol. At Mohammad Ali Park, one of the biggest pujas on Central Avenue, idols would usually be around 20-22 feet in height. This year the height will not exceed 12ft. “We have not received a single query from corporate sponsors for advertisements till now,” said Ashok Ojha, the joint secretary of Mohammad Ali Park puja committee. “Every year, nearly 90-95 per cent of our budget would be sourced from advertisements. Given the location and the grandeur, ours would be a natural choice for top-notch corporates. But this year it’s different.” The decorators have been told to come up with a basic structure and for the first time the puja premises and the surroundings will not be illuminated by lights from Chandernagore. “Kush Bera, an artisan from Midnapore who makes our idols, is yet to quote his fee. The decorators have said they need some amount to pay the labourers,” said a committee member. “It’s really difficult. We had no alternative but to opt for ekchala idols this year.” Ekchala — or one arch — refers to the tradition of placing all idols and the demon against the backdrop of an arch. While several pujas in Calcutta have stuck to the age-old ekchala tradition, at Mohammad Ali Park it has always been different. Alok Sen, a trained artist, would come up with theme-based idols every year. Following Sen’s death, the mantle passed on to Bera. Last year, the Mohammad Ali Park puja was held in the courtyard of one of Calcutta's oldest fire stations on Central Avenue. The venue had to be shifted because cracks had developed in the British-era reservoir under Mohammad Ali Park. This year, too, the puja will be held on the fire station premises as the reservoir is yet to be repaired. The relatively smaller area of the courtyard compared to the park makes the task easier for the organisers. With the budget tight, every evening members will meet and take stock of the amount left in the puja committee’s bank account. “We are eagerly waiting to hear from the chief minister, who will meet representatives of various puja committees later this week,” Ojha said. “Our puja will happen and like every year there will be a message in our concept. I won't say what's that.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-296
23-09-2020||Calcutta||Three arrested for denying Madrasa teachers accommodation||The manager of a guest house in Salt Lake, an employee of another guest house in the township and a booking agent were arrested on Tuesday following allegations by 10 madrasa teachers that they were driven out of one guest house and refused accommodation in another because of their identity. The accused are Goutam Saha, 35, the manager of a guest house in DL Block; Sanjay Sen, alias Debu, 33, an employee of a guest house at CL; and Tubai Sharma, 25, an agent who had taken the group to two guest houses. The teachers from Malda have alleged that they had booked rooms in the DL Block guest house. All the men have been charged under various sections of the Indian Penal Code, including 295A (deliberate and malicious acts intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs) and 406 (criminal breach of trust). If convicted, the three can be jailed for three years and fined. A court in Salt Lake remanded them in two days’ police custody. “We have started a case and are probing it from every angle,” said Mukesh, the Bidhannagar City Police commissioner. One of the teachers said they got the impression that they were taken from one guest house to another and refused rooms because of their names, appearances and clothes. The teachers said they still could not fathom how such a thing could happen to them. “We are happy that the authorities have acted. We keep travelling to Calcutta on work. We regularly book guest houses to freshen up. This never happened before and we are aghast and still cannot accept that this has happened in Bengal,” said Mahbubur Rahman, the headmaster of Alipur Madrasah Shiksha Kendra in Kaliachak, Malda. The 10 madrasa teachers from Malda, including eight headmasters, arrived in Salt Lake around 6am on Monday after an overnight journey from Malda. They met with Sharma, who allegedly told them that there were no rooms in the DL-39 guest house and took them to the CL Block property. The teachers were given rooms at CL-264 but were asked to leave after a couple of hours. A police officer said Sen was on duty when the teachers were turned out of the CL Block guest house. Sharma then accompanied them to CJ2. In CJ Block, the group was made to wait for 45 minutes in a hall and then told that they could not be accommodated in any of the rooms, one of the teachers said. The teachers, who had booked rooms in the DL Block guest house to freshen up before attending a meeting in the education department, had no option but to take shelter under the East-West Metro viaduct (the ground below the overhead tracks) near Bikash Bhavan amid showers and left the city after finishing work. The guest houses in DL, CL and CJ blocks are operating out of properties that are marked as residential in the records of the urban development department, an official said. “Guest houses or other commercial establishments can run out of Salt Lake properties only after they are converted into commercial properties following the payment of a fee,” the official said. “The rates vary from one sector to another and commercial properties in Salt Lake have to pay a higher tax compared with residential ones," said an official of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation. The owners of the guest houses in CL and CJ blocks have not even applied for a trade licence from the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation, the official said. Krishna Chakraborty, the mayor of the corporation and whose ward includes CJ and CL blocks, said it was the urban development department's duty to check the status of properties used for commercial purposes. Asked why the corporation was not acting against guest house owners operating without a trade licence, Chakraborty said they did not have enough personnel to do so. “Our councillors don’t have enough manpower to check the paperwork of every guest house,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-296
23-09-2020||Business||Mistry gives up, to sell  out to Tatas||The Shapoorji Pallonji (SP) Group has finally thrown in the towel after a bruising, four-year battle with Ratan Tata and the executors of the trusts of the $113-billion salt-to-software conglomerate. “Today, it is with a heavy heart that the Mistry family believes that a separation of interests would best serve all stakeholder groups,” the Cyrus Mistry camp said in a media release just hours after the Supreme Court ordered status quo on the shares in Tata Sons that the SP Group had intended to pledge with a Canadian investor to raise badly needed funds for the cash-strapped construction and real estate group. The battle between the two partners had erupted in October 2016 when the Tata Group summarily removed Mistry as its chairman, angered over the manner in which he was running its affairs at Bombay House, the headquarters of the Tata Group. On September 5, the Tatas had filed a petition before the Supreme Court to stymie a funding agreement between the SP Group and Brookfield — a marquee Canadian investment firm — to raise a first tranche of Rs 3,750 crore. The real estate and construction group had been planning to raise Rs 11,000 crore that it desperately needed to tide over an acute funds crunch precipitated by the pandemic. The Mistry camp informed the apex court at a brief videoconference hearing in the morning that a “separation from the Tata Group is necessary due to the potential impact this continuing litigation could have on the livelihoods and the economy”. Counsel for the SP Group had informed the court that “it was crucial that an early resolution is reached to arrive at a fair and suitable solution reflecting the value of the underlying tangible and intangible assets (of Tata Sons)”, the release from the Mistry camp said. “The past oppressive actions, and the latest vindictive move by Tata Sons that impact the livelihoods of the wider SP Group community leads to the inescapable conclusion that the mutual co-existence of both groups at Tata Sons would be infeasible,” the letter issued by the Mistry camp said. The Tatas refused to comment on the sudden turn of events. Until the late evening letter, it wasn’t clear after the Supreme Court hearing that the Mistrys were planning to take such a precipitate step and sever their ties with the Tatas. Earlier in the day, a bench headed by Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde had ordered the parties to “maintain status quo regarding the transfer and pledging of shares already made” while posting the case for hearing on October 28. At the hearing, counsel for the two sides sparred over the Mistry camp’s fund-raising plan. Senior advocate Harish Salve, appearing for the Tatas, accused the SP Group of playing “mischief” by pledging the shares with a foreign company and not offering it to the Tatas who, he claimed, held the right of first refusal. Senior advocate C.A. Sundaram, appearing for the Mistry camp, countered the allegation and said the Tata Group’s action was “causing havoc” and “throttling” the Pallonji group from pledging its shares. The Mistry camp will of course try to extract the best possible value for the shares that the group assiduously built up within the Tata Group from the mid-sixties. An estimate floating around in Mumbai put the value of the Tata Sons equity shares at Rs 9,70,029 crore with each share valued at Rs 2.40 crore. This would place the value of the Mistry camp’s 18.37 per cent stake at Rs 1,78,459 crore. The estimate includes the value of Tata Sons’ stakes in various listed and unlisted companies of the group. It also includes the “intangible” value of the Tata brand which has been estimated at Rs 1,46,000 crore. Ratan Tata had pioneered a system in the mid-nineties under which group companies had to pay royalties to the holding company for the use of the Tata brand name. There are tough negotiations that lie ahead between the two partners turned foes. The Tatas are expected to try to beat down the valuation and the ultimate payout. The Mistry camp did not spell out how the process of separation would be achieved but it is likely to be a court-driven process, which could be initiated at the next hearing of the Supreme Court. Tata Sons had turned into a private limited company in September 2017 and changed its articles of association that empower it to exercise a right of first refusal on any share that an investor plans to sell in the group’s holding company. Tata Sons, which has only 23 equity shareholders, had all but effectively shut down the Mistry camp’s options. However, in December last year, the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) had ordered the reinstatement of Mistry as chairman of the group and declared the decision of the registrar of companies (RoC) to change Tata Sons’ status from a public company to a private company as “illegal” and set it aside. That verdict sparked another legal battle — this time before the Supreme Court. The SP Group has clearly tired of the costly litigation battle. On Tuesday, the group tried to set the record straight both on the events that have unfolded over the past four years and the honourable manner in which it had upheld its fiduciary responsibility as a minority shareholder of Tata Sons. “The SP Group had always used its voting rights as a shareholder for the best interest of the Tata Group. It is a matter of record that prior to the year 2000, when the Tata Trusts, being public charitable trusts, couldn’t exercise their voting rights, the same being held by a public trustee, the SP Group voted to protect the best interests of the Tata Group,” the Mistry camp’s release said. The letter recalled that Cyrus Mistry had accepted the position of chairman of Tata Sons in 2012 — when Ratan Tata decided to retire — “with a sense of duty as an ‘insider’ on the Board of Tata Sons”. Mistry said that he had attempted to establish a governance structure for the Tata Group — which eventually resulted in the feud with Ratan Tata — only because “several leaders who were retiring from the Board of Tata Sons also served as Trustees of the majority shareholders — the Tata Trusts”. The letter said Mistry was removed when he attempted to implement these “governance reforms” and undo the financial damage caused to the group because of certain “value destructive business decisions” taken in the past. As a result, the total debt of the major Tata Group companies had ballooned to approximately Rs 100,000 crore in the last three years. The Mistry camp said it decided to sever ties after being blocked by Tata Sons from raising funds from the pledge of the shares they held. The fund-raising plan was designed, it said, “to protect the livelihoods of 60,000 employees and over 100,000 migrant workers” of the 150-year-old SP Group.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-281
23-09-2020||Business||US partner for real estate consultant Anarock ||Real estate consultant Anarock on Tuesday said it has partnered US-based Binswanger to offer advisory, brokerage and transaction services in the industrial and logistics parks segment. The two partners — Binswanger Commercial Real Estate Services and Anarock — will offer these services on industrial real estate opportunities between India, the US and other global markets, Anarock said in a statement. “Manufacturing is the strongest common denominator among developed and developing nations. Many of our US-based clients business are eager to expand in India,” said Jeff Binswanger, managing partner, Binswanger. Anarock chairman Anuj Puri said the government’s thrust on local manufacturing has led to increased activity among international industrial units  to ramp up capacities in India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-281
23-09-2020||Business||Mistry camp looking at big valuations||The Shapoorji Pallonji camp is looking at a huge payout for the 18.37 per cent stake it holds in Tata Sons, the holding company of the $113-billion Tata group. An unofficial estimate floating around in corporate circles put the value of the Mistry camp’s holding of 74,352 Tata Sons’ shares at Rs 1,78,459 crore — which would arguably suggest the biggest-ever payout to any shareholder in India Inc even though both sides will almost certainly quibble over the sum. In a statement put out late on Tuesday evening, the Shapoorji Pallonji Group (SP Group) said it was looking for a “fair and equitable solution reflecting the value of the underlying tangible and intangible assets”of the group. Tata Sons has a 72.02 per cent stake in technology major TCS — the most profitable company in the group — which reported a total income of Rs 1.39 lakh crore in the year ended March 31 and earned a net profit of Rs 33,260 crore. The holding company also has a 32.93 per cent stake in Tata Steel, 38.97 per cent in Tata Motors and 28.51 per cent in Tata Chemicals — the other frontline companies in the group which comprises over 80 operating companies. A spokesperson for the SP Group refused to comment on the valuation of their equity holding in Tata Sons. Sources, however, said the Rs 1.75 lakh crore valuation had been derived from the value of the stakes held by Tata Sons in the listed and unlisted companies of the group and the value of the Tata brand. In the mid-nineties, Ratan Tata had ordered Tata group companies to pay a royalty for the use of the Tata brand name, setting a trend among several companies to extract a stream of revenue from operating companies in the group in addition to dividend income. Tata Sons currently holds a stake in 14 listed companies. Based on the closing price of TCS on the BSE on Tuesday, the value of the over 72 per cent stake held by Tata Sons comes close to Rs 6.82 lakh crore. Tata Sons also holds a stake in Titan, Voltas and Tata Consumer Products. Taken together, the market value of Tata Sons’ holdings in the group’s listed companies works out to over Rs 7.79 lakh crore. It also has a stake in several unlisted entities, including Ewart Investments, Panatone Finvest, Tata Capital, Tata International and Infinity Retail. The value of these investments is being assessed at Rs 25,000-50,000 crore. The Mistry family may also be looking at the Tata brand value. In June, Brand Finance, which values 5,000 of the world’s biggest brands, said the Tata group had retained its title as India’s most valuable brand. It said the value of the Tata brand had risen by a modest 2 per cent to $20 billion (or Rs 1.47 lakh crore) — the first time that any Indian brand has surpassed this threshold. It added that the Tata Group was the only Indian brand to feature in the top 100 of the Brand Finance Global 500. If the value of all the listed and unlisted companies is taken along with the valuation of the Tata brand, it would soar to over Rs 9.50 lakh crore. Based on the 18.37 per cent holding of the Mistry family, this could imply a value of over Rs 1.75 lakh crore for their holding in Tata Sons. However, these are only estimates and the actual payout may be less. While the key question is whether both the group will arrive at a valuation that is acceptable to them, it also remains to be seen if the Tatas can raise Rs 1 lakh crore to buy out the Mistry camp which also holds 20,000 preference shares of Tata Sons. Automobiles, steel, hospitality, consumer goods — areas in which the Tatas have a big investment — have been rocked by the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-281
23-09-2020||Business||Sebi shield for debt mutual funds||The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) is initiating a series of measures to address the challenges faced by debt mutual funds, particularly the lack of liquidity in non-AAA bonds. Apart from a “backstop facility” for such schemes, the market regulator will be setting up a working group to address the problem of liquidity risk management for open-ended debt-oriented schemes, Sebi chairman Ajay Tyagi said on Tuesday while addressing the 25th annual general meeting of the Association of Mutual Funds in India (Amfi). Tyagi said Sebi has taken several measures such as mandating fund houses to hold 20 per cent of their assets under management (AUM) in liquid assets like cash, government securities and treasury bills, and directing them to invest primarily in listed debt securities (including commercial paper). However, debt mutual funds have faced the challenge of significant risk aversion and the bond market was hit by illiquidity, especially in AA and below rated papers, resulting in redemption pressures. “That experience brought to the fore not only the structural issues related to the corporate bond markets but also revealed some areas of improvement in respect of the practices followed in the mutual fund industry,” Tyagi said. His comments must be seen in the context of the recent statement made by RBI governor Shaktikanta Das in his address to the Ficci national executive committee where he said that benign financing conditions and the substantial narrowing of spreads have spurred a record issuance of corporate bonds of close to Rs 3.2 lakh crore during 2020-21 up to August. Tyagi said Sebi was considering a backstop facility, a mechanism almost similar to a bad bank wherein the latter acquires the stressed assets of banks. However, in this case, it will be an entity that will buy the illiquid corporate bonds from mutual funds. The expert committee will frame a stress testing methodology, encompassing liquidity, credit and market risks for all open-ended debt-oriented mutual fund schemes. The panel will also design a framework to determine the minimum asset allocation required in liquid assets. According to Tyagi, another issue that needs to be examined is the impact of large redemptions on the remaining unit holders of a scheme. For schemes witnessing large redemption requests, there are high chances that the more liquid assets get liquidated first and the scheme is then left with a relatively more illiquid portfolio. This benefits exiting investors at the cost of those who continue to stay. Here, the proposed committee will examine liquidity risk management tools such as anti-dilution levy for passing on transaction costs to the transacting investors. On the recent circular on multi-cap funds, Tyagi said the market regulator was not forcing anyone to invest in small-caps and the investment should always be in the interest of investors amid new portfolio allocation rules for multi-cap mutual fund schemes. On the recent circular relating to multi-cap funds, he disclosed that a representation has been made by AMFI which is being examined by SEBI and a decision will be announced soon. It may be recalled that Sebi had made it mandatory for multi-cap funds to play true to their label and invest a maximum of 25 per cent in each of the fund categories: large cap, mid-cap, and small cap. Here he said that the market regulator is not forcing mutual funds to invest in small and mid cap funds, but they must not mis-label and mis-sell mutual fund products.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-282
23-09-2020||Business||PMC Bank gets new administrator||The RBI has appointed A.K. Dixit, former general manager of Union Bank of India, as the new administrator of Punjab and Maharashtra Cooperative Bank (PMC Bank) with effect from Wednesday. He will replace J.B. Bhoria, who is stepping down because of health reasons. The Parliament on Tuesday passed amendments to the Banking Regulation Act to bring co-operative banks under the supervision of the RBI, a move aimed at protecting the interest of depositors. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said the government was able to quickly resolve the crisis at Yes Bank as it was governed by commercial bank rules, but a solution for the PMC Bank crisis is yet to be found. PMC Bank, which is among the top 10 urban co-operative banks, was placed under an RBI administrator because of massive under-reporting of dud loans. The RBI said in a statement that while the administrator of PMC Bank and the central bank have been exploring various options for resolution, several factors such as huge losses incurred by the bank and a steep erosion in deposits pose serious challenges in finding a workable plan for revival of the bank. “The bank has also been making efforts to recover bad loans  although the progress has been constrained because of the Covid-19 pandemic and legal complexities. Nevertheless, in the interest of the depositors, the PMC Bank and the RBI are working with stakeholders to find a viable solution,’’ the RBI said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-282
23-09-2020||Business||Finance ministry to suspend spending forecasts||The government will not make expenditure forecasts for the next two financial years — 2021-22 and 2022-23 — because of “unreliable growth estimates” on account of the  Covid-19 pandemic, according to a finance ministry report. The ministry will not make a full disclosure in its medium-term expenditure framework (MTEF) statement that will be presented in the current session because of unreliable growth estimates. The statement is a mandatory requirement under the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management (FRBM) Act. The MTEF forecasts government expenditure based on GDP, fiscal deficit and gross tax revenue projections. “The MTEF statements provide rolling targets of prescribed expenditure indicators for the next two financial years — 2021-22 and 2022-23. These projections are usually derived by providing a normative increase over the anticipated expenditure of the current year, subject to other factors. This year, on account of the Covid-19 pandemic, the base line expenditure estimates may be artificially inflated,” the finance ministry said in a report. “It may be difficult to tease out the transient components of the Pradhan Mantri Gareeb Kalyan Package and Atma Nirbhar Bharat Abhiyan Package,” the report said. Hence, expenditure estimates may be unreasonably high providing an inaccurate fiscal plan, “and a faulty foundation for the upcoming budgets”, it said. The report also said the accepted recommendations of the 15th Finance Commission to transfer tax receipts to states and grants to local bodies are applicable till March 31, 2021. The share of taxes for financial years 2021 to 2026 will be based on the final report to be submitted in October-end. On the fiscal deficit target for 2019-20 being recalibrated to 3.8 per cent of GDP compared with the budgeted target of 3.3 per cent of GDP, the report said the deviation was necessary on account of the structural reforms, both on the supply and the demand side, carried out by the government. Parliament on Tuesday passed amendments to the Banking Regulation Act to bring co-operative banks under the supervision of the RBI, a move aimed at protecting the interest of depositors. The bill replaces an ordinance that was promulgated on June 26.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-282
23-09-2020||Business||Onion exports to Bangladesh to resume||The government is working on resuming onion supplies to Bangladesh with certain conditions within days of imposing a ban. The move follows diplomatic intervention which resulted in the consignment in transit to be exported. Senior commerce ministry officials said the ministry was considering imposing a minimum export price and also allowing certain varieties of onion such as Bangalore rose and Krishnapuram, that have insignificant domestic demand. They said the issue was being discussed at the highest level so that the relaxation in export does not result in a spike in domestic prices. Sources said the government plans to move cautiously on this issue, especially at a time the country is witnessing growing peasant unrest over the farm bill, and this can add fuel to farmers’ ire. Sources said the government would be keen to allow exports to neighbouring countries given the border tension so that the immediate markets in the neighbourhood are not captured by Pakistan and China. India is the biggest exporter of onions to Bangladesh, Nepal, Malaysia and Sri Lanka. However, traders in Bangladesh have been tapping various countries to import onion. According to the information provided by Chittagong Plant Quarantine Station (Sea Port), as many as 274 import permits were issued for 118,727 tonnes of onion between September 3 and September 21, the Dhaka Tribune said. These permits indicate that 17,365 tonnes of onion will come from China apart from shipments from Pakistan, Myanmar, Egypt, Turkey, the Netherlands, Malaysia and New Zealand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-282
23-09-2020||Business||Reliance Jio starts price war||After unleashing a price war in mobile tariffs and fibre-broadband services, billionaire Mukesh Ambani-led Reliance Jio on Tuesday unveiled postpaid plans, bundling up to 500GB of data and subscription to Netflix, Amazon Prime and Disney+ Hotstar. JioPostPaid Plus for mobile customers will have a monthly tariff of Rs 399 to Rs 1,499 with different benefits, the company said in a statement. The move assumes significance as it marks a major tariff offensive by Jio in the post-paid category, where typically average revenue per user tends to be far higher than the pre-paid segment. Jio is also offering free home delivery, activation and premium call centre service. “There can’t be a more opportune time to introduce JioPostpaid Plus,” said director Akash Ambani.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-282
23-09-2020||Business||Donald Trump plays H1B staff wage card||The US government is planning to raise the minimum wage for foreign workers under the H-1B visa programme ahead of the presidential elections in November. The move could act as an impediment to on-shoring contracts and may push technology companies to consider hiring more local employees. According to Reuters, the White House budget office is reviewing a regulation that would raise the wages that employers must pay to H-1B visa holders. The move is aimed at bringing parity in a programme that otherwise permits US employers to underpay H-1B workers compared to US workers. At present, H-1B employees are hired at four levels (entry, qualified, experienced, fully competent or supervisory) based on their education and experience. The US labour department determines the wages based on prevailing rates for specific employee roles in different regions of the country. However, market observers and legal experts said increasing the minimum wages could make it difficult for businesses, especially in the IT sector, to meet the minimum wage threshold, effectively deterring companies from hiring workers on the H-1B visa. US president Donald Trump faces re-election on November 3 and has made immigration a focus area of his campaign against Democratic challenger Joe Biden. Nandini P. Nair, partner at US law firm Greenspoon Marder LLP, said: “The Trump administration is pursuing an aggressive agenda to revamp the H-1B programme ahead of the elections. If the rumour is correct that they will most likely force employers to pay a Level 3 Wage, most companies will not be able meet that threshold, especially small, mid-size and startup companies. The impact would be great and could force business to shut down or off shore the work outside the US.” “The proposal to hike the minimum wage of foreign workers is more of an election propaganda which will severely affect the foreign workers employed in the IT sector. Such a move will push for local hiring and will further tighten the rules of employment for foreign workers,” said Sumit Batra, partner at India Law Alliance. IT industry sources said that poll related cyclical risks have played a crucial role in the growth of the sector and IT services growth in India has moderated in each of the last three US presidential election years. Nasscom is internally discussing the potential impact if the decision comes through. But most Indian IT companies such as TCS, Infosys, Wipro, TechM and HCL have started reducing their H-1B visa dependence in the last three years. Some of the firms have been hiring locally. US tech firms, however, have been a key recipient of H-1B visas in 2019.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-282
23-09-2020||Business||Murugappa clan riven by feud||The stage is set for another tussle in the Murugappa family. Shareholders of Ambadi Investments Ltd (AIL), the holding company of the Murugappa group, have voted against inducting Valli Arunachalam as a director. Arunachalam is the eldest daughter of the former executive chairman M.V. Murugappan. Early this year, Arunachalam, the US-settled nuclear scientist, had said in an interview that she was being denied a board berth just because she is a woman. M.V. Murugappan had passed away in September 2017, leaving a probate will bequeathing his 8.15 per cent stake in the group holding firm, Ambadi Investments, to his wife and two daughters. At an annual general meeting of the privately held AIL on Monday, around 91.36 per cent of its shareholders voted against a resolution that proposed a board position for Arunachalam. “In any event, we would definitely pursue justice and we will take all the steps needed for the same. Clearly it seems the family is more concerned about protecting its draconian perspectives and practices, even if it means forcing us to take the battle to courts. We will not shy away this time,’’ Arunachalam said in a statement. “It is evident that the family cannot tolerate women in their boardrooms, and they have showcased their considered view in this regard,’’ she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-282
23-09-2020||Business||August crude oil imports fall||Crude oil imports declined in August, though at a slower pace, as soaring coronavirus cases continued to hit mobility and slowed economic recovery, government data showed on Monday. Crude oil imports last month fell about 23.4 per cent from a year earlier to 15.15 million tonnes, or 3.58 million barrels per day (bpd), data from the Petroleum Planning and Analysis Cell (PPAC) of the ministry of petroleum & natural gas showed. On a monthly basis, imports rose 9.9 per cent from 13.79 million tonnes, or 3.26 bpd in July. Fuel demand in the world’s third-biggest oil importer and consumer also slipped in August, posting its biggest monthly decline since April and a sixth consecutive year-on-year drop. Refined product imports edged up 1.5 per cent to 3.25 million tonnes year-on-year, but slipped 18.77 per cent from 4.01 million tonnes in July.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-282
23-09-2020||India||Focus on micro-containment to fight Covid: Modi to states||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday asked states to press on with full strength in opening economic activities along with fighting the coronavirus pandemic and suggested that they should now focus on "micro-containment zones" to curb the disease. In a review meeting through video conference with chief ministers and representatives of seven states with a high burden of Covid-19 cases, Modi said having micro containment zones will help states in dealing with the spread of the infection and also allow normal activities to continue. The Prime Minister also questioned the efficacy of one or two-day local lockdowns imposed by certain states from time to time and asked them to reassess as to how effective they are in curbing the disease. "Is it that this is creating difficulties in the resumption of economic activities in your states? This is my request that all states consider it seriously," he said. Several states, including Bengal and Punjab, have from time to time imposed local lockdowns to contain the virus spread. He noted that only 60 districts out of more than 700 districts across the country, and that too in seven states, have a high number of cases. He suggested that the chief ministers draft a one-week programme to interact directly with officials in a few blocks of the recognised locations on a daily basis. The nationwide lockdown after the pandemic's outbreak benefitted us a lot, and the world has also lauded it, Modi said. "We should now focus only on micro-containment zones so that coronavirus spread is curbed and normal activities of life will also continue... We have to enhance our focus on effective testing, tracing, treatment, surveillance and clear messaging," he said. "We have to continue with the patience, empathy, dialogue and cooperation which the country has displayed during these corona times. While battling the infection, we have to press on with full strength on the economic front," Modi added. Chief ministers and other representatives, including health ministers of Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Delhi and Punjab attended the meeting. Union Home Minister Amit Shah was also present. An official statement had earlier said that more than 63 per of the active cases in the country are concentrated in these seven states. These states also account for 65.5 per cent of the total confirmed cases and 77 per cent of the total deaths. Acknowledging the continuous rise in the Covid-19 cases, he noted that over 10 lakh tests are being conducted on a daily basis and the number of people recovering is also going up sharply. Noting that most of the Covid-19 patients are asymptomatic, Modi said an effective messaging is all the more important as rumours often get spread and the common man wonders if the testing is wrong. He also said that wearing a mask is important in stopping the virus spread. The country has been able to supply medicines across the world during such hard times, Modi added. The infrastructure developed to treat Covid-19 in the last few months has been very helpful, and it has to be strengthened further and the tracking-tracing network should be given better training, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-651
23-09-2020||India||Covid: Union minister Suresh Angadi dead||The minister of state for railways, Karnataka BJP MP Suresh Angadi, passed away on Wednesday, days after he tested positive for Covid-19. The 65-year-old passed away around 8pm at the AIIMS trauma centre which has been converted into a dedicated Covid-19 facility, sources at the hospital said. A fourth-term MP from Belagavi, Angadi is the first Union minister to have died of coronavirus. At least six MLAs and three MPs have earlier succumbed to it. Former President Pranab Mukherjee, who died on August 31, was also diagnosed as Covid-19 positive. Angadi had on September 11 announced on Twitter that he had contracted the disease. The MP from Belagavi had requested all those who came in close contact with him over the past few days to monitor their health and get tested in case of any symptoms. Railway Minister Piyush Goyal said on the microblogging site: “Deeply anguished at the unfortunate demise of Suresh Angadi ji. He was like my brother. Words fall short to describe his commitment & dedication towards the people. My thoughts and prayers are with his family and friends in this hour of need. Om Shanti.” Former Prime Minister and JDS chief H.D. Deve Gowda expressed his sadness over the demise and tweeted that Angadi was like a younger brother. Rajya Sabha MP Rajeev Chandrasekhar also described Angadi’s death as a tragic, terrible, and sad news.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-651
23-09-2020||India||Rajya Sabha passes 15 bills in two days in Opposition's absence||The Rajya Sabha passed 15 bills in the last two sittings with opposition parties boycotting the proceedings to protest the suspension of eight members on Monday for their "unruly" behaviour in the House during the passage of two key farm bills. Seven of the bills were passed yesterday, eight today. Three of them were hugely contentious labour laws that have been opposed by the most labour unions, including one affiliated to the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh. Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu on Wednesday said it is "extremely unpalatable" when bills are passed amid a boycott of proceedings by some sections of the House, but not taking up legislative work in such a situation may legitimise their action as an "instrument of blocking legislation". He was speaking before adjourning the Upper House sine die, eight days ahead of schedule, due to the Covid-19 pandemic.  "Though it is not the first time that some members are suspended and bills are passed when some sections of the House boycott the proceedings, I find it extremely unpalatable. This kind of situation needs to be avoided by all means," Naidu said in his remarks on the conclusion of the 252nd session of Rajya Sabha. Expressing concern over the conduct of some of the members, he said it was "deeply painful" and all need to "collectively ponder" over these issues. Over the suspension on the eight members, Naidu said rules of the House do provide for such action when it becomes inevitable. "If legislative work is not taken up during the boycott by some sections of the House, it may legitimise such boycott as an effective instrument of blocking legislation," he said. Naidu said the House had to hold 18 sittings but it held only 10. "We have to conclude this session eight sittings ahead of the scheduled 18 sittings as the COVID-19 pandemic continues to challenge humankind across the globe even after nine months of its outbreak," he said. The Chairman also said that for the first time in the history of Upper House, a notice of motion for removal of the Deputy Chairman has been given, which was rejected by him. "The developments in the House surrounding this unprecedented move have been deeply painful for all those who hold the stature and the dignity of this august House dear to their hearts," he said Most of the opposition including the Congress, Left parties, the TMC, the Samajwadi Party and the NCP had decided to boycott House proceedings in protest against the suspension of the eight MPs Terming it an "unpleasant turn of events", Naidu appealed to members to ensure that "such unseemly behaviour is not repeated". "I am naturally more pained to see that happen as the chairman of this august House. It hurts me the most when the Chair is rendered helpless by the turn of events and has to perforce take action against the members as per the rules," said Naidu. Earlier in the day, the House passed key bills including three on labour reforms, two Appropriation Bills and the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Amendment. Naidu said the 10-day session was productive and as many as 25 bills were passed and six were introduced. "The productivity of the House during this session has been 100.47 per cent. As against the scheduled available time of 38 hours and 30 minutes, the actual functional time of the House has been 38 hours and 41 minutes," said Naidu. Though the Upper house has lost three hours and 15 minutes due to disruptions, it sat for an extra three hours and 26 minutes. "The new normal of high productivity witnessed during the last three sessions has continued during this session as well," he said, adding "as a result, the overall productivity of the last 4 sessions comes to a praiseworthy 96.13 per cent. This high productivity for four consecutive sessions is the best during the last 5 years." In this 252nd session, the Upper House has spent 22 hours 03 minutes on discussions over the government's legislative proposals during these 10 sittings, which is a record 57 per cent of the total functional time of the House during this session. Besides, 1,567 unstarred questions were replied to in writing by the government "Members raised issues of urgent public importance through 92 Zero Hour and 66 Special Mentions on which a total time of four hours 15 minutes was spent, accounting for 10.99 per cent of the total functional time of the House," he said. Despite the pandemic, 198 members participated in the discussion on various Bills During the session, Rajya Sabha had done readjustment of the sitting patterns to maintain social distance. It functioned from six different locations including the chambers of both the Houses - Rajya Sabha and Lok Sabha and four galleries of the upper house. "We are living in extraordinary times warranting several adjustments requiring us to live a new normal life," he said. The Monsoon session had started on September 14.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-651
23-09-2020||India||NCB summons Deepika, Shraddha and Sara Ali Khan in drugs case||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), which is probing an alleged Bollywood-drugs nexus, on Wednesday summoned actors Deepika Padukone, Shraddha Kapoor, Sara Ali Khan and Rakul Preet Singh, among others, for questioning, an official said.  Padukone has been summoned on Friday, the senior NCB official said here.  The NCB, which began the probe after a drugs angle came to light in connection with actor Sushant Singh Rajput's alleged suicide, has now widened its investigation and asked these A-list celebrities of the Mumbai film industry to "join the probe", he said.  Earlier, NCB sources had claimed that there was a "reference" to Rakul Preet Singh and Sara Ali Khan in the statement of Rhea Chakraborty, who has been arrested in the case.  Deepika has been called to record her statement on September 25, Sara Ali Khan and Shraddha Kapoor on September 26 while Rakul Preet Singh, Rajput's talent manager Shruti Modi and designer Simone Khambata have been asked to appear on Thursday, September 24, the official said.  Jaya Saha, a talent manager who was questioned in the case, provided some important information, he said.  Earlier, Padukone's manager Karishma Prakash was summoned to join the investigation, but she sought time due to ill health, he said, adding she was exempted from appearance till Friday.  Prakash's WhatsApp chats included conversations about drugs with one `D', NCB sources said, adding that the agency wanted to find out who this person was.  The NCB has arrested actor Rhea Chakraborty, Rajput's girlfriend, for alleged procurement and use of drugs.  On Wednesday, film producer Madhu Mantena arrived at the NCB guest house here to record his statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-652
23-09-2020||India||SC asks Centre to clarify modalities of air ticket refund||The Supreme Court on Wednesday asked the Centre to clarify by Friday the modalities of refund of air tickets to be made to the passengers and travel agents in view of cancellation of flights during the Covid-19 induced lockdown period. The top court asked the Centre to file a fresh affidavit by September 25, with regard to issues relating to modalities of ticket refunds on which Solicitor General Tushar Mehta conceded that the instant affidavit is poorly drafted. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R Subhash Reddy and M R Shah said that it is only concerned with refund and non-refund of money for tickets booked during the lockdown period. It was hearing a plea which has raised the issue of air tickets refund owing to cancellation of flights due to Covid-19 induced lockdown which had commenced from March 25. Senior advocate Sanjay Hegde, appearing for NGO Pravasi Legal Cell', said that if one books tickets in airlines like Air India, Indigo etc and fly out of India then the affidavit filed by Director General Civil Aviation (DGCA) is applicable. He said that the DGCA should also cover people for refund, who have booked flights on these carriers to come back to India like in the Gulf Countries and therefore the issue needs to be sorted. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for Ministry of Civil Aviation and DGCA, said that the government has taken a decision of refund keeping in mind the welfare of all and an appropriate solution has been worked out. Mehta said that a holistic view has been taken keeping in mind the interests of passengers and the airlines. The bench asked the Solicitor General what if prior to one day before the lockdown, a passenger has booked a flight ticket for travel during the period of lockdown, then what about his refund. Mehta replied that he would not get the refund immediately. The bench then asked Mehta what will happen to the refunds of a travel agent, who has already paid to the airlines for the tickets booked. Senior advocate Pinaki Misra, appearing for Air Vistara and AirAsia, said that usually travel agents deposit with airlines a corpus of Rupees one crores and its balance keeps coming down with the issuance of each ticket. He said that if the passenger has not yet paid for the ticket, then the corpus amount of travel agent will get reimbursed. Mehta said that under the prevailing circumstances this is the best solution which the government could arrive at keeping in mind the interest of all stake holders including the passengers and the Airlines. Misra said that DGCAs approach is one size glove fits all and the aviation regulator cannot say you must refund. "If passengers accept my offer voluntarily then how can I be compelled to pay a refund? I can't pay nine per cent interest on the refund amount," he said, adding that if this continues, then airlines may need a moratorium. Senior advocate C A Sundaram, appearing for Passengers Association, said that there is no question of entitlement of moratorium as this is the case of individual refunds. Senior advocate Arvind Dattar, appearing for some Airlines, said that it is a question of collapse of airlines which will close down otherwise and it is also a question of 30,000 to 40,000 employees working in these companies. Senior advocate Pallav Sisodia, appearing for travel agents federation, said that often the booking of tickets is only a part of the large bookings including hotels, food, etc and its part of a large trade channel. "If the money is not refunded to us then there will be numerous insolvencies. We will refund the amount to the passenger and if we don't refund then we can't work," he added. The top court gave another scenario and said that if a travel agent books a ticket for a passenger and if refund is granted to the passenger then what happens to the agent. It asked Mehta suppose a passenger has a refund voucher and he has not paid to an agent, then whether that voucher will only fetch a ticket from the same agent. Mehta said he will file a better affidavit with regard to the modalities of refund of tickets booked for flights which were cancelled as the instant affidavit is poorly drafted on this aspect. On September 9, the top court had asked the Centre to clarify whether it is willing to give complete refund of air tickets booked for travel during the Covid-19 lockdown. The DGCA, in its affidavit said that full refund shall be provided by airlines immediately for tickets booked during the Covid-19 lockdown for domestic or international travel within the lockdown period. It had said if airlines are not able to refund on account of financial distress, they shall provide a credit shell equal to the amount of fare collected and this shall be issued in the name of the passenger who has booked the ticket for domestic travel directly or through an agent including online platforms.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-652
23-09-2020||India||Elders pass three key labour bills amid Opposition boycott||Parliament on Wednesday approved three key labour reform bills that will remove impediments for winding up of companies and allow firing of staff without government permission in firms with up to 300 workers. Amid boycott by opposition parties including Congress and Left over suspension of eight MPs, Rajya Sabha passed by voice vote the three remaining labour codes on industrial relations, social security and occupational safety. The three codes were passed by Lok Sabha on Tuesday and these will now be sent to the President for his assent. Replying to the debate on the three labour reforms bills, Labour Minister Santosh Gangwar said,"The purpose of labour reforms is to provide a transparent system to suit the changed business environment." The minister also told the House that as many as 16 states have already increased the threshold for closure, lay off and retrenchment in firms with up to 300 workers without government permission. He maintained that is not good for employment generation to keep the threshold low at 100 because it discourages employers to recruit more workers than this and they deliberately keep their workers' strength below it. The minister was of the view that the increase in threshold would result in job creation and encourage employers to hire. He said these bills would safeguard the interest of workers and provide universal social security to workers by expanding the ambit of Employees' Provident Fund Organisation and Employees' State Corporation of India. He also said that there would a social security fund to cover around 40 crore unorganised sector workers. Over 29 labour laws have been merged into four codes and one (Code on Wages Bill, 2019) of them has already been passed, according to the minister. The Occupational Safety, Health and Working Conditions Code, 2020, will consolidate and amend the laws regulating the occupational safety, health and working conditions of persons employed in an establishment and related matters. The Industrial Relations Code, 2020, seeks to consolidate and amend laws relating to trade unions, conditions of employment in industrial establishments or undertaking, investigation and settlement of industrial disputes. The Code on Social Security, 2020, will amend and consolidate laws relating to social security with the goal to extend social security to all employees and workers either in the organised sector or the unorganised sector. The Code on Wages 2019 was passed by Parliament last year. The passage of the remaining three codes by Parliament completes government efforts to reform labour laws in the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-652
23-09-2020||India||Mumbai struggles to stay afloat||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-652
23-09-2020||India||Rain disrupts rail, road traffic in Mumbai; more showers on the cards||Mumbai received one of the highest showers in the last 24 hours of this monsoon season and more rainfall is likely in the city and suburbs on Wednesday, MeT officials said. Heavy showers overnight and early Wednesday morning caused waterlogging at many places in the metropolis, disrupting rail and road traffic. Rains across the island city and the western suburbs picked up late Tuesday evening. There were intense spells across Mumbai for a few hours overnight, an official said. "Mumbai received one of the highest rainfall in the last 24 hours," India Meteorological Department's (IMD) Mumbai centre Deputy Director General K S Hosalikar said. The city and suburbs are likely to receive heavy showers on Wednesday also, he added. The Santacruz observatory (in western suburbs) received 286.4 mm showers during the 24-hour period ending at 8.30 am on Wednesday, which is the fourth highest rainfall in the Maharashtra capital's history, another IMD official said. The Colaba observatory (in south Mumbai) recorded 147.8 mm rainfall during the same period. As per IMD Mumbai's record of Santacruz observatory since 1974, it reported 318.2 mm rainfall in 24 hours on September 23, 1981, 312.4 mm rainfall on September 23, 1993 and 303.7 mm rainfall on September 20, 2017. "Today's rainfall of 286.4 mm is the fourth highest between 1974 and 2020," the official said. According to the IMD, rainfall recorded below 15 mm is considered light, between 15 and 64.5 mm is moderate and above 64.5 mm is heavy. Several parts of Mumbai received more than 120 mm rainfall in the last 24 hours, the MeT department said. The Ram Mandir area received 298 mm rainfall, while Dahisar received 190 mm rainfall during the period. "Most of the rainfall in Mumbai was received after late Tuesday night," the official said. In neighbouring Navi Mumbai, Diwale area received 304 mm rain, Nerul-301.7 mm, CBD Belapur-279.8 mm, Sanpada-185.1 mm, Vashi-179.5 mm and Ghansoli-136.9 mm in last 24 hours. Besides, in neighbouring Thane city, Kopri area received 195.3 mm rain, Chirak Nagar-136.5 mm and Dhokali area got 127 mm during the same period. Since June 1 this year, the Santacruz observatory has so far recorded 3,571.1 mm downpour, while the Colaba observatory has recorded 3,147.3 mm rainfall during the period, the official said. The Bombay High Court on Wednesday suspended its hearings scheduled for the day, including all virtual hearings, in view of the heavy rainfall in the city and suburbs. The bail pleas filed by actress Rhea Chakraborty and her brother Showik Chakraborty, both arrested in a drugs case related to the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, were to be heard on Wednesday by a single bench of Justice Sarang Kotwal through video-conferencing. Besides, a division bench led by Justice S J Kathawalla was scheduled to hear actress Kangana Ranaut's plea against the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation over the demolition of a part of her bungalow in Pali Hill area here. As per the communication issued by the high court registrar, these cases and other matters scheduled during the day will be taken up by the benches concerned on Thursday. Heavy showers overnight and early Wednesday morning caused water-logging at many places in Mumbai, disrupting rail and road traffic, officials said. Five teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) are on standby in view of heavy rains that have lashed Mumbai, Thane and Palghar districts and caused water-logging in many areas, Maharashtra Relief and Rehabilitation Minister Vijay Wadettiwar said on Wednesday. "Since last night, Mumbai, Thane and Palghar districts have been witnessing very heavy rains, due to which there is flood-like situation in many places. Five teams of NDRF are on stand by to assist local administration," the minister said. He appealed to people to stay indoors in view of flooding in many areas in Mumbai and other places.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-652
23-09-2020||India||Mobile app for Vaishno Devi devotees ||Devotees of the Mata Vaishno Devi shrine in Trikuta hills of Jammu and Kashmir's Reasi district will soon have live 'darshan' of the cave shrine through its mobile app, officials said. The app, set to be launched on October 17, the first day of Navratri, would also have a feature to conduct live 'hawan', they said. "Although, the coronavirus outbreak briefly halted the large gathering at religious places, the board is devising new methods so that devotees unable to take nearly 12 km trek to the cave and can still have darshan and blessings while sitting at home," a senior official of the board said. He said that this would be in continuance to the formal launch of home delivery of Mata Vaishno Devi pooja prasad launched by Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha on Monday. Pertinently, devotees can book the pooja prasad through the board's website, which is then dispatched by the board to the devotees across the country through speed post for which the board has entered into an agreement with the postal department. This has been done on the directions of the Lt governor for optimum use of technological interventions to expand the reach. The Chief Executive Officer of the Board, Ramesh Kumar, said, currently, 'aarti' (daily ritual of worship) is being live-streamed on a religious TV channel. "However, the mobile app would provide an opportunity to the worshippers across the globe to have individual experience of godliness and bliss. Mobile App also provide flexibility so devotees will not miss the 'Amrit Vela' even if they are on the move," Kumar said, adding that the new app for live 'darshan' and 'hawan' will work on both 'Android' and 'iOS' operating systems. Since the inception of the Shrine Board in 1986, there has been a steadfast increase in the pilgrims visit (yatra) to the holy shrine, however, due to the Covid-19 pandemic, it witnessed a significant decline this year. The yatra was resumed on August 16 initially with a ceiling of 5,000 pilgrims per day with the safety procedures. Personal protective equipment kits have been provided to the Shrine Board employees and standard operating procedures have been put in place to keep the infection under check.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-652
23-09-2020||India||Quiet burial whiff on Ladakh status quo  ||India and China on Tuesday night issued statements that suggested New Delhi has either not pushed or has been unable to push for the restoration of status quo ante along the Line of Actual Control. A military veteran went so far as to say that “India seems to have accepted the new status quo and given up the restoration of status quo ante as of April 2020”. The statement issued by the Indian defence ministry around 9.45pm on Tuesday — almost 24 hours after 14 hours of military talks on Monday — said: “The two sides had candid and in-depth exchanges of views on stabilising the situation along the LAC in the India-China border areas. They agreed to earnestly implement the important consensus reached by the leaders of the two countries, strengthen communication on the ground, avoid misunderstandings and misjudgements, stop sending more troops to the frontline, refrain from unilaterally changing the situation on the ground, and avoid taking any actions that may complicate the situation.” An identical statement was issued by the Chinese embassy in New Delhi. The military talks on Monday were attended by an official of the Indian foreign ministry. The agreement to “stop sending more troops to the frontline, refrain from unilaterally changing the situation on the ground, and avoid taking any actions that may complicate the situation” appears to imply that India has settled on the alignment of border forces, and lines of control, as they exist now, rather than as they were aligned in April, when the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) of China began to push into areas India considered its own. The thrust of the ongoing effort appeared to be on managing the border situation and preventing it from escalating further, not ensuring that the Chinese withdraw from areas it had intruded upon since early May. That problems on the ground were yet to be resolved was apparent from the statements. “The two sides also agreed to hold the 7th round of military commander-level meeting as soon as possible, take practical measures to properly solve problems on the ground, and jointly safeguard peace and tranquillity in the border area,” the statements from the Indian defence ministry and the Chinese embassy added. On Monday, the sixth round of talks was held. In the months since April, the PLA has radically altered the unmarked LAC, pushing south and west along several friction points including the Galwan Valley, the Depsang plains and heights overlooking the Pangong Tso. According to some estimates, the PLA has now taken over close to 1,000sqkm in the barren but strategically critical plains and valleys of eastern Ladakh. The demand to restore status quo ante has been missing from recent negotiations India has had with the Chinese at both the military and the diplomatic levels. Publicly, the Indian government had made the restoration of status quo ante the prerequisite for bringing bilateral ties back on track. Through the day on Tuesday, before the statements were issued at night, several veterans had aired suspicion that India may have resorted to a give-and-take formula to wriggle out of the border dispute. After the identical statements, veteran Sushant Singh tweeted:  “To put it bluntly, the contention that talks between India and China are ‘deadlocked’ is not borne by today’s joint press statement. China has not conceded anything. India seems to have accepted the new status quo and given up the restoration of status quo ante as of April 2020.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-652
23-09-2020||India||How to add hot tea to injury||After using actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death to divert attention from Bihar’s floods and the pandemic situation, the BJP has latched onto Rajya Sabha deputy chairman Harivansh to steer it through the gathering storm over the contentious farm bills ahead of Assembly elections in the state and to shield itself from the charge of bulldozing Parliament. Harivansh’s morning visit to Parliament House to offer tea and snacks to the eight MPs suspended from the Rajya Sabha for Sunday’s ruckus over the farm bills that he had declared passed by a contested voice vote, and his letter to the President saying he was so anguished by the MPs’ attacks on him that he had been unable to sleep were used by none other than Prime Minister Narendra Modi to hail the deputy chairman. The Prime Minister tweeted: “To personally serve tea to those who attacked and insulted him a few days ago as well as those sitting on dharna shows that Shri Harivansh Ji has been blessed with a humble mind and a big heart. It shows his greatness. I join the people of India in congratulating Harivansh Ji.” This was followed up later with another tweet in which he shared Harivansh’s letter to the President. In the letter, dated Tuesday, the deputy chairman dwelt on his Bihar background and announced his decision to observe a day’s fast. Around the same time that Modi tweeted the letter, it was referred to in the Rajya Sabha by leader of the House Thawar Chand Gehlot. Soon enough, several ministers and multiple BJP handles were sharing the letter on social media, leaving no one in doubt about the strategy that was being unfolded for that force multiplier — news television — to carry forward. “For centuries the great land of Bihar has been teaching us the values of democracy. In line with that wonderful ethos, MP from Bihar and the Rajya Sabha Deputy Chairperson Harivansh Ji’s inspiring and statesman like conduct this morning will make every democracy lover proud,” Modi tweeted. The Opposition is up in arms over the manner in which the two farm bills were steamrollered through the Rahya Sabha on Sunday, with Harivansh who was in the Chair not accepting its demands for a division (paper or electronic vote). Leader of the Opposition Ghulam Nabi Azad said in the Rajya Sabha on Tuesday the way the bills were rushed through the House was the last straw. Arguing that the Opposition has a duty towards the people, Azad announced a boycott of the rest of the session by the Congress unless the government ensures through legislation that private buyers of agriculture produce will pay the MSP (minimum support price) and the suspension of the eight MPs is revoked. Subsequently, other Opposition parties also followed suit. The MPs, who were at the forefront of the protests against the farm bills in the House on Sunday, were suspended on Monday and spent the night on dharna on the Parliament Complex lawns. By the time the rest of the Opposition along with the Telangana Rashtra Samithi — which usually votes with the government — boycotted the Rajya Sabha, the eight MPs had decided to call off their dharna at Parliament House, having completed the 24-hour cycle that saw several party leaders join them in solidarity. The BJP accused the Opposition of “humiliating” Harivansh and sought to portray this as an “insult” to Bihar, describing him as a “son” of the state. Nominated to the Rajya Sabha from Bihar, Harivansh is from Ballia district in Uttar Pradesh. He was chief editor of Prabhat Khabar, a newspaper based in Ranchi. Although the BJP and the government sought to make this a fight between the Opposition and Harivansh, the Opposition was careful not to oblige. “Why should we react? That’s what they want,” said an Opposition leader even as Trinamul’s Derek O’ Brien said the fight was against the “Fascist methodology to demolish Indian democracy” by the two people in charge — “M&S” — as he calls the Modi-Shah duopoly. Azad stressed the Opposition had nothing personal against Harivansh. But the Opposition also made it clear it was not taken in by his tea and snacks trip. “If the deputy chairman was sincere in his intent, why did he come to offer us tea in the morning with three cameras in tow?” asked the CPM’s Elamaram Kareem. “When he came to our protest site near the Gandhi statue on the Parliament House lawns, he told us that he was coming in an unofficial capacity and had, therefore, not used his official vehicle. We asked, ‘If so why are there three camerapersons with you?’” Kareem told The Telegraph. Another leader who did not want to be quoted said the alacrity with which the Prime Minister amplified the tea offer and the letter showed how desperate the BJP was to divert attention from the farm bills that have triggered widespread apprehension among farmers across the country. “Farmers are out on the streets; it is not about individuals,” RJD’s Manoj Jha told this newspaper; steering clear from the BJP’s efforts to deify Harivansh. Earlier, in the Rajya Sabha, chairman Venkaiah Naidu said Harivansh had adopted Mahatma Gandhi’s and J.P. Nayaran’s way by deciding to observe a day’s fast in the hope that it will inspire introspection among those MPs who “misbehaved” with him. Harivansh was not alone in announcing a fast. Veteran politician and former agriculture minister Sharad Pawar also announced a day’s fast in solidarity with the suspended MPs in their fight for farmers and democracy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-652
23-09-2020||India||Lockdown is making us work in mysterious ways ||Nilachala Parida, 26, lost his job during the lockdown but not his will to surmount obstacles and lend a helping hand. Parida, a mountaineer who earns his living as a taxi driver, lost his job during the lockdown, but not one to be cowed down he took to selling vegetables. The mountaineer’s spirit in him not only helped him to pick up the pieces of his life but also to come to the aid of others to whom the lockdown had dealt a more cruel blow. Parida has started a free delivery service, carrying vegetables and groceries to the homes of elderly people and others restricted by the pandemic and the lockdown. He has also been paying from his pocket to sanitise the houses of Covid patients. In the process, the youth caught the eye of Royal Challengers Bangalore (RCB), the IPL team led by Virat Kohli that is honouring “Covid heroes”. Gestures such as that of Parida would not hurt the IPL in case it feels squeamish about going out of its way to stage the jamboree in the middle of the pandemic. On Monday, RCB’s South African all-rounder Chris Morris sported a jersey that had Parida’s name embossed on it during the match against Sunrisers Hyderabad. Before the start of this IPL, RCB had announced they would honour the efforts and sacrifices of the Covid-19 warriors with “My Covid Heroes” inscribed on the back of their jerseys while training as well as during matches. Parida told The Telegraph on Tuesday: “I was so happy to see his (Morris’s) jersey embossed with my name. At least my work for the people has been recognised. I don’t want anything but recognition, which will motivate me to move ahead. It’s also a kind of recognition of the good work being done by thousands of Covid warriors who are helping people in their respective areas without any self-interest.” Sitting with his widowed mother Urmila in his ramshackle hut near Delta Square in Bhubaneswar, Parida said: “First I could not believe when I saw Morris wearing a jersey with my name on it. To be sure, I asked my friends to check. Morris not only wore the jersey, he also changed his Twitter handle to my name. I was overwhelmed. No money can buy this happiness.” Morris, a pacer who is also known for his lusty blows with the willow down the order, tweeted on Monday, along with a picture of him wearing a jersey with Parida’s name embossed on it: “Nilachala Parida set up a vegetable shack during lockdown and offered free delivery to senior citizens. Saluting Nilachala’s spirit, I’ll be wearing a jersey dedicated to him and all such challengers!” Morris did not play Monday’s match and Parida would have seen him during pre-match. Parida said he lost his job during the lockdown. “Suddenly, the Janata Curfew was announced in March. I became jobless like thousands of others. The car owner for whom I worked asked me not to come. I was depressed for three-four days. Then I decided to fight back. I have learnt this as a mountaineer,” he said. Parida has scaled more than eight peaks in India and attended various national adventure camps. He had been selected to climb Mount Elbrus in Russia in August. However, the mission had to be postponed due to the pandemic. Parida said he could not sit idle, seeing the sufferings of people during the lockdown. “Me and my friends from my adventure club Go India Adventure plunged ourselves into social service. With the help of my volunteers, I am sanitising homes of Covid patients. I fund the service with the profit I make from selling vegetables,” he said. “I have also started a free delivery service. My volunteers and I deliver vegetables and groceries to people’s doorsteps,” Parida added. On how he was spotted by RCB, Parida said: “When I started selling vegetables by the roadside it caught the attention of people. Some people posted about my work (to help people) on social media. On August 6, I got a call from RCB business head Simran Duggal who said they were impressed with my work and wanted to honour me.” “Duggal asked me about my background and the details of my work and achievements. The RCB management called me eight to nine times to check various facts. Fifteen days back, they sent two photographers (from Odisha) to click my pictures and those of my house and work place,” Parida said. His mother, Urmila, said: “He is my youngest son. Let him live happily. May Lord Jagannath bless him.” Parida’s elder brother Seemachal supports him in his social work. “My ultimate ambition is to see him climb Mount Everest,” Seemachal said. Parida’s work has also been recognised by Himachal Pradesh’s APG Shimla University that has selected him for admission to a law course on a scholarship.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-652
23-09-2020||India||Never seen Chair behave like this: NCP chief Sharad Pawar ||NCP chief Sharad Pawar on Tuesday said that never in his 50 years in legislative politics had he seen a presiding officer behave the way Rajya Sabha deputy Chairman Harivansh had during the passage of the farm bills and expressed concern over the Chair “not allowing” Opposition MPs to put forth their views. Talking to reporters, the former Union agriculture minister also objected to the manner in which the farm bills were passed in the Rajya Sabha on Sunday amid Opposition protests. The Rajya Sabha member said he was observing a fast in Mumbai on Tuesday in support of the eight MPs who had been suspended from the Upper House. “Members like me had expected that the Chairman, the Deputy Chairman or those in the Chair would look at the issue seriously and give the members an opportunity to express their views. But it did not happen,” the veteran leader said. Opposition members had conveyed to Harivansh that he had not gone by the rules when the bills came up for discussion in the Rajya Sabha, Pawar said. “It was expected from the Deputy Chairman that he would at least listen to the rules the members were referring to. But it did not happen and immediately voting was held, that too by voice.… Hence, the members reacted sharply,” he added. The NCP leader pointed out that Harivansh had been projected as a leader who followed the ideology of Karpoori Thakur, the late Bihar chief minister who was considered an expert on parliamentary democracy and rights. But Harivansh had ignored all these ideologies, resulting in the suspension of Rajya Sabha members and the snatching of their rights, Pawar said.  Pawar has been served a notice by the income tax department in connection with the poll affidavits he had submitted to the Election Commission. Pawar told reporters that the income tax department had sought his “clarification and explanation”. “I got the notice yesterday.... We are happy that they (the Centre) love us from among all the members.… The notice was served by the income tax department after the Election Commission asked (it) to.… We will reply to the notice,” he said. Pawar was responding to a query on reports that his daughter and Lok Sabha member Supriya Sule, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and environment minister Aaditya Thackeray had received similar notices from the income tax department. Pawar also made light of reports on the possibility of the imposition of President’s rule in Maharashtra. “Is there any reason for (imposing President’s rule)? Is President’s rule some joke?” he asked, adding that the ruling Sena-NCP-Congress Maha Vikas Aghadi combine enjoys a clear majority in the Maharashtra Assembly. Pawar also criticised the central government for banning the export of onions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-652
23-09-2020||India||SC asks CBSE, UGC to ensure admissions||The Supreme Court on Tuesday asked the University Grants Commission and the Central Board of Secondary Education to take steps for facilitating admission of over 2 lakh compartmental students across the country into various universities or colleges after they pass the supplementary exams, citing “exceptional” circumstances because of the pandemic. The supplementary exams started on Tuesday. The CBSE told the apex court that it would take at least three to four weeks to declare the results while the UGC said the admission process would start by October end. “Don’t release the academic calendar till Thursday. Let the CBSE inform us and then you both coordinate. Two lakh students is not a small number and we have to work out a solution in this exceptional year. You need to work in tandem with the CBSE,” a bench headed by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar told additional solicitor general Rupinder Singh Sodhi appearing for the Centre. The bench also comprising Justice Sanjiv Khanna was dealing with a petition filed by some aggrieved students, seeking extension of college admissions deadline because of the delayed compartmental exams and time to be taken for results. According to the students, the exams should have been ideally cancelled on account of the pandemic as was done in the case of regular students by the CBSE. But since the board had decided to proceed with the compartmental students, the admission deadline in colleges should be extended to give them an opportunity, senior advocate Vivek Tankha appearing for the petitioners told the court. “If students don’t get admissions then what is the use of exams?” he asked, while pointing out that 2 lakh students are appearing for the exams. In response to a query from the bench, advocate Apoorv Kurup appearing for the UGC said the cut-off date for the admission process is by end of October. “This is a peculiar situation and can you make some room for these students,” Justice Khanwilkar said while asking the CBSE to declare results of the compartmental exams before the cut-off date so that successful students can get admission. Advocate Rupesh Kumar appearing for the CBSE told the court that papers need to be corrected at 16 regional centres and the board would require three to four weeks for completing the evaluation. “This is an exceptional year and you have to make some room. The academic career of two lakh students cannot be hampered…. If the CBSE declares results by end of October, then you can wrap up admissions by first week of November,” Justice Khanwilkar told the UGC counsel. The court has adjourned the matter till Thursday by which the CBSE and the UGC are to take a joint decision on declaration of results and admissions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-653
23-09-2020||India||Modi has lit farm fire: Congress||The Congress on Tuesday fiercely contested Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s assertion that the farm bills had nothing to do with the mandi system and the minimum support price, arguing that there was a definite plan to undermine public procurement and promote private players who are not legally bound to pay the MSP. The Congress MP from Fatehgarh Sahib in Punjab, Amar Singh, who had been chairman of the Food Corporation of India and knows agriculture trade in and out, said: “Mark my words, public procurement will be reduced drastically and the public distribution system will be weakened. They are implementing the recommendations of the Shanta Kumar Committee and the World Trade Organisation. Why don’t they bring in a legal provision for MSP and make a commitment that public procurement will not be reduced? There will be nothing left of the mandi system over the next five years.” The Modi government had set up a six-member committee headed by BJP veteran Shanta Kumar in August 2014. The committee recommended in 2015 the encouragement of private players in agriculture trade, including procurement and storage, procurement by the FCI only in states where mandi systems are weak or non-existent, deregulation of the fertiliser sector and reduction in the number of beneficiaries under the Food Security Act. Questioning the credibility of the Prime Minister’s assurances, another Congress MP from Punjab, Jasbir Singh Gill from Khadoor Sahib, said: “The Prime Minister said during demonetisation, ‘Give me 50 days, everything will be all right.’ He said the corona battle would be won in 21 days. Now the agriculture minister says these reforms will change the face of agriculture in two years. What kind of change, the same as we saw during demonetisation and corona? Modi has lit a fire that will damage agriculture. I appeal to every farmer all over the country to boycott the MPs who support these bills.” Amritsar MP Gurjeet Singh Aujla said: “The question is — how will the government force the private companies to pay MSP? A plan to introduce private players in a big way is already afoot. You can check in Punjab: silos and warehouses of the Adani Group have already been built.” Adani Agri Logistics is the leading player in the silo storage of grains with significant presence in Punjab, Haryana, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala explained how the government was “misleading” the farmers on MSP. He said the MSP for wheat announced on Monday was a rise of merely 2.6 per cent over last year’s figure but the government was claiming that they were giving input cost plus 50 per cent profit on most crops. “The report of the CACP (Commission for Agriculture Costs and Prices) exposes the government’s lie. The report shows that the government has taken the input cost of wheat in 2020-21 and 2021-22 as same — Rs 960 per quintal. As if the costs of land, diesel, fertiliser and labour have not increased in one year! The MSP at actual input cost plus 50 per cent profit should be Rs 2,200, but it is only Rs 1,975. The same is the case with barley and chana. The MSP is lesser than the input cost in many states,” Surjewala said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-653
23-09-2020||India||Opposition away, 7 bills rushed through Rajya Sabha in 3 hours ||The Rajya Sabha on Tuesday passed or returned as many as seven bills in three hours with most Opposition parties boycotting the business. The Upper House approved the Indian Institute of Information Technology (IIIT) Laws (Amendment) Bill, Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, Banking Regulation (Amendment) Bill, Companies (Amendment) Bill, National Forensic Sciences University Bill, Rashtriya Raksha University Bill and the Taxation and Other Laws (Relaxation and Amendment of Certain Provisions) Bill. Some of the bills had already  been passed by the Lok Sabha. Opposition parties like the Congress, Trinamul Congress, DMK, RJD, CPM, Shiv Sena, CPI and the Aam Aadmi Party were absent in the House in protest against the suspension of eight MPs. Each bill was discussed for less than 30 minutes. Apart from the BJP and its allies, leaders of a few parties that are seen to be friendly to the NDA government —  such as the Biju Janata Dal, YSR Congress and the Telugu Desam Party — were present. Since most Opposition members were absent, the number of speakers for every bill was reduced. Nobody demanded any division of votes, an instrument sometimes exercised by Opposition parties while bills are passed by voice votes. On each bill, each speaker was allowed two minutes to speak. The IIIT bill refers to award of Institution of National Importance (INI) status to five IIITs. The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill aims to remove cereals, pulses, oil seeds, edible oil, onion and potato from list of essential items. The government had passed an ordinance in June. Minister of state for home Kishan Reddy moved the National Forensic Sciences University Bill and the Rashtriya Raksha University Bill. The Forensic University Bill seeks to upgrade the Gujarat Forensic University to an INI, a status that will enable greater funding for research. The Rashtriya Raksha University in Gujarat will also enjoy the INI status and focus on defence studies. The National Investigation Agency on Tuesday took over the investigation in two cases pertaining to violence in Bangalore on August 11 night and named Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) leader Muzamil Pasha for “instigating the mob” over an alleged derogatory social media post by the relative of a Congress MLA. Three persons were killed after police opened fire to quell a mob on rampage in DJ Halli and adjoining areas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-653
23-09-2020||India||BJP leader suicide linked to poverty||A village level BJP leader allegedly committed suicide in Etawah district in Uttar Pradesh because he didn’t get a house under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana though police claimed he took the extreme step because of a family dispute. Pramod Kumar Yadav alias Bhura, 35, Saifai block secretary of the BJP, consumed poison on Monday. He was rushed to the Uttar Pradesh University of Medical Sciences, Saifai, where he died during treatment. BJP’s Saifai district president Ajay Pratap Singh Dhakre told reporters that Bhura was trying to get a house under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana — Gramin for the last two years. “He was disillusioned because he was unemployed and didn’t have a house of his own. He was trying for the last two years to get a house under the PM Awas Yojana,” Dhakre said. Bhura leaves behind his wife and two children, who live in a rented house in Nagla Safi area of Saifai, 230km west of Lucknow. Chandra Sen Yadav, station house officer of Saifai, claimed that Bhura committed suicide because of a family dispute. “There was some dispute in his family and so he committed suicide. His body was handed to his family members after post-mortem. An inquiry is going on,” said the police officer. Saroj Devi, wife of the deceased, said, “He was in the BJP for the last four years. Two years ago, he had applied for a house under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana but his application was rejected on Saturday. We were in a financial crisis because he was unemployed.” Previously known as Indira Awas Yojana, a social welfare programme for the poor, its name was changed in 2015 to Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana — Gramin. A similar scheme was launched for the urban poor in the same year. An officer of the rural development department in Etawah said on the condition of anonymity that Bhura didn’t get a house under the scheme because for the 30,000 applicants, there were only 3,000 houses ready. “We are in the process of allotting houses to the beneficiaries. Maybe he would have got a house at a later stage,” said the officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-653
23-09-2020||India||Covid cases dip but don’t let your guard down||India’s count of coronavirus disease patients under medical supervision fell below 1 million for the first time on Tuesday after crossing that mark a week ago, but experts cautioned the epidemic remains huge and primed for further spread. The number of Covid-19 patients fell by more than 27,000 over the previous 24 hours to reach 975,861 on Tuesday from 1,003,299 on Monday after three successive days with daily recoveries exceeding the daily new cases. The numbers of Covid-19 patients declared recovered every day has exceeded the numbers of daily new cases detected for the past four days, a top official in the Union health ministry said. “We have not seen this kind of successive increase in daily recoveries over daily new cases since May,” Rajesh Bhushan, the Union health secretary said. Each day, if the number of patients recovered is higher than new cases, the load of active patients reduces. The number of new cases has fallen over the past four days — 93,337 cases from about 881,000 samples tested on September 18, 92,605 cases from 1.2 million tests on September 19, 86,961 cases from 731,534 tests on September 20, and 75,083 cases from 933,000 tests on September 21. New cases detected hinges on the numbers of samples tested. “It cannot be said that testing has come down, therefore these figures are showing something that is not as per reality,” Bhushan said, seeking to douse concerns that the observed fall in new cases might be the outcome of fall in tests. However, public health specialists say any abrupt drop in new cases would be worrying, particularly because the epidemic still appears to be in its growth phase and the vast majority of the population across the country remains susceptible. “Any sudden drop would need careful review of the number of diagnostic tests done to make sure that everyone who needs a test has access to a test,” said Oommen John, a physician and senior research fellow at The George Institute for Global Health, New Delhi. The health ministry has been urging states to expand testing to help diagnose patients early. The cumulative number of samples tested in India has increased from 10 million by July 7 to 30 million by August 3 to over 60 million by September 17. Daily testing data from the Indian Council of Medical Research and the National Institute of Epidemiology, Chennai, shows that the total number of tests done over the past week had fallen to around 7.01 million tests from 7.66 million during the previous week — a fall of around 8.4 per cent. Infectious disease specialists point out that a four-day trend of a fall in the number of patients is insufficient to draw any inferences about the epidemic that they expect to last for several months. “Even after the epidemic has reached its peak level, it will last for months afterward,” T. Jacob John, a senior infectious disease epidemiologist and formerly at the Christian Medical College, Vellore, had told The Telegraph earlier this year. Health officials on Tuesday iterated the need for members of the public to continue to adopt personal precautionary measures such as the use of masks, physical distancing and hand and respiratory hygiene. “Our numbers are large — the larger numbers mean that more people could spread the infection,” said Vinod Paul, a senior physician and member of Niti Aayog, the government’s apex think tank and chair of the national task force on Covid-19. “We need everyone to wear masks — we need 100 per cent compliance,” Paul said. “We all need to take such precautions now more than even earlier.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-653
23-09-2020||India||Sikkim CM house becomes corona unit||The Sikkim government has taken flak for converting Mintokgang, the official residence of the chief minister, into a corona care centre to treat chief minister P.S. Tamang (Golay)’s wife and some of her family members, all of whom tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday. After Krishna Kumari Rai, the chief minister’s wife, and some family members were detected with the pathogen, the government moved all of them to Mintokgang and the state health department set up a six-member team of doctors and nurses to monitor their health. Mintokgang had been lying unused since former chief minister Pawan Chamling vacated it following his defeat in the last Assembly polls in April 2019. His successor Golay, however, refused to shift to the chief minister’s official residence, which he had repeatedly promised to convert into a cancer hospital on coming to power. M.K. Subba, the SDF spokesman, said Golay had made a populist promise to convert Mintokgang into a cancer hospital for the sole purpose of winning an election and it was but expected that he wouldn’t be able to deliver on it. “He set up a technical committee (to carry out a feasibility study on cancer hospital), which was nothing but a hogwash.” The chief minister had also said it had been decided not to covert Mintokgang into cancer hospital because of the people living in its vicinity who feared the disease. ‘Covid is more contagious than cancer. Don’t the people know it?’ asked Subba. “This is absurd. How can you convert Mintokgang into a Covid care centre? The public is highly disillusioned and very shocked to see this,” he added. The SDF spokesman said by virtue of being the chief minister’s wife, Krishna Kumari Rai was entitled to better health facility anywhere else, but Mintokgang. Passang Sherpa, the coordinator of IAM371F campaign, said meting out VIP treatment to the family members of the chief minister was most unfortunate, especially when hospitals were already in shortage of healthcare workers. “The poll promise of the SKM was to convert Mintokgang into a cancer hospital but, unfortunately, it has been turned into a Covid care centre for the family of the chief minister. It is a blatant misuse of power and encouragement of VIP culture in Sikkim, which the SKM had promised to end,” he said. Jacob Khaling, the political secretary to the chief minister and SKM spokesman, neither took calls nor responded to WhatsApp message.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-653
23-09-2020||India||Have Rs 15 lakh? Hop onto bus from Delhi to London||Hippies whose trail was disrupted by the turmoil in Iran in the late 1970s can take the bus back next summer if they have saved up for the last four decades. A travel company in Gurgaon has announced a Delhi-to-London-and-back bus service from next May, by when it hopes the pandemic-induced international travel curbs will have been lifted. Buses on the Hippie Trail — from London and other European cities to India and Bangladesh through Turkey, Iran, Afghanistan and Pakistan — had become popular among low-budget travellers from 1957 onwards. After the Iranian revolution in 1979, followed by civil war in Afghanistan that year, the service stopped. Delhi’s Connaught Circus used to be one of the stops for these brightly painted buses with charming names like Waltzing Matilda and Swagman. Most of the trips ended in Calcutta or Panjim. The tickets were priced between £85 and £145. Adjusted for inflation, they would be worth more than Rs 1 lakh today. Since those days, air travel has become more affordable and the global political geography has changed, effectively ending transcontinental passenger road transport in this part of the world. The demand for such unhurried global travel, with a lot of wayside social interaction thrown in, too seemed to have vanished. The hippie counterculture of the 1960s had morphed into the New Age of the 1970s, and by the 1980s the youth of the developed world had mostly returned to the materialist mainstream. But on Independence Day this year, a travel firm that has been organising transcontinental car and bike adventure tours for almost a decade announced the restart of the bus route from next May. It will bypass the western route through Pakistan, going instead through Myanmar, Thailand, Laos, China, Central Asia, Russia and Eastern Europe — covering 20,000km and 18 countries. At Rs 15 lakh a ticket for the 70-day ride, with night halts in premier hotels along the way that even offer Indian food, the trip is targeted at travellers wealthier than the hippies were. Bookings for the 20 spots on the bus are expected to open on bustolondon.in in October. The Delhi-London distance along the old route via Turkey was about 8,500km but many of the hippie buses took circuitous routes that took between 20 and 50 days. Tushar Agarwal, co-founder and director of Adventures Overland — which has announced the new service — said the route and the nitty-gritty had been worked out on his own road journeys, starting from 2010 when he drove from London to Delhi in a Jeep Cherokee. “I worked for seven years in London as a software engineer. When I decided to drive back, I contacted the embassies of countries along the way, including the Pakistan High Commission, who told me it would not be possible for a person with an Indian passport to drive through the country,” he told The Telegraph. “I came through Tibet from Russia and drove up to Kailash Mansarovar before entering Nepal on the way to India.” In 2012, Agarwal was part of the Asean-India car rally from Yogyakarta in Indonesia to Delhi. “I found Myanmar to be a beautiful and welcoming place, where people are nice and open.” Following this, he teamed up with Sanjay Madan — another travel enthusiast — to start Adventures Overland. The duo went on the Great Indian World Trip by road in 2013-14, passing through 50 countries and covering 90,000km. The trip broke s everal Guinness and Limca records and was featured in a documentary series and a book. Over the past three years, Adventures Overland has led car and bike convoys through the 18-country route from Delhi to London. “Since 2018, we’ve been getting a lot of enquiries from people who want to go on the journey but don’t want to drive. We tried to accommodate them in one of the cars but these enquiries kept increasing,” Agarwal said. “Many want it for their parents and they need some luxuries and professionals who can take care of all their needs. We thought, why not start a bus journey?” Their initial plan was to announce this service on the Platinum Jubilee of India’s independence, in 2022, but it was advanced by a year after the lockdown period witnessed a spurt in enquiries. “As the travel industry is the most affected sector in the lockdown, we also started offering deals on our other packages. Our next Road to London (car trip) is sold out,” Agarwal said. The car trip was to happen this year but has been postponed to next April because of the travel curbs. The bus service “will involve 25 other companies in the countries it will touch, including guides, hotels — four or five star, or the best available in the place — and so on”, Agarwal said. The trip will have four segments and the travellers can choose any one or more, but those who can stay for the whole trip will get preference. All the paperwork for the visas will be done by the company. A bus that will have a pantry car is being shortlisted. Loo halts will be at pre-decided restaurants on the way — where even Jain food is promised. “We’re going to those countries where people rarely go. In our previous (car and bike) trips, people found western China the most beautiful,” Agarwal said. “We will be going through a part of the Silk Route through Tashkent, Samarkhand and Bukhara. We will see the western part of the Great Wall in Xinjiang, the Gobi desert, the Pamir Glacier in Kyrgyzstan and wild horses in Kazakhstan.” Agarwal added: “In places like Myanmar’s Bagan or Moscow that are full of sites for tourists to see, we shall halt for a day or two and organise sightseeing tours and shopping. In Europe, our focus is on the east of the continent.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-653
23-09-2020||India||SC gives week to Madhya Pradesh Assembly Speaker to speak||The Supreme Court on Tuesday asked the Madhya Pradesh Assembly Speaker to inform it by next week when he would decide the disqualification petitions against 22 Congress MLAs who joined the BJP and brought down the Kamal Nath government. A bench of Chief Justice S.A. Bobde and Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian, while hearing a plea filed by Congress MLA Vinay Saxena, said the “Speaker has to only make a statement as to when these applications will be decided”. At the outset, senior advocate Vivek Tankha, appearing for Saxena, said that the disqualification petitions were pending with Speaker Rameshwar Sharma since March 12. Tankha said the Speaker had to pass an order on the disqualification petitions, otherwise some of the defectors would continue to be ministers in the state government. “We want that the Speaker should decide these petitions within a week,” Tankha said. The bench noted that a letter for adjournment of the hearing of the matter had been circulated among the parties. The counsel appearing for the Vidhan Sabha secretariat said they had been served the copy of the petition only on Monday evening and that they would need three weeks to respond. “We understand the request for time but you only have to make a statement when it will be decided,” the court said. The counsel replied that he was appearing for the Vidhan Sabha secretariat, not the Speaker. The bench observed: “We don’t see any practical difference between the Vidhan Sabha and the Speaker.” The counsel for the Vidhan Sabha then sought two weeks’ time to respond. The court asked the lawyers who among them was appearing for the Speaker. A lawyer replied that he was to appear for the Speaker but had been discharged on Monday. The bench then posted the matter for next week and said the Speaker should make a statement on deciding the disqualification applications. On August 17, the top court had sought the response of the Speaker’s office on Saxena’s plea contending that the Congress MLAs who had resigned to join the BJP could not be appointed as ministers in the Shivraj Singh Chouhan government during the pendency of their disqualification proceedings. The plea had said that as per the apex court verdict in a case relating to Manipur, the disqualification proceedings had to be decided within three months by the Speaker. It had said that during the pendency of these disqualification applications, 12 of the 22 Congress MLAs in Madhya Pradesh had been appointed as ministers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-653
23-09-2020||India||Girls tackle child marriage on football pitch in Rajasthan||When India began lifting its coronavirus lockdown, Meera, a child bride from Rajasthan, was focused on just one thing: when she could start playing football again. In Rajasthan, one of the regions where early marriage persists despite being outlawed more than a decade ago, a girls’ soccer initiative is tackling gender inequality, and giving child brides the confidence to fight for their rights. “The day I was married, I was supposed to go to my first football camp. I protested, but my father didn’t listen to me,” the soccer-crazy 15-year-old told Reuters over phone. “I’m more assertive now. I’m no longer shy. I started playing again about a month ago.… The question of me leaving does not arise,” said Meera, who was married three years ago in a mass wedding along with her two sisters. In keeping with the usual practice for girls married early in Rajasthan, most child brides do not have their “gauna” — the ritual sending off to live with their husband and in-laws — until they turn 18, the legal marriage age in India. But as the coronavirus pandemic closed schools and deepened rural hardship in one of the world’s worst-hit countries, Meera feared the gauna might come early for girls in her village. Unicef data from 2018 found that about 27 per cent of girls in India get married before they turn 18, down from 47 per cent a decade earlier, but advocates have warned that the Covid-19 crisis could lead to a spike in child marriage and put paid to recent progress. Of 223 million women and girls in India who were married off as children, almost half were wed before turning 15, according to the Unicef. Meera and her teammates got their first taste of the Beautiful Game thanks to a programme launched four years ago by the non-profit Mahila Jan Adhikar Samiti (MJAS), which aimed to fight child marriage and help girls achieve their dreams. It focuses on four villages in the Ajmer district of Rajasthan where early marriage is common. When Indira Pancholi, founder of MJAS and joint head of the Girls Not Brides Rajasthan Alliance, got funding for a sport-based initiative, she went out to ask girls which was their favourite game, only to find most had never played anything. But in the end, they opted for soccer. “We didn’t know why they chose football, but realised from their conversations that they wanted to run in an open ground,” Pancholi said. More than a quarter of the 170 girls who belong to Meera’s team were also married as children or engaged to be married. When the coronavirus lockdown brought India to a virtual standstill in March, Sudhir Joseph, joint secretary at the Rajasthan Football Association, which coaches the girls, said he worried that many of them would give up. “Football took them out of their homes... they have seen the world outside their villages,” he said. When Rashi, 17, returned from her first football camp wearing shorts and a t-shirt and not the wide skirt, blouse and long scarf that she had set off in, her parents reacted angrily. Little by little, parents and neighbours began to accept the football-playing girls as they brought trophies home from local tournaments or matches in big cities. Pancholi said football had turned out to be a “great strategy”, highlighting the success of convincing the girls’ families to let them take part in week-long camps. “I want them to have the courage to speak up and not get trapped in marriage,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-653
23-09-2020||India||Left-RJD talks break down||The alliance talks between the Left parties and the Rashtriya Janata Dal have fallen apart over the disagreement on the number of seats to be contested and the CPI leader Kanhaiya Kumar. The communist parties are now mulling either to contest the polls together or go solo if the situation is not salvaged quickly. Sources said the RJD is willing to spare less than 15 seats for the six Left parties in the state, including the major ones like the CPI, the CPI-ML, the CPM, and the minor ones — All India Forward Bloc (AIFB), Revolutionary Socialist Party (RSP), and the Socialist Unity Centre of India (SUCI). The Assembly has 243 seats. The Left parties had come forward in August to join forces with the RJD-led Grand Alliance to counter the ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA) in the state polls. Since then they had been separately negotiating with the RJD. Apart from the RJD, the Grand Alliance includes the Congress and several smaller parties. “As the negotiations progressed, two things became clear. The RJD has a problem with Kanhaiya Kumar, and it was willing to spare just five seats for us to contest. This is neither acceptable nor respectable. Chances of an alliance are now slim,” a senior CPI leader told The Telegraph on the condition of anonymity. The matter came to a standstill on Sunday when a CPI delegation negotiating seat sharing with the RJD walked out from the meeting. Though the CPI currently has no representative in the Assembly, it used to be the second largest party in the 1980s and early 1990s. It still has influence across all the 38 districts in Bihar. CPI national council member and former JNU Students’ Union member Kanhaiya Kumar is popular in the chiefly agrarian state. Though he lost in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections from Begusarai constituency, his Jana-Gana-Mana Yatra against the Citizenship Amendment Act, National Population Register (NPR) and National Register of Citizens (NRC) across Bihar in January-February this year attracted a large number of people from different sections of the society. The RJD sees Kanhaiya as a contender to its leader and party national president Lalu Prasad’s son Tejashwi Prasad Yadav as the next generation leader. “Any seat-sharing deal should be respectable,” said CPI state secretary Ram Naresh Pandey. “We had allied with Lalu Prasad in the 1995 state polls, contested on 55 seats and won 26. When Lalu had come to power in 1990, his government was in minority. At that time the CPI with its 23 MLAs gave him unconditional support. We are just hoping that all secular forces contest the elections together this time to defeat the BJP and the NDA,” Pandey added. CPI-ML, which has currently three MLAs and is another broad-based Left party in several parts of the state, is facing a similar predicament. It submitted a list of 53 constituencies to the RJD for negotiations, but the latter is willing to allot it just six to seven seats. So far, three meetings between both the parties have been unfruitful. “We have been contesting virtually independently till now, but took the initiative to go with the Grand Alliance to defeat the communal, anti-democracy forces and the NDA. There are several seats in different parts of Bihar that are identified with our struggle for the rights of the people and against feudalism. Our base of workers and supporters would become demoralised if we accept the RJD’s terms,” CPI-ML state secretary Kunal told this newspaper. Kunal asserted that with polls reaching closer it was high time for the RJD to decide whether it wanted “to defeat the NDA or to downsize us”. CPM state secretary Awadhesh Kumar also held the view that the number of seats allotted to the Left parties should be respectable. Meanwhile, the Left parties have started mulling the option to contest the polls together or to go solo. All six of them had contested the 2015 Assembly elections in a bid to provide a third option to voters away from the Grand Alliance and the NDA. They could muster only around 3.5 per cent votes in the state, with only the CPI-ML managing to win three seats.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-653
23-09-2020||India||EC to decide on Bihar visit soon||The Election Commission on Tuesday clarified that the schedule of the visit of the three election commissioners to Bihar will be announced in the next couple of days. This will precede the declaration of poll dates. The Bihar polls will be a test case for the commission as the first full-fledged election to be conducted under the new norms put in place after the Covid-19 pandemic. This includes increasing the number of polling stations and counting centres, regulating rallies to ensure social distancing and sanitation, and offering the postal ballot to more voters than ever before. In a webinar on Monday on conducting polls during the pandemic which several election bodies from other countries attended, Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora said that Covid has compelled the commission to revisit its existing norms, and the number of polling stations have increased from 65,000 to 1 lakh in Bihar with 7.29 crore voters. A press release from the EC on Monday said, “CEC mentioned that the Commission would take a decision within the next two to three days, on visiting Bihar.” After reports that poll dates were going to be announced soon, the EC clarified on Tuesday: “Please note that Commission’s schedule of visit to State of Bihar has no correlation with announcement of dates of Bihar Elections.” An EC official told this paper that the dates of Arora’s visit have still not been finalised. The EC is considering a request of the BJP to increase the spending cap from the current Rs 28 lakh per candidate, to account for the higher number of rallies that would have to be conducted to reach voters. In July, the state’s Opposition parties had asked the EC to reconsider conducting polls during the pandemic. The release said, “Inaugurating the Webinar, Hon’ble Chief Election Commissioner of India and Chairperson, Shri Sunil Arora spoke of the ‘ predicament’ faced by Election Management Bodies across the world — whether and how to hold scheduled elections in a state of public health emergency. He said the contextual framework of every country was different, the extent and trajectory of the disease varied and so did the capacity of each country to respond to the novel coronavirus and its catastrophic impact. He mentioned countries such as South Korea, Australia, Malawi, Taiwan, Mongolia and many others who went ahead with scheduled elections even as they put in place the enormous arrangements required to ensure the health and safety of people while conducting election.” An official claimed that the EC which was keen on showcasing India’s ability to conduct polls in difficult circumstances is also now mindful of the need to show that it has done everything in its power to prevent the spread of Covid-19. “To my understanding, the CEC’s message is that we have to be more prepared, rather than hasty,” he said. Last month, the Supreme Court dismissed a plea to postpone polls to the Bihar Assembly — whose term expires on November 29 — due to the spread of Covid-19 and floods. The EC has clubbed 64 bypolls in several states along with Bihar, which is expected to be held in multiple phases.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-654
23-09-2020||West Bengal||Bengal Covid recoveries cross 2 lakh||Bengal on Tuesday crossed 2 lakh Covid-19 recoveries — 2.02 lakh out of 2.31 lakh total patients — 189 days after the first case was detected on March 17. While one lakh recoveries were achieved in 157 days, the state took another 32 days to reach the 2 lakh mark. “This is a major accomplishment. Especially the acceleration over the past month or so,” said a Bengal minister. “We went past 5,000 recoveries on June 14… 25,000 on July 20, 50,000 on August 1, one lakh on August 21, and now 2 lakh on September 22. There has been a quantum leap in recoveries,” he added. Besides 3,047 cured patients, the state on Tuesday logged 3,182 new cases and 62 deaths. The recovery rate inched closer to 88, at 87.28 per cent on Tuesday, as Bengal looks to steadily widen the gap with the national rate, currently at 80.79. “This milestone is a timely morale-booster,” said the minister. The state reported 45,447 tests on Tuesday, taking the total past 28.79 lakh, at 31,992 tests per million people. “We will be past the 30 lakh total by Friday. With 9.92 lakh so far, we are quite on track to meet our September target of 14 lakh tests,” said the minister. Steady rise in the tests, coupled with no major increase in the number of new cases being found, has improved the positive confirmation rate from 8.9 on August 23 to 8.04 per cent. On the flip side, with a rise by 73, to 24,971 now, Bengal reported a rise in its total of active Covid-19 cases for the 15th consecutive day, which came right after a 15-day streak of fall in that total. Of the total 4,483 deaths recorded so far in the state, Calcutta alone accounted for 1,607, with seven reported on Tuesday. With a dozen more deaths on Tuesday, North 24-Parganas became the second district of the state to register a four-digit Covid-19 death  count, with exactly 1,000. The state government reported 3,833 deaths (85.5 per cent) as those with comorbidity “present”. Bengal’s overall mortality rate remained at 1.93, still substantially behind the national rate of 1.59 per cent. The state reported 33.54 per cent occupancy on 12,675 beds earmarked for Covid-19 at 92 dedicated hospitals for the pandemic. Over 2.42 lakh telemedicine consultations for the pandemic were provided, including 4,013 in the past 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-365
23-09-2020||West Bengal||Letters heat up Bengal farm tussle||The Mamata Banerjee government on Tuesday brought to the public domain two letters sent from the chief minister to Union agriculture and health ministers on September 9, stating Bengal’s conditions for inclusion in central schemes PM Krishi Samman Nidhi and Ayushman Bharat. The letters were posted on Twitter apparently in response to Tuesday’s attacks from governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on the microblogging site, alleging Mamata had denied Bengal’s farmers the benefits of the Centre’s farm scheme. Dhankhar accused Mamata of shedding “crocodile tears” for farmers while denying them the benefit of PM Krishi Samman Nidhi. The tussle came in the wake of Trinamul’s opposition to the passage of the recent farm bills in Parliament. Mamata’s letters to Union agriculture minister Narendra Tomar and his health counterpart Harsh Vardhan were posted on Twitter by the state government. In the letters, Mamata clarified that the Bengal government had similar schemes, but it was open to PM Krishi Samman Nidhi and Ayushman Bharat additionally, provided the Centre was willing to fully fund them and route the disbursement through the state. In her letter to Tomar, Mamata raised concerns over the repeated questions on her government not implementing the PM Krishi Samman Nidhi scheme, underscoring Bengal’s Krishak Bandhu scheme that give financial aid to farmers, including sharecroppers. She said her government would be “happy to provide the benefits to the farmers under the PM Kisan Samman Nidhi Scheme, and in that case, the central government may transfer the requisite fund directly to the state...” In the letter to Harsh Vardhan, Mamata stated that much before the launch of Ayushman Bharat, her government had introduced cent per cent free treatment, medicines and diagnostics for everyone in all government hospitals and launched the Swasthya Sathi scheme, that gives free treatment, medicine and diagnostics to beneficiaries in private healthcare facilities for up to Rs 5 lakh annually. “Ayushman Bharat scheme may be extended by the government of India with 100 per cent expenditure for the scheme. In such a case, the entire funding for the scheme may be routed through the state government,” she had written. After the letters were made public, Dhankhar held a news meet in the evening, intensifying his attack on the chief minister. Earlier in the day, Trinamul and the Left appeared keen not to miss the opportunities presented by the farm bills and the renewed focus of farmers’ rights. Protests across the state were organised to match the intensity of the ongoing drama in Parliament. The BJP’s state leadership responded to the developments with bitter criticism. Trinamul's women’s wing conducted a sit-in demonstration before the Gandhi statue on Mayo Road. The party’s students’ wing will hold an event on Wednesday and the farmers’ wing on Thursday. The CPM organised two rallies in Calcutta, one of which Left Front chairman Biman Bose led from Mahajati Sadan to Shyambazar, and many more in the districts, against the Centre’s “anti-people” policies. Additional reporting by Arkamoy Datta Majumdar||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-365
23-09-2020||West Bengal||2,000 more personnel for forest protection||The Bengal forest department is planning to get around 2,000 additional personnel on board for wildlife conservation, particularly for north Bengal that has two national parks which together are the second largest habitat of one-horned rhinos in India after Assam. State forest minister Rajib Banerjee made the announcement while attending a programme on the outskirts of Siliguri on the occasion of World Rhino Day on Tuesday. “As of now, there are over 300 rhinos in the forests of north Bengal. We need to protect the rhino population, along with other wildlife of our state. That is why the department will soon recruit or engage over 2,000 personnel in various posts. Most of them would be deputed in north Bengal to work for the conservation of wildlife and forest resources,” said Banerjee. In the past few years, particularly after incidents of rhino poaching were reported in Jaldapara and Gorumara — the two national parks in Alipurduar and Jalpaiguri districts which are rhino habitats, there was a steady demand from wildlife conservationists that the forest department enhance vigil to prevent such illegal activities. “It is good that the forest department has finally decided to assign more people for forest protection. We hope the vigil would be intensified in forests soon to curb wildlife crimes,” said Animesh Bose, a conservationist based in Siliguri. The minister also elaborated on another decision taken by the department for conservation of wild elephants. Elephant deaths because of various reasons are common in north Bengal. “We have decided to form a joint monitoring cell comprising representatives of various state departments. It will work to reduce elephant deaths which occur on highways and railway tracks in the Dooars because of reckless driving and over-speeding trains, respectively. Many elephants are electrocuted also. Tea planters’ associations would be instructed to ask estates to refrain from using blade wires in the boundaries which injure elephants. On the highways, rumble strips would be put in areas through which elephants cross to check the speed of vehicles. The cell will monitor all these works and share information with administrations of different districts,” he said. Banerjee also inaugurated a herbal garden outside a forest beat office at Sarugara under Baikunthapur forest division near Siliguri. The garden that has different medicinal herbs is the third of its kind in north Bengal and sixth in the state. The minister also visited the Bengal Safari Park near here.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-365
23-09-2020||West Bengal||Private players to run govt AC buses||Authorities of the North Bengal State Transport Corporation (NBSTC), a state-run transport service, have decided to hand over the air-conditioned buses in its fleet to private transporters in a bid to reduce Covid-induced losses. The buses, NBSTC officials said, would be provided to private franchisees that can run the vehicles on stipulated routes across Bengal and pay a share of their earnings to the transport corporation. “We have already floated tenders, seeking applications from individuals and companies interested to run the bus services,” said Sandip Dutta, managing director, NBSTC. He added that private agencies would be authorised to sell tickets, run and maintain the buses. But the ownership of these buses will be with NBSTC, he clarified. “Also, our drivers will be running these buses,” he said. Altogether, NBSTC has 15 AC buses that run on routes, including popular ones like Siliguri-Calcutta and Siliguri-Cooch Behar. “Because of the Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown, NBSTC suffered huge losses as bus services halted. The fares of these buses are higher and so are their maintenance costs. That is why this decision has been made,” said Apurba Sarkar, the NBSTC chairman. Back in 1945, the transport service was opened by the erstwhile kings of Cooch Behar. After the princely state of Cooch Behar was annexed in 1949, it was renamed into the NBSTC. During the Left rule, NBSTC’s financial condition deteriorated over the years but after Mamata Banerjee came to power in 2011, many initiatives were taken to revive the transport corporation. “During past few years, NBSTC has been providing excellent services with a new fleet of buses and by opening new routes. But it seems that the corporation, like most operators of the passenger transport sector, is confronting losses due to the pandemic and thus, it has to make such a decision,” said Sujit Dutta, a Jalpaiguri resident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-365
23-09-2020||West Bengal||Nine held with fake notes, ‘gold’||In a major haul, Kotwali police of Cooch Behar and the Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) seized around Rs 1 crore of fake Indian currency notes and 1kg of suspected gold bars on Monday evening. Nine persons, who hail from north Bengal and Assam, have been arrested in this connection. Police sources said on Monday they were tipped off by the SSB that a group of persons were trying to smuggle fake currencies and suspected gold from north Bengal to Assam. “We acted on a tip-off and in the afternoon spotted a sedan, bearing a registration number of Assam, with five persons in it. Also, there were four persons in two motorcycles escorting the car. They were seen in Dauaguri area on the way to Tufanganj. As we tried to stop them, they fled. We could chase and intercept all three vehicles in due course and make the seizures. All nine have been arrested,” said Soumyajit Roy, inspector-in-charge, Kotwali police station. Tufanganj is the subdivisional headquarters in Cooch Behar that shares borders with Assam. Roy said several bundles of fake notes in denominations of Rs 2,000 and Rs 500 were seized. “Also, 17 bars, suspected to be gold and weighing around a kilo, were seized. Cell phones, the car and the bikes of the accused have been seized. Those arrested are from Cooch Behar and some other places, and also from Assam. We are not revealing their identities as investigation is in progress,” Roy added. On Tuesday, all the nine were produced at a local court in Cooch Behar. The court heard the case and has sent them to police custody for 14 days, said sources. “In north Bengal, seizure of fake notes are mostly reported from Malda. It is necessary to know who these persons are (in this Cooch Behar arrest) and whether they were planning to take the fake notes and gold to Assam. State police and other security agencies are on extra alert these days after recent NIA arrests in Murshidabad. Investigators should find out the origin of fake notes,” said a former intelligence officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-365
23-09-2020||West Bengal||Trucks with illegal sand seized||The West Burdwan district administration on Tuesday seized 17 trucks carrying sand illegally mined from Damodar and Ajay river beds. The seizure was made during raids in Barabani and Raniganj blocks following complaints from people living close to the rivers. The 17 trucks were carrying 1,250 cubic feet of sand. The administration has also blacklisted five trucks for not having goods carriage licences. Out of the 17 trucks, 10 are registered in neighbouring Jharkhand. Sand being lifted from the illegal mines — a block for which licence has not been obtained from the government — with excavators and manually in copious amounts and being loaded onto trucks parked on the dry riverbed has always been a major headache for the district administration as the illegal trade continues because of alleged political and administrative connivance. During every administrative review meeting in the district since she came to power, chief minister Mamata Banerjee — aware of the menace — would asked police and administration to stop illegal coal and sand mining Sources said the district administration had set up a special task force led by additional district magistrate Khurshid Ali Kadri to keep vigil on illegal sand mining. The team comprising officials of land and land reforms department, transport department and police split into groups and raided several areas in the Barabani and Raniganj blocks near Asansol and intercepted the trucks around 10am on Tuesday. The special teams were formed with police personnel not attached to the police stations where the raids were carried out. “The block land and land reforms officers and officials of police stations where the raids were carried out were not kept in the loop about Tuesday’s operation to rule out chance of information leakage,” said a senior administrative officer of the district. “The trucks seized during the operation did not have proper challans or were possessing fake permits,” said a district official. A case has been registered at the Asansol North police station and owners of the trucks summoned. A source said the special task force had seized 50 trucks carrying smuggled sand from Kanksa and Pandaveswar blocks in the district in the past 10 days and added that the raids would continue. Asked if the administration had any plan to deal with the menace of illegal coal mining in the region, a senior district official said another task force would be set up to take on the coal mafia. Opposition parties in the district have long been blaming the ruling Trinamul Congress for the lack of action against the sand and coal mafia. Setting up of the task force and the recent spate of action show the administration’s eagerness to crack the whip on sand mafia in the run up to next year’s Assembly election.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-365
23-09-2020||West Bengal||Rain causes slides, halts traffic||Southwest monsoon active over Bengal and neighbouring Sikkim brought in fresh bouts of downpour in most districts of north Bengal on Monday night and continued till Tuesday afternoon, triggering landslides in hills and flooding some areas of the plains. In the hills, a major landslide occurred on 29th Mile on NH10 on Tuesday morning, and halted traffic from Siliguri to Kalimpong and Sikkim for over 10 hours. Hundreds of vehicles queued up on both sides of the damaged stretch, as excavators and workers cleared debris that piled on the principal highway that connects Sikkim with the rest of the country. Around 3.30pm, the road was cleared and vehicles started moving, but in a single file. “If it does not rain any more, it would be easier to clear the entire road on Wednesday. Otherwise, there is always the fear of fresh landslides,” said an official of Kalimpong district administration. A number of minor landslides were reported from different areas of Darjeeling town, where it rained around 130mm in the past 24 hours till Tuesday morning, and in Bijanbari. Similar land-slips have also been reported in some roads of Sikkim. No injury or casualty has been reported so far. Incessant rain submerged around 60 per cent of Englishbazar municipality in Malda on Tuesday. Most major roads went under water. Weather experts hinted at similar rainfall during the next couple of days in some parts of the region, 70mm to 200mm.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-365
23-09-2020||West Bengal||Theatre artistes want CM aid||A group of senior theatre personalities has written to chief minister Mamata Banerjee to arrange health insurance coverage for group theatre artistes as many of them are struggling will health and financial crisis ever since pandemic halted their earnings. The email sent to Mamata by eminent playwright-director Chandan Sen on behalf of Bango Natya Samhati, a welfare organisation of amateur theatre artistes, states: “A large number of theatre artistes, who are mostly amateur, are suffering from financial stress because they are associated with an unorganised sector. The Covid situation has increased the uncertainty and insecurity of these artistes since they have no work and hence no money. Several people and theatre groups have come forward to help them by providing food, but meeting their medical needs have become a big challenge.” Sen said that the decision to write to Mamata was taken after the death of at least nine theatre artistes recently from Covid-19 and other illnesses. Bango Natyo Samhati comprises eminent theatre personalities including Sen, Manoj Mitra, Bibhash Chakraborty, Arun Mukhopadhyay and Meghnad Bhattacharya. Senior members of the organisation have sought an appointment with Mamata at Nabanna to discuss the plight of theatre artistes. Bango Natyo Samhati has also urged the chief minister to introduce health insurance protection policy for theatre artistes similar to the one she had announced for television actors and technicians of Tollygunge a few years ago. At present, television actors and technicians get Rs 2.5 lakh health insurance coverage under state government’s medical scheme. “At least nine theatre artistes across the state have already died during the pandemic. They could not afford proper medication owing to financial crisis. There are many struggling to keep their treatment going for lack of money. If the chief minister, who we think is a great friend of the cultural community, extends help to such people we will remain ever grateful to her,” Sen added. Speaking to The Telegraph, Sen said: “We had taken up the issue with Trinamul MP Dinesh Trivedi, who advised us to submit an appeal with the chief minister. Accordingly, we have sent an email to the CM. We have also apprised MP Sougata Roy of the issue. Both the leaders have assured us to take up the matter with the chief minister.” A member of Bango Natya Samhati said unlike television artistes and technicians, theatre artistes were unorganised. “This is why we fail to draw the attention of the state administration,” he added. Many theatre organisations in the state are trying to help artistes in distress with shows for a select audience who are willing to contribute. On Monday evening, Sinchan theatre group in Nadia’s Krishnagar began a weekly show for a limited number of viewers to garner funds for theatre artistes. Sinchan director Susanta Halder said: “Theatre artistes are passing through a difficult phase and many of them have no money to buy medicines and even arrange daily meals.” Under Unlock 4.0, the Centre has allowed holding open-air theatres with a ceiling of 100 persons from September 21.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-365
23-09-2020||West Bengal||Ailing road to Contai hospital sparks protest||Over 1,000 villagers in East Midnapore’s Deshapran block on Tuesday morning blocked a part of a 5km-long metal road to protest the delay in repairing the stretch lying damaged for the last two years. The road is used by over one lakh residents to commute to and from Contai town and hospital. The protest started at 9am at Raghunathpur village, where the potholes are so deep that the stretch has become prone to “severe flooding” during monsoon. Many villagers planted paddy on the potholed road to highlight the level of flooding. “This road is the only link we have to the town and to Contai subdivisional hospital. The state of this stretch of the road is such that neither can a person walk through it nor can an autorickshaw cross it,” said a protester, pointing to 2-feet-deep craters at several places where the metal base of the road had eroded and filled with rainwater. “Monsoon has rendered the 5km-long road absolutely unusable. It was badly battered during Amphan this May, and the road was damaged over the last two years, but neither panchayat officials nor the PWD acted despite repeated appeals,” said another protester. Madhusudhan Chakraborty, 40, a farmer who was part of the demonstration, added: “It takes over an hour to travel on this 5km stretch.” As villagers’ anger mounted, Chalti panchayat pradhan Tapan Samanta and panchayat member Joynal Ali who came to listen to the grievances of villagers were gheraoed for over two hours. They were released only after panchayat samiti deputy chief Tarun Jena came to the protest site and promised “immediate action”. “We lifted the protest following Jena’s assurance but we have told officials that villagers will lock up the panchayat office if no action is taken within a week,” said Kader Khan, an auto driver. Block officials later said on Tuesday that the road, which bifurcates into two during the last kilometre of the 5km stretch, was handed over by block officials to the PWD officials last year. One of the routes, connected to Contai subdivisional hospital, is maintained by municipality authorities and was in good shape. “The other route, leading to Bhabani More, was supposed to be widened by PWD last year. We will send them a reminder post haste,” said Jena, adding that he would personally alert the PWD executive engineer. Sowing paddy on bad roads has become an effective way for residents to highlight potholes, especially during monsoon. Earlier this month, residents of Jalpaiguri town’s ward 2, Bhatakhana, sowed paddy on a road as a mark of protest against its bad shape. Last month, Birbhum villagers had done the same to protest a bad road that they alleged prevented ambulances from reaching villages on time.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-366
23-09-2020||West Bengal||Road repair for 17,000km||The Bengal government has taken up a Herculean task of repairing 17,000 km of roads ahead of Durga Puja after chief minister Mamata Banerjee made it clear to the state administration that all distressed roads in the state had to be made motorable within October third week. “Of these, there are 7,000km of rural roads maintained by the panchayat department and remaining 10,000km are semi urban or urban roads maintained by the PWD. Both the departments carried out a survey and found that altogether 17,000km roads are really distressed and needed urgent repair,” said a senior state government official. Sources in Nabanna said that usually roads across the state are maintained regularly but the pandemic scuttled this routine maintenance. That's why such 17.000km roads were in distressed condition. The roads in several districts across the state have been damaged in the past six months. But roads in districts like South and North 24 Parganas, Hooghly and Howrah have suffered the most as they have borne the brunt of cyclone Amphan. A senior official pointed out that repair of roads was delayed as the chief minister did not conduct her district tours because of the pandemic. “Usually, before the chief minister's visits to the districts, all damaged roads are repaired as the PWD officials don't take any chance ahead of the chief minister’s visits. As the chief minister could not visit the districts since March this year, the roads remained neglected,” said an official. The official pointed out that the PWD usually carries out repair work of damaged roads in September as monsoon usually leaves an impact on several roads, particularly those built more than five years ago. “But this year, the exercise has been affected too due to the pandemic and weak financial condition of the state coffers. Now, the state has to carry out repair work on roads that were damaged before the monsoon and during the monsoon at one go. This is a Herculean task,” said a bureaucrat. Sources said that the panchayat department has earmarked a sum of Rs 700 crore for undertaking repair work on damaged rural roads and the PWD has estimated a sum of Rs 1,200 crore for repair of all the damaged roads. The panchayat department is likely to arrange a large portion of required funds from the PMGSY, but the PWD will face real trouble in arranging the funds, said sources. “The PWD is planning to use funds from non-Plan heads to carry out the repair work,” said a source. Mamata’s October third week deadline also appears tough, said a PWD source. “The work is huge and some stretches would require a couple of months for complete repairs. So, we have fixed a target of completing repair work on minor affected areas before the Pujas,” said the source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-366
23-09-2020||North East||PM prod to IIT-G on disaster study ||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday urged IIT Guwahati to establish a centre for disaster management and risk reduction so that it can provide expertise in not only dealing with the disasters in the region but also turn these disasters into opportunities. Addressing the 22nd convocation of the premier institute of the Northeast on Tuesday in virtual mode, Modi said the region was full of possibilities but also faces disasters, natural and man-inflicted, such as flood, erosion and industrial mishaps. Appreciating IIT Guwahati, established in 1994, for its contribution in checking the spread of Covid-19 and being the first IIT to have introduced a two-year research program on e-mobility and for leading the integration of science and engineering in all BTech courses, Modi issued the appeal. “I request IIT Guwahati to start a Centre for Disaster Management and Risk Reduction. The Centre should provide expertise to deal with disasters in the region and also turn these into opportunities. I also request IIT Guwahati to start a Centre for promotion of Indian Culture,” the Prime Minister said. Modi’s plea to establish the disaster management centre is not without reason, said officials. Floods and erosion are taking a heavy toll in the region. Most state governments spent their time in tackling these disasters. This year floods have claimed 117 lives in Assam since May 22, affecting 30 of the 33 districts. Erosion, on the other hand, has washed away about 8,000sqkm of the state’s total geographical area of 78,438sqkm since 1950, affecting around 10 lakh people so far. “Amid flood and erosion, Assam has had industrial disasters such as the May 27 gas well blowout in Baghjan, affecting thousands of locals as well as the ecology. The situation in Baghjan has not yet been permanently resolved. As such, local expertise to deal with such recurring situations is welcome,” said an official. As many as 1,803 students received their degrees through the online mode, including 300 PhDs at the convocation. Modi urged the students to think about how their research can be linked to the possibilities of development of the Northeast. Urging the youth to be future ready and future fit because their dreams and aspirations will shape the future of India, Modi said the Northeast region is the centre for India’s Act East Policy and gateway to its relations with Southeast Asia. “The mainstay of relations with these countries have been culture, commerce, connectivity and capacity. Education is going to be another new medium of engagement and IIT Guwahati can become its major centre. This will also give the northeast a new identity and new opportunities will also arise here,” the Prime Minister said, while mentioning the government’s efforts to develop infrastructure in the region. Union minister for education Ramesh Pokhriyal, Sanjay Dhotre, Union minister of state for education, Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal and IIT Guwahati director T.G. Sitharam addressed the convocation. Modi also used the convocation to highlight the benefits of the National Education Policy 2020 aimed at “meeting the needs of the 21st century and to make India a global leader in science and technology”. “The NEP 2020 has been made multi-disciplinary and offers flexibility of choosing various courses and allows multiple entry and exit points. It also proposes a National Research Foundation for better coordination with all funding agencies for research and funds for all disciplines, be it science or humanities. The NEP allows foreign universities to set up their offshore campuses in India, which would give global exposure to Indian students,” Modi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-44
23-09-2020||North East||NGT notice on OIL projects in Tinsukia district||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has asked the Union ministry of environment, forests and climate change to respond within six weeks to a plea challenging its April 9 approval to Oil India Ltd’s proposed onshore oil and gas development drilling and production projects in Mechaki area in Upper Assam’s Tinsukia district. The petition filed by two conservationists — Bimal Gogoi and Mridu Paban Phukon — claimed that the clearance was accorded in violation of the Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) notification, 2006. The NGT order was passed by a bench comprising Justice S.P. Wangdi and expert member Nagin Nanda on Thursday. The petition said cumulative impact assessment was not carried out even though the proposed project is located close to several other existing projects of oil and gas as well as hydrocarbon exploration and the “entire landscape is rich in biodiversity and is highly ecologically sensitive”, among others. The Mechaki block is located in close proximity to the Dibru-Saikhowa National Park, the Maguri-Motapung wetland and is part of the Dehing Patkai elephant reserve. The Maguri wetland is in Baghjan where a gas well blowout on May 27 is yet to be capped by Oil India Ltd. The blowout has affected over 8,000 locals, besides the local ecology. The next hearing is on November 10.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-44
23-09-2020||North East||Bid to vet Clause 6 panel report welcomed||A senior member of the Clause 6 Committee has not only welcomed the Centre’s decision to get the panel report examined by legal experts but has also mooted the names of three legal luminaries for the job. Nilay Dutta, senior advocate and advocate-general of Arunachal Pradesh, who was part of the 14-member Clause 6 committee set up by the ministry of home affairs last year, told The Telegraph on Tuesday that he welcomed the decision to get the report examined by legal experts but wanted it to be a time-bound process. “There is finally some movement on the report front after seven months. Der aaye par durust aaye (better late than never) but I hope it doesn’t take another seven months to review the report. Would be happy if the committee is named within a week and the report submitted within a month. The day the report was released by the AASU, I had mooted that let there be a debate. It is happening now,” Dutta said. Clause 6 of the 1985 Assam Accord, an outcome of the six-year-old Assam Movement against illegal foreigners, provides for constitutional, legislative and administrative safeguards “to protect, preserve and promote the cultural, social, linguistic identity and heritage of the Assamese people”. The Clause 6 committee submitted its report to the state government on February 25 after “failing” to get an audience with Union home minister Amit Shah in Delhi. However, three members of the All Assam Students’ Union, also members of the committee,  made the report public on August 12 since the government was allegedly sitting on it for about six months. Dutta, who had participated online in the press meet convened to release the report, wanted the report to be made public “in the interest of transparency and for an informed discussion on the actual recommendations made therein”. Dutta also named few legal eagles who could be part of the proposed committee to examine the Clause 6 report. “My panel would include Justice M.K. Sharma, former Chief Justice of India Justice Ranjan Gogoi and Justice Amitava Roy, all former distinguished Supreme Court Justices,” Dutta said. The trio hail from Assam and are well-known names in India’s legal circle. According to Dutta, the committee’s recommendations such as reservation of seats in Parliament and Assembly and jobs in government sectors will need constitutional amendments but protection of land rights and language and culture can be carried out by the state government. Dutta’s reaction comes at a time when senior Supreme Court advocate Upamanyu Hazarika and AASU general secretary Lurinjyoti Gogoi, among others, countered the Centre’s move, accusing the government of lacking in sincerity while dealing with issues affecting Assam. Assam cabinet minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Sunday said Shah wanted the state government to get the report examined by constitutional experts since it was suggested by the committee to avoid complications in the future. Hazarika, criticising the move, said, “The Clause 6 committee was chaired by Gauhati High Court Justice (retired) Biplab Kumar Sarma, while incumbent advocate-general of Assam, Ramesh Chandra Borpatragohain, and the advocate-general of Arunachal Pradesh, Nilay Dutta, were members of the committee. Are they not legal experts? Does the state government not consider its own advocate-general, a constitutional functionary, to be a legal expert?” The need for further legal advice can only be on the mode of implementation of the report and that too from someone like the attorney-general of India, if at all, Hazarika added. “Had the government been sincere, it would have given a timeframe for this expert consultation to be completed just like it had given the committee six months to submit the report,” Hazarika said. Lurinjyoti said getting the report vetted by legal experts named by the state government was not there in the terms of reference. The report was to be submitted to the ministry of home affairs which would have  taken necessary action for its implementation. “After we unilaterally released the report in August they are coming up with all kinds of ploy to delay the process. The move to get it examined by legal experts is unfair to the legal experts in the committee. It is an insult to them. The committee was formed to ease pressure generated by the anti-CAA movement in the state last year, not to protect our rights,” Gogoi said. On the NRC issue, Sarma said that the Centre would help the state government in the Supreme Court if it moves for sample re-verification — 20 per cent in border districts and 10 per cent in remaining districts — of the final NRC published on August 31, 2019. The NRC, a register of Indian citizens, had included 31,121,004 applicants out of the 33,027,661 who had applied in 2015. Hazarika countered the move to approach the apex court too, saying there was no need to approach the Supreme Court again for re-verification, as after publication of the final list on 31 August, 2019, the power to re-verify and correct entries in the NRC vests in the central government, Registrar-General of India or their delegate, in terms of rules framed in 2003 under the Citizenship Act.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-44
23-09-2020||Opinion||Unfair tactics: Passing farm bills in Parliament||Sir — The Narendra Modi-led government at the Centre has rushed three farm bills through the Rajya Sabha amid a great ruckus. The manner in which the bills, which are of existential importance for millions of farmers, were passed brings dishonour upon democracy. Much of the blame for the unprecedented scenes on the floor of the House must be borne by the deputy chairperson of the Rajya Sabha and the Centre. In keeping with the democratic spirit, the Centre should have agreed to refer the bills to a select panel for greater scrutiny and consultation. The deputy chairperson clearly erred in allowing the fate of the bills to be decided by ‘voice vote’ when the Opposition favoured a ‘division’, or actual voting, denying people the opportunity to know for certain who were for and who were against the bills. The purportedly grand reforms will most likely reintroduce the old zamindari system in a new, insidious form. Linked directly to the market forces, farmers will eventually be reduced to being farm slaves. Dignity of labour will become a casualty of contract farming, which is nothing but a euphemism for the corporatization of agriculture. Farmers and corporate behemoths cannot be on an equal footing when it comes to negotiating contracts on, say, the trade of farm produce. Further, there is a chance that the technology about which the prime minister has boasted might rupture the cherished bond between the farmer and the land. The passage of the farm bills sounds the death knell for the mandis run by the Agriculture Produce Market Committee. There is also the fear that this might be the end of the minimum support price regime. Few are gullible enough to believe that these farm laws will double the income of farmers as assured by the prime minister. It is also not clear how these laws will come to bear on the public distribution system and food security. It is also wrong to claim that the new agricultural marketing reforms will give farmers ‘marketing freedom’ when these will actually make them vulnerable to exploitation by big agribusinesses. Most of the rural population makes a meagre living from agriculture; many of them voted for the Bharatiya Janata Party. The farmers of India have contributed to the growth of the gross domestic product by 3.4 per cent — the only bright spot on the GDP record. Surely they deserve better. G. David Milton,Maruthancode, Tamil Nadu Sir — The way in which three important farm bills were passed in the Rajya Sabha was unprecedented in Indian democracy. The demand of the Opposition to send the bills for further discussion to a select committee was bypassed by the ruling of voice vote. The deputy chairman’s rejection of the Opposition plea for a switch-button was an undemocratic move. The Opposition was suppressed by marshals as the bills were passed. The Central government is slowly but steadily tightening the noose around the idea of democracy. It has been trying to bypass Parliament with regard to legislations on important matters, including those on the National Education Policy and the draft Environmental Impact Assessment notification. It is farcical that in the case of the farm bills, the Centre is steamrolling its decision by sheer muscle power while Parliament is in session. Shovanlal Chakraborty,Calcutta Sir — It is difficult to believe that the system of voice voting is still legally a part of parliamentary proceedings. How can important decisions about the future of the nation be based on who can scream the loudest? As such, it was not surprising to see parliamentarians resort to unruly behaviour — one even tried to tear apart the rulebook — allegedly all in national interest. Any matter of significance should be resolved on the basis of reason and not rowdy behaviour. If parliamentarians continue to set such a precedent, then future generations will not have much to look up to. This is a mockery of statesmanship. Anjana Ghosh,Delhi Have faith Sir — It was astonishing to learn that since the demonetization of the currency notes of Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 in 2016, devotees have been ‘donating’ their obsolete notes to the Tirupati temple. Evidently, the government, led by a ruling party that seems to champion the cause of Hindutva, did not foresee that the ‘black money’ it claimed to have weeded out of the economy could land up in temples. The temple trust has now reportedly requested the finance minister to help monetize the old notes. If the notes are indeed validated, then the money should be used to alleviate the miseries of the needy. Sarbari Pal,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-144
23-09-2020||Opinion||Data pinch: Rising lack of jobs in India||The lack of job opportunities and a persistently high level of unemployment are beginning to emerge as focal points of criticism of the Narendra Modi government. On the prime minister’s birthday, a number of netizens wrote critical messages about the problem of unemployment. These messages went viral. So much so that the prime minister’s birthday was observed by his critics as ‘National Unemployment Day’. Data bear out the grimness of the situation. According to the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy, the latest figure on unemployment stands at 7.05 per cent as a thirty-day moving-average. Between May and August this year, it is estimated that about 6.6 million white collar jobs were lost, including those of professionals like teachers, accountants, consultants, engineers and physicians. The loss of blue-collar jobs has been anywhere between 5 to 10 million if the informal sector estimates are taken into account. There has also been a sharp drop in the labour force participation rate since the pandemic began. This indicates that a larger number of people in the working-age population have given up searching for jobs. These people could be the migrants who returned home and are now dependent on their extended families in rural areas. The government has been quite reticent about the extent of unemployment revealed through statistics. Indeed, not so long ago, it had refused to make public data collected by its own agencies. Reliable data have become a scarce commodity since suspicions about government sources continue to remain if the debates on the numbers pertaining to income, unemployment and industrial production are any indication. There are three important implications that emerge from this stance of the government. The first is that it has lost much of its credibility regarding data, including data about Covid-19. This has long-term consequences for India’s international image. The second implication is that policies based on inaccurate data are bound to be ineffective. Officials involved in policy-making may not even know the degree of distortion, or they might believe the official version to be the truth. In both situations, policy outcomes are bound to be affected adversely. The third implication pertains to the relative reluctance of the government to deliberate on major national problems. An example of this is the jettisoning of the question hour in Parliament. The health of a democracy and the availability of reliable data are strongly correlated. Covid-19 should not be allowed to weaken the strength of an open polity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-144
23-09-2020||Opinion||Electoral might: Steamrolling of farm bills||Narendra Modi, a maestro of spin, described the passage of the contentious bills on agricultural ‘reform’ as a ‘watershed moment’. Perhaps the prime minister truly believes that pushing through legislations without wider deliberations with the Opposition can be rightfully claimed as a momentous accomplishment in a parliamentary democracy. Eight Rajya Sabha MPs, who had led the furious protest against the hasty passage of the bills, have been suspended for the rest of the session for their unruly conduct. Unparliamentary behaviour must be assessed fairly and then acted upon. But this is not to suggest that the Bharatiya Janata Party-led Central government stands out as a beacon of parliamentary propriety. The steamrolling of the three farm bills is a case in point. The government chose to not cede any ground for such legitimate demands as a detailed discussion on the concerns raised by the bills, referring the legislations to a select committee that would have facilitated a wider consultative process and — most brazenly — the demand for a division of votes, a fundamental right of elected representatives. Significantly, the aam aadmi were denied the opportunity to view these transgressions as live telecast of the proceedings was disrupted. This kind of shocking unilateralism, the trademark of Mr Modi’s muscular regime, may have aggrieved the Opposition further. It is telling that a government, elected twice over in a democracy, is yet to comprehend that Parliament remains the highest consultative forum. The hubris of electoral triumphs may have fogged the BJP’s ethical glasses. Mr Modi has defended the bills stoutly. What remains to be seen is whether the prime minister’s defiance would be enough to douse the political fires that have been lit. The Opposition, bolstered by the simmering unrest by farmers in Haryana and Punjab, seems to have found a way to stand united — at least for now. The National Democratic Alliance has already lost the Shiromani Akali Dal, one of its staunchest allies, and there are murmurs that some other fence-sitters — the Biju Janata Dal, Telangana Rashtra Samithi and All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam — are nervous about the agitation from a politically significant constituency. It will take more than the usual dose of aggressive rhetoric and inducements — the Centre has already raised the minimum support price of wheat — to calm the tempers within and outside the House.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-144
23-09-2020||Opinion||Day devours night||Pitri Paksha, an austere period in the Hindu calendar during which the devout pay homage to their ancestors, ended last week. Recounting the universal nature of the rituals of honouring the dead — the Egyptians, Greeks and Romans were reverential towards the departed, as are Hindus, Christians, Parsis, Muslims, Jews and, not to forget, indigenous people — R.V. Smith, that inveterate chronicler of Delhi who died in April, characteristically paid special attention to the minutiae of these customs. Kheer, wheat flour, rice and vegetables, Smith noted, are essentials to keep the dead in good spirits. Bengal, arguably, does one better. Ashhin, the sixth month in the Bengali calendar — it straddles September and October — brings with it the tradition of lighting small lamps whose mellow light, it is believed, helps our forefathers find their way back to their homes. Bengali literature is aware that the journey between the realms of the dead and the living comes with its peculiar turbulences. In “Akashpidim”, a little gem in the literary treasure trove that is the genre of bhooter golpo, a dear departed, doddering soul, clad in a spotless thaan, realizes, to her horror, that after a long astral journey she has landed on the wrong terrace. The dimness of the lights, it could be argued, may have affected the readings on her spectral radar. Visitations by spirits to this material world are still being disrupted if whispers from secretive séance societies are to be believed. Ironically, it is the excess of luminescence, rather than muted light, that is causing these disruptions. There is even a deceptively charming name for this phenomenon: Sky Glow. Thomas Edison, who invented the electric bulb, would have been appalled by its modern, Frankensteinian avatar. Sky Glow, light pollution in unambiguous words, is the result of countless sources of incandescence — street lights, outdoor billboards, buildings, offices, factories, cars and what have you — transforming night into day. Its spectacular but frightening scale has been documented by the World Atlas of Night Sky Brightness, a computer simulated projection, which found that more than 80 per cent of the global population, including a stunning 99 per cent of Europeans and Americans, are leading drastically illuminated lives. Light pollution, much like other kinds of contamination, is also a great leveller among economies. A 2019 study published in the journal, Urban Climate, found that in the period between 1993 and 2013, New Delhi, Telangana, Maharashtra, Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh experienced an exponential rise in light pollution while West Bengal, Gujarat and Tamil Nadu had made the transition from low to high candescent categories. The switch to LED lights, rapid urbanization, construction activity, municipal illumination projects of parks and other public spaces and, pertinently, callous behaviour — weddings and social functions add to light pollution — have expedited the death of the night in India; so much so that a global study in 2017 found that the loss of natural night light in India was three times faster than the global average. India Shining has, once again, proved to be injurious to species, for both spectral and flesh-and-blood variety. Science says that artificial light, including the Blue Light emitted by our beloved mobile phones, causes serious disruptions in the circadian rhythm in humans apart from suppressing the production of melatonin, a hormone, which, in turn, causes sleep deprivation, enhanced stress, cardiological problems and, recent findings even suggest, cancer. The impact on the animal world and the environment is as severe. Sea turtles and migratory birds that cover great distances with the light of the moon as their compass get distracted — just like our ancestors — by Sky Glow, losing their way to an untimely death. Even the water world is no longer immune: pioneering research by the University of Plymouth revealed that light from coastal habitations and oil rigs afloat on oceans is penetrating the deep waters to reach the sea bed, vastly altering the food patterns and reproductive cycles of marine species. Typically, the regulatory response to light pollution has been sporadic and feeble. The International Dark-Sky Association, based in the United States of America, has succeeded in creating the vast, heavenly Central Idaho Dark Sky Reserve, stretching for nearly 4,000 square kilometres, one of the 14 ‘sky patches’ meant to preserve the light of night. In Europe, France has broken new ground with The Decree, adopting one of the most progressive legislations to control light emission. Since the only thing that interests India’s present rulers as far as the French are concerned is a military aircraft, it is unlikely that this regime would be keen on indigenizing The Decree. But the absence of stringent legal deterrents is just one challenging aspect of this unfolding menace. The Pradhan Mantri Sahaj Bijli Har Ghar Yojana has made an ambitious claim of universal electrification, but the devil, as is always the case with Mr Modi, lies in the detail. Officially, a village is declared ‘electrified’ if only 10 per cent of households and some specific public dwellings — the panchayat office, for example — have access to electricity; government data, a BBC report claimed earlier, conceded that only six states had achieved ‘universal electrification’, but was this achievement made possible by such a shockingly narrow interpretation of universal access? The implications are obvious. It would be unreasonable to expect disadvantaged Indians to contemplate the gradual excess of illumination given their long history of surviving under a flickering bulb or, worse, in the dark. A report by a subsidiary of The Rockefeller Foundation in collaboration with the Initiative for Sustainable Energy Policy at the Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies showed that the average electricity demand of rural households in a sample of 10,000 houses in Odisha, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar was merely 39 kWh. A pragmatic and justifiably utilitarian sensibility extinguishes the aesthetic anxieties concerning light pollution. The inability to spot the wondrous night sky and its bejewelled constellations — Walt Whitman, crippled by a paralytic stroke, had attributed his slow recovery to being ‘among the trees and under the stars’ — in the near future is unlikely to exercise a large number of citizens in rural and mofussil India who have, over the years, paid a high price in terms of health, education, livelihood and productivity on account of erratic or absent electric light. It is true that air pollution extracts a greater pound of human flesh. By some estimates, 1.2 million Indians perish each year after inhaling the poison that is India’s air. What has gone unnoticed, by public discourse and policy, is that light pollution is stealthily eroding an ancient, elemental relationship between humanity and the celestial sphere. After an earthquake led to the collapse of the grid in Los Angeles late one night in 1994, anxious residents, terrified by the absence of blinding lights, called the police and complained about an eerie silver cloud in the night sky. That spectre, an unfamiliar — sinister — sight, was the Milky Way. Polluting light, evidently, is not causing only our pitripurush to lose their way. uddalak.mukherjee@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-144
23-09-2020||Opinion||Afghanistan: Theatre of strategic importance||For years, India formally refused to recognize the Taliban or give them any legitimacy. That slowly started to change two years ago. Earlier this month, the foreign minister, S. Jaishankar, gave his blessings to intra-Afghan talks involving the elected government in Kabul and the Taliban on the condition that any dispensation that emerges from a peace dialogue must embrace a few red lines. “It should promote the values of human rights and democracy that can foster development,” he said. “The interests of the minorities, women and vulnerable must be ensured.” “The soil of Afghanistan,” he added, “should never be used for any anti-India activities.” That sounds good and indeed is India’s boilerplate position on Afghanistan. Sadly, it’s increasingly out of sync with reality — and is more a reflection of New Delhi’s struggle to juggle complicated neighbourhood tensions. At a moment when its troops are locked in a months-long stand-off with Chinese soldiers in Ladakh, the real frontier where the future of the region will be decided is opening up in Afghanistan. And India risks being pushed to the side and left alone in the scramble for the future of that nation. The United States of America is rushing full steam ahead in pressing the Afghan government to accept the Taliban’s demands for negotiations to proceed. After baulking at the idea for months, the government of President Ashraf Ghani earlier this month released the most murderous of Taliban prisoners under American pressure. The Taliban have so far made no commitment that they will defend the interests of ‘minorities’ and ‘women’ — two segments of society that faced the worst assault during the militant group’s earlier reign over Afghanistan in the 1990s. Yet it’s clear that the US believes that the Taliban are the only force capable of taking charge of Afghanistan once it leaves at the end of what has been its longest ever war — its concessions to the group show that. And that final withdrawal could come as soon as next month. If the US president, Donald Trump, is unable to declare a successful Covid-19 vaccine and if his efforts to galvanize his base by pushing through a conservative judge in place of the late Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg stutter, he might look to Afghanistan for an ‘October surprise’. In American politics, that’s a phrase for news that’s created on the eve of the country’s presidential election to swing undecided voters. Yet a hasty US withdrawal is where India’s challenges will start. When the Taliban were in power in the 1990s, they were supported by Pakistan and the US tended to turn a blind eye. But most other regional nations such as Russia, China and Iran were — like India — deeply uncomfortable with the ultra-conservative group. And the US routinely criticized the ethnic massacres perpetrated by the Taliban against the Hazaras, the strict restrictions on women they imposed, and the medieval punishment practices deployed by the group — including stoning people to death in public. In 2020, the landscape is very different. The US has already recognized the Taliban as a legitimate stakeholder in the future of Afghanistan through their peace deal signed earlier this year. Russia, China and Iran have all built bridges with the Taliban, each trying to secure its strategic and economic interests in a future Afghanistan in exchange for aid and legitimacy. India, too, has made initial attempts at networking with the Taliban but its efforts are nascent compared with Russia’s or China’s. Russia has worked with the group to take on their common enemy — the Islamic State. China has promised to build six-lane highways and other infrastructure in Taliban-controlled areas in exchange for peace. According to US intelligence reports, Iran has paid bounties to Taliban fighters to target American soldiers in Afghanistan. New Delhi still has an opportunity. Unlike in the 1990s, the Taliban is, this time, likely to want to use their myriad regional and global relationships to reduce the dependence on Pakistan, the Taliban’s traditional benefactor. While Islamabad will almost certainly emerge as the most powerful foreign player in any Taliban-led dispensation, the latter have made clear that they want to balance those ties with relationships with others — including India. In May, the Taliban even indicated that they might allow India to treat Kashmir as its “internal” matter, a break from the group’s past position. Yet senior officials confirm that New Delhi is yet to make deep breakthroughs in cultivating senior Taliban leaders as a buffer against Pakistani influence. That needs to change if India is to have a meaningful voice in Afghanistan. Yes, it’s important to focus on the border tensions with China. But it would be a mistake to take one’s eyes off Afghanistan. That’s where the future of South Asia might well be decided.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-144
23-09-2020||Jharkhand||Jumbos from Bengal on rampage in Chandil forest range||Attempts by foresters to drive away elephants from near Asanbani village in Chandil forest range of Seraikela-Kharsawan in the wee hours of Wednesday proved futile as the pachyderms returned after a few hours. Separate herds of 30 elephants from Bengal are giving sleepless nights to foresters as well as villagers for the past five days, damaging standing crops and pulling down homes. Petrified villagers remain holed up at their homes in the night in fear of elephant attack. The herds are currently scattered near human settlements at Anda, Kalyanpur, Biyasisai and Punihara in the Chandil forest range. The elephants remain in the dense jungles during the day and venture out late afternoon to target crops and human settlements. “The herds are posing a big problem for us. So far, the herds have damaged crops and also targeted some homes but man-elephant conflict cannot be ruled out. We are trying hard to drive away the elephants by deploying our forest patrol teams but we are yet to get the desired results. We have even distributed firecrackers among the villagers,” said Chandil forest range officer Ashok Kumar. According to Kumar, they were also getting assistance from village youths. “The Bengal jumbos seem to have developed a special liking for the Chandil forest range. Earlier, herds from the neighbouring state used to come and leave after two-three days but now the trend has changed. The elephants are overstaying in our range,” Kumar added. Elephants damaged the home of Sudhir Pramkanik at Ramchandarpur earlier this week and also wiped out the rice crop. Another herd destroyed and devoured vegetables grown by Bhrigu Bhagat in Asanbani the same day. A forester pointed out that the elephants usually don’t attack unless they are teased. “Villagers tend to drive away elephants by throwing stones and coming close to the animals. We are lucky that the elephant herds from Bengal have not killed anyone but man-animal conflict can take place if the villagers continue teasing the jumbos,” he added on condition of anonymity. Moreover, the forester said, mahua-brewing units have reopened and the scent is attracting the elephants who not only wipe out the liquor but also attack humans. The Chandil forest range has of late emerged as a favourite place for the elephants. Jumbos from Tamar and Kandra forests (in Seraikela-Kharsawan) also make their presence felt here.  A forest team had shepherded a herd from Kandra to Chandil last week. However, the elephants went back to the Seraikala forest after two days. The herds from Bengal are still anchored at Chandil forest range. “We are trying our best but keeping our fingers crossed. It all depends upon the mood of elephants when it comes to going back to Bengal. Elephants are moody animals,” the range officer said. A lone male tusker has created havoc in villages situated in bordering areas of Hazaribagh, Giridih and Bokaro. On Wednesday, it killed a 45-year-old Parvati Devi while she was sitting in front of her house at Nawadih village in Sarukudar panchayat of Vishnugarh police station area of Hazaribagh district. Earlier on Tuesday, the tusker killed a 55-year-old woman Rohini Devi near Karanj Mor in Vishnugarh block headquarter in Hazaribagh. The woman came out of her house to tend her cattle when the elephant attacked her, said Smita Pankaj, divisional forest officer of Bagodar. Later, the tusker, while wandering in the jungle, entered Giridih and killed Parvati Devi at Nawadih village. Village resident Subodh Mahto said that Devi was unaware of a stray elephant in the surrounding areas and was sitting outside her house when it came and attacked her. She died on the spot. Her body was sent for post-mortem to Hazaribagh medical college and hospital. Pankaj said the tusker seems to have been separated from its herd and is wandering in the area. They are keeping vigil on its movement. “It was last spotted entering the Dumri area,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-290
23-09-2020||Jharkhand||Spare a thought for those who help hold that perfect wedding||Over 1,500 service providers like caterers, tent house owners, musicians and photographers, all of whom are essential elements of wedding celebrations, held an exhibition of their wares here on Wednesday, demanding that the government withdraw attendance curbs on social functions. The 90-minute protest exhibition, with counters set up on the stretch between Randhir Verma Chowk and SSLNT Women’s College on Luby Circular Road from 10am, displayed articles used by such service providers to drive home the point that these had been rendered useless for the last six months. The only way to revive the fortunes of these service providers was to lift the curbs on social gatherings and allow participation of 300 or more people. On display were utensils like cauldrons, trays, crockery and cutlery, flowerpots, cameras, lens, drums, trumpets and generators, all laid out in organised fashion with participants wearing masks and gloves and adhering to social distancing. Some protestors held placards bearing slogans in Hindi like, “Sabhi gharo me khushiyan dene wale aaj ho gaye hain berojgar,” “Vivah samaroh me pachas vyakti se adhik hone ka swikriti pradan kare sarkar” and “Berozgari ki maar, hamari bhi sune sarkar, ham ho gaye berojgar,hamare pariwar ke baare me bhi soche Sarkar”. Later they handed over a memorandum to the district administration. The protest was held in accordance with a decision taken on September 15 at the executive committee meeting of Dhanbad Zila Decorator Association, an umbrella organisation of decorators, tent house owners, caterers, florists and musicians. Vinod Rawani (42), a decorator of Godhar area of Dhanbad, said, “I am in this trade since the last 12 years. But never have I faced such a situation. I am unable to pay an EMI of Rs 22,000 for a loan wroth Rs 10 lakh which I took t start my business.” He said the last six months have been terrible as he found it extremely difficult to take care of his family. “The last marriage function for which we worked was in Baseria on March 11. Since then I have earned nothing. I can only hope that the government provide some relaxation in norms so that we can also earn our livelihood,” said Rawani. Navin Kumar Gupta, a photographer of Hirapur, said he used to earn around Rs 30,000 per month on an average, working on assignments ranging from weddings to anniversaries and birthdays. “Now, my income is almost zero. And I have to pay a studio rent of Rs 2,500 per month, along with an EMI of Rs 3,000 per month for my mirrorless camera,” he said. Gupta appealed to the government to provide some relief. “Otherwise, we will be compelled to sell our articles and leave our profession,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-290
23-09-2020||Jharkhand||Monsoon to bid goodbye around October 10||The southwest monsoon is expected to bid adieu to Jharkhand by early October, which IMD officials described as normal on Wednesday. Unlike last year when the monsoon overstayed in Jharkhand for four days till October 14, this year, the withdrawal is expected around October 10. "Usually the monsoon withdrawal starts from Rajasthan. But today's Met studies indicate that conditions are favourable and that the withdrawal process is likely to begin from north western parts in another 48 hours. In that case, the season of rains would exit from Jharkhand around October 10," said a senior official at the forecasting wing of IMD-New Delhi. IMD 's Ranchi Met Centre corroborated this finding. "Monsoon withdrawal from the north western parts of the country is expected to begin in another 48 hours. Conditions are conducive. Under normal circumstances, the withdrawal process is expected to reach Jharkhand within a fortnight. Thus, we are expecting a normal withdrawal of monsoon this year," explained S.D. Kotal, director of IMD's Ranchi Met Centre. Last year, the withdrawal process of monsoon began late from Rajasthan so its exit from Jharkhand also got delayed. The normal date of monsoon withdrawal from Jharkhand is October 10. Last year (2019), the process got delayed by four days while 2018 witnessed an early withdrawal on October 3. In 2017, the monsoon withdrawal from Jharkhand was delayed by five days and in 2016, there was a delay of nine days. On Wednesday, there was widespread rain across Jharkhand for the third consecutive day because of an active monsoon, coupled with the impact of a low-pressure system originating in the Bay of Bengal. Most places in the Kolhan region, including Jamshedpur, Ghatshila and Seraikela, experienced a good shower show. The local IMD observatory in Jamshedpur recorded 25 mm rain on Wednesday. According to Met data, Rajmahal in Sahebganj district recorded the highest rainfall of 116 mm in the past 24 hours. Papunki, Putki and Topchanchi in Dhanbad district and Chas in Bokaro district recorded over 60 mm rain . There were reports of moderate rain in Simdega, Dumka, Ramgarh, Gumla, Pakur, Deoghar and other districts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-290
23-09-2020||Jharkhand||Minister keeps his promise, gifts cars to JAC science toppers||State education minister Jagarnath Mahto gifted two cars to Jharkhand Academic Council (JAC) matric and intermediate (science) toppers on Wednesday, keeping a promise he had made to meritorious students when the results were declared in July. Accompanied by Assembly Speaker Ravindranath Mahto and (JAC) chairman Arvind Prasad, the minister handed over keys of Alto cars to inter science topper Amit Kumar and matric topper Manish Kumar Katiyar at a low-key ceremony on the premises of the Vidhan Sabha in the afternoon. “During declaration of results, I had announced to give cars to those who topped in the state. Today, I kept my promise. Others will also get soon,” the education minister said, referring to the toppers in arts and commerce streams. “I also announce that I will bear all the expenses of further studies of the toppers from next year. This apart, if any student faces financial or other problems while pursuing their studies, he/she can approach me. I shall try my best to help them,” he said, adding that as the education minister, it was his responsibility to ensure a proper education system in the state and also encourage students to aim high. Jagarnath Mahto has enrolled himself in an intermediate college in Bokaro to pursue studies. He said that he had already bought books and had begun studies even though educational institutions in the state were still closed in the wake of the pandemic. “Whenever I get free time, I study; in the car while travelling from one place to another.  I may be a minister, but I am also a student now. Who knows, I may be one of the topper’s next year,” he said as the gathering clapped. Speaker Mahto hailed the minister’s initiative. “Students of this state are good … all that they need is encouragement and support,” he said. Both toppers were elated about their gifts. Manish, who scored 98 per cent in this year’s matriculation, is from Sahebganj district but appeared as a student of Netarhat Vidyalaya. Son of a small-time farmer, he said that he will cherish this all his life. “I come from a very poor family of farmers. But my father, Kedar Mahto, never stopped me from pursuing studies. This car will be a gift to him,” he said, adding that he aims to get into administrative services in the future. Amit Kumar of Giridih, who topped in inter science with 91.4 per cent, is the son of Birendra Kumar Burnwal, who runs a battery shop near Sariya railway crossing. He appeared for the exams from SRSSR High School, Bagodar, in Giridih. Kumar said after clearing JEE Mains, he is now preparing for JEE advance scheduled on September 27. “I hope to clear the exam and get admission in one of the top IITs in the country,” he said, adding that ultimately, he would try and crack UPSC.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-290
23-09-2020||Jharkhand||Assistant police personnel get two-year extension as state gives in ||Assistant police personnel called off their agitation on Wednesday after the Hemant Soren government agreed to extend their services for two more years and promised to look into their remaining demands. The protestors announced a truce after a marathon 5 hour-long meeting with state water resource’s minister Mithilesh Thakur that was held at his residence from 12 noon. Over 2,500 assistant policemen and women had been camping at Morabadi ground since September 11 to press for their demands which included regularisation of jobs, increase in honorarium from the existing Rs 10,000 per month and allowances at par with regular policemen. On Friday, September 18, their protest turned violent when they clashed with police. Over a dozen people sustained injuries. On Saturday, chief minister Hemant Soren appointed Thakur to negotiate with the protestors, who did not budge from the venue till the state government provided them a commitment in writing. On Wednesday, the state government agreed to extend their services for two years and assured them that a high-level committee would look into their demands on priority. Thakur said, “The assistant police personnel have announced an end to their protest. They will return to their districts immediately. After speaking with the chief minister, I have assured them that their services would be extended for another two years. We will form a committee to look into their other demands.” Avinash Kumar Dwivedi, one of the protestors, who took part in Wednesday’s discussions, sounded satisfied. “We got a two-year extension to begin with. We are hopeful of positive steps with regard to our other demands. We are returning to our place of posting to work in tandem with the state government,” he said. Notably, assistant police personnel were hired on contract basis in 2017 on monthly honorarium of Rs 10,000 by the former BJP government headed by Raghubar Das. They were then assured permanent reinstatement gradually. However, after their contract period ended in August this year, their contracts weren’t renewed by the JMM-Congress-RJD government until they resorted to their stir which culminated today.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-290
23-09-2020||Jharkhand||Jharkhand’s testing rate higher than national average||Jharkhand government has tested nearly 6 per cent of the state’s population for the coronavirus in the past six months, notching up a testing rate higher than the national average of around 5 per cent, figures with the Union ministry of health and family welfare reveal. Jharkhand, till date, has tested 18.86 lakh people for Covid-19, which is around 5.9 per cent of the state’s total population of 3.29 crore, as per the 2011 census. As per figures with the health ministry, around 6.62 crore people have been tested for the virus across the country, which is around 5 per cent of the country’s population of 130 crore. Officials from the Jharkhand National Health Mission (NHM) on Wednesday said that the state’s cumulative tests per million (TPM) was also higher than the national figure because of intensified Covid testing drives. “Our cumulative TPM is 50,028, while the national TPM is 49,209,” said the state NHM director, Dr Ravi Shankar Shukla. “We are way ahead of the World Health Organisation’s target of conducting 140 tests per million per day,” he added. As per figures with the NHM, Jharkhand’s TPM on Tuesday was 1,303, while that of India was 708. Despite achieving a higher testing rate than the rest of the country, Jharkhand’s positivity rate for the tests conducted was much lower than the national average, officials said. “Higher testing rate will allow the government to find more cases and thereby check the spread of the virus through asymptomatic carriers,” said Dr Ajay Singh, coordinator of Indian Medical Association’s (IMA) Jharkhand chapter. India’s positivity rate, as per the health ministry, was 8.51 per cent and Jharkhand’s positivity rate was 3.29 per cent. The figures, officials said, indicated that although cases of infection increased in Jharkhand, the percentage of people testing positive among the ones tested every day was lower than the national average. As per government data, as many as 73,948 people have tested positive for Covid-19 in Jharkhand so far. At least 60,327 of these patients have recovered, while 12,976 of them are still battling the virus. The virus has claimed the lives of 645 people across the state so far. “Our recovery rate is also higher than the national average, and the mortality rate is lower. As on September 22, our recovery rate was 81.19 per cent and the national recovery rate was 80.90 per cent,” said Shukla. Jharkhand’s Covid mortality rate was 0.86 per cent, against the national Covid mortality rate of 1.60 per cent, as per government figures. The Union health ministry on Wednesday admitted that several states and union territories had a higher TPM than the country as a whole, while it announced that India’s Covid testing capacity surged above 12 lakh daily tests.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-291
23-09-2020||Jharkhand||1200 Covid cases in a day, tally close to 74000 in Jharkhand||Jharkhand on Tuesday recorded over 1200 cases of Covid-19 infection, taking the tally in the state close to 74,000, while 10 casualties took the toll to 641, figures released by the health department stated. West Singhbhum reported four of the 10 Covid casualties on Tuesday, while three deaths occurred in East Singhbhum. Both the districts are in the Kolhan division of Jharkhand. Koderma, Dumka and Hazaribag reported one death each, while Ranchi did not report any Covid casualty on the day. The Covid mortality rate in Jharkhand was 0.86 per cent on Tuesday night, the government data highlighted, However, by the virtue of the higher number of Covid recoveries reported in 24 hours, the total count of patients who have overcome the virus in Jharkhand rose above 60,000. As per government data, at least 1427 Covid patients recovered from the infection on Tuesday, which took the number of recoveries in the state to 60,027. While Ranchi reported the highest number of cases on Tuesday, East Singhbhum registered the highest count of recoveries. As many as 278 people were found infected in Ranchi and 124 in East Singhbhum. Both the districts reported over 300 recoveries, it further stated. With 304 recoveries, the number of active cases in Ranchi dropped to 3,364, while the active cases dropped to 2,381 after 326 patients recovered there. Jharkhand’s Covid recovery rate further rose to 81.17 per cent on Tuesday and the number of total active cases stood at 13,280, highlighted government data. As per a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM), there were more than 15,000 active cases of Covid-19 infection in Jharkhand last week. The government so far has collected swab samples of 1.87 lakh people and tested 1.86 lakh of them. Out of the 1.86 lakh tested, as many as 73,948 were found infected, the NHM bulletin stated. On Tuesday, health workers tested swab samples of 26,763 people and 25,556 of them came negative. As per the NHM data, the doubling rate of Covid-19 in Jharkhand was 36 days, against the national doubling rate of 40.2 days. The Covid growth rate in Jharkhand in the past seven days was 1.97 per cent, against the national average of 1.67 per cent. As per the bulletin, 589 of the 626 Covid victims in Jharkhand were older than 50 years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-291
23-09-2020||Jharkhand||Portal soon for Covid patients’ kin in East Singhbhum||Family members of Covid-infected persons who are admitted at various hospitals will no longer be anxious about the patients’ condition as the East Singhbhum district administration will soon develop a portal to bridge the gap. Each of the Covid-designated hospitals in the steel city will have a system through which the family members of each patient will know his or her condition by means of a portal. A decision to this effect was taken at a high-level meeting of administrative officials, district health officials and representatives of various hospitals at Ravindra Bhawan in Sakchi on Tuesday. The meeting was presided over by Kolhan commissioner Manish Ranjan and attended by, among others, deputy inspector-general (Kolhan) Rajiv Ranjan Singh, East Singhbhum deputy commissioner Suraj Kumar, senior superintendent of police M. Tamil Vanan and district civil surgeon Rajendra Nath Jha. “It was a review meeting related to Covid-19 case detection in the district and treatment at the various hospitals. But the main focus of the meeting was how to increase the number of beds for coronavirus patients and intensify testing of suspected patients,” the civil surgeon told The Telegraph Online. Jha pointed out that stress was laid on better coordination among private labs that conduct testing for Covid-19 so that the pandemic can be tackled more effectively. On the proposed portal, the civil surgeon said the district administration has been instructed by the Kolhan commissioner to develop such a website as soon as possible so that the patients’ kin may not have to remain anxious about their condition at the hospital. During the meeting, which started at 11am and continued till 3pm, the management of various hospitals, including Tata Main Hospital, Tata Motors Hospital, Mercy Hospital and MGM Medical College Hospital, expressed their views on various matters, including the scope for increasing the bed capacity for the treatment of the Covid-19 patients. The number of coronavirus cases has crossed the 12,000 mark in the East Singhbhum district.  In the past 24 hours, 429 new cases were detected, taking the total number to 12,246.  The new cases were detected following rapid antigen testing of about 10,000 samples. Seven persons died of Covid-19 in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of deaths in the district to 300.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-291
23-09-2020||Jharkhand||Separated from herd, elephant enters village and tramples woman to death||A wild elephant, separated from its herd, entered Vishnugarh block headquarter in Hazaribagh, and crushed a 50-year-old woman to death on Tuesday morning. This is the first time an elephant entered a locality close to the block headquarter. The animal, which entered from Kausamba, also ended up damaging standing crops of 50 fields, apart from boundary walls of houses. One of the houses belongs to Mandu BJP MLA Jai Prakash Bhai Patel. Vishnugarh is situated 50kms away from Hazaribagh district headquarter. Villagers said Rohini Devi came out of her house at 4:30 am to tend to her cattle. The elephant which was present there trampled her to death as it made its way to an open field, later taking a dip in a nearby pond named Tribhuvan talab. A forest department team reached the spot and used crackers to make the elephant come out of the pond. Acting out of fear, it ran through Barhmoriya, reaching Patel’s house in Banaso, eventually  damaging the boundary walls. It also razed down the walls of the office of the irrigation department building, before escaping into the forest. Frightened villagers anticipated a return of the animal, but were assured by range officer Abhay Kumar Sinha. He gave Rs.10,000 to Rohini Devi’s family and said a compensation of Rs 4 lakh will be processed. He also said the forest team will stay in the area and keep a watch so that the elephant does not return. He requested villagers not to disturb wild animals and to inform the forest department if they see them entering the village area.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-291
23-09-2020||Jharkhand||Jumbo alarm to curb human deaths||Jharkhand will use Animal Intrusion Detection and Repellent System (Aniders) devices on a pilot basis in Chaibasa south forest division from October to check the growing human casualties in man-elephant conflict. The state has the highest human casualties in man-elephant conflict and is incurring huge crop losses because of frequent elephant intrusions. “The wildlife management plan (mandated for mining firms) of Tata Steel (which has iron ore mining lease in Noamundi under Chaibasa forest division) was approved by the forest department last month and installation of Aniders devices are part of this plan. We have already held talks with a Ghaziabad-based firm, Kyari, who are pioneers in the installation of this device, for installing it in October. In the first phase we have selected 18 worst affected villages falling in the elephant corridor and after observing its success we would replicate it in other villages of the forest division,” said divisional forest officer (DFO), Chaibasa, Satyam Kumar. Significantly, the raging conflict between man and elephants in Jharkhand has killed 1,405 people and over 80 elephants from 2000 (since creation of the state) to June 2020. According to documents available with the forest department, on an average there are two incidents of man-elephant conflict daily in Jharkhand, killing 74 people annually and injuring at least 130. “Due to an increase in mining and forest degradation, the elephant habitat has been disturbed, forcing them to change their diet. Bamboo plant is a staple for elephants, but it has been depleted and now they are attracted towards paddy and maize. An elephant calf that sees its mother feeding on grains does the same later. This apart human habitats have developed along the elephant corridor which has also increased man-elephant conflict,” said wildlife biologist D.S. Srivastava, while terming the state’s approach to elephant conservation as half-hearted. From 2016 to January 2020, there have been 30,341 instances of damage to crops, houses, grains and cattle in Jharkhand by wild animals and the government has paid Rs 14.25 crore in compensation. Aniders is a device that works like a mechanised scarecrow. “Existing methods like electric fences are no longer efficient and lead to animal casualties. The Aniders device works like a mechanised scarecrow. It detects the animals that intrude the field and scares them away before they can cause any damage to crops. The device uses the combination of active and passive infrared sensors to detect the animal movement and then uses a light and alarm system to repel them. Features such as solar-powered, automatic on/off, multiple sound and light patterns and real-time communication through GSM networks makes it an effective and a greener technology. Results of testing done by the World Wide Fund for Nature in India has found the device successfully repelled animals 86 per cent of the time which in turn resulted in a 60 per cent increase in crop yield,” said Shirish Ojha of Kyari. The Chaibasa DFO said that the total cost for installation of Aniders would be around Rs 47 lakh. “Each village will have six active infrared sensors and six passive infrared sensors. The total cost for all the 18 villages would be around Rs 47 lakh. The expense would be borne by Tata Steel. The firm would be maintaining the device for seven years. Each of the devices would also have in-built cameras which would help in maintaining elephant counts,” said Satyam Kumar. The elephant corridor stretches from Similipal wildlife sanctuary (Mayurbhanj, Odisha) to Dalma sanctuary in (Jharkhand-Bengal) with large patches of Singhbhum region comprising Saranda, Chaibasa and parts of Seraikela-Kharsawan falling in between.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-291
23-09-2020||Jharkhand||Dead body found in river in Koderma||A dead body was found in the Gauri river near the Chandawara-Jongi road in Koderma’s Chandwara block on Tuesday. Binod Swarnkar, a resident of Bajrang Bali Chowk in Chandwara, identified the dead as his son-in-law Ritesh Kumar Soni. He had gone out to meet someone on Monday night but did not return. Police have launched an investigation to find out who was behind the murder. The body was sent for post-mortem to Koderma sadar hospital. Soni’s motorcycle is missing. The cleaner of a truck died by electrocution when he tried to remove a low-hanging wire which had come in the path of the vehicle in Hazaribagh on Tuesday. The incident took place near St Robert High School on Ranchi-Patna Highway (NH33). Police officers said the truck was on its way to Barhi. The dead body was sent for post-mortem to the Hazaribagh medical college and hospital. Gulam Ansari, 17, a resident of Dipu Dhaura at Digwadih area in the Jorapokhar police station area of Dhanbad was stabbed to death by Mohammed Sohail on Tuesday afternoon over personal rivalry around 3pm. The incident took place near an isolated spot about 200m from Ansari’s home. Ansari was on his way to the market when Sohail attacked him and fled. Passers-by took him to a nearby nursing home from where he was referred to Patliputra Medical College & Hospital, Dhanbad, where he died during the course of treatment in the evening. According to Ansari’s relatives, Sohail had threatened to kill him several times. A speeding tanker struck an electric pole which fell on a house and injured a woman and her son at Kosma in Barkatha, around 65km from the Hazaribagh district headquarters. Police said the driver lost control of the vehicle and hit the pole on Tuesday afternoon. It fell on a nearby house, injuring Rakhi Devi, 30, and her five-year-old son, Langu Saw, who were sitting outside. Local residents caught the driver and handed him to the police. The injured duo were provided treatment at the local government hospital. Anupriya Mishra, 32, the married daughter of former BCCL director (technical) D.C. Jha on Tuesday lodged an FIR against a coal trader, Badal Gautam, in Bank More police station alleging rape and jewellery theft. Mishra had reached Dhanbad from Calcutta along with a friend, Sanket Krishnani. Gautam is a friend of Krishnani who allegedly raped her during her Dhanbad stay. Armed criminals stole cables, electric poles and other articles from the Bhelatand-based storehouse of Gopi Krishna, the agency engaged in underground cabling work for Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited, late on Monday. Fifteen criminals took the three security guards of the company hostage and then proceeded to rob the site. Dhanbad police on Tuesday arrested four persons for stealing cables at Shimla Bahal Colliery under Borragarh police outpost in Jharia on September 9. Dhanbad city superintendent of police R. Ramkumar said the police arrested Md Riyaz Ansari, 25, Sarfaraj Ansari, 20, and Hasim Ansari, 18, all residents of Shamsher Nagar area of Jharia, besides Nisar Ansari, 30, a resident of Hamid Nagar locality of Jharia, after conducting raids. They seized 18kg copper wire and two mobile phones. Sixty-eight people were discharged on Tuesday from various Covid-19 treatment facilities in Dhanbad. Twenty people were discharged from Nirsa Polytechnic, 18 from the railway zonal training institute at Bhuli, 15 from PMCH Cath lab, seven from Tata Central Hospital at Jamadoba, three each from the BCCL regional hospital in Bhuli and CIMFR health centre and two from Wedlock Greens. Dhanbad deputy commissioner Uma Shankar Singh said that the discharged persons will have to remain in home quarantine for the next 14 days. They have been provided medical kits.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-291
