24-09-2020||Calcutta||Still-water panic along canal banks||Mosquitoes have laid siege to places along the banks of the Kestopur and Bagjola canals and the Eastern Drainage Channel in Salt Lake, Baguiati, Kestopur and parts of Rajarhat. The reason: stagnant water in these canals. The situation is such that residents are forced to keep their doors and windows shut at all times, many people who live in these areas have said. More than one official of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation confirmed the water in these canals was stagnant. Mayor Krishna Chakra-borty said she had requested the irrigation department to release water from the Hooghly into the canals to ensure the water starts flowing. “We are taking all steps to keep the water in these canals flowing. We are working in coordination with the irrigation department to ensure that mosquitoes don’t breed in the canals,” Chakraborty said. Weeds are being trimmed and bushes cleared, she said. The Aedes aegypti mosquito that causes dengue can breed even in a coin-sized blob of water. In Salt Lake, several blocks including AE, AB, BD, AC, AL, BL, SA AH situated off the Kestopur canal in sectors I and II as well blocks HB, IB, IC, KB and KC situated off the Eastern Drainage Channel in Sector III have reported an increase in the number of mosquitoes in the past couple of days. “The water in the Kestopur canal has turned stagnant and it is a perfect breeding ground for mosquitoes. I am keeping all my windows and doors shut as I don’t want to suffer from dengue again,” Shatarupa Bhowmick, a resident of SA Block who had suffered from dengue a year ago, said. A Kestopur resident said mosquito nets were never taken off in her house. “It is the only place safe from mosquitoes, be it day or night.” The canal is a two-minute walk from her house, she said. “People are dumping garbage on the banks as well as in the canal because of which the water has stopped flowing,” Anamika Saha, who lives in Kestopur, said. “We can see mosquitoes hovering over the water at all times of the day. The situation turns scary at night when swarms of mosquitoes take over the locality,” she said. On Saturday afternoon, this newspaper spotted garbage piles along the banks of the Kestopur canal. There were mosquitoes buzzing over the water of Eastern Drainage Channel. A large number of styrofoam cups, coconut shells, plastic cups and bags filled with water lined the banks of the two canals. Pranay Kumar Ray, the mayoral council member who is in charge of health, said the corporation had been spraying larvicide and conducting door-to-door dengue surveys. “We are doing everything we can. But awareness is the key and people should not allow freshwater to accumulate near their houses,” Ray said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-294
24-09-2020||Calcutta||Hakim makes  a promise to the disabled||The boss of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation has promised to “rectify” public utility buildings and other public spaces that are not friendly towards the physically challenged in terms of facilities. Firhad Hakim, the chairperson of the CMC’s board of administrators, said on Monday that he would take necessary action so that physically challenged people don’t face problems accessing these places. “This should be done. We should try and rectify things that come to our notice,” Hakim said when Metro asked him if he would bring in changes to ensure public utility buildings are easily accessible to the physically challenged. A 33-year-old physically challenged woman had lodged a complaint with the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission saying she faced problems in accessing toilets and the ultrasonography room of Quadra Medical Services, a diagnostic centre on Hazra Road. She had said during the hearing on September 10 that the toilets were not equipped for the needs of a physically challenged person. Problem is not limited to one diagnostic centre. Almost all diagnostic centres and other public utility buildings in Calcutta lack facilities for the physically challenged. A few have toilets equipped with facilities for the physically challenged. “I will try to see that every public utility building has toilets for the physically challenged. Besides, there should be facilities for them in our public spaces,” Hakim said. Disability rights activist Jeeja Ghosh said there were laws to protect the rights of the disabled. “But they are not implemented. My request to Hakim is to see that the laws are implemented in letter and spirit.” The CMC’s building rules have a clause saying public utility buildings have to be disabled-friendly. Builders rarely follow it, according to civic engineers. Public utility buildings should have larger toilets with wide doors so that wheelchairs can easily turn, architect Abin Chaudhuri said. Walls should have handrails, basins and urinals should be at a lower height, he said. “The changes should be brought in schools, colleges, restaurants, clinical establishments, theatres and parks and gardens. Even Sulabh complexes are not designed to serve the physically challenged,” Chaudhuri said. Such a “hostile environment in our public spaces” forces physically challenged people to stay indoors, Kamalika Bose, a conservation architect who works with urban neighbourhoods and communities, said. “We have fine-tuned our thinking that people with disabilities do not exist. We have ‘invisibilised’ them. We never ever think that a toilet in a public space — something we take for granted — cannot be accessed by a part of our population,” Bose said. Both Chaudhuri and Bose urged Hakim to see to it that buildings without such facilities were retrofitted to make them disabled-friendly. Buildings in future will have such facilities because people have become more conscious, Chaudhuri said. “The real difficulty will be to introduce changes in buildings that are visited by a large number of people but don’t have toilets or other facilities for the physically challenged. The civic authorities should force them to bring in changes.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-294
24-09-2020||Calcutta||ICSE, ISC improvement exams in October||The Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations will hold improvement exams for the ICSE and ISC batches of 2020 from October 6 to 9, the council said on Wednesday. The improvement test for ICSE students will be held between October 6 and 9. The ISC students will take the exams on October 6 and 7. The compartmental exams, too, will be held in October, the council said. For ICSE students, the compartmental exams will be held on October 6 and 7. For ISC students, the test will be held on October 6. The council had earlier announced that it would hold improvement and compartmental exams in November depending on the pandemic situation.If the situation did not improve, the exams would be held along with next year’s ICSE and ISC exams, the council had said. The council decided to change its earlier decision because of the way the all-India entrance tests such as the NEET and IIT-Main were held, Gerry Arathoon, council secretary and chief executive, said. “The compartmental exams of the CBSE, too, are in progress. So, we decided to conduct the exams in October to ensure our students don’t face any problem during undergraduate admissions.” The timetables for the exams were released on Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-294
24-09-2020||Calcutta||On Chowringhee, decay & suspicion take root||With their crown of parasitic plants and without any plaster left to conceal the brick-and-mortar structures, the four buildings at Nos 1A SN Banerjee Road, and 9, 10 and 11 JL Nehru Road — all LIC property, and all cheek  by jowl — are pictures of neglect. Located at Dorina Crossing, they are the oldest constructions on Chowringhee. They stand out in William Wood’s lithographs of 1833, and in later photographs too. They look rickety but are structurally strong. They have withstood the East-West Metro tunneling in the vicinity. Although  LIC flatly denies it, tenants maintain LIC plans to demolish the buildings and construct a market there instead. According to the street directory in the 1915 edition of the PM Bagchi almanac, 8 Chowringhee Road was occupied by Yusuf Ali, Hibtullah & Co Jewellers and Watchmakers; 9 Chowringhee Road by Dr Smith Brothers, American dentists, Dr DR Smith and WM Smith; 9/1, 9/2 by AW Perot & Co Electrical Engineers & Co; 9/2 by The Columbia Dental Supply Co Ltd; 10 by Bourne & Shepherd, photographers. No 12  is now Peerless Inn. The jewellery shop has disappeared, but the spacious chamber of Drs Smith Brothers, dental surgeons, on the first floor of 9 JL Nehru Road (Chowringhee) was occupied by dentist Samir Kumar Basu till his death. Basu, who lived in a smaller flat above it, had said earlier that the American dental surgeons, MJK Smith and BJK Smith, arrived in Calcutta in 1897, and a group of orthodontists worked here under that name till 1920, when they left. According to LIC sources, as of now the corporation, has no plans to build a market there but it does want the tenants and unauthorised occupants to vacate the buildings “condemned” by the Calcutta Municipal Corporation. It can only decide on their future after structural engineers test their durability. 9 JL Nehru Road, which was said to have been leased from Jewish tycoon Sir David Ezra, has a wooden staircase similar to its neighbours. Adjoining No. 9 is the Esplanade Metro station. It used to be No. 8, once famous for its Lipton tea neon sign showing a kettle decanting an amber fluid. The shop Ma Dorina was housed in it, after which this intersection was named. Auddy & Co, (established in 1828) tobacconist, has its establishment on the ground floor, now split into two by partners. Besides tobacco, they stock other goods too.  Subhas Chandra Bose, C.R. Das, Mujibar Rahman, K.L. Saigal and Satyajit Ray were once its patrons. Italian Store, adjacent to it, now closed, is about 150 years old. The Mallicks, who own it, had bought the establishment from Italians. They dealt in olive oil and wine, and later luggage. No. 10, next to it, is encircled by eateries.  Its interiors are relatively well maintained. Hawkers selling garments occupy the entrance of No. 9 and the adjoining pavement. Neglected the buildings certainly are, but tenants pay a pittance as rent, and quite justifiably, LIC demands rent at market rates. There has been a running battle between tenants and the LIC over such issues since the 1960s. Dora Smith, where fashionable women and actresses like Kanan Debi once shopped for party wear, was located at 1A SN Banerjee Road. This building used to house Keventer’s and Livewire Cleaning, the first mechanical dry cleaning establishment. The Dasgupta family, which once owned Bhagyalakshmi Cotton Mills, had lived in that building at what was then 1A and 1B Corporation Street from 1946, when they moved from Dhaka. At that time, the building had marble floors — it still does. The Dasguptas have vacated the space. These buildings, ghosts of their former selves, have been neglected by the LIC ever since they came into its possession. Only a public outcry prevented the demolition of the Metropolitan Building — another LIC property — opposite these four. Adjacent to it is the Bourne & Shepherd building belonging to the LIC on S.N. Banerjee Road. This is falling to pieces.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-294
24-09-2020||Calcutta||When lockdown mixes with hate||The lockdown and discrimination have struck up a nexus to undermine the right to livelihood. “The trips have come down by half. We are stretching every limit to survive. On top of that, we are being discriminated against,” said Mansoor Ali, a driver. Ali was among several people — many of them from the fringes of Calcutta — who had come to the city on Wednesday to assert their right to livelihood. The protesters had assembled at the stairs of the upcoming Phoolbagan Metro station. Sandip Das, a farmer from Bhangar, sat on the stairs with a Bengali placard that read: “We grow the food that you Calcuttans eat. But our cry does not reach your ears.” Many of them have lost their income because of the pandemic. Several told this newspaper they were also facing discrimination because of their religious identity. At a time when the focus should be on generating income, the government in Delhi is busy with a divisive agenda, they added. Ali, 34, who hails from Bhangar in South 24-Parganas, said he and his friends had had their vehicles stopped in districts like Birbhum and West Midnapore in the past few months. A group had stopped his vehicle in Nalhati, Birbhum, because of a marker on his vehicle with which they identified his religion, Ali said. “I was pushed and abused,” recounted Ali, who lives with his wife, a son and a daughter. Ali drove mini-trucks laden with sand and stone chips from the districts to New Town before the lockdown. He used to earn around Rs 8,000 a month. The trips have halved now, and he is no longer sure of ferrying the material without being intercepted on some pretext or the other. Wednesday’s protest meeting at the Phoolbagan intersection was organised by a string of organisations that were at the forefront of the rallies against the new citizenship matrix. The participants at Phoolbagan demanded jobs, release of political prisoners and repeal of the Citizenship Amendment Act, National Population Register and the National Register of Citizens. Covid-19 had put the brakes on big protests in the city against the new citizenship regime but a series of “anti-people decisions” by the Centre “in the backdrop of a pandemic” have triggered a call to revive a movement against the Narendra Modi government. “For most of December, January and February, we had marched to protest against the citizenship thrust. But in the past few months, the Modi government has inflicted so many more wounds,” said Manzar Jameel, one of the speakers. He cited the farm bills and labour bills. Almost every speaker called out the Centre for using the pandemic to stifle dissent, citing the arrest of Umar Khalid and the NIA summons to scientist Parthasarathi Roy. Some of the younger participants live-streamed the proceedings. The assembly was not big in terms of numbers but slogans like “Bhookmari se azadi (Freedom from hunger)” rang out after months. Every time a speaker finished, the emcee disinfected the mic with a spray. Sukhendu Sarkar, who teaches economics at a south Calcutta college, said the pandemic had made it clear that the BJP-RSS ecosystem’s strategy was an “all-out onslaught”. “They bring one anti-people bill and before the ruckus over it settles, another anti-people bill is brought. Against such an onslaught, resistance is the only option,” he said. “Enough of staying indoors. This is the start of the revival of the street protests and mass movement against the Modi regime,” said Soumya Sahin, an assistant professor at the National University of Juridical Sciences (NUJS) and one of the organisers of the meeting.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-295
24-09-2020||Calcutta||JU to revive free classes for NET||Jadavpur University will revive free coaching classes for NET (National Eligibility Test) aspirants on digital platforms in October, said a university official. The classes, which used to be held on the campus, got suspended in March as the campus had to be closed because of the Covid pandemic. The university has decided to revive the classes on digital platforms following an appeal from a large number of students ahead of the NET exams, to be held in phases from September 24 to November 5. Candidates who qualify NET are deemed eligible to be recruited as assistant professor in universities and colleges. Registrar Snehamanju Basu issued a notice on Tuesday appealing to the teachers who are willing to take preparatory classes to enlist their names on netcoaching.teachers@jadavpuruniversity.in by September 30. Pro-vice-chancellor Pradip Kumar Ghosh said the preparatory classes would be held in the distance digital mode, which the university follows for regular undergraduate and postgraduate classes. “A large number of students appealed to us to revive the coaching classes. We have decided to resume the classes through the distance digital mode as no one knows when the campus will reopen and in-person classes will start,” Ghosh told The Telegraph. An official said a central repository would be created on the university’s website, which would have a section where course materials and lectures for the preparatory classes would be uploaded. Once the content is uploaded, the addresses of the files — in Word or PDF format, audio notes or video recordings — will be given to the students. Teachers will share the addresses of the files with the students through email or any messaging service. The university has subscribed to online platforms for more space so that the content for the undergraduate and postgraduate classes can be uploaded. “The same platform will be used to upload the content for NET aspirants,’’ the official said. In addition to this, lectures and study materials will be uploaded on YouTube and students will be given links to view the content. A teacher said students from economically weaker sections, who rely on free coaching, had appealed to the JU authorities for restoration of the coaching classes. Some of them tried to take coaching elsewhere after the campus shut down in March. “But they could not afford the expenses as their financial condition has worsened further during the pandemic,” he said. Vice-chancellor Suranjan Das said the success in conducting regular classes for undergraduate and postgraduate students on digital platforms encouraged them to revive coaching classes for NET aspirants.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-295
24-09-2020||Calcutta||Library on tram wheels||An AC single-coach tram on one of Calcutta’s oldest routes — Shyambazar to Esplanade via College Street, commonly referred to as boi para — will now have a library. When tram services on the route resume on Thursday after being shut in the aftermath of Cyclone Amphan passengers will be greeted with a free pen for a week the moment they board the tram. They can then go through the books and magazines stacked on shelves on one side. The Shyambazar-Esplanade route has remained popular among students in central Calcutta who get in and off trams, a West Bengal Transport Corporation official said. “We thought a library on wheels will be ideal while relaunching services on the route.” Rajanvir Singh Kapur, the managing director of West Bengal Transport Corporation, said the idea was to popularise trams. “More so among students who can now get to spend time browsing books while on the tram. The collection of books and magazines will be gradually increased… we hope to organise book launches, too, on this tram-library.” This will be the fifth route to become operational after several lines and cables had been uprooted by Cyclone Amphan. “Two-coach trams have compartments measuring 28ft each in length. This one has a length of 36ft and has pneumatic doors,” a WBTC official said. Another official said WBTC would try to organise book reading sessions on the tram in the next few weeks. “A literature festival, too, is on the cards in November.” Trams on the Shyambazar-Esplanade route were the first to have AC coaches last year. A one-way ticket costs Rs 20. A one-way ticket for 4km on a non-AC tram costs Rs 6. When the AC service was launched officials were worried if the ticket price would act as a hindrance. But with six trips a day, the single-coach AC tram ended up earning almost thrice the revenue than that of two-coach non-AC trams. At least 30 institutions are located within 500m of the tram route, including Scottish Church College, Bethune College, Presidency University, Sanskrit University, Calcutta University, Calcutta Medical College and Hospital and the IISWBM. Some Calcuttans are unhappy with the way two-coach trams are being converted into single-coach ones. While every city is busy developing its heritage and culture by preserving and restoring the transport system, Calcutta is walking away from it, a member of the Calcutta Tram Users Association said. “Instead of restoring and running their historical rolling stock as heritage specials and setting up a proper tram museum, the transport department is busy writing them off,” another member said. The Calcutta Tram Users Association has called for a protest on September 27 at the Kalighat tram depot's Gate No. 2, demanding the preservation of “heritage wooden trams”. The sense of history and heritage often dies an immature death when modernisation is carried out without proper planning and there is a lust for profit, he said. “The older rolling stock of trams in Calcutta is no exception. In a city that has heritage in its every breath, trams play an immense role.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-295
24-09-2020||Calcutta||Salt Lake civic body to run checks on guest houses||The Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation will send notices to all guest houses and lodges in Salt Lake and its adjoining areas and ask them to show the documents and licences needed to run the businesses, an official of the corporation said. In Salt Lake, a building has to be recorded as a commercial property in the records of the urban development department if a guest house or lodge operates out of it. “If a guest house operates out of one or two floors of a residential building, those portions need to be converted into the commercial category by paying a fee to the urban development department,” an official of the civic body said. The operators of a guest house or a lodge also need a police permit to run such a facility and a no-objection certificate from the fire department. The kitchen needs to be listed separately and will be subjected to checks by the civic body’s health department at regular intervals. “Most guest houses in Salt Lake do not have permits and other papers. They do not even have a trade licence, which is a basic prerequisite,” the official said. “The operators who will not be able to furnish the required licences and permits issued by the police and the fire department will be given some time by the corporation to collect them, after which the authorities will take legal steps against them.” The civic body will also ask for the details of the residential properties that have been converted into commercial ones and identify the guest houses that are being operated from residential properties. The move by the civic body follows an allegation by 10 madrasa teachers from Malda that they had been driven out of one guest house and refused accommodation in another because of their identity. The teachers, who came to Calcutta to attend a meeting in the education department, had booked rooms in a third guest house but a booking agent apparently told them that the property was full and accompanied them to the other two guest houses. Three men have been arrested in connection with the allegation and the guest houses in DL, CL and CJ blocks that are under the scanner operate out of properties that are marked as residential in the records of the urban development department, an official of the department said. On August 15, a man from Punjab was injured after an associate's gun accidentally went off inside a Salt Lake guest house. That address, too, is listed as a residential property in the records of the urban development department, the official said. An officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said they, too, will start meeting owners of guest houses and lodges and ask them to file for police permits and fire licences if they don’t have one. “The number of guest houses that have police permission can be counted on one’s fingers in Salt Lake,” the officer said. A large number of guest houses operate in Salt Lake, Sector V, New Town, Baguiati, Lake Town, Teghoria and Kaikhali. “We will organise regular meetings with the owners and ask them to file for the police permit that is required to run a guest house. We will also give them a list of do’s and don’ts and carry out sensitisation drives,” said Mukesh, the Bidhannagar City Police commissioner. According to another officer of the commissionerate, a meeting was held a week back with guest house operators at Bidhannagar East police station. An officer who attended the meeting said most owners could not furnish any documents though they have tie-ups with online aggregators that facilitate bookings. “Most are operating from residential properties. It is difficult to determine whether it is a guest house or a residence as they don’t have any signage but are present on booking sites and mobile applications,” said the officer. Basab Basak, of the Salt Lake FE Block Residents’ Association, said the authorities must ensure that all guest houses as well lodges follow rules and have the required licences and are checked regularly by the police.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-295
24-09-2020||Calcutta||More Metro trains, revised timings||An extension of timing and more trains are likely by next week, Metro Railway officials said on Wednesday, 10 days into the resumption of commercial services. The last trains leave the terminal stations at 7pm now. Fifty-five pairs of trains run in each direction, taking the total number of daily trains to 110. “The plan is to increase three pairs of trains in each direction. The number of trains daily will then be 116. The last trains will leave the terminal stations at 7.30pm,” an official said. More and more people are stepping out for work every day and traffic snarls are back on city roads. The roads, which used to be deserted in late evenings a month ago, are busy in the night now. The number of Metro passengers was around 20,000 — way below the 100,000 cap that Metro officials geared up for in the run-up to the resumption of commercial services — on September 14, the first day when services resumed. The number of e-passes booked was more than 50,000. An e-pass is mandatory to enter the station and a smart card to board a train. The number of passengers has been on the rise and is expected to cross 50,000 by next week, the Metro official said. The gap between the number of passes booked and the actual trips made has been narrowing consistently. On Tuesday, around 70,000 passes had been booked. The passenger count was little over 46,500. “That means more than 65 per cent of the bookings translated into trips. On Day 1, less than 50 per cent of the bookings had converted into trips,” on official of the agency that has developed the e-pass technology said. “The number of passengers is increasing every day. We are mulling an increase in the number of trains and an extension of the timings,” Indrani Banerjee, the Metro spokesperson, said on Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-295
24-09-2020||Calcutta||Deposit order to two ‘negligent’ hospitals||The clinical establishment regulatory commission on Wednesday issued an interim order asking two private hospitals to deposit Rs 1 lakh and Rs 4 lakh after they were prima facie found negligent in the way a Covid-19 patient was treated. Woodlands Hospital, which allegedly refused to keep a 79-year-old patient after he tested positive for Covid-19, has been asked to deposit Rs 1 lakh, retired judge Ashim Kumar Banerjee, the chairperson of West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission, said on Wednesday. The patient, Ashok Ghosh, had been admitted to the Alipore hospital a few days before with complaints of gastroenteritis. Desun Hospital, which allegedly kept the patient untreated in its ambulance for an hour till the family made an initial deposit of Rs 2 lakh, has been asked to submit Rs 4 lakh. Ghosh, a resident of Hindustan Park, was admitted to Desun on June 11. He passed away on June 26. The case once again throws light on the practice adopted by several private hospitals during the pandemic of asking for steep deposit amounts from patients before admitting them. It also highlights the practice followed by some other hospitals of refusing to treat anyone who has tested positive for Covid on the ground that those are non-Covid hospitals. “The man was admitted to Woodlands Hospital on June 4 with complaints of gastroenteritis. He underwent a Covid-19 test during admission and the result was negative. A few days later, he underwent another test and this time the result was positive,” Banerjee said. “The complainant, who is the deceased person’s son, alleged that Woodlands asked them to shift the patient within three hours and also asked them to clear the bill of Rs 2.09 lakh,” Banerjee said. The chairperson added that an official of Woodlands said during Wednesday’s hearing that they did not set a deadline for shifting the patient. “The family had no complaint against our hospital,” an Woodlands official told The Telegraph. Asked about the commission’s order to the hospital to submit Rs 1 lakh, he said they were yet to get any written order. The commission chairperson said Woodlands officials had given the family the names of three hospitals where they could shift Ghosh. One option was Desun Hospital. An ambulance from Desun came to Woodlands to transfer the patient. “The ambulance charged Rs 9,500 for the 11-km journey from one hospital to another,” Banerjee said. Another round of ordeal began for the family when the ambulance arrived at Desun. “Officials from the hospital apparently demanded Rs 2 lakh from the family as a deposit before admission.  When Ghosh’s family asked for time, they said the patient would not receive any treatment till the money was deposited,” Banerjee said. Ghosh’s family got in touch with someone abroad. That person transferred the money to the hospital within an hour. “For the one hour that passed before Rs 2 lakh was transferred, the patient lay inside the ambulance without any doctor attending to him,” Banerjee said. The patient was wheeled into the hospital only after the money arrived. “We will not comment till we get a copy of the order,” Tapas Mukherjee, the deputy managing director of Desun Hospital, told The Telegraph. The family cleared Desun’s bill of Rs 8.13 lakh, Banerjee said. “This is an interim order. We have prima facie found negligence on the part of both hospitals,” . said Banerjee. While hearing a similar complaint against Desun in August, the commission had asked the hospital to deposit Rs 10 lakh. The son of a woman had lodged a complaint that his mother, a Covid-19 patient, died because the hospital refused to treat her as they were unable to pay an initial deposit of Rs 3 lakh. The woman had allegedly died while waiting in an ambulance outside Desun Hospital for over an hour as the family tried to arrange the money. “We have tagged the two complaints against Desun and will hear them together,” said Banerjee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-295
24-09-2020||Calcutta||ICSE council seeks feedback on syllabus||The Council for Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) has asked the schools affiliated to it to give their feedback on the “reduced” ICSE and ISC syllabi. The council will consider the views when it determines its plan of action, a circular issued to the schools on Tuesday night says. The feedback will also be used to assess the efficacy of online teaching, which has replaced in-person classes because of the Covid-19 pandemic. “The CISCE would appreciate your views and the views of the various Subject Teachers in your school regarding the reduction of the syllabuses as made till date (further reduced syllabi, reduced syllabi and the syllabi in which no reduction has been made). Your valuable feedback on the same will be most appreciated for the CISCE to make a proper assessment of the present situation and help to determine its future plan of actions accordingly,” the council’s circular reads. The school heads have been asked to mail the feedback to the council by September 30. The council has reduced the syllabuses of Classes X and XII twice since July because of “significant loss” of teaching hours since March. All campuses have been shut since March as a precaution against Covid-19. After the first round of curtailment in July, the syllabuses had to be reduced again this month because many students and teachers complained that the earlier reduction was “not significant.” The CISCE in its circular has asked the school heads and also subject teachers to give their views separately on both rounds of curtailment. The syllabi of some of the subjects have not been curtailed at all. The schools heads and subject teachers have been asked to give their feedback on those subjects as well. The council has affiliated schools in many semi-urban and rural areas where the institutions are finding it difficult to ensure cent percent attendance in online sessions because of poor Internet connectivity and other constraints, the principal of a school said. “The council will use the feedback to assess the situation and make a decision,” the principal said. The council has conducted a survey in which it has found that many schools, particularly in districts, had not been able cover the extent of the syllabus they were supposed to complete by September. The ICSE and the ISC examinations are slated to be held in February and March.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-295
24-09-2020||Calcutta||Disbelief to shock: A scooter ride||When the family had received a call announcing that the son had bought a second-hand scooter for his wife, there was disbelief because even Rs 6,000 was not a measly sum during the pandemic. A few hours later, when the same son was arrested for alleged theft, the disbelief turned into shock. A day after her son had been arrested for the alleged theft of a scooter, his 65-year-old mother could not come to terms with the fact that her son has done something like that. The 39-year-old man, who had lost his job during the lockdown and had joined another office where too he could not stay for long because of a transfer order, had spotted a woman park her scooter in Behala and leave the key behind by mistake. He parked his scooter next to hers before allegedly riding away on the other vehicle with the intention of giving it to his wife. The court on Wednesday granted him bail, taking note of his clean past and the fact that the stolen vehicle had already been recovered. The defence lawyer prayed before the magistrate to consider his client’s educational background and emphasised that he was not a criminal. The public prosecutor too did not seek custody of the accused,  citing the recovery of the vehicle. On Monday afternoon (when the alleged theft happened), the family was trying to contact the man as he was getting late for lunch. He had then announced that he had bought a scooter for Rs 6,000. When both his mother and wife expressed disbelief, he made a video call to his wife to show the two-wheeler. Hours before his arrest, early on Tuesday morning, he showed the new two-wheeler to one of his young neighbours. “We were surprised why he would buy a second-hand vehicle. My daughter-in-law had once mentioned that a scooter would  help her once she completed her BEd and would start a job. But she never demanded anything,” said the elderly woman sitting at their two-storey home in a peaceful neighbourhood off Behala. Her deceased husband, a former mechanical engineer from Shibpur BE College who had retired from a public sector enterprise, had gifted their only son a blue scooter four years ago. The scooter their son allegedly stole for his wife was identical to his own, except the shade of blue. A day later, officers of Behala police station had traced him and arrested him from his home. The allegedly stolen scooter was seized from his residence compound. His wife had been running from pillar to post since then. First, she had visited the police station on Tuesday, completed the formalities and took possession of her husband’s rings and belongings that police gave her. “She had a look of disbelief. She just asked her husband once why he did it. He was quiet,” an officer said, recalling the couple’s brief conversation at the police station on Tuesday. From Wednesday morning, the woman and her father camped at the Alipore court where her husband was to be produced and waited till late in the evening when the magistrate announced his decision to grant bail. In between, she had rushed back home once to get some money that she needed to pay as the bond against her husband’s bail. The court on Wednesday granted bail against a bond and the condition that he should cooperate with the police in their investigation. She returned home with her husband late on Wednesday evening. “We have reached home just now,” she told Metro in the evening. The man in question — who is the sole heir to their ancestral property and an undeveloped plot of land adjoining their home — did his MCom and completed his MBA through a distance-learning programme before he joined a reputable company in Ahmedabad a few years ago. He had left the job and returned to Calcutta five years ago and started work-ing in another firm. His mother said he changed several jobs before settling in one office which, she said, had closed down during the lockdown. He had started working in the accounts section of a petrol pump, from where he was transferred, forcing him to leave the job. Of late, he was trying to earn his living as an insurance agent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-295
24-09-2020||Business||Sensex crashes 1,115 points, investors lose Rs 3.95 lakh cr||The Sensex plunged 1,115 points while the Nifty crashed below the 10,850-mark on Thursday as investors dumped equities amid a sharp global sell-off and concerns over economic recovery. World markets were bathed in a sea of red as fears about a second wave of coronavirus infections in major economies and lack of fresh stimulus from central banks clobbered sentiment. Back home, a sharp depreciation in the rupee and volatility on F&O expiry day further weighed on the bourses, traders said. Sliding for the sixth straight session, the 30-share BSE Sensex plummeted 1,114.82 points or 2.96 per cent to finish at 36,553.60. The benchmark posted its biggest single-day fall since May 4 this year, when it had plunged over 2,000 points. Similarly, the NSE Nifty tanked 326.30 points or 2.93 per cent to close at 10,805.55. The Sensex has now lost 2,749.25 points in six days, while the Nifty has declined by 799 points. The market capitalisation of all BSE-listed companies stood at Rs 1,48,76,217.22 crore, down by Rs 3.95 lakh crore compared to the previous session. Barring Hindustan Unilever, which inched up 0.36 per cent, all Sensex components ended in the red on Thursday. IndusInd Bank was the top laggard, tumbling 7.10 per cent, followed by Bajaj Finance, M&M, Tech Mahindra, TCS, Tata Steel, ICICI Bank and Infosys. "Weak global cues coupled with worrying data points from the US led to a gap down start today even as the re-emergence of the virus rattled the Euro zone. Indices here saw deep cuts led by TCS and Infosys as both along with RIL were the ones which led the recovery in the last five months. "The broader markets were pounded today much beyond the 3 per cent cut witnessed in the Indices," said S. Ranganathan, Head of Research at LKP Securities. All sectoral indices closed with losses, with BSE IT index dropping 4.45 per cent, followed by teck, auto, metal, realty, basic materials, bankex and finance. The BSE mid-cap and small-cap gauges lost as much as 2.28 per cent. In the forex market, the rupee depreciated 32 paise to finish at 73.89 against the US dollar. In rest of Asia, South Korea's KOSPI index plunged 2.59 per cent. Markets in Shanghai, Tokyo and Hong Kong closed with losses of up to 1.82 per cent. Bourses in Europe too started off on a weak note. Meanwhile, global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.22 per cent lower at USD 41.68 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-280
24-09-2020||Business||Lockdown: Supreme Court seeks clarity on fare refund||The Supreme Court on Wednesday asked the Centre to clarify by Friday the modalities of refund of air ticket fare for flights cancelled during the nationwide lockdown. The top court asked the Centre to file a fresh affidavit by September 25. Solicitor- general Tushar Mehta, appearing for the ministry of civil aviation and DGCA, agreed that the affidavit submitted was poorly drafted. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R. Subhash Reddy and M.R. Shah said the affadavit is only concerned with refund and non-refund of fare for tickets booked during the lockdown. The bench asked Mehta that if a person had booked a ticket one day before the lockdown for travel during the lockdown, then what about his refund. Mehta replied that he would not get the refund immediately. The bench then asked Mehta what happened to the refunds of a travel agent, who has already paid to the airlines but is yet to be paid by the passenger. Senior advocate Pinaki Misra, appearing for Air Vistara and AirAsia, said usually travel agents maintain a corpus with airlines and its balance keeps coming down with the issuance of each ticket. He said if the passenger has not yet paid for the ticket,  the corpus of the travel agent will get reimbursed. Senior advocate Sanjay Hegde, appearing for NGO Pravasi Legal Cell, said if one had booked tickets with airlines such as Air India and Indigo to fly out of India the affidavit filed by the DGCA is applicable. He said the DGCA should also cover people who had booked flights on these carriers to come to India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-280
24-09-2020||Business||Toyota Kirloskar Motor launches compact SUV Urban Cruiser||Toyota Kirloskar Motor (TKM) plans to cater to the lower segment of the market with its cross-badged products from Suzuki, Naveen Soni, senior vice-president (sales and service), said at the launch of compact SUV Urban Cruiser — the second product from the Suzuki-Toyota alliance. “The compact SUV segment is an important one for us. From 1 per cent of the total automobile market, it now comprises 14 per cent,” said Tadashi Asazuma, vice-president, sales and marketing, TKM. The Urban Cruiser sports a price tag of Rs 8.4 lakh to Rs 11.30 lakh. Toyota Kirloskar Motor managing director Masakazu Yoshimura on Wednesday said taxation and regulation need to run parallel and if they go in opposite directions it would be difficult to create demand. Fresh investments are not feasible with frequent change in policies, he added. The company said India remains an important market from a strategy point of view but bringing in new models  would depend on demand. Mercedes Benz India wants the government to implement the promised policies on scrappage and capital expenditure on infrastructure. Reacting to the finance ministry’s advice to cut back on royalties paid to parents,  Mercedes Benz India sales director Santosh Iyer said: “We have very miniscule amounts that go out as royalties.” “We have invested Rs 2200 crore here. All we ask for is a consistent policy that will help us to do business in the long run.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-280
24-09-2020||Business||EPFO starts conducting virtual hearings||The Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation has launched virtual hearing of cases to fast track dispute resolution and assessment of the dues of workers. The move is a step towards the provident fund body’s objective of faceless assessment in the future. “With the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic and the need to practice social distancing restrictions, virtual hearings are being conducted in most of the district and sessions courts. In the same spirit and with a view to provide expeditious and affordable adjudication to its establishments and subscribers, hearings under sections 7A and 14B of Employees’ Provident Funds & Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952, will be conducted in a virtual mode,” the EPFO said in a statement. A virtual court is aimed at eliminating the need for a physical presence of the litigant and lawyers. There will be facilitation of e-notices and real time recording of proceedings and communication of orders. Case status, including the daily and final orders, can also be accessible to all parties on the portal. EPFO said that the launch was made after a successful pilot run at two regional offices of EPFO in July and August 2020. 90 quasi judicial cases were attended by higher management of establishments leading to quick disposals, consent orders and immediate compliances.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-280
24-09-2020||Business||Coal India to produce urea from next fiscal||Coal India expects to produce urea from its joint venture company — Hindustan Urvarak & Rasayan Limited — from 2021-22. The public sector miner has formed a partnership with other public sector entities to revive old fertiliser plants in Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand and Bihar. Coal India, NTPC, IOC hold a 29.67 per cent stake each in the joint venture, while FCI and HFCL together hold 10.99 per cent. Three plants are being set up with an estimated cost of around Rs 22,000 crore with a debt-equity finance of 75:25. “In 2018, contracts were awarded to the respective successful bidders to set up the three plants on a lump sum turnkey basis. Construction activities are in progress in all the three sites. Urea production is expected to commence in 2021-22,” Coal India chairman Pramod Agrawal said at the company’s annual general meeting on Wednesday. The public sector miner also has another joint venture company with RCF, GAIL and FCIL to set up a coal gasification based urea plant at the premises of the closed fertiliser plant of FCI at Talcher in Odisha. Agrawal said coal remains the mainstay of energy production in the country, while solar, wind, hydel and natural gas supplement the fuel without wholly substituting it. “For the past couple of years, India accounted for around 11 per cent of the global coal consumption. India remains the second-largest coal consumer in the world,” he said. Meanwhile, Coal India has said that its research and consultancy arm CMPDI will remain an integral part of the miner and will not be separated. In 2019-20, CMPDI added 7.8 billion tonnes of coal resources, the highest ever estimated by CMPDI in a year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-281
24-09-2020||Business||Harsh Vardhan Lodha plea hearing today||A division bench comprising Calcutta High Court Chief Justice T.B. Nair Radhakrishnan and Justice Shampa Sarkar will start hearing a batch of applications  filed by Harsh Vardhan Lodha and three companies of the MP Birla group seeking a stay on a trial court order that restrained Lodha from holding any position in the group. The appeals by Universal Cables, Birla Cables and Vindhya Telelinks and Lodha were admitted for hearing this morning by the bench and listed for Thursday when the respondents sought more time to go through the voluminous papers submitted. The three companies and the chairman of the MP Birla group on Tuesday moved applications challenging a verdict passed by a single judge of the same court on Friday, handing a major victory to the Birla family. “After the admission of the appeals, the division bench was pleased to grant time till tomorrow, when the applications will be taken up again for consideration of interim relief sought by our clients,” said Debanjan Mandal, partner at Fox & Mandal, who represents Lodha. Lodha and the Birla family are involved in a 16-year-old legal battle that saw more than 100 cases being filed by either side. The row has reached the Supreme Court at least five times. The tussle started in 2004 when late Rajendra Singh Lodha — father of Harsh — was handed the reins of the MP Birla group by a contentious will of late Priyamvada Devi Birla, wife of late Madhava Prasad Birla. Hearing on the testamentary suit seeking the probate of the will is in the final stages in the trial court of Calcutta High Court. Lodha is challenging the trial court order on the grounds that the estate of late Priyamvada is only a minority shareholder among the controlling block of shares of the five manufacturing companies of the group, including flagship Birla Corporation, a cement producer. Lodha claims that the committee of administrators pendente lite, appointed by the high court in 2012 to oversee and protect the estate, cannot dictate 30 entities of the group, which include trusts, societies and investment companies, to vote according to their wish as they are independent entities outside the control of the estate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-281
24-09-2020||Business||Techies flock to Bengal jobs portal||Bengal finance and industries minister Amit Mitra on Wednesday said the state has seen a surge in IT professionals registering themselves on an online skill platform launched by the state IT department amid the pandemic. While addressing a CII event, Mitra said 36,694 individuals have registered themselves on the portal, called Karmo Bhumi, since its launch in June. Around 27,000 applications have been processed and around 3,000 professionals have been selected. The portal was created to build a database of skilled IT workers in the state which the companies operating out of Bengal can have access to. The platform has gained importance as several IT employees from other states such as Bangalore and Hyderabad started returning to Calcutta amid the lockdown and the pandemic. “I am hoping some of the professionals who have returned from Bangalore and Hyderabad because of the pandemic and were not able to go back have found an alternative in Bengal,” said Mitra. Mitra further said that the state’s upcoming IT hub at Rajarhat has received interest from various corporates like TCS, Jio, Firstsource, besides smaller firms and start-ups. “In the 200-acre Silicon Valley Hub, there is scope for more investments,” Mitra said. He added that the state was also offering brick and mortar infrastructure at its own IT parks in tier-2 and tier-3 locations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-281
24-09-2020||Business||National policy for retail trade on course||The government has proposed to formulate a National Retail Trade Policy and stakeholder consultations are being held for the same, commerce and industry minister Piyush Goyal informed Parliament on Wednesday. In March, the minister had said that the Centre proposes to have a national policy to create a conducive environment for retail trade by simplifying the rules and regulations affecting the growth of the retail sector. In a written reply, Goyal  said the government has set up a National Traders’ Welfare Board with the objective of simplification of the Acts and rules applicable to traders, reduction of compliance burden and improvement in access to funds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-281
24-09-2020||Business||Centre propoes norms for discom sale||The Centre has proposed bidding guidelines for the privatisation of power distribution companies (discoms) that can be used by the states. The objective of the guidelines is to reduce the mounting losses at the discoms. According to the draft, the highest bidder “shall be provided with a clean balance sheet, free of accumulated losses/unserviceable liabilities” of the discoms. It also proposed that existing assets of the distribution licensee, other than land, would be transferred to the highest bidder according to rates set by  state power regulators. Land owned by the discoms shall be provided to the new owner on a right to use basis at nominal charges, the document stated. The provisions enlisted “are essentially being presented with an aim of initiating discussions and soliciting inputs from stakeholders on the standard bidding document  (SBD),” the power ministry said. The document said significant loss-making power distribution companies with medium to high aggregate technical & commercial losses (AT&C) of above 15 per cent may be bid out on AT&C loss reduction commitment for the first five years. The fixed parameter will be the consideration for sale of equity shares in the successor entity. A second bid parameter has been proposed in case of discoms with lower than 15 per cent AT&C Losses (or with negligible ACS-ARR gap). The guidelines suggest the bid parameter may be upfront premium for equity consideration in the distribution company. A fixed AT&C loss trajectory for the next five years may be specified in the request for proposals (RFP) which shall be adopted for tariff determination.The power purchase agreements (PPA) of existing distribution licensees shall be transferred to successor entities. “Only in specific cases where there is a significant gap between Average Revenue Realized and Average Cost of Supply, PPAs may be retained in a State or Union Territory (UT) Government entity to structure a subsidised bulk power purchase cost for the successor entity for making it an independently financially viable entity, for a specified period,” the documents proposed. The successor entity shall be provided with a clean balance sheet free of accumulated losses or unserviceable liabilities, the document said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-281
24-09-2020||Business||US private equity firm KKR invests in Reliance Retail||US private equity firm KKR is investing Rs 5,550 crore to buy a 1.28 per cent in the retail arm of Reliance Industries Ltd (RIL) as the oil-to-telecom conglomerate continues its fund raising exercise. The latest investment comes days after Silver Lake picked up 1.75 per cent in Reliance Retail Ventures Ltd (RRVL) by investing Rs 7,500 crore. Like Silver Lake, KKR’s investment values Reliance Retail at a pre-money equity value of Rs 4.21 lakh crore. This marks the second investment by KKR in a subsidiary of RIL, following a Rs 11,367-crore investment in Jio Platforms announced earlier this year for a 2.32 per cent stake. Reliance Retail Ltd, a subsidiary of RRVL, operates India’s largest and most profitable retail business with close to 640 million footfalls across 12,000 stores nationwide. The retail arm, through its new commerce platform, has started digitalisation of small and unorganised merchants and has announced plans to expand the network to over 20 million. This is expected to enable the merchants to use technology tools and an efficient supply chain infrastructure to deliver a superior value proposition to their own customers. Founded in 1976, KKR has $222 billion in assets under management as on June 30, 2020. It has made investments in Epic Games, OutSystems, Internet Brands, Go-jek and Voyager Innovations. KKR set up its first of eight Asia offices in 2005 and the firm now has around $5.1 billion in private equity investments across more than 15 Indian companies, including Jio Platforms, JB Chemicals, Max Healthcare, Eurokids International and Ramky Enviro Engineers. “KKR has a proven track record of being a valuable partner to industry-leading franchises and has been committed to India for many years. We look forward to working with KKR’s global platform, industry knowledge and operational expertise across our digital services and retail businesses,” Mukesh Ambani, chairman and managing director of RIL. IRIL has mobilised over Rs 1.52 lakh crore from these investors in the digital services subsidiary, most of which was used to retire debt. However, RIL is expected to use the proceeds from the stake sale in RRVL to use it in the organised retail business. “Reliance Retail’s new commerce platform is filling an important need for both consumers and small businesses as more Indian consumers move to shopping online,” said Henry Kravis, co-founder and co-CEO of KKR.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-281
24-09-2020||Business||Tatas mull options to buy Mistry stake||Bombay House wore a cloak of silence a day after the Shapoorji Pallonji camp squarely put the ball in the Tata court by announcing its desire to sever a 70-year-old relationship with the $113 billion conglomerate. The Mistry camp owns an 18.37 per cent stake in Tata Sons, the group’s holding company, and intends to press for a high valuation of Rs 1.78 lakh crore for the sale of its shares. The ballpark valuation figure has left everyone a little bemused by the options that lie before the Tatas as they look to squeeze the Mistry family out of their lair. The funding options for the Tatas are complicated by the restrictions in the Companies Act 2013 that bar cash-rich operating companies in the Tata fold such as TCS from stumping up a part of the funds to help Tata Sons buy out the Mistry stake. The Tata Trusts are equally hemmed in by regulations: they cannot purchase the shares as the law does not permit such transactions by charitable trusts. The first step for the Tatas will be to appoint a valuer for Tata Sons’ equity capital. The SP Group may be eyeing a valuation of Rs 1.78 lakh crore that takes into account the direct and indirect assets that Tata Sons controls and the valuation of the Tata brand itself that brings a stream of revenue from the operating companies in the form of royalty. Back in 2016, chartered accountant Y.H. Malegam had valued Tata Sons at around Rs 58,000 crore. The first step is to narrow the wide gap between the two numbers and see if the two sides can agree. The Tata group’s holding company will find it hard to rustle up a large sum of money as it comes under increasing pressure to funnel cash into the many operating businesses that are grappling with an alarming drop in demand for their products in a post-Covid environment. But Tata Sons has some options that they can still explore. The first would be to rope in a strategic investor whose vision is in sync with their own. It can also sell a part of the stake in Tata Consultancy Services (TCS). Tata Sons holds a little over 72 per cent in TCS and, at the current market prices, the IT giant is valued at Rs 6.67 lakh crore. But it would then would have to live with a lower income stream from TCS in the future in the form of dividends. According to a note from the proxy advisory firm IiAS, Tata Sons will need to sell a roughly 16 per cent stake in TCS if it wants to buy out the SP Group by relying on its own resources. But this would bring down its stake in the country’s leading technology company to 56 per cent, which will still give it control but could bring in investors who may wish to drive their own corporate governance agenda. “This will mean that the Tata Group will continue to control TCS, but its cash flows from the company will be lower than before. For the past several years, and even now, Tata Sons’ ability to infuse equity and provide liquidity support to its businesses has been driven by TCS’s dividends and buyback. The sale of 16 per cent of TCS will restrict Tata Sons’ financial flexibility and somewhat weaken its ability to hold the group together,” the proxy advisory firm cautioned. The next option is to induct strategic partners or other investors like private equity and sovereign wealth funds into Tata Sons. But they might baulk at the status of Tata Sons being a private company. These investors may insist that Tata Sons reverts to its earlier status as a public company. It remains to be seen if the Tatas will agree to such a demand should it be raised. Tata Sons has the option of going in for a buyback. However, the consequent reduction in share capital may affect its ability to raise debt in the future. Meanwhile, shares of SP Group companies rallied on the bourses on Wednesday. On the BSE, the Forbes  Company share was locked in at the 5 per cent upper circuit at Rs 1484.15, while Sterling & Wilson zoomed 20 per cent to close at Rs 235.90.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-281
24-09-2020||India||Second wave of Covid has hit its peak in Delhi: Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday said the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic has hit its peak in the national capital with experts hinting that the cases of infection will decline in the coming days. He said the government was “keeping its fingers crossed” and hoped that Covid-19 cases will “gradually” decline due to the steps taken by the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) dispensation. Delhi has been witnessing a surge in the number of coronavirus cases in the past few days. “All the experts believe that the second wave (of coronavirus infections), which had come to Delhi, appears to have hit its peak. Now, the cases will come down in the coming days,” Kejriwal told reporters. Covid-19 cases in the city were by and large under control between July 1 and August 17 and on an average, 1,100-1,200 new cases were being reported everyday, he said. “From August 17, the cases rose slightly from around 1,100 to 1,500 and as a responsible government, we did not take any risk and immediately scaled up testing from around 20,000 to 60,000 tests per day. “The best way to defeat the coronavirus is to conduct aggressive testing to identify and isolate positive cases,” the chief minister said. He said coronavirus cases have increased in Delhi because testing was massively scaled up. “The daily cases were around 4,500 on September 16 which have now started coming down and currently, there are around 3,700 cases (daily),” Kejriwal said. According to the chief minister, if the testing would have scaled down to the previous level of 20,000 tests per day, the cases would also have come down to around 1,500 per day in the city. Kejriwal hoped that the steps taken by the government, including increasing the number of containment zones from 550 in mid-August to around 2,000 now, will gradually bring down the number of Covid-19 cases in the coming days. Earlier this month, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain had said it couldn’t be said that the national capital was witnessing a second wave of Covid-19. On September 7, Jain had said the sharp spike in coronavirus cases in the national capital will plateau after 10 days or so and asserted that the home isolation policy has proven to be a game changer in taming the surge, a strategy the city government would continue to pursue. On Wednesday, Delhi recorded 3,714 fresh Covid-19 cases as the infection tally in the city mounted to over 2.56 lakh, while the death toll rose to 5,087. More than 60,000 Covid-19 tests were conducted in the city on Tuesday, according to the bulletin issued by the Delhi health department on Wednesday. The total number of active cases, as on Wednesday, stood at 30,836, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-649
24-09-2020||India||'Dadi of Shaheenbagh' in Time magazine list of top 100 influential people||Bilkis, who became the face of a women-led anti-citizenship law protest at Shaheen Bagh here, on Thursday said she was happy to have been recognised by the TIME magazine as one of the 100 most influential people of 2020, but would have been happier had her demand been met. The 82-year-old, along with her two friends Asma Khatoon (90) and Sarwari (75), was at the protest site every day, braving a chilly winter last December, the coldest in over a century. The trio were hailed as "Dadis of Shaheen Bagh" on social media. "When we told her that she has been declared as one of the most influential people in the world, she just said 'okay'," her son Manzoor Ahmad told PTI on the phone. She is not as excited as the family is, Ahmad, who works as a translator, said. "I am thankful to the almighty. I would have been much happier had our demand been fulfilled...had the government listened to us and given us what we wanted (withdrawal of the Citizenship Amendment Act)," Bilkis said in a trembling voice. "It is sad we had to call it (protest) off because of the disease (COVID-19). I was there till the end, she said. Ahmad said his mother had taken ill in December last year, but she continued going to the protest site. It was so cold and she was running a fever, despite that she went there to support other women, he said. Ahmad said all women in his family participated in the protest. We are a joint family. So, the women took turns to participate in the dharna, he said. Time named Bilkis as one of the “icons” of all those who had joined the protests. “Bilkis gave hope and strength to activists and student leaders who were being thrown behind bars for standing up for the unpopular truth in a democracy that was sliding into authoritarianism, and inspired peaceful copycat protests across the country,” jounalist Rana Ayyub wrote for Time’s profile of the elderly protester. “I will sit here till blood stops flowing in my veins so the children of this country and the world breathe the air of justice and equality,” Bilkis told Ayyub during the protests earlier this year , reported AlJazeera. The Shaheen Bagh protest demanding the government to withdraw the law went on for over a hundred days. It ended in March this year in view of the Covid-19 outbreak and a subsequent lockdown announced by the government to contain the spread of the disease. Also on the TIME magazine's list from India are Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Bollywood actor Ayushman Khurrana.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-649
24-09-2020||India||Punjab farmers begin rail roko agitation over agri bills ||Farmers in Punjab on Thursday began their three-day 'rail roko' agitation to protest against the three farm bills while the Ferozepur Railway division suspended the operation of special trains due to the stir. Railway authorities said 14 pairs of special trains will remain suspended from September 24 till 26. The decision has been taken keeping in mind the safety of passengers and protection of railway property from any damage, officials said. Among the trains which will remain suspended are Golden Temple Mail (Amritsar-Mumbai Central), Jan Shatabdi Express (Haridwar-Amritsar), New Delhi-Jammu Tawi, Karambhoomi (Amritsar-New Jalpaiguri), Sachkhand Express (Nanded-Amritsar) and Shaheed Express (Amritsar-Jaynagar), officials said. At present, routine passenger train service remains suspended because of the COVID-19 pandemic. The call for 'rail roko' agitation was given by the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee and later, different farmers' outfits also extended their support. Activists of Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) squatted on rail tracks in Barnala and Sangrur on Thursday morning. Farmers under the banner of Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee have decided to squat on rail tracks near Devidaspur village in Amritsar and Basti Tanka wala in Ferozepur. The representatives of the committee said they were getting support from several sections including government employees and labourers. Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee president Satnam Singh Pannu said that they have appealed to representatives of political parties, ministers, MPs and MLAs not to take part in the farmers' agitation. They vowed to gherao BJP leaders and socially boycott those who voted in favour of the farm bills. As many as 31 farmers' outfits have given a call for the complete shutdown of Punjab on September 25 to protest against the bills. Farmers in Punjab have expressed apprehension that the bills would pave way for dismantling the minimum support price system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates. The Rajya Sabha has passed the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020, the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020 and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020. The Railways on Thursday said the agitation in Punjab is likely to severely impact loading of foodgrains and other essential goods as well as movement of passengers travelling on special trains mostly on an urgent basis. Officials here said that Punjab loaded 990 rakes of FCI foodgrains in August this year and 816 rakes till September 23. Thus, FCI is loading more than 35 rakes of food grains daily from Punjab. They said Punjab also loads 9-10 rakes daily of fertilizer, cement, auto, mixed goods in containers. The state also receives around 20 rakes daily of coal, food grain, farm products, machinery petroleum products, imported fertilizer etc. "Punjab Rail Agitation will severely impact loading of foodgrains and other essential goods. It will hurt ordinary citizens and fast recovering Rail Freight and economy," a railway spokesperson said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-649
24-09-2020||India||12th compartment exams results by Oct 10, CBSE informs SC||The CBSE informed the Supreme Court on Thursday that it will declare the results of class 12th compartment exams on or before October 10 keeping in mind the students' interest. A bench headed by Justice A M Khanwilkar was also informed by the University Grants Commission (UGC) that it will commence the academic calender for undergraduate courses from October 31 and by that time the results of almost two lakhs students who appeared for the retest will be out. The statements of the CBSE and the UGC assume significance in view of the earlier observation of the bench that they should work in tandem to ensure that the academic year of students, appearing in the compartment exams of 12th class, was not wasted. It had said that the CBSE should declare the results of compartment examination expeditiously and the UGC ensure that students get admission in colleges. Referring to Covid-19 pandemic, the top court had said that these are exceptional times and the authorities should act to help students. The bench then disposed of the plea filed by one Anika Samvedi seeking a direction to ensure that the academic year of students of 12th class, appearing in compartment exams, shouldn't go waste.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-649
24-09-2020||India||Umar Khalid sent to judicial custody till Oct 22 in UAPA case||A Delhi court on Thursday sent former JNU student leader Umar Khalid, arrested under the stringent anti-terror law Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, in a case related to the communal violence in north east Delhi in February, to judicial custody till October 22. Khalid, who was arrested on September 13 in the case, was produced before the court through video conferencing at the end of his 10 days police custody. His custodial interrogation had started on September 14. Since police did not seek his further custody, Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat ordered his judicial custody with direction to the Tihar Jail Superintendent to take all necessary steps, within the rules, to ensure the safety and security of the accused. Khalid claimed before the court that he has not signed any document whatsoever during his police custody. During the last 10 days' in police custody I have not signed any paper or statements, he told the court. In the FIR, police has claimed that the communal violence was a "premeditated conspiracy" which was allegedly hatched by Khalid and two others. He has also been booked for the offences of sedition, murder, attempt to murder, promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion and rioting. Khalid had allegedly given provocative speeches at two different places and appealed to the citizens to come out on streets and block the roads during the visit of US President Donald Trump to spread propaganda at international level about how minorities in India are being tortured , the FIR alleged. In this conspiracy, firearms, petrol bombs, acid bottles and stones were collected at numerous homes, the FIR alleged. Co-accused Danish was allegedly given the responsibility to gather people from two different places to take part in the riots, police alleged. Women and children were made to block the roads under the Jafrabad metro station on February 23 to create tension amidst the neighborhood people, FIR said. During the proceedings in the court today, Khalid said he be allowed to meet his family members before sending him to judicial custody. Special Public Prosecutor Amit Prasad said police will allow Khalid's family members to meet him provided they reach within time as he has to be taken for medical examination and thereafter they will send the accused to judicial custody. Khalid's counsel made submission that priority should be given for his safety and security and he be allowed to take his spectacles inside the jail which was permitted by the court. Communal clashes had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 after violence between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-649
24-09-2020||India||Labour regime tilts to employer||Parliament passed three bills on Wednesday to usher in a labour regime that promises employers a less stressful hiring environment that can be tailored to business cycles and increases the size of units that can exit when conditions turn adverse. While trade unions and some economists warned of deeper uncertainty and anxiety on factory floors, large sections of industry celebrated the passage of the bills as a milestone in labour reforms. The Rajya Sabha passed the Occupational Safety, Health and Working Conditions Code, Social Security Code and the Industrial Relations (IR) Code a day after the Lok Sabha had cleared them on Tuesday. These laws will replace 25 existing labour laws — some of them put in place by the Raj – essentially telescoping the multiplicity of state and central laws dealing with protection of worker rights and privileges. A section of labour economists say the provisions will boost fixed-term contract employment without protections and weaken workers’ power of collective bargaining, while bringing some benefit to formal-sector workers since appointment letters have been made mandatory. Trade unions, including the RSS-affiliated Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh, expressed concern at several provisions that they felt restricted trade unions’ ability to negotiate with management or organise strikes. Industry seemed to be chuffed by the changes proposed, and Prime Minister Narendra Modi held aloft the passed bills as “shining examples of minimum government, maximum governance”. Modi added that the reforms would “ensure the well-being of our industrious workers and give a boost to economic growth”. Although industry leaders used terms like “big-bang” reforms to fete the bills, few were prepared to say whether investors would flock to the states that grant exemptions from provisions of the Industrial Relations Code which legalises a fixed-term employment contract. The expected short-term labour arrangement takes into account the “gig economy” which is characterised by contracts for brief periods and freelance work. States like Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh which had introduced some labour reforms a couple of years ago have not yet experienced a spurt in industrial investment — and it’s hard to say whether there will be an immediate surge in private investment in a post-Covid environment. The big relief that industry is truly pleased about is the lowering of the exit barrier for firms. Under the Industrial Relations Code, establishments hiring 100 or more workers needed government permission for closure or layoffs. The new code has raised this to 300, which means a number of small and medium firms will be able to shut shop at will if the business starts to flounder. Chandrajit Banerjee, director-general of the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), termed the new labour code as the “big-bang structural reforms” that would improve the climate for both workers and industry by resetting “the entire regulatory framework... and providing enterprises with flexibility, transparency and clarity”. Both Banerjee and Deepak Sood, secretary-general of Assocham, were gung-ho over the fact that the new labour reforms had been extended to the gig economy. “The new labour laws will be easy to implement and will provide better social security to the workers including those employed in the emerging gig economy,” said Sood who felt that it would send out a positive signal to global enterprises looking to relocate their businesses to India. Rohit Relan, President of the All India Organisation of Employers’, an allied body of Ficci, said it was a historic day for the country as the reforms would bring “India’s large informal sector employees into formal workforce”. “Business is uncertain. Investors need flexibility. When the going is good, you may need people but when the business is doing bad, you should have the option to align the workforce accordingly,” Rajiv Singh, director-general of the Indian Chamber of Commerce (ICC), said. “Last time round, the companies that were looking to expand outside China mostly went to Vietnam, which provided flexibility in labour terms. As a country, we should not miss such an opportunity again,” he added. Some of the features of the three new bills: The IR Code gives legal backing to the expression “fixed-term employment” or FTE, which refers to establishments appointing employees for a fixed, limited period without any obligation stretching beyond that period. FTE is similar to the contractual appointments in the formal sector that the existing laws allow, but economists said the durations are likely to be shorter in practice. The shorter durations reflect the practice in the gig economy. Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh general secretary Virjesh Upadhyay said in a media statement that FTE would pave the way for the “casualisation” of the workforce. “Casualisation and contractualisation is going to create explosive situation in the near future. It will also lead to below-quality productive activities in industrial sector and create an India of casualised labour,” he said. Shyam Sundar, professor of human resource management at XLRI, Xavier School of Management, Jamshedpur, underlined that the government had through an executive order allowed FTE a couple of years ago. “Under FTE, the employee may be appointed for six months or one year. After the expiry of the period, employment will be terminated without any notice or compensation,” another labour economist, Amitabh Kundu, said. “The company will not be obliged to cite any reason for terminating the services.” The IR Code introduces a stringent recognition criterion that trade unions must meet to be able to bargain with the management. While retaining the existing provision for registration -— that a union should have the support of 10 per cent of the workers or 100 workers, whichever is less — it says a union will need the support of 51 per cent workers to be recognised and be allowed to negotiate. The existing central laws have no provision of recognition for the unions. A few states did have such a provision but it was less stringent, labour economists said. Earlier, more than one union could negotiate with management but Citu secretary A.R. Sindhu said only one would be able to do so under the new code. “The code says 51 per cent support is a requirement for negotiation. If the remaining 49 per cent workers have a different view, they will have no say. This is unfair,” Sindhu said. The existing law allowed employees to go on strike 14 days after issuing a notice but the IR Code prohibits any strikes during the two-month “conciliation process” starting from the date of notice. Nor can strikes be held if the matter goes to a tribunal - a new restriction. “The workers’ ability to strike, and therefore their collective bargaining strength, seems to have been weakened,” Kundu said. “The bills will usher in a deregulated labour market with an informal, precarious and insecure workplace where the employer will enjoy unbridled labour market power over the highly disadvantaged workers,” Sundar said. Unlike the existing laws, the occupational safety code requires employers to issue appointment letters to every employee, a provision both Kundu and Sundar praised as progressive. Kundu said this would empower the individual worker. The occupation safety code mandates a national helpline for inter-state migrant workers -— whose sufferings during the lockdown attracted national attention -—- and an annual travel allowance from the employer to visit their place of origin. Sindhu was unhappy that the registration of inter-state migrant workers on a national portal has been left to the workers themselves instead of the government installing a mechanism to make sure every migrant gets registered. Establishments recruiting 10 or more inter-state migrant workers are, however, required to take the initiative to get them registered. Registered inter-state workers will get subsidised food from designated ration shops at the place where they work. The One Nation One Ration scheme is expected to be launched in March 2021. Kundu highlighted that for inter-state migrant workers, the code provides for access to health apart from educational facilities for their children. “Industries, however, can try to escape these requirements by showing the inter-state migrants as intra-state migrants,” he said. “The bill could provide for welfare measures for intra-state migrants too, as there are more of them.” Labour minister Santosh Gangwar described the new labour regime as a “historic” game changer that would be a “milestone” for the welfare of workers. The major Opposition parties, protesting the manner of the farm bills’ passage on Sunday, were absent from Parliament on Wednesday as the labour bills were discussed and passed by voice vote.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-650
24-09-2020||India||Teen who helped army dies in fight with army ||Asif Muzaffar Shah was a teenager six years ago when he and several other residents of former militancy stronghold Samboora in Pulwama had risked their lives to save soldiers caught in a devastating flood. On Tuesday, Asif, now 25 and a college graduate turned militant, was killed in an encounter with the army that lasted over 24 hours in adjoining Budgam district. Two militants are believed to have escaped. Asif’s body was not returned to the family and was buried 100km from home, in Handwara. The army has of late been refusing to hand over the bodies of slain militants to their families for burial, citing the Covid protocol. “His body was not returned. The family was allowed to participate in his burial (in Handwara),” a family member told The Telegraph. It is not clear what prompted Asif to turn to militancy. His family, shattered by his death, appeared unwilling to share the details of his heroics during September 5-6 night in 2014. “All the villagers helped them (army men from the 50 Rashtriya Rifles) and he was one of them. The army tried to pay him back later, offering to help him, but he refused,” the family member said, refusing to be identified. “All I can say is that he went missing on August 10 (this year) and lasted only 40 days or so (as a militant).” The family member said Asif had been running a stationery shop in Kakapora village after completing his graduation a few years ago. Local people said Asif had been picked up by police several times in the past year and a half. Sometime before he joined militancy, he had been called by the National Investigation Agency to Jammu in connection with the investigation into a militancy-related case, they said. “We heard he had left for Jammu but had an afterthought and disappeared to join the militants as he smelt something fishy,” a local resident said. Samboora resident Mushatq ul Islam said he vividly remembered how Asif had risked his life to save soldiers from drowning in the 2014 floods, the worst to hit the Valley in a century. “There was a breach in the Jhelum and some army men had drowned. Amid a heavy downpour, I saw Asif jumping into the water to pull the soldiers out,” he said. Shabir Ahmad Dar, a band-saw owner who had led the rescue operation by local people that day, however, said he did not remember whether Asif was among the rescuers. “Maybe he was there but I did not see him,” Shabir said. In 2014, this newspaper had published several articles on how the villagers had saved the soldiers from drowning. Two soldiers — Naik Khem Chandra of the 20 Kumaon Regiment from Uttarakhand, and Rifleman Mir Owais from the 15 JAKLI from Tral — could not be rescued and died. The army had claimed that the soldiers had died while rescuing the villagers but local people had a different version. “Nature’s fury came like a bolt from the blue. On the midnight of September 5, a motorboat was launched to rescue women, children and elderly people in Kakapore and Sambur (Samboora). While on their rescue mission with nine other troopers on the intervening night of September 5 and 6, the boat capsized in strong currents of the flash floods,” the army spokesman had then said. Local people, however, had said the 50 Rashtriya Rifles camp at Kakapora had got submerged, prompting several jawans and officers to run for safety. A boat carrying soldiers capsized in a paddy field that was 12ft under water, they had added. Villagers of Samboora who had been retrieving goods from their inundated houses had responded to the soldiers’ cries for help, the local people had said. “Some of them (soldiers) were rescued. They were shivering. I remember Asif handing over his own pheran to one of the soldiers,” Mushtaq, the Samboora resident, said on Wednesday. Eight soldiers were still marooned, six of them clinging to tree branches, as the strong currents prevented others from coming to their aid, Mushtaq recalled. Early next morning, band-saw owner Shabir and three others had volunteered to join an army rescue effort in a boat. Soldier Owais, a local man who died that day, was buried in a graveyard in Tral that was reserved for militants and civilians killed by security forces, next to his childhood friend turned militant Mir Aadil Bashir. Aadil’s father Bashir Ahmad had offered to bury the soldier in the “martyrs’ graveyard” to unite the old friends.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-650
24-09-2020||India||Centre’s telling TV chronology ||The Centre has said a TV programme by Sudarshan News on Muslims is “prima facie” in violation of a code and that the channel has been showcaused afresh on Wednesday, prompting the Supreme Court to point out that had it not intervened, the “show would have been completely aired by now”. The controversial, multi-episode programme that suggests jihadi elements have infiltrated the civil services had been broadcast from September 11. But the Supreme Court, acting on multiple petitions, had stayed the telecast of the remaining episodes on September 15 until further orders. Solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, said the channel had been asked to reply by September 28 why action should not be taken against it. “If the case wasn’t heard, the show would have been completely aired by now,” said Justice D.Y. Chandrachud. In view of the Centre’s fresh notice, the bench adjourned the matter till October 5. The stay will continue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-650
24-09-2020||India||Panchayat official shot in Valley||Suspected militants killed the chairperson of a block development council in central Kashmir’s Budgam district on Wednesday evening, making him the highest ranking elected panchayat official to die in militancy-related violence since the 2018 elections. The killing came on a day the Jammu and Kashmir administration decided to hold polls for vacant panchayat seats in the fledgling Union Territory. Police sources said Bhupinder Singh was shot dead outside his ancestral residence inBudgam district at 7.45pm. Some reports indicated he was associated with the BJP but the party has denied it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-650
24-09-2020||India||Rail accused of window dressing ||The Comptroller and Auditor General of India on Wednesday accused the railways of “window dressing” to present its operating ratio in “a better light” during the 2018-19 financial year by including advance freight payments in its calculations. Operating ratio (OR) represents the proportion of working expenses to earnings. A higher ratio indicates poorer ability to generate surplus. The CAG also raised concerns over delays in projects over the past five years due to inefficiency of zones and weak monitoring by the Railway Board. In a report on the railways’ finances tabled in both Houses of Parliament, the CAG said the OR for 2018-19 was 97.29 per cent against the target of 92.8 per cent in the budget estimates. This meant that the national transporter spent Rs 97.29 to earn Rs 100. “However, if advance freight of Rs 8,351 crore from NTPC and CONCOR was not included in the earnings of 2018-19, the OR would have been 101.77 per cent instead of 97.29 per cent,” the report said. “The net surplus in 2018-19 was Rs 3,773.86 crore. The OR would have ended with a negative balance of Rs 7,334.85 crore but for receipt of advance freight and less appropriation to DRF (depreciation reserve fund) and pension fund. The ministry of railways resorted to window dressing for presenting the working expenses and operating ratio in a better light,” the CAG said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-650
24-09-2020||India||Law for blanket exemption from workers’ rights||A bill on industrial workers’ rights passed on Wednesday empowers the states to grant unconditional exemptions to any new industry, prompting academics and labour unions to voice fears for the future of labour rights. Another bill, also passed on Wednesday and dealing with workers’ health, safety, death compensation and working conditions, allows the states to grant exemptions to industries against unspecified conditions that they “think fit”. Labour economists said the bill should have specified the conditions. The first bill, the Industrial Relations (IR) Code — dealing with matters such as safeguards against arbitrary dismissal or punishment, or discrimination in promotion — not only automatically exempts every factory with less than 300 employees but allows state governments to exempt any new factory irrespective of worker strength. Under the old laws it subsumes, such automatic exemption accrued to factories with less than 100 employees. New industries could be granted exemption only if they had an adequate in-house mechanism to protect workers’ trade union and individual rights. That is, only if the government trusted the employer not to violate workers’ rights could it relax the bureaucratic and legal control as an incentive. Clause 96(2) of the IR Code makes the exemption unconditional, saying: “Where the appropriate government is satisfied in relation to any new industrial establishment or new undertaking or class of new industrial establishments or new undertakings that it is necessary in the public interest so to do, it may, by notification, exempt, conditionally or unconditionally, any such new establishment or new undertaking or class of new establishments or new undertakings from all or any of the provisions of this Code.” RSS affiliate Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh on Wednesday joined the Left and Congress labour arms in opposing the provision for blanket exemption. “It’s not advisable; we don’t agree with such exemption,” its general secretary Virjesh Upadhyay said. The second bill, the Occupational Safety, Health and Working Conditions Code, deals with subjects such as the health and safety of workers, their work hours, holidays, leave, and compensation for death or injury. Clause 127 of the code allows the states to grant exemptions from the entire legislation to any industry or group of industries, imposing conditions to be decided by the Centre and the states. Labour economists said the states tended to grant employers exemptions from regulations on labour rights or working conditions in the name of promoting industry, and that laws allowing blanket exemptions could end up defeating the objective of having workers’ rights. “Clause 96 of the IR Code is a very dangerous clause. The whole purpose of protection will be defeated,” Shyam Sundar, professor of human resource management at XLRI, Xavier School of Management, Jamshedpur, said. He said the occupational safety bill should have spelled out the conditions under which exemptions can be granted, “instead of leaving it to the bureaucracy”. Not defining the conditions is “dangerous”, given the regular industrial accidents, he said. “The code deals with sensitive and critical issues of the workers’ safety and health.” Labour economist Amitabh Kundu said: “The general thinking of the state governments is that if they permit exemptions in labour laws, industrialisation and employment generation will get a boost.” But such measures in the last seven years in Rajasthan and Andhra Pradesh “did not lead to an increase in investment while Gujarat attracted capital-intensive industries which did not increase employment in any significant manner”, he said. “This is against the general expectation that relaxations in labour laws would lead to the growth of labour-intensive industries,” Kundu said. He said that relaxing labour laws temporarily because of the Covid-and-lockdown-induced economic crisis could be acceptable, but the relaxations should not be allowed permanently and need to be reviewed periodically. The Supreme Court had in January 2017 (Krishna Kumar Singh v State of Bihar) recognised the states’ powers to issue ordinances but argued that these pieces of legislation were subject to judicial challenge and could be struck down on constitutional grounds. Both the IR Code and the bill on occupational safety had cleared the Lok Sabha before their passage in the Rajya Sabha on Wednesday. The occupational safety code has several new worker-friendly features, such as the mandatory issuance of appointment letters and mandatory annual health check-ups for all the workers||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-650
24-09-2020||India||No coercive action against Facebook||The Supreme Court on Wednesday recorded an undertaking from the Delhi Assembly secretary that no coercive action would be taken against Facebook India chief Ajit Mohan for “breach of privilege” for defying summons over the February Delhi riots. The Delhi Assembly’s committee on peace and harmony had summoned Mohan, the vice-president and managing director of Facebook India, in connection with the social media giant’s alleged role in instigating the Delhi riots in which 53 people had died. Mohan had refused to appear before the committee, questioning the Assembly’s authority to summon him, and moved the Supreme Court along with Facebook when a second summons was issued asking him to turn up on Wednesday. On September 20, committee head and AAP leader Raghav Chadha had issued a statement on behalf of the panel announcing that “breach of privilege” proceedings would be initiated against Facebook India for the “default”. Appearing for the Delhi Assembly secretary, senor advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi said the summons had been deferred and assured the court that no coercive action had been proposed against Mohan. Sighvi said Mohan had been called as a witness, not an accused. The court recorded the assurance. A bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul, Aniruddha Bose and Krishna Murari, while issuing notices to the Assembly secretary and the Centre over the summons, posted the matter for further hearing to October 15. The summons, issued on September 10 and 18 by the Assembly committee’s chairman, had mentioned that Mohan was being called to explain the “alleged premeditated conspiracy between Facebook, rioters and antisocial elements”. Facebook and Mohan challenged the summons on the ground that the Delhi Assembly had no jurisdiction to deal with the issue as any such power is conferred only on the Union government. Senior advocate Harish Salve, appearing for Mohan, questioned the summons, saying: “This is quite remarkable. Who is this deputy secretary issuing this serious threat? What privilege? Whose privilege? “I am an outsider. I am not interrupting proceedings of your committee. Question is whether I can be asked to appear or not? But if I don’t want to appear in a matter that has political overtones? I don’t want to come in middle of this. Can I be compelled?” “You cannot put me in the pain of punishment by asking me to appear…. I don’t know whether they want him as a witness or an expert,” Salve added. He said Facebook had written to the committee on September 13, asking it to withdraw the first summons but it was ignored. Instead, Mohan was issued another summons on September 18 to appear on September 23, Salve said. “Privilege is something to be decided by the Assembly. A committee cannot decide whether action on privilege can be taken or not,” Salve said, adding that Mohan’s refusal to appear before the committee was being deemed as a “breach of privilege”. The advocate said this was a “serious threat” to a citizen’s fundamental right to free speech and expression. “I (Mohan) have a right under Article 19, and the right to free speech includes right not to speak. As a House you may decide whatever you want to do but if I do not want to participate and give my views before the committee, then? And please consider I work for a US-based company. I do not want to comment on this politically sensitive issue,” Salve said. The lawyer referred to reports in The Wall Street Journal that Facebook had condoned hate posts of BJP leader. “Wall Street Journal has accused Facebook of favouring a certain party but I don’t want to get into all this,” Salve argued on Mohan’s behalf. Salve said public order and police were not under the jurisdiction of the Delhi Assembly and so the committee had no jurisdiction to deal with Facebook or its employees. “In a constitutional framework such as ours, can a person be punished summarily without a proper trial and absent legislation? There is no question of recognising an action that impinges upon one’s Article 21 (right to life and personal liberty),” Salve said. “If you want to impinge on my rights then it has to be with the authority of law.” Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, representing Facebook, told the court that the summons were unconstitutional. “He (Mohan) is my employee. I don’t want my employees to get in the middle of such a matter,” Rohatgi said. Rohatgi told the court that committee chairman Chadha had held a media conference where he declared Facebook guilty in connection with the Delhi riots. “At the press conference they said that incriminating material was not taken down. If it was not taken down, then everyone has the right to move the court for it,” Rohatgi said. Senior advocate Singhvi submitted that Facebook was trying to project the summons as “coercion” to get favourable orders from the court. However, Justice Kaul remarked: “As far as notice is concerned, we are going to issue it. You argue on protective order or relief to be given or not…. You have given them the chance to come to the court by sending the orders (summons).” Justice Bose said: “Article 19 can apply to Petitioner 1 (Ajit Mohan) because you are compelling him to say something.” Singhvi countered: “This person is called only as a witness and no coercive steps would be taken.” Justice Kaul replied: “If you are trying to change the legal tenor then it must be in those terms. You may have to take a stand for this committee.… You may have to file an affidavit to clarify this.” Singhvi then said that no coercive action would be taken against Mohan, and that this assurance could be recorded by the court. “Reason Facebook is called, not as an accused, but (we) want to get safeguard measures from them as to how the platform will not be misused,” Singhvi told the court. “He (Mohan) is only being summoned as a witness.” Justice Kaul said: “This is not what you have said in the notices. You have advised them (committee secretary), advise them better and issue better notices.” Singhvi responded: “I will rectify the order and address the deficiencies that are bothering My Lords.” Justice Kaul said: “I’m sure you will be able to remedy the notice. And in that press conference, if you have said those things, then you will have to take a stand.” Singhvi argued that the transcript of the media conference read out by Salve and Rohatgi was misleading. The committee announced later that Wednesday’s hearing had been deferred “in view of the issues of law pending before the Supreme Court”. None from the AAP commented on the court developments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-650
24-09-2020||India||Bihar top cop seeks, gets VRS ahead of polls||Bihar director-general of police Gupteshwar Pandey, who had aggressively pursued the Sushant Singh Rajput death case and questioned actress Rhea Chakraborty’s “aukaat” (a derogatory word for stature) to comment on chief minister Nitish Kumar, has taken voluntary retirement and said people want him to join politics. Pandey, who had taken VRS in 2009 as well ostensibly to contest elections but had been reinstated later by Nitish’s government despite administrative and procedural objections, was to retire in February 2021. The DGP submitted his VRS application late on Tuesday night, and the state and central governments promptly waived the three-month notice period. IPS officer S.K. Singhal has been made the Bihar DGP till further notice. Sources said Pandey could contest the Bihar Assembly elections, due in November, on a ticket of either Nitish’s JDU or ally BJP. Rhea’s lawyer Satish Manshinde issued a statement saying: “The request for VRS by DGP Bihar Gupteshwar Pandey and granting VRS by Bihar government and Union government in 24 hours is as fast as Bihar government’s transfer of FIR against Rhea to CBI and acceptance of it by the Union government. This is not justice for SSR (Sushant Singh Rajput), but justice for Gupteshwar Pandey.” Pandey had made the “aukaat” comment against Rhea when her lawyer said in the Supreme Court that the Nitish government was playing politics over Sushant’s death. The DGP was unusually vocal about the case after the actor’s father K.K. Singh registered an FIR in Patna in July, accusing Sushant’s girlfriend Rhea and her family and friends of abetment of suicide and cheating. No evidence has been produced so far for the charges of cheating and abetment to suicide but Rhea is now behind bars on drug charges related to the case, which is being investigated by the CBI, the Narcotics Control Bureau and the Enforcement Directorate. The BJP government at the Centre, aided by a section of the media, has been accused of using Sushant’s death to try to divert attention from the pandemic and the economic crisis and to destabilise the Maharashtra government. Shiv Sena Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Raut said on Wednesday: “People will not trust the party that fields him (Pandey) as a candidate. The agenda behind his rajkiya tandav (dance of destruction at the government’s behest) over Maharashtra and Mumbai is clear now. He was running a political agenda with his statements and is now going to be rewarded for it.” Pandey said his premature retirement had nothing to do with Sushant’s case. Asked if he would take the political plunge, Pandey said: “I will first consult the people and then decide. People from Buxar, Begusarai and Bagaha are contacting me. The people are pressurising me to join politics.” Recently a former Bigg Boss contestant had released a video hailing Pandey as “Robin Hood Bihar ke”. The video featured shots of Pandey in uniform and had praised his achievements, including how he had raised his voice in Sushant’s case. Neither the government nor Pandey objected to the album. In 2006, videos had surfaced showing a man resembling Pandey showering money on a woman dancer in Sasaram. He was then a DIG. A probe was held and his salary increment stopped in 2008, but the order was not eventually implemented. In 2012, a couple had accused Pandey, then the police chief of Muzaffarpur, of involvement in the murder of their 12-year-old daughter, Navruna Chakravarty. The CBI is probing the case and had examined Pandey in 2018.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-650
24-09-2020||India||Wary of ‘outsiders’, Leh calls election boycott||The political and religious leaderships in Buddhist-majority Leh have decided to boycott next month’s hill development council polls to press for special status for Ladakh, the move carrying echoes of Kashmir and undercutting the BJP’s “integration” theory. Ladakh’s Buddhists had celebrated last year’s revocation of the special status of Jammu and Kashmir — which then included Ladakh — and its bifurcation into two Union Territories. But now, like the Valley, Ladakh is bristling with suspicion about a possible invasion of “outsiders” from “mainland India”. Ladakh’s Muslim-majority region of Kargil always resented the scrapping of Article 370 and, like Kashmir, wants it restored. While Leh does not favour the article’s restoration, it wants back the guarantees over land and jobs that the article provided to the native population. It fears that the Centre plans to bring in a domicile law for Ladakh that will open the door to “outsiders”, as has happened recently in Jammu and Kashmir, and insists that Ladakh be brought under the Sixth Schedule. Tensions are therefore flaring up in Leh at a time war clouds are hovering over eastern Ladakh, with the Chinese army intruding into India-claimed territory at multiple places. The recently floated People’s Movement for Sixth Schedule for Ladakh, made up of all the major political, social and religious bodies in Leh, on Tuesday announced the boycott of the October 16 elections to the Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Council, Leh. The apex body of the movement has “unanimously resolved to boycott” the polls “till constitutional safeguards under the Sixth Schedule on the lines of the Bodo Territorial Council (in Assam) are extended” to Ladakh, former Lok Sabha MP Thupstan Chhewang told reporters in Leh. This is to be the first election in the new Union Territory of Ladakh since the scrapping of Article 370. The current body in Leh is headed by the BJP. Kargil has its own Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Council, where elections are three years away. Earlier, the National Conference, People’s Democratic Party and other Valley-based groups had boycotted the municipal and panchayat elections of 2018 and 2019 in protest at the Centre’s perceived plans to scrap Article 370. That boycott had allowed the BJP to win many more seats than it would normally have in the Valley. However, the Leh boycott call has raised the possibility of the elections being put off. The boycott call comes at a time Ladakhi environmentalist and Magsaysay Award winner Sonam Wangchuk has sounded an alert about the possibility of a separatist movement in Ladakh if the region’s identity and environment concerns are not addressed. Nawang Samstan, the BJP’s Leh unit president, was among those who signed Tuesday’s poll boycott pledge, his stand reflecting how the party’s local leadership was willing to defy the central leadership on the issue. Many in Ladakh believe that a recent resolution by the Leh autonomous council — seeking privileges for Ladakh under Article 371, the Sixth Schedule or domicile laws — was passed at the Centre’s behest with the BJP Lok Sabha member from Ladakh, Tsering Namgyal, playing a key role. Ladakhis are fiercely opposed to the domicile law or Article 371 — in force in many northeastern states — being extended to the region, fearing they could open the floodgates for outsiders. Sources in Ladakh said the Centre intended to extend the domicile law to Ladakh as it had done in Jammu and Kashmir, where thousands of outsiders have been granted domicile. Chhewang, who resigned from the BJP in November 2018, hoped that Ladakhis would not only boycott the upcoming polls but desist from even filing nomination papers. Nominations can be filed between September 21 and September 28. “We are confident we will get full support from the entire population. Our struggle will continue until our demands are met,” Chhewang said. Among the signatories to the boycott pledge were Ladakh Buddhist Association president P. Kunzang, former Rajya Sabha member Skyabje Thiksey Khampo Rinpochey, former minister Chhering Dorje Lakrook, and Ladakh Congress president and former minister Nawang Rigzin Jora. Three Leh-based Muslim and Christian organisations too signed the pledge.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-650
24-09-2020||India||24 lakh tonnes of e-waste in 3 years||As much as 24.94 lakh tonnes of electronic waste was generated in the country in the past three years, the ministry of environment informed the Lok Sabha on Wednesday, adding that India’s electronic-waste generation is increasing every year. Responding to a query, minister of state for environment Babul Supriyo told the Lower House that for the 21 types of notified Electrical and Electronic Equipment (EEE), an estimated 7.08 lakh tonne e-waste was generated in 2017-18, while the respective figures for the next two financial years were 7.71 lakh tonnes and 10.14 lakh tonnes. “As per the information available with the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) generation of e-waste is increasing every year. The government has made provisions for inventorisation of e-waste generation across the country under the E-Waste (Management) Rules, 2016,” he said. “Under the said rules, the responsibility for inventorisation of generation of e-waste has been assigned to State Pollution Control Boards (SPCBs) and Pollution Control Committees (PCCs),” Supriyo said. According to the information of the CPCB so far seven SPCBs namely Goa, Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh and Punjab have completed the inventorisation of e-waste generation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-650
24-09-2020||India||Govt pushes digital health plan despite privacy worries||India’s government is using the coronavirus pandemic to push its plan to digitise the health records and data of its 1.3 billion people, despite concerns about privacy and increased surveillance, technology and human rights experts say. India’s number of confirmed coronavirus cases has topped 5.4 million according to government data, with the virus spreading at one of the fastest paces in the world. In a speech last month to mark Independence Day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the launch of the National Digital Health Mission (NDHM), under which unique health IDs will be created to hold digital health records of individuals. “Whether it is making a doctor’s appointment, depositing money or running around for documents in the hospital, the mission will help remove all such challenges,” Modi said. Praveen Gedam of the National Health Authority (NHA) said in emailed comments that the pandemic had highlighted the need to “move swiftly to improve medical infrastructure”. But without a data protection law or an independent data protection authority, there are few safeguards and no recourse if rights are violated, said Raman Jit Singh Chima, Asia policy director at Access Now, a digital rights non-profit. “It will possibly be the largest centralised health ID and data storage system in the world, and it is being done in the absence of a data protection law and data protection authority,” he told the Thomson Reuters Foundation. “Health is a state subject, but the central government is rushing this policy in the middle of a public health emergency, and forcing states to play ball. It’s very problematic.” There has been a move in recent years to digitise medical records and data as part of the Digital India campaign to deliver services electronically. A federal medical insurance scheme aimed at 500 million people launched in 2018. A draft Health Data Management Policy unveiled last month has guidelines for regulating the collection and storage of the data that can only be accessed with the individual’s consent. The aim of the NDHM is to create and maintain registries that are portable and accessible across India to everyone associated with healthcare delivery, according to the draft. The new health ID, which the health minister said will be “entirely voluntary” with an opt-out option, will hold information such as tests, prescriptions, treatments and medical records. Gedam of the NHA, which oversees the NDHM, said that “the policy has been years in the making and undergone multiple rounds of consultation. Hence it is incorrect to assume that this has been a rushed undertaking”. It has been more than a decade since India created Aadhaar, the world’s largest biometric identity system, with more than 1.2 billion IDs issued. The 12-digit ID, which is linked to an individual’s fingerprints, face and iris scan, was introduced to streamline welfare payments and reduce wastage in public spending. Yet it soon became mandatory for a host of public and private services. The Supreme Court ruled in 2014 that Aadhaar could not be a requirement for welfare programmes. In 2018, the top court flagged privacy concerns and reined in a government push to make it compulsory for everything from mobile services to pensions. The government has repeatedly denied charges of data misuse or surveillance, even as large numbers of people remain excluded and many are denied essential services, a report by consulting firm Dalberg said last year. The new health ID has the potential to be made mandatory and deny services to those who opt out, while also posing the risk of data abuse, human rights campaigners say. The draft policy is only available online and in English, thus preventing access to a large majority of people, said Satendra Singh, a physician and disability rights campaigner who petitioned to extend the deadline for feedback to September 21. The policy also allows the sharing of anonymised data with third parties — “a matter of grave concern”, particularly for sexual minorities and those with disabilities, he said. Privacy of data will receive “the highest degree of attention”, said Gedam. “The draft policy draws from provisions of the Personal Data Protection Bill and will be kept compliant with any future legislations and rulings,” he added, referring to the draft bill that was tabled in Parliament last year. India’s public and private hospitals, clinics and labs have varying levels of digitisation, and patients usually cannot digitally transfer their health records from one to another. Like several other nations, India quickly embraced technology to track and trace the spread of the coronavirus. The Aarogya Setu, or “Health Bridge” mobile app uses GPS location data to augment information gathered via Bluetooth and build a centralised database — an approach avoided by most countries because of privacy concerns. The experience with Aadhaar and Aarogya Setu — and the health ID pilot — does not inspire confidence, said Amulya Nidhi, co-convener of the People’s Health Movement (Jan Swasthya Abhiyan) non-profit. “At a time when we are struggling for hospital beds and oxygen, the government is focusing on digitisation,” he said. “People’s vulnerability while seeking health services may be misused to get consent. Informed consent is a real issue when people are poor, illiterate or desperate,” he said. “Your health data — once it’s out there, it’s out there. You can’t do anything about it.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-651
24-09-2020||India||Security guards drown in flooded lift in central Mumbai||Two security guards died after getting stuck in a flooded elevator in the basement of a building in rain-lashed central Mumbai on Wednesday morning, police said. The incident took place at Nathani Residency, a high-rise near Kala Pani junction of Agripada area. Security guards Jamir Ahmed Sohanan, 32, and Shehzad Mohammed Siddhique Memon, 37, had taken the elevator to go to the basement to open a valve for water supply, a police officer said. The basement was flooded because of heavy rain through the night. Water rushed into the lift as soon as the doors opened, he said. Before the two could step out, the doors got closed and they were stuck inside. They pressed the alarm button to alert the residents, following which the police and fire brigade were called in. Fire brigade personnel cut open the upper portion of the lift and pulled the duo out but both had died by then, the officer said. The exact cause of the death was yet to be ascertained but drowning appeared to be the reason.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-651
24-09-2020||India||HC stays arrest warrant against Shourie||Rajasthan High Court on Wednesday stayed the arrest warrant against former Union minister Arun Shourie and one other accused in a case involving the sale of Laxmi Vilas Palace Hotel in Udaipur at an alleged loss of Rs 244 crore to the exchequer. The high court, however, told Shourie to appear before the trial court on any day by the next hearing on October 15 and furnish a personal bond of Rs 2 lakh and two sureties of Rs 1 lakh each. The hotel’s valuer, Kantilal Vikamsey, has been told to do the same on October 8. On Wednesday, the CBI told the high court that no irregularity was committed by them, justifying the closure report filed by it earlier. The Centre’s additional solicitor general S.V. Raju said the CBI court’s order was not in conformity with law. A special court last week had asked the CBI to file cases against Shourie and four others with regard to the sale of public sector Indian Tourism Development Corporation’s Laxmi Vilas Palace Hotel to a private firm around two decades ago. The property was sold to Bharat Hotels Ltd for Rs 7.52 crore when Shourie was the minister in charge of divestment in the Atal Bihari Vajpayee-led National Democratic Alliance government at the Centre. During a preliminary investigation by the CBI, the property was valued at Rs 252 crore, suggesting a loss of Rs 244 crore to the exchequer. On Wednesday, Shourie’s counsels Pradeep Shah with Prashant Bhushan said through videoconferencing there was neither the condition nor the urgency to summon the accused by arrest warrant and the CBI court erred in passing this order. Mentioning about the other three accused who were granted bail by the court on Tuesday, Bhushan said: “Though the petitioner’s case was identical, but required a different order in as much as petitioner was not even named in the FIR.” He argued that the trial court erred in invocation of Section 19 of the Prevention of Corruption Act. Shourie also sought exemption from appearance in person in the CBI court for furnishing the bond and sureties, citing his age, ill-health and family conditions. Admitting the arguments, Justice Dinesh Mehta converted the arrest warrant of Shourie and Vikamsey into a bailable warrant. However, it asked Shourie and Vikamsey to appear in the CBI court on any day by October 15, to furnish the bonds and sureties. With this, all five accused in the case have been granted relief from arrest as ordered by the CBI court on September 15.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-651
24-09-2020||India||MP slammed over quota comment||An organisation that espouses the cause of Sikkim’s special constitutional status has accused the state’s lone Lok Sabha member of jeopardising the unique position by demanding Assembly quota for the Limboo and Tamang communities under Article 332 of the Constitution, instead of Article 371F. Passang Sherpa, the coordinator of IAM371F, said it was unfortunate that Sikkim Krantikari Morcha MP Indra Hang Subba appeared to be unaware of the provisions for seat reservation under Article 371F, which grants special status to the Himalayan state that merged with India in 1975. “Seat reservation for Limboos and Tamangs needs to be sought within the ambit of Article 371F. Such blatant advocacy of Article 332 will not just delay seat reservation for the Limboos and Tamangs, but can also jeopardise the special status enjoyed by Sikkim under Article 371F,” he said. Raising the reservation issue in the Lok Sabha on Monday, Subba had cited the provisions of Article 332 reserving seats in a state legislature for the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes in proportion to the total number of seats in the Assembly and the percentage of the two communities’ population in the state. “The Tamang and Limboo communities are being deprived of their Constitutional rights, violating constitutional provisions, its values and its ethos. Therefore, I urge upon the government to provide reservation of seats for these ST communities in the legislative Assembly of Sikkim,” Subba had said. The Limboos and Tamangs were given the ST status in 2003, but Assembly seats are yet to be reserved for them. Sherpa’s contention is that there is already a provision in Article 371F which allows parliament to reserve seats in the Sikkim Assembly for any section of the Sikkimese society. Section (f) of the Article reads: “Parliament may, for the purpose of protecting the rights and interests of the different sections of the population of Sikkim make provision for the number of seats in the Legislative Assembly of the State of Sikkim which may be filled by candidates belonging to such sections and for the delimitation of the assembly constituencies from which candidates belonging to such sections alone may stand for election to the Legislative Assembly of the State of Sikkim.” Sherpa asked Subba to withdraw his statement demanding the Assembly quota for the Limboos and Tamangs on the basis of Article 332. “It is either the MP’s ignorance or a conspiracy being hatched by the SKM-BJP alliance to do away with Article 371F. If it is out of ignorance, he should withdraw his statement immediately. People of Sikkim should remain vigilant against any attempts to undermine the special status of our state,” he said. In the 32-member Sikkim Assembly, 12 seats are reserved for the Bhutias and Lepchas, two for the Scheduled Castes and one for the sangha, which is a body of Buddhist monks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-651
24-09-2020||India||Govt uses boycott as Rajya Sabha free pass||The Rajya Sabha cleared eight bills in four hours on Wednesday, taking to 15 its combined two-day tally and raising the question whether the Opposition’s House boycott over Sunday’s steamrollering of the farm bills had proved counter-productive, handing the government a free pass. The 15 bills passed or returned over the two days account for 60 per cent of the 25 bills the Upper House has cleared during this truncated, 10-day monsoon session. This was noted with displeasure by Rajya Sabha Chairman M. Venkaiah Naidu in his valedictory address on Wednesday afternoon before the session was adjourned sine die because of several Covid-19 cases emerging in Parliament House since the session began on September 14. “Though it is not the first time that some members are suspended and bills are passed when some sections of the House boycott the proceedings, I find it extremely unpalatable. This kind of a situation needs to be avoided by all means,” Naidu said. He said the House rules provided for suspension of members when it became inevitable, adding: “If legislative work is not taken up during the boycott by some sections of the House, it may legitimise such boycott as an effective instrument of blocking legislation.” In so saying, he seemed to be responding to a letter sent to him by Opposition leaders in the morning urging him not to allow the three labour-related bills to be passed in their absence on Wednesday. “These bills affect the livelihood of crores of workers across the country. It will be a great blot on our democracy to have these bills passed unilaterally today,” the letter said. Naidu conceded the Opposition members’ right to protest but said: “The question is, how should it be done? The floor of this august House is the most effective platform for contestation of ideas. But if boycott is done for a longer period, it amounts to leaving the very platform that enables you to effectively convey your ideas and contesting those of others.” Opposition leaders said they were conscious of this but argued that the government had left them with no option after the way in which the two farm bills were “rammed th-rough” on Sunday despite several parties demanding their referral to a select committee. “Boycott was the only option,” Congress chief whip Jairam Ramesh told The Telegraph when asked whether, in hindsight, the Opposition should have participated in the discussions on the labour bills so their viewpoint and resistance became part of parliamentary record. Several Opposition members said they were not entirely comfortable with the boycott strategy but went along with the majority view.“I wanted to speak on the labour code bill and FCRA amendment. There were members who will be retiring before the next session, so today was their last day. Still, they relinquished their privilege of making their farewell speeches because farmers would not have forgiven us if we had returned to the House without stopping the farm bills,” said the RJD’s Manoj Jha. “Even if we appear losers today, history shall record that we were in sync with the people on the streets.” Jha asked rhetorically what the Opposition had got from speaking eloquently on Sunday on the farm bills. Two Left members — Binoy Vishwam of the CPI and Elamaram Kareem of the CPM — accused the Modi government of being bent on pushing through anti-farmer and anti-labour bills this session to please the corporate houses. “Now that they have a majority in both Houses, they would not have listened to us; they would have pushed the labour bills through just the way they did with the farm bills,” Kareem said. “We had requested the Chairman in the morning not to allow the government to take up these bills.” Vishwam said the Opposition had been forced to boycott the House by the government’s refusal to listen to anyone and insistence on breaking all the rules to have its way. “On Sunday we witnessed how M&S (Modi-Shah) murdered parliamentary democracy. They then bulldozed their way through 15 bills in eight hours. They are no more just murderers of democracy, they are serial killers,” said Derek O’Brien, Trinamul’s leader in the Rajya Sabha. After writing to the Chairman, Opposition members from the two Houses had demonstrated before the Gandhi statue on the front lawns of Parliament House. They had then marched to Ambedkar’s statue at the complex because, as Shashi Tharoor put it, “Ambedkarji’s Constitution is being trampled upon”. He said the boycott was the Opposition’s way of showing that it would not cooperate with this “travesty of democracy”.In the evening, leaders of several Opposition parties met President Ram Nath Kovind to urge him to return the farm bills, saying the rules of procedure had not been followed during their passage.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-651
24-09-2020||India||Jammu and Kashmir language bill passed||The Rajya Sabha on Wednesday passed the Jammu and Kashmir Official Languages Bill, 2020, to add Kashmiri, Dogri and Hindi as official languages of the Union Territory, in addition to Urdu and English. The Lok Sabha has already passed the bill. Though the official languages are Urdu and English, the speakers in these languages are a minority section. Minister of state for home Kishan Reddy said that 53 per cent people speak Kashmiri and 26 per cent people speak Dogri. He said such a historic mistake is being corrected by this bill. During the discussion, Akali Dal leader Naresh Gujral demanded inclusion of Punjabi in the list of official languages while PDP leader Mir Mohammad Fayaz demanded Punjabi, Gujri and Pahari in the list. Chairman Venkaiah Nadu asked the minister to look into the demand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-651
24-09-2020||India||Grassroots Covid drive||The Centre on Wednesday asked 10 states with three-fourths of India’s coronavirus disease cases to launch “grassroot level” public communication initiatives to encourage behaviour change that health experts say would be crucial to control the epidemic. The Union health ministry has asked Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Telangana, Odisha, Kerala and Chhattisgarh to set up district-level communication teams to promote masks, hand and respiratory hygiene and physical distancing, and coax people to seek early diagnosis. The ministry said the targeted communication campaign would seek to encourage Covid-19 appropriate behaviour through multiple media vehicles, including electronic, folk, print, outdoor and social media platforms, to convey messages “in an effective manner”. The move comes amid concerns that significant numbers of people across India are not adopting precautionary measures such as masks at a time the epidemic continues to grow. India on Wednesday recorded 83,347 new Covid-19 cases, an upward swing after five days of declining daily counts. The health ministry and state health authorities have for months stressed the need for members of the public to adopt precautionary measures. But health experts suspect such top-down messages have had limited impact because they were iterated with limited knowledge about target communities. “Human behaviour change is tricky,” said Preeti Kumar, vice-president for health systems support at the Public Health Foundation of India, New Delhi, who has spent several years guiding HIV prevention efforts. “It is a challenge that needs to be addressed through well-designed communication strategies that understand the local communities,” she told The Telegraph. “We have to know why do people behave the way they do — is it lack of knowledge, or lack of perception of the threat of the infection, or other factors?” Kumar and other experts say targeted communication campaigns would likely need to be region-specific. Experts believe effective risk communication strategies will need to combine top-down messaging from health authorities already in play with horizontal messaging driven by influential groups from within communities that they say is virtually non-existent at present. “We need urgent, intensive involvement of special groups in local communities to spread safety messages,” said Samiran Panda, chief of the epidemiology division at the Indian Council of Medical Research. “This means young people, residential welfare associations, religious leaders, or members of village councils.” Both Kumar and Panda believe some of the communication strategies that had been deployed in HIV prevention programmes could hold lessons for efforts to encourage Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. In HIV prevention efforts, for instance, female sex workers or men who have sex with men played critical roles in encouraging safe sex through peer-led communication in an unprecedented way, Panda said. “They were agents for behaviour change and they weaved success stories thread by thread.” Similarly, there is a role for peer groups for Covid-19 appropriate behaviour, he said, to curb the spread of the virus. India’s numbers of daily new Covid-19 cases detected remained below the daily numbers of patients declared recovered for the fifth successive day, lowering the case load of patients under medical supervision to 968,377 on Wednesday compared with 975,861 on Tuesday. Doctors view any reduction in the number of active cases as encouraging because that would mean less demand for oxygen, intensive care unit beds or ventilators. But infectious disease experts point out that the vast majority of the country’s population remains susceptible to the infection and the epidemic is expected to continue growing. Public adherence to precautionary measures such as masks and physical distancing will be crucial to curb and slow down the spread of the infection. The slower the spread, experts say, the more manageable is the epidemic. Ten states account for nearly 74 per cent of the 83,347 new Covid-19 cases documented on Wednesday. Maharashtra made up the largest chunk (18,390 new cases) followed by Andhra Pradesh (7,553), Karnataka (6,974), Uttar Pradesh (5,650), Tamil Nadu (5,337), Odisha (4,189), Kerala (4,125), Delhi (3,816), Bengal (3,182) and Chhattisgarh (3,126). Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday interacted with the chief ministers of seven states — Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Delhi, Punjab, Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh — to review the Covid-19 situation. These states make up 62 per cent of active cases and 77 per cent of Covid-19 deaths in the country. Modi stressed the need to increase focus on testing, treatment, surveillance and “effective messaging”, the health ministry said in a media release. He said effective messaging was necessary because of the asymptomatic nature of the infection that may lead to doubts about the efficacy of tests. Around 80 per cent of Covid-19 infected persons remain asymptomatic or have only mild symptoms.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-651
24-09-2020||West Bengal||Bengal austerity curbs till March||The Bengal government has decided to extend its austerity measures in the backdrop of the Covid pandemic till March 31, 2021, the decision revealing that the state’s own revenue generation has not picked up despite the gradual unlocking of the economy. “Now, the validity of Memorandum No. 1491 — F (Y) dated 02.04.2020 read with Memo No. 2447 — F (Y) dated 17.08.2020 is further extended upto 31.03.2020 or until further order, whichever is earlier,” reads an order issued by the state finance secretary H. K. Dwivedi on Tuesday. By issuing the Memo No. 1491 — F (Y), the finance department had issued a blanket ban on April 2 on all expenditures on new projects, construction work and procurement of several items, including cars, and hiring of several services. The plan was to channelise the savings, thus accrued, to meet the “unforeseen” expenditure to battle the spread of Covid 19. The order was later extended up to September, only allowing land procurement for different projects in August. Now, these restrictions would continue till March 31, 2021. Senior government officials pointed out that the state was forced to take the decision as its own revenue generation has not seen much improvement during the Unlock period. “In July, the state was generating about Rs 1,500 crore against its average monthly revenue generation of nearly Rs 5,000 crore in the pre-Covid period. It was expected that the situation would improve in August and September as several restrictions were withdrawn. But the scenario did not change much,” said a senior official. Sources in Nabanna said that the decision would leave the future of several projects in rough weather. “Many projects like hostels, school and college buildings and other constructions were supposed to be completed before the polls. But now, the future of the projects is uncertain... No ruling party set to face polls in the next few months would like such a situation,” said another official. Officials said that despite the crisis of funds, chief minister Mamata Banerjee has laid stress on keeping direct benefit schemes like Kanyasree, scholarship schemes and pension schemes going. “It seems that the chief minister would like to go to polls depending on personal benefit schemes. The crisis of funds might put large projects at the backseat for the moment,” said an official. The struggling state exchequer might cast a shadow on one urgent work — repairing of roads — which would require about Rs 1,200 crore immediately.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-363
24-09-2020||West Bengal||Eight held for poultry theft in Malda||An interstate gang allegedly involved in stealing poultry from Malda district and sending those to the Northeast was nabbed by Englishbazar police early on Wednesday. Eight persons, seven from different areas of Baishnabnagar in Malda district and one from Jharkhand, were arrested in this connection. According to police sources, the gang had barged into a poultry farm in Lalalpur of Englishbazar. They overpowered guards, fastened and gagged them and started loading the poultry in their SUV. The shrieks of the poultry woke up people near the farm. Sensing something unusual, one of them called up the police. Madanmohan Roy, inspector-in-charge, Englishbazar police station, said police already had reports of poultry theft in large volumes from different farms of the district. “Our men immediately acted on the tip-off and reached the spot. Seeing the police, the gang members tried to escape in their vehicle. We managed to intercept them soon,” Roy said. He added that no weapon was found on them, which was “intriguing”. “We suspect they concealed the arms somewhere and will interrogate them on this,” the inspector-in-charge said. During the primary interrogation, the accused admitted to stealing poultry and selling them to buyers in Tripura, Manipur, Nagaland, Meghalaya and other Northeast states. “They could easily transport stolen livestock as there is no ban on carrying poultry by road. We suspect more gangs are involved in similar crimes,” said a police officer. The arrested youths were produced at a local court where the Jharkhand resident was sent to police custody and the rest seven to judicial custody for five days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-363
24-09-2020||West Bengal||Renewed hunt for JMB leader||The National Investigation Agency has intensified its search for Salahuddin Salehin, the alleged mastermind of the 2014 Khargargh blasts in Burdwan, after six of the nine suspected al Qaida operatives arrested from Murshidabad suggested his involvement in their indoctrination. The former chief of the Jamat-ul-Mujhahideen Bangladesh, Salahuddin, managed to escape from Bangladesh in February 2014 when alleged JMB operatives attacked a police van transporting him and two others. The Khagragarh blasts happened eight months later and his name surfaced as the key architect. Salahuddin’s name continues to be on the list of the NIA’s most wanted. Police in Bangladesh have offered taka 500,000 as reward for Salahuddin’s capture. “We have been tracking Salahuddin for sometime. It appears he was the vital link that helped Ghaza-e-Hind pick upon these youths from Murshidabad,” said a senior NIA official who refused to go into the details of the probe so far. Ghaza-e-Hind is said to have its roots in Kashmir and links with the banned outfit al Qaida. The nine — six were arrested from parts of Murshidabad and three from Ernakulam in Kerala in the early hours on Saturday — are believed to be members of this outfit. Intelligence agencies in India and Bangladesh who have been trying to track Salahuddin have learnt that he was trying to set up regional outfit Jamat-ul-Mujhehideen India (JMI) with Zahidul Islam alias Boma Mian as his trusted lieutenant. It has now emerged that Salahuddin had been visiting parts of Cooch Behar, Malda, Murshidabad, North Dinajpur and Nadia till February before intelligence agencies got a whiff of his movements. “Two college students from Malda were also a part of a group to which the nine arrested youths belonged. The handlers had been using different platforms on the Internet to keep in touch and several more from parts of Nadia and North 24-Parganas could be members of this group,” a senior officer of the investigating agency said. Primarily, officers have learnt that among the six arrested from Murshidabad, Al Mamum Kamal of Domkol was apparently asked to set up a madrasa close to his house where young minds could apparently undergo indoctrination. Mamun had even set up one in a small mud house and began collecting donations for teaching small children after returning from Kerala a few months back during the lockdown. While probing into the Burdwan blasts, the NIA had arrested a madrasa owner from Murshidabad’s Mokimnagar. The madrasa was used to allegedly train JMB operatives, the NIA said. “The model of operation is the same this time. Some of these youths would have served as links to provide logistic support or shelters,” the officer said. “The impression of Salahuddin appears to be unmistakably written all over.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-364
24-09-2020||West Bengal||Mamata flags off leather, solar projects||The Bengal government has taken up an initiative to impart quality management training required for the export of leather products to workers of the Bantala Leather Complex in Calcutta. The initiative has been made in association with the European Union, which will shoulder 80 per cent of the cost of the entire initiative. Inaugurating the initiative, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said that the Bantala Leather Complex would attract investment worth Rs 80,000 crore. “There will be an employment generation of nearly 5 lakh people in the Bantala Leather Complex... Investors from Chennai and  Lucknow have shown interest in investing in the complex,” she said. “Major exporting countries of our leather goods are European countries. So, if workers get to know the mechanism to maintain quality for exporting products..it would be better for the sector,” said an official. For conducting the training programme, modern machinery has been imported from Italy and installed at the leather complex. Sources also said technologies to be used for production of export quality leather products would be green friendly. Mamata also flagged off the setting up of a 200MW solar power plant near Digha in East Midnapore. The German state-owned bank KfW would shoulder Rs 1,000 crore of the Rs 1,200 crore project. The state government would spend remaining Rs 200 crore. The chief minister said that the project was approved during a business conclave in Digha in December and thanked all that the project started as per schedule.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-364
24-09-2020||West Bengal||Thirty smuggled gold bars seized in Siliguri||A team of the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) seized 5kg gold worth around Rs 2.65 crore from an SUV here on Tuesday, and arrested two persons in the vehicle. The gold, sources said, was smuggled into India through the India-Myanmar border. The duo, Rakesh Kumar Gupta and Harishchandra Prasad, were taking it to Calcutta by road. Gupta and Prasad are residents of Kidderpore in Calcutta. “In total, 30 gold bars, weighing around 5kg, were recovered from them, the estimated cost being around Rs 2.65 crore,” said a source in the DRI. On Tuesday, the DRI had specific information about the consignment, which led the team to intercept the SUV on Burdwan Road of the city. “The vehicle was taken to the DRI office. There, gold bars were recovered from a hidden chamber in the roof of the vehicle. The duo admitted that the gold bars were smuggled through Moreh, a town on the Indo-Myanmar border in Manipur, and then Assam,” the source said. The duo were produced at the chief judicial magistrate’s court here on Wednesday and sent to judicial custody for fourteen days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-364
24-09-2020||West Bengal||Pre-Puja gift for Bhadu folk singers||A Birbhum panchayat on Wednesday helped out Bhadu folk singers, whose earnings have virtually stopped amid the Covid pandemic, by hosting a contest for them and giving all participants money ahead of Durga Puja. Bhadu singers, who roam and sing songs carrying a clay idol of Bhadu, a much-loved princess who cared for farmers and labourers, are a familiar sight in Birbhum, East and West Burdwan, Purulia and Bankura, in the Bengali month of Bhadro, but the pandemic has left them in dire straits. On Wednesday, Ruppur gram panchayat near Bolpur in Birbhum gave 20 Bhadu troupes from the district an arena to stage their seasonal performances, two full meals and Rs 800 to every participant in what villagers termed the “spirit of the Puja season”. “We came forward to organise such a fest for the first time as we thought to help the folk singers,” said Ranendranath Sarkar, the deputy chief of the gram panchayat. “This Puja is going to be different for sure. The onus is on us to help out the needy,” said another gram panchayat member in Ruppur. Sarkar added: “We have organised assistance in the form of a fun competition and kept prizes for the winners. But we are also providing financial assistance of Rs 800 each to all participants as this year they could not perform their regular events in order to earn money.” Artisans were also offered breakfast and lunch by the panchayat early on Wednesday. Bhadu is a recognised folk tradition in south Bengal. Roaming bands of folk singers perform across villages, the songs being entreaties to a female clay idol representing Bhadu or princess Bhadravati. According to folk researcher and writer Aditya Mukherjee, the tradition started in Bengal in the 16th century following the death of princess Bhadravati of Purulia. “It is known that there was a princess from Purulia, Bhadravati, who was very sympathetic to poor farmers and labourers and helped them in crises. She was very popular among poor villagers.  After she died young, her followers wrote songs requesting her not to leave them,” Mukherjee said. “The tradition started and spread to different Bengal districts. The folk singers roam in villages and collect money and rice by performing Bhadu songs,” he added. Amar Das, 58, a Bhadu singer who has been performing for the past 35 years, said that the initiative by the panchayat “made them happy” as it gave them “a venue to perform” their “beloved craft”. “Yes, we need money but we also need space in order to stage a good performance. We visited two or three villages but villagers did not come to listen to our songs for fear of the coronavirus. So, our performances took a hit. We are very grateful for this panchayat’s initiative,” said Das, a resident of Lohagarh village. Many performers said that they would donate the money they received from the panchayat to help poorer people in their neighbourhoods buy clothes for their children this Durga Puja. “Many in our villages are worse-off than us. With this money, they can buy something for the children before the festival,” said Khudiram Dhatri of Padmabatipur village in Bolpur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-364
24-09-2020||West Bengal||Rain triggers waterlogging in sub-Himalayan region of Bengal||Consistent bouts of monsoon rain in the sub-Himalayan region of Bengal for the second day on Wednesday led to flooding and waterlogging at several places in the plains and triggered major landslides in the hills. As it rained heavily in the districts of Darjeeling, Kalimpong, Jalpaiguri, Alipurduar and Cooch Behar, weather experts issued a warning that there might be flooding in low-lying areas. In Siliguri, the Mahananda river flooded a number of areas on both banks while some other localities of the town like Milanpally, Haiderpara and Champasari and some places close to the Eastern Bypass were waterlogged. Waterlogging was also reported from adjoining areas like Matigara, Bidhannagar and Bagdogra. Siliguri MLA Asok Bhattacharya, who is also the chairman of board of administrators at the municipal corporation, visited some affected areas. “A comprehensive drainage system is required for the entire civic area to resolve the problem of waterlogging. We have appealed to the state government for necessary assistance and proposals have also been submitted. However, no funds have reached us till now,” he said. In Jalpaiguri district, Hathi Nala, a stream flowing into Banarhat of the Dooars from Bhutan, spilled over its banks and flooded many localities. The stream also inundated at least five tea plantations. The continuous rainfall submerged most parts of Jalpaiguri town. The Karala river that flows through the town spilled over its banks and entered the outpatient department of the district hospital. The downpour also caused waterlogging in a number of residential and commercial areas of Cooch Behar and some other places in the district. The rainfall, sources in the irrigation department said, has led to rise in the water levels of rivers like Teesta, Jaldhaka, Diana, Sankosh, Murti, Neora, Chel, Ghish and the Raidak. “Yellow (primary) alert has been issued in unprotected areas (where there are no embankments) on either bank of a number of rivers,” said an official. According to weather experts, the southwest monsoon, which is vigorous over the region, is causing the rainfall. In 24 hours till Wednesday morning, it rained 180mm in Jalpaiguri, 130mm in Siliguri, 102mm in Alipurduar, 138mm in Cooch Behar and 240mm in Maynaguri. “Weather conditions are likely to remain the same in the region for a couple of days. But the amount of rainfall is expected to be less,” said an expert.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-364
24-09-2020||West Bengal||Four landslides block NH10||Road connectivity between Sikkim and Siliguri snapped on Wednesday when four landslides triggered by heavy rain struck NH10, the principal highway to the Himalayan state. As traffic to Sikkim and Kalimpong came to a grinding halt, local people were not only asking when the debris would be removed but also wondering how long it would take to build an alternate road to the state that shares border with China. Defence analysts and strategic experts have time and again emphasised the need to improve the connectivity to Sikkim by building an alternate road as NH10 passes through landslide-prone areas. “We really don’t know when the alternate road to Sikkim and Kalimpong would be ready,” said Pradip Chakraborty, a bank employee who frequents the Darjeeling hills. The Centre had approved the 250km-long road in 2015. The National Highway Infrastructure & Development Corporation Limited (NHIDCL) that functions under the Union ministry of highways has taken the task of building the road that would originate from the Dooars. The road, sources said, would move along Damdim-Gorubathan-Lava-Kafer-Rhenock-Rishi route and connect Sikkim capital Gangtok via Pakyong. “Work on the road is in progress but it would take at least two to three years to complete it. It seems the rail route to Rangpo from Sevoke would be commissioned before the completion of the new road,” said a senior official of the Sikkim government. On Wednesday, debris, along with trees, fell on NH10 near Sevoke, around 20km from here. The second landslide occurred at Kalijhora, the site of Teesta Low Dam Project IV of the NHPC. Further ahead, at Swetijhora — that is just a few kilometres from Kalijhora, a stretch of the road caved in, creating a crater on the highway and making it impossible for heavy vehicles to move. The fourth landslide occurred at 29th Mile, beyond Swetijhora, and the road got blocked with boulders, earth and pebbles. A landslide had occurred there on Tuesday, too. Kalimpong district police issued an advisory, saying light vehicles could reach Siliguri through other routes. “It would take some time for the restoration of NH10 for heavy vehicles’ movement as has been informed by the PWD. As an emergency measure, heavy goods vehicles below 10 tonnes shall be diverted through Coronation Bridge-Damdim More-Gorubathan-Lava onward to Kalimpong or Rangpo (in Sikkim) via Bhalu Marg and back,” the advisory said. Traffic between the Dooars and Siliguri via the Coronation Bridge was also hampered for some hours because of the landslide near Sevoke. The connectivity snap has prompted the residents of the Dooars to demand again a bridge over the Teesta from Sevoke Bazaar (around 5km downstream the Coronation Bridge in the foothills) to the Dooars, parallel to the rail bridge. “First of all, vehicles weighing 10 tonnes and above are now allowed through Coronation Bridge and secondly, landslides during the monsoon often affect traffic via this route,” said a representative of the Dooars Forum for Social Change, an organisation that has been working on the demand. Additional reporting by Vivek Chhetri in Siliguri||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-364
24-09-2020||West Bengal||Sisters’ birthday party with gift of life||Move over, flashy birthday parties at food courts of malls and banquet halls. A couple in West Burdwan’s Jhanjra celebrated their two daughters’ birthdays at a blood bank. Parents Saugata and Parama Mandal hosted an unusual birthday party for Nistha, 8, and Srestha, 3, at the blood bank of the Durgapur subdivisional hospital on Tuesday where 12 invitees joined the couple to donate blood. Of them, seven guests were first-time donors. Saugata runs a computer shop at Laodoha’s Jhanjra, 20km from Durgapur, Parama is a homemaker. Both donate blood regularly and are involved in the blood donation movement in Jhanjra colliery area of West Burdwan. Nistha turned eight on September 18 and Srestha had turned three on August 22. So, the couple decided to host a joint birthday party with a difference this year as they knew that fewer people were donating blood amid the pandemic. “We decided to celebrate the birthdays of our daughters in a way that would help our fellow citizens who need blood in times of the pandemic,” said Parama. The couple also brought along a pretty birthday cake to the blood bank as they wanted it to be a real party as well. The sisters in colour-coordinated dresses looked happy as the birthday cake was cut before the 12 invitees joined their parents to donate blood. The couple had invited some of their neighbours and parents of their daughter’s friends to donate blood at the camp. Saugata and Parama then distributed fruits and snacks to donors and blood bank employees. Saugata said the blood donation camp could not have been held without the support of CPM leader Kabi Ghosh, also the state secretary of Federation of Blood Donors’ Organisation of India. “Kabi Ghosh is a veteran activist in the blood donation movement and his organisation helped us organise the blood donation camp,” said Saugata who has donated blood over 40 times since 2016. The hospital’s blood bank in-charge Karabi Kundu lauded the couple for their heartfelt gesture and blessed their two daughters. “If other parents come forward like this, many lives can be saved,” she said. Ghosh said there was a demand for blood among non-Covid patients but because of the pandemic donors had dwindled. “Before the pandemic, on an average 50 people used to donate blood at the Durgapur subdivisional hospital’s blood bank every day. Now it is around 20-30. But the number of people turning up every day to ask for blood here is around 35-40 people. This has created a gap between demand and supply,” he added, saying the couple did a great job. “Donate blood and save life is our campaign. What the couple did would go a long way in generating awareness about donating blood,” said Ghosh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-364
24-09-2020||West Bengal||State Administrative Tribunal order on DA parity||The State Administrative Tribunal (SAT) on Wednesday directed the state government for the second time to obey the Calcutta High Court directive to pay dearness allowance (DA) to its employees on a par with central government employees. The SAT bench comprising Justice R.K. Bag and administrative member Subesh Das said the state government should implement the court’s directive by December 16, 2020. Two state government employees’ unions have been agitating for parity in DA for the past four years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-364
24-09-2020||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 3,189 new cases, 61 deaths||Bengal on Wednesday reported 3,189 new Covid-19 cases and 61 deaths, besides 2,998 recoveries, as total cases went past 2.34 lakh, which includes over 2.05 lakh recoveries and 4,544 deaths. Bengal’s recovery rate rose to 87.37, a rise of 10 per cent in a month. The national rate now is 81.3 per cent. However, with 25,101 active cases now, Bengal reported a rise in its total active Covid-19 cases for the 16th consecutive day. In the last 24-hour window ending on Wednesday 9am, active cases rose by 130. “After August 23, a 15-day (continuous) fall lowered our total of active cases from 28,069 to 23,216. We had fallen below 25,000 (infections) on September 1. Today, we are once again over 25,000. We are looking to arrest this immediately,” said a minister. “The high-incidence districts of Calcutta and immediate neighbourhoods, which started reporting many more recoveries than new cases was a huge relief, but they have started showing signs of a rise once again. We will address those districts on a war-footing,” he added. Of the total 4,544 deaths reported, Calcutta alone accounted for 1,619, with 12 reported on Wednesday. With 11 more deaths, North 24-Parganas logged a total toll of 1,011. The state government reported 3,882, or 85.4 per cent, as deaths with comorbidity “present”. However, Bengal’s overall mortality rate remained at 1.93 per cent, still substantially behind the national rate of 1.59 per cent. The state on Wednesday crossed 29 lakh tests, as 45,229 tests in the day took the total past 29.24 lakh. Having begun testing in early February, Bengal took over three-and-a-half months to get to the first lakh. Over the four months that followed, it conducted over 28 lakh more tests. “For some time now, we have been covering a lakh tests every two days. With a week left in the month, we have conducted 10.36 lakh tests in September already. Our testing per million has almost doubled in a month, to 32,495. All these are positives,” said the minister. Steady rise in testing, coupled with no major spike in the number of new cases, has dragged down the positive confirmation rate from 8.9 on August 23 to 8.02 per cent now. The state reported 33.93 per cent occupancy in the 12,675 beds earmarked for Covid-19 in the 92 dedicated hospitals for the pandemic. Over 2.46 lakh telemedicine consultations for the pandemic were provided, including 4,072 in the past 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-364
24-09-2020||West Bengal||Scan on BSF officer, son in cattle smuggling||The CBI on Wednesday conducted search operations across parts of Calcutta, Salt Lake, Rajarhat, Malda and Murshidabad in Bengal, as well as Punjab, and Chhattisgarh capital Raipur, in connection with a probe into cattle-smuggling across the Bengal-Bangladesh border. Late in the evening, CBI officers sealed the Salt Lake residence of Satish Kumar, a BSF commandant, who along with his son, is alleged to be involved in this case. Search operations were carried out at the homes of two associates of a Murshidabad businessman, Emanul Seikh, in Kulgachhia. Emanul, according to the central investigating agency, is believed to be the kingpin of the cartel that had several government officials as its members. “We have started a case based on our preliminary finding in connection with cattle smuggling across the India-Bangladesh border. The case was drawn up on Tuesday and search operations were held on Wednesday,” said a CBI officer. Primarily CBI has learnt that between December 2015 and April 2017, Satish was posted as the commandant of 36th battalion of the BSF,  overseeing operations in Malda and Murshidabad. During his tenure, Satish reportedly seized around 20,000 cows during raids to prevent cattle smuggling along the border. But these cows were allegedly shown as calves in the record books. This meant when put up for auction, the animals fetched lesser amounts. CBI officers have learnt if a full grown cow fetched around Rs 60,000, a calf would attract half the amount. By showing cows as calves, the investigating agency said the government had lost several hundreds of crores in revenue. The CBI has primarily learnt that Enamul and his gang would allegedly buy these cows at a lower price only to smuggle them back to Bangladesh. His team would allegedly pay Rs 2,000 for each of the cows that was auctioned at a lower price. “Satish’s son had even worked with Emanul’s company for some time, drawing Rs 40,000 every month,” said the officer. Satish is currently posted in Chhattisgarh. In 2018, the CBI arrested Jibu Mathew, a BSF officer from Bengal, for assets disproportionate to his income. During his interrogation, Enamul’s name had cropped up. He was arrested and later released on bail. While cows were seized, CBI has learnt neither the operatives nor vans carrying them were held, raising questions about the nature of raids. CBI has learnt that Satish is working in Chattisgarh. Search for him is on.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-364
24-09-2020||West Bengal||BJP plans march of two lakh people during pandemic||The youth wing of the BJP has set for itself two nearly impossible targets in the midst of the raging Covid-19 pandemic — a march to Nabanna with 2 lakh supporters on October 8 and maintaining social distancing norms during the procession. Bengal Yuva Morcha chief Saumitra Khan has announced the march in protest against unemployment and alleged breakdown of law and order among others. Though Khan is upbeat about the youth wing’s ability to bring in 2 lakh supporters from across the state for the march, insiders in the party do not share his optimism. They also said it would be absurd to even think that social distance could be maintained at the rally. “Has the leadership even given it a thought that it isn’t possible to bring so many people from across the state since trains are still not running? Even buses are not fully operational,” a Yuva Morcha leader said on the condition of anonymity. Khan, the Bishnupur MP, however, justified his October 8 call and said: “The central leadership has asked us to get 2 lakh people for the rally. I’m sure we will be able to do that. We will maintain social distancing norms and wear masks.” A senior BJP leader said even if the party pulled out all stops to fulfil the target, not more than 50,000 people would turn up. “A gathering of such big scale requires months of planning as people need to be brought in from across the state at least a day before the event. The party also needs to take care of their accommodation and food. Where is time for all that?” the leader asked. Though Khan claimed that Covid protocol would be adhered to at the rally, social distancing norms had been flouted at meetings that the BJP had held across the state in the midst of the lockdown. In fact, violation of Covid-19 protocol marked all the rallies that the Yuva Morcha has held in the past few months. When asked, Khan’s party colleagues, who did not want to be named, took the Yuva Morcha chief’s assertion to honour Covid protocol with more than a pinch of salt. “It is surely a joke. When they can’t abide by the protocol in a rally of 50-60 people, how can they make such claims for a mega rally?” said a party insider. While Khan is busy planning execution of the Nabanna march, the party’s Bengal leadership met in New Delhi on Wednesday to discuss its future course of action ahead of the 2021 polls in Bengal. The meeting decided that the BJP would on October 5 stage protests in front of 33 block development offices, where misappropriation of Cyclone Amphan relief funds had taken place. The party has also asked its 18 MPs and those who were defeated in the last Lok Sabha polls to campaign in favour of the contentious farm bill in their respective constituencies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-365
24-09-2020||West Bengal||New laws to raise cash part of tea pay: BJP||The passage of three labour legislations in Parliament have drawn loud cheers from the Bengal unit of the BJP as the party believes the new laws would push up wages of tea garden workers and help the party make inroads into the brew belt of north Bengal ahead of the Assembly elections. Raju Bista, the BJP MP of Darjeeling, said in Parliament that the management of tea estates would have to pay 85 per cent of the wage component in cash now onwards. Tea garden workers in Bengal get Rs 176 per day as cash component, which Bista said was around 50 per cent of the wage. Over the last few years, the demand for wage revision has been resonating across north Bengal and has become a political issue. “At a time the Trinamul government has not been able to decide on the minimum wages for tea workers in the state despite forming a committee a few years ago to look into the matter, the BJP will surely tom-tom its success as the passage of the bills is likely to push up the cash component of wages,” said a political observer. Fifteen of the 54 Assembly segments in north Bengal are in the tea growing regions and if the BJP plays its cards well, the party will reap benefits. The labour ministry has drafted Codes on Industrial Relations, the Social Security Code and the Code on Occupational Safety, Health and Working Condition. “These provisions (in the legislations) will have immense impact on the tea garden and cinchona garden workers in our region,” said Bista. Highlighting a key component of the legislations, Bista said in Parliament: “The tea garden workers will be entitled to receive 85 per cent of their wages in cash, and the plantation owners can only deduct 15 per cent as in-kind payment.” Bista claimed that “currently around 50 per cent of tea garden wages are deducted as in-kind payment” and labourers would be entitled to a much higher wages “than the current rate of Rs 176”. At the moment, the tea gardens are governed by the Plantation Labour Act 1951, which is set to be repealed once these legislations are given the assent by the President of India. The Darjeeling MP also said the new laws would have provisions to enable plantations to join ESI hospitals providing better insurance and health facilities to the workers. Tea planters did not want to immediately respond without leafing through the new legislations but certain sections in the industry have started weaving a new narrative. “We firmly believe that components like bonus, provident fund, gratuity, extra leave price (paid to those who pluck more than the given task in a day) should also be included in the cash component of the wage and not just Rs 176,” said a planter. The non-cash component of the workers currently includes housing, medicine, wood and umbrellas even though there are allegations that most tea estates do not provide these benefits. Another planter pointed out that the industry was facing many problems like a dip in production from 14 million kgs to 8 million kgs per annum, a nosedive in exports and absence of minimum support price. “Tea is under the commerce ministry and no schemes are applicable to it under the ministry of agriculture. So, imposing of minimum wages mean pushing management to go into an unviable situation,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-365
24-09-2020||North East||Congress and BJP MPs call for mills’ revival||The Opposition Congress and ruling BJP MPs from Assam are on the same page on reviving the two defunct paper mills in the state but affected employees, while welcoming their concern, said they wanted their dues and immediate revival of the units. Assam PCC president and Rajya Sabha MP Ripun Bora raised the plight of the employees and revival of the mills on September 15 in the Upper House, while BJP MP Rajdeep Roy tried to attract the attention of the Centre to the defunct mills and its affected employees on Tuesday in the Lok Sabha. Around 6,000 permanent and contractual employees of Cachar Paper Mill at Panchgram in Barak Valley’s Hailakandi district and Nagaon Paper Mill at Jagiroad in central Assam’s Morigaon district have been affected after they closed down in October 2015 and March 2017 respectively. Not only the employees of the two Hindustan Paper Corporation Limited units have not got their salaries for the past 44 and 42 months respectively but also 71 of them have died, of whom three ended their lives, allegedly because of trauma and ailments they suffered after they stopped receiving salaries. There have been a series of protests, memoranda submitted for revival of the mills and clearing of their salary dues and repeated assurances from both governments but to no avail, according to union leaders. Bora said in the Upper House that the government should promptly act on its commitment to revive the mills, which were profit-making before their closure, and also clear their dues. He said the livelihoods of about 2 lakh people directly or indirectly dependent on the two mills have been affected. Roy, who is from Barak Valley, highlighted the plight of the employees and the impact of the mills on them and over 1 lakh bamboo growers of the region. Drawing the attention of the Prime Minister and the industry minister, he urged the government to clear the employees’ dues in two to three instalments and suggested revival of the mills by roping in a private party or through the public-private partnership (PPP) mode. He also blamed a corrupt section of the mills for their closure. The concern of the employees are not without reasons because the liquidator for the HPC, Kuldeep Verma, had on September 14 submitted a fresh plea in the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) seeking liquidation of the mills because it would be in the “interest of all stakeholders” for the company’s assets to be liquidated so as to “maximize the realization for distribution among the stakeholders as per law”. The plea contended that past efforts have failed. The Assam industry department had on September 10 in a letter to the HPC’s liquidator requested him to seek a month’s time from the NCLT since chief minister Sarbananda sonowal was seriously pursuing the issue of reviving the paper mills with the Centre. The next NCLT hearing is on October 7. Manabendra Chakraborty, president of the Joint Action Committee of Recognised Unions (JACRU) of the two mills, Dipak Chandra Nath, general secretary of the Cachar Paper Mill Officers and Supervisors’ Association, and Azizur Rahman Mazumder, general secretary of Cachar Paper Project Workers and Employees’ Union, told the media they appreciated the concern of the two MPs but wanted the Centre to clear their dues and save the two mills from liquidation by initiating its revival. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi had in a poll rally at Kali Nagar (near the Cachar Paper Mill in Hailakandi district) on March 27, 2016, promised the revival of the mill. Time has come for the Centre to act and save the mills and their employees,” Chakraborty said. He said they also wanted all hard-earned dues to be released in one go and not in instalments. “We also want to know where did the Rs 4,141 crore released to the mills between 2014-2018 go? This was revealed in a reply on July 9, 2019, in Parliament. If we get this money, the mills can be revived,” Chakraborty said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-43
24-09-2020||North East||Actor lends help to bamboo artisans from Tripura ||Actor Manoj Bajpayee, who had highlighted the plight of migrant workers during the coronavirus-induced lockdown, has now extended technical and financial support to artisans from Tripura villages engaged in making bamboo water bottles through an organisation he is actively involved with. Bajpayee in an Instagram post on World Bamboo Day on September 18 announced that a fifth livelihood project under the Shramik Sammaan initiative “is taking shape” at Lembuchera village in Tripura’s West district, around 10km from state capital Agartala. Tripura’s bamboo bottles had first hit the headlines when actor Raveena Tandon had placed an order for a bottle in June and backed the initiative for providing livelihood options to locals on Twitter. Bajpayee said a group of 20 people are being trained in making “trendy eco-friendly water bottles from bamboo which is found in plenty in the state” and that the proposed unit could boost their economic condition by creating additional employment opportunities. Shramik Sammaan, an initiative to generate livelihood and employment for migrant worker friends, has tied up with an Agartala-based organisation Youth For Integration. Working with the weaker sections, the YFI will mentor the project and help in marketing the “uber cool accessory”, Bajpayee said, urging all to donate for this project for the tribal artisans from Tripura. YFI president Bibhuti Debbarma told The Telegraph that they have already completed the initial training of 30 boys and girls from Lembuchera. The next batch will be from Barmura Hills, an hour’s drive from Agartala, whose training will start in October under a team from Shramik Samman. Shramik Sammaan will be supporting 75 livelihood projects across the country within a year, the move reflecting Bajpayee’s deep “gaon” (village) connection, Debbarma said. He said they will require around Rs 60,000 to train a group of 30 youths for 10 days, including providing them equipment. He also said they have received two orders for 100 bottles from Assam, of which they have delivered 45, and another for four bottles from Kanpur. “We are very grateful to Manoj ji for supporting us. It is a dream come true. We hope more celebrities become part of such livelihood projects. From what I could gather Manoj ji is very attached to his native village in Bihar. He knows the plight of migrants and weaker sections, so he is trying to help in his own way. His gaon connection is very strong. It is also a huge boost to the vocal for local initiative,” Debbarma said. Bajpayee has been in the news for bringing the focus back on the lakhs of migrants walking home during the lockdown through a Bhojpuri rap, Bambai Main Ka Ba, which he has sung and performed. The video has garnered over 5.6 million views on YouTube since its release two weeks back. Debbarma also thanked the Forest Research Centre for Livelihood Extension, Agartala, a central government agency where the training is being held and its director Pawan Kaushik for being actively involved in training and promoting bamboo-based products, including the bottles that cost Rs 600 per piece. The Tripura government is betting big on the bamboo industry to promote livelihood options through the Tripura Rehabilitation Plantation Corporation (TRPC) involving bamboo products such as furniture, bottles, straw and jewellery. The latest addition is bamboo cookies, which was launched on World Bamboo Day by Tripura chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb. Made from muli bamboo, the cookies are “delicious, nutritious and beneficial” for those having diabetes and cancer, Deb said. Bamboo shoot is also very popular in the Northeast because of its taste and health benefits. Besides TRPC, Japan International Cooperation Agency (Jica) and Indo-German Development Cooperation are also promoting bamboo cultivation and products in Tripura, which is working on adding about 15,000 hectares under bamboo cultivation. As many 21 species of bamboo are found in Tripura. Demand for bamboo bottles shot up after prices soared in exporting countries such as China, Vietnam, Myanmar and Japan, sources said, adding there are enquiries from metro cities and also from the US and European countries. “We need to build capacity and produce quality products to cash in on the demand. Each bottle now costs Rs 600 and an expert artisan can churn out six bottles a day,” Debbarma said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-43
24-09-2020||North East||Madhav ‘backs’ Sonowal for CM in 2021||BJP national general secretary Ram Madhav has said that he is confident Assam will “return” Sarbananda Sonowal and his team with a “massive” mandate in 2021, hinting at his continuance as the chief minister after next year’s Assembly polls. Madhav made the comment at a party function to mark the 70th birthday of Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Guwahati last week. Madhav said that just as the masses voted back the Modi government with a massive mandate in the Centre, the people of Assam would also return Sonowal and his team with a massive mandate because of the good governance provided by them since assuming power in 2016. Madhav’s endorsement of Sonowal assumes significance because of a debate triggered by a comment made by state minister Pijush Hazarika in reaction to a query that cabinet minister Himanta Biswa Sarma was capable of being the chief minister, giving rise to speculations about a likely change of guard after the polls. The answers, mostly evasive, of senior BJP leaders too didn’t help clear the air. Sarma said everyone in Assam is capable of becoming the chief minister while state BJP president Ranjeet Kumar Dass said such decisions are taken by the party leadership. Others said that Sonowal was their chief minister. According to BJP insiders, Madhav taking the name of Sonowal instead of saying the BJP or our government will retain power is being seen as a huge hint of Sonowal continuing at the helm. “Some clarity is emerging but it still is a long way to go,” one of them added. The BJP has started preparing for the polls, setting a 100-seat target in a 126-member Assembly, 14 more than it had won along with its allies in 2016. The BJP had won 60 seats in 2016, while its allies Bodoland People’s Front (BPF) and Asom Gana Parishad (AGP) had won 12 and 14 seats respectively, to oust a well-entrenched ruling Congress. The BJP-led government has been announcing schemes after schemes since August besides laying foundation stones of new projects or inaugurating new ones despite the state being in the grip of the Covid-19 pandemic which has affected 161,393 patients and claimed 586 lives till Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-43
24-09-2020||Opinion||Fearless figure: Remembering Ruth Bader Ginsburg||Sir — In honour of the deceased Supreme Court judge of the United States of America, Ruth Bader Ginsburg, the Fearless Girl statue in New York was adorned with a lace collar that the jurist was famous for wearing. She had added the collar to the austere black robes to reclaim a traditionally male uniform and “unapologetically feminize it”. Only the second woman to be appointed to the apex court, Ginsburg was a legal and feminist icon who staunchly upheld liberal traditions. Her demise two months before the presidential elections will have a far-reaching impact on American democracy. Game on Sanav Chakraborty,Calcutta Sir — It was wonderful to read the article, “Cricketainment swings into action” (Sept 20), by the cricketing legend, Sunil Gavaskar, on the Indian Premier League, just the day after this year’s tournament started in the United Arab Emirates. The IPL has become an indispensable part of the lives of cricket fans. They wait with bated breath throughout the year for the season to commence. While every year a considerable number would throng the stadiums with their family and friends, soaking in the excitement of a cricket match, this year, as Covid-19 ravages the world, fans are left with no option but to watch the IPL matches in the relative safety of their homes. The pandemic has taken away much of the electrifying thrill of the game. Sourish Misra,Calcutta Sir — As the IPL begins, one major difference from earlier editions that is bound to bother cricket lovers is that the only way to enjoy the matches this year would be from the security of one’s home. Nevertheless, it can be safely assumed that people would be just as exhilarated to watch the action as they turn their living rooms into miniature stadiums. The action-packed first game on Saturday saw the three-time champions, the Chennai Super Kings, kick off the season against the Mumbai Indians, who had secured their fourth IPL title in 2019. The following matches since then have set the cricket pitches in the UAE ablaze. The return of the IPL comes as a relief to fans who were all but sure that the tournament would be cancelled this year. However, the organizers managed to chalk up a plan that would ensure the players’ safety while keeping the spirit of the game intact. The slow resumption of sports across the world, be it football, tennis, or cricket, is a small sliver of hope in the midst of an unprecedented health and economic crisis. The values that form the pillars of sportsmanship — courage, unity, patience and perseverance — can provide critical lessons to all in the face of hardship and bring hope that it is possible to overcome hurdles even in the worst of situations. M. Pradyu,Kannur Sir — The IPL 2020 began with an incredible match that displayed the brilliant captaincy of the Chennai Super Kings skipper, M.S. Dhoni. As the opener for the Mumbai Indians, Quinton de Kock, began the match on a strong footing, Dhoni, to everyone’s surprise, brought in the 22-year-old Sam Curran, who not only claimed the wicket but also slammed 18 runs off just six balls at a crucial juncture of the game. Similarly, the fielding placements of Ravindra Jadeja and Lungi Ngidi showed Dhoni’s maturity and insight as a captain. Although the legendary skipper has announced his retirement from international cricket, he can still give young players a run for their money. M.N. Gupta,Bokaro Sir — Amidst all the woes and worries of the coronavirus pandemic, cricket’s biggest franchise league began with an incredible match. Rightly termed as a tyohar in India, the IPL has gained popularity with each passing year. Perhaps the tournament will bring a sense of reprieve to the viewers struggling to cope with the pandemic. Although the first match was quite predictable, with the Chennai Super Kings breezing through the game, the upcoming matches are bound to be exciting as all teams are well-rounded. As league cricket returns to stadiums, fans are looking forward to enjoying the numerous matches that have been scheduled till November. Hopefully the players as well as the staff members involved will adhere to safety measures set by the administration as they bring unbridled joy to millions of cricket fans around the world. Iftekhar Ahmed,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-143
24-09-2020||Opinion||Fallen warriors: India's healthcare workers||For how long can an illusion affecting the lives of millions be kept up before it collapses? The Indian Medical Association seems to have found an answer to the question when it called out the Centre’s “hypocrisy” for extolling Covid-19 frontline healthcare workers as “warriors” while, at the same time, not bothering to keep track of those among them who have lost their lives to the virus. That it fell to the IMA to point out that 382 doctors have died from Covid-19 is telling, as is the fact that the Union health ministry insisted, at the time of a national-level health crisis, that health is a state subject. That the Centre has suddenly remembered to invoke the principle of federalism suggests that it will pounce on every opportunity to pass the buck to conceal its own dereliction of duty. This is not surprising. The Bharatiya Janata Party-led Central government’s willingness to maintain data depends on the nature of the information. So the Centre has expressed its inability to collate data on, say, the deaths of migrant workers during the lockdown or on farmer suicides. Yet, in Uttar Pradesh, where the BJP is in power, data collection — surveillance? — has been facilitated by tracking the call records of Covid-19 patients, ostensibly for effective contact tracing. The Centre’s plaintive cries about the absence of data on the deaths of frontline health workers have several implications. The most troubling is its use of lofty rhetoric in place of meaningful interventions. The prime minister goaded the nation to honour Covid warriors by raising a frightful din with pots and pans; more recently, and on a serious note, a bill has been passed by Parliament to protect frontline workers and doctors from physical assault. But several other crippling dimensions of the crisis remain unaddressed. For instance, how serious is the shortage of protective equipment? Doctors in Bihar — the BJP is eyeing the state in the forthcoming polls — are on record saying that one of the chief reasons for deaths in the fraternity is the supply of substandard protective equipment. There have been other irregularities as well. Several hundred fake ventilators were allegedly installed in hospitals across Gujarat — the prime minister’s home state — without any regulatory assessment of the faulty equipment, seriously undermining concerns of public health. Meanwhile, personnel in the lower rungs of India’s Covid Warrior Force continue to labour with minimal resources. Theatrics can do little to mask the stench of death in the trenches.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-143
24-09-2020||Opinion||All in class: Accessible online education||With the pandemic running into months, countries all over the world are in a bind over education. It is not possible to stop all teaching indefinitely. Yet in-person classes pose a danger to the health of students, teachers and everyone engaged in making classes possible, including those who operate transport. Online classes appear to be the only solution for both schoolchildren and university students, but the solution is far from perfect. Equal access to the internet and to suitable gadgets, such as laptops, tablets or even smartphones, is a pipe-dream still, whether in the United States of America or in India. The United Nations Children’s Fund warned about a month ago that one-third of the world’s schoolchildren, around 463 million, lack this access, and that online classes for children are possible only in 24 per cent of Indian households. Against this background, the Delhi High Court’s direction to schools last week to end “digital apartheid” is of especial importance. For the court has suggested the ways to do this as well. Schools should ensure that all pupils, particularly from economically weaker sections and disadvantaged groups, have suitable gadgets and a high speed internet package with which they will have the same opportunity as everyone else to continue their lessons online. Private, unaided schools, which are supposed to enrol EWS and DG students in 25 per cent of their seats under the Right to Education Act, can approach the state for reasonable reimbursement for the package. In other words, it is the duty of schools — government or unaided — and of the State, to ensure that all children learn equally. This is demanded by the RTE and Article 14 of the Constitution, as the court pointed out. It is also demanded by fairness and humanity. The Delhi High Court’s ruling provides a model for all states. One important aspect of the ruling is the approach based on individual students’ needs. The Unicef report pointed out that there is not only a rural-urban inequality in the matter of access to online education, but a gender divide too. Indian households with smartphones or computers may not always have one for each school-going child. Hence an initiative from schools to provide each of their students with access would be more than welcome.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-144
24-09-2020||Opinion||The art of burying the truth||It is doubtful whether Jawaharlal Nehru ever read Joseph Heller’s Catch-22, that wickedly funny and ultimately sobering novel set in wartime Italy, published a year before India and China went to war in 1962. In it, Doc Daneeka, who explains The Catch, had a corner office with a waiting room decorated with the finest cheap furniture and a single goldfish, which died before the war exploded and Doc Daneeka got drafted. But his showpiece — rubber models of reproductive organs of both sexes — he kept in separate cabinets in order to avoid a scandal, demonstrating effectively that you could never be too careful. This is the same prophylactic impulse that informs the secrecy surrounding the official documents pertaining to the 1962 boundary war with China that began 58 years ago. As they each dealt with the Chinese, how many defence ministers or foreign ministers or prime ministers do you think have read the Henderson Brooks report — it allegedly details egregious failures — a copy of which is kept under lock and key in the Directorate of Military Operations? In this background, consider the remarks made by the foreign secretary, S. Jaishankar, prefacing the release of his book, The India Way: Strategies for an Uncertain World. Acknowledging that the situation in the border areas was the most serious crisis since 1962, he told his interviewer, “If you look back over the last decade, there have been a number of border situations — Depsang, Chumar and Doklam. In a sense, each one was different. This one surely is. But what is also common is that all border situations were resolved through diplomacy.” Almost as an afterthought he conceded that diplomatic and military channels “work in tandem”. The afterthought is subliminal, almost as if the mandarin axiomatically suspects the bravado the military man exudes does not conform to the reality the soldier is rooted in. Let us examine the proposition Jaishankar makes. If diplomacy had succeeded in the last 58 years, then the China-India boundary problem would have been resolved. Second, if diplomacy had succeeded as it has been claimed, then how is it that China has violated all five agreements, the basis of management of boundary areas, without firing a single bullet? If you string together the incursions undertaken by the Chinese, including the ones that the foreign minister mentions in the last 10 years — the ones at Depsang, Chumar, Doklam — how can repeated incursions, whatever the variations among them, be termed as a success of diplomacy? Even in the current stand-off, extensive as it is and destabilizing as well, so far we have only seen a failure of diplomacy. De-escalation is a function of diplomacy and disengagement essentially a military outcome of de-escalation. What we are witnessing in Galwan and other areas is the continued failure of de-escalation. Going by the logic that has been presented, the more often the Chinese ingress, the more often the situation is resolved, the more successful diplomacy becomes? This is a classic aspect of Catch-22. The central catch in Catch-22 is the predicament of Yossarian, a bombardier convinced the war is going to kill him and he has to plead insanity to cry off bombing missions that increase the chances of his being killed in the war. The catch is, as everyone knows, anybody who wants to get out of combat duty isn’t really crazy, therefore fit for combat. Just as Yossarian is condemned to repeat his increasingly suicidal bombing missions, applied to the India-China boundary experience, it would mean that the Chinese have a right to do anything we can’t stop them from doing after they have done it because diplomacy will solve it. It also means that they will not stop from doing something they have already done before — for example, their changed stance on Tawang and areas in Arunachal Pradesh they refer to as “South Tibet”. After 22 (note that number) rounds of talks between the Special Representatives, what we get is more incursions in Galwan, Pangong Tso. What really stares us in the face is the cumulative failure of diplomacy and leadership that is sometimes audaciously paraded as success because of the opacity and secrecy that surround our intermittent military situations. Suppressing information leads to poor strategic culture and encourages weak tactical outcomes and endless repetitions of the failures arising from the lack of appreciation of what really happened. It is a pity that even for the Sumdorong Chu stand-off in the mid-eighties, we don’t know, some 35 years later, what happened over the eight years it lasted. The negotiations records are with the ministry of external affairs, the military records are in the Directorate of Military Operations, to prevent a scandal. And never the twain shall meet. What, as citizens, we will be treated to will be hand-me-down gossip, unconfirmed hearsay, fractional truths, skewed assessments from unnamed sources and bloated self-assessments from the occasional bureaucratic reminiscences, and left to draw our own pitiful conclusions. If more vitriol needs to be poured on, say, Nehru, one way to do it is to release the Henderson Brooks report. Why not do it for the politics of it? At least it will serve a strategic purpose. The longer we delay, the stronger the Chinese get, not the other way around. By letting their military do the diplomacy, at least they don’t put the cart before the horse.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-144
24-09-2020||Opinion||Living the lie||On August 31 last, the Republican National Convention and Kenosha were the themes of Last Week Tonight with John Oliver. Oliver, as everyone knows, is not fond of his president. He said the RNC was an “event to celebrate the stewardship of Donald Trump, a tough sell at the best of times, but something that felt particularly out of step this week, considering we have a pandemic on the rampage, an economic catastrophe unfolding, and wildfires and hurricanes battering the country”. More, “it [was] a little jarring that the Republicans’ opening argument seemed to essentially be this. Ladies and gentlemen, leaders and fighters for freedom and liberty and the American dream, the best is yet to come!” This is familiar to chasers of the dream of Bharat, surely? Oliver had video excerpts of Republicans throwing their arms out triumphantly to substantiate his unkind comments. For Indians, since the achchhe din promised by the Bharatiya Janata Party in 2014 has not, in September 2020, seen Rs 15 lakh deposited in every citizen’s bank account with the return of black money from abroad, the best remains yet to come. That is, if the achchhe din hope is not just a jumla, a way of speaking — a joke? — that the Union home minister, Amit Shah, called the Rs 15 lakh promise later. Oliver recreated a scene that we have grown addicted to in our country: “The main theme of the convention seemed to be telling lies in front of flags…four days of full-throated denial of objective reality…” If “the misleading portrait painted of Trump’s opponents” can be taken as fair game, what followed can make us sit up excitedly: “Convention speakers also claimed that Trump never called white supremacists ‘very fine people’, which he did.” That was Charlottesville, 2017, with waffling thereafter. And that he passed the veteran’s choice act, “which he didn’t” — Barack Obama did. Also “that he is trying to protect patients with pre-existing conditions, which he very much is not”. This is a proactive lie, ignoring that Republicans have gone to court against the protection of patients with pre-existing conditions in medical insurance, somewhat reminiscent of the unnecessary government rhetoric around the Citizenship (Amendment) Act that is surely not discriminatory. The fantasy about Trump’s sympathy for these patients ignited Oliver’s imagination: “And I am honestly surprised that a speaker didn’t…claim that Trump invented parakeets, or that he stopped the murder of hornets by sucking them straight out of the air.” No, Trump’s “loyal friend” Narendra Modi did not invent parakeets either, but he does enjoy inventing medical and technological achievements of ancient India with a prime ministerial authority that sends his inventions straight into history books and scientific conventions. “[I]n the midst of a blizzard of lies,” Oliver continued, “some still managed to stand out.” The White House economic advisor, Larry Kudlow, referred to the coronavirus “with an off choice of verb tense”. Kudlow is shown saying, “Then came once in 100-year pandemic. It was awful, health and economic impacts were tragic. Hardship and heartbreak were everywhere. But presidential leadership came swiftly and effectively, with an extraordinary rescue for health and safety to successfully fight the Covid virus.” This is marvellous, this game with “verb tense”. Because on August 31, 2020, the United States of America reported 31,313 new coronavirus cases and 560 virus-related deaths, according to data from Johns Hopkins University. The national total stood at 6,028,617 Covid-19 cases and 183,579 fatalities. On September 22, the total was 7,046,216 and deaths were 204,506. This is a terrible tragedy, in the US as in the whole world, a strange time to boast about successful presidential leadership and rescue. Indians, however, are not assailed by a “blizzard of lies”; blizzards pass. They breathe lies, they wade in them, they sleep and wake in them; lies constitute the air around them. The coronavirus tragedy in India, for example, was compounded by the suffering and deaths of thousands of migrant workers caught unawares in a lockdown at four hours’ notice. Besides, experts said that the lockdown was wrongly timed for proper control of the virus. Presumably to counter such negativity, the full spread of the virus in early May was sought to be falsified by pressure on researchers to delete the data from hotspots and containment zones in their survey that showed high incidence of the infection — or not publish the paper. Never mind the misdirection in a dangerous situation, the lockdown could be shown to have been successful. The direction reportedly came from the director-general of the Indian Council of Medical Research, which is tasked, among other things, with establishing medical ethics. The question of ethics becomes obsolete when information from government agencies turns out to be misleading, evasive, or confusing, whether economic data, or that about migrant workers’ job losses and deaths, or farmers’ suicides. Do Indians know yet what demonetization achieved? Falsehood has many forms. For instance, the Union minister of state for home said in Parliament that as of September 11, 2020, 223 persons were in detention in Jammu and Kashmir and no one was under house arrest there. Politicians from the Peoples Democratic Party not only called this a ‘blatant’ lie, but posted videos to show that they were forbidden to step out of their homes. So did Saifuddin Soz, the Congress leader, about whom the Jammu and Kashmir administration had said in Supreme Court that there was no restriction on his movements. Then there is the obdurate defiance of contract, as for example in the Centre’s refusal to pay states their full share of goods and services tax revenues. That is perceived as part of the programme of depriving states of their legitimate powers and agency, demonstrated again by the repeated passing of policies and bills with inadequate or no consultation with stakeholders, as in the National Education Policy, or the bland refusal to debate or vote on the farmers’ bills. Maybe these laws and policies are as good as the Modi government claims, and do not have sinister, self-serving designs — for surely inventing parakeets is a good thing? But the blinding aura of falsehood that the BJP and its adherents have created, fuelled by a sense of power and protected by the steady refusal to answer questions, would depend on their ability to keep on inventing pretty birds. Lies have an almost lyrical flow, sliding sinuously into institutions and processes, poisoning all they touch in their unceasing attempts to make the illegitimate look legitimate. There are occasional disruptions, as in the Allahabad High Court’s direction to the Uttar Pradesh government to release the doctor, Kafeel Khan, whose detention under the National Security Act for an allegedly incendiary anti-CAA speech — in which he reportedly spoke of unity and harmony — the court considered illegal. But jails continue to fill up with young people who protested against the CAA and are accused of having incited the violence in northeastern Delhi last February, while writers, teachers and activists, some arrested two years ago for allegedly having ‘aggravated’ the violence at Bhima Koregaon on January 1, 2018 by their speeches encouraging caste hatred, remain in prison without trial or bail. How could two statements attributed to two arrested students, naming teachers and Opposition politicians as instigators of the Delhi riots, be exactly the same, bearing also the students’ refusal to sign them? Not important. Neither incendiary speeches by right-wing leaders nor the originators of the violence during the peaceful Dalit celebrations at Bhima Koregaon are considered culpable. Power, the ruling regime seems to believe, makes legitimacy irrelevant. Lies, clearly, are addictive. Can anything be more intoxicating than “telling lies in front of flags”? Perhaps we should now decide whether we shall continue to get drunk on lies or begin shaking off their magic attraction.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-144
24-09-2020||Jharkhand||Prominent steel city physician dies of post-Covid complications||Dr HK Gardin, an infectious diseases specialist, died of post-Covid complications at Tata Main Hospital on Thursday noon. With the death of Dr Gardin, the coronavirus has claimed the life of the fourth doctor in East Singhbhum. A resident of Sakchi, Gardin (61) served at Tata Main Hospital till his retirement last year. He achieved acclaim in the field of treatment and control of HIV and AIDS in the city. He was admitted at the Tata Main Hospital on September 5 with breathing trouble.  He tested Covid positive the next day. Dr Gardin eventually tested Covid negative on September 15, but wasn’t discharged from the hospital due to post-Covid complications. According to hospital sources, his lungs were badly damaged. He could not survive the post-Covid complications despite all necessary treatment. "Dr Gardin died this afternoon after he was admitted at the Tata Main Hospital on September 5 with breathing trouble. He had subsequently tested Covid positive. He tested negative on September 15, but continued to receive treatment at the hospital.  Whether his demise can be counted as a Covid death is up to the Tata Main Hospital authority," district civil surgeon Ralendra Nath Jha told The Telegraph Online. Earlier, Dr MM Agrawal, Dr JP Lal and Dr Birendra Baitha died of Covid. Dr Gardin’s death has affected the  doctors' fraternity at Tata Main Hospital and also in the Indian Medical Association’s (IMA) Jamshedpur unit. Dr Mritunjay Singh, president IMA, Jamshedpur said the steel city and the medical fraternity lost a very efficient physician. "Dr Gardin was a very esteemed member of the IMA.  Not only the medical fraternity, but also the people of Jamshedpur lost a jewel," Singh said. In all, 117 more people were tested Covid positive during the past 24 hours here, taking the total number of cases in the East Singhbhum district to 12,487. Four people died of Covid during the past 24 hours, taking the death toll in the district to 301.  As of now 10,190 people have been cured of Covid and have returned to their homes across the district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-289
24-09-2020||Jharkhand||Hundreds stage protest at Bokaro Steel Plant ||More than 200 disgruntled land losers on Thursday staged a demonstration before Ispat Bhavan at Bokaro Steel Plant (BSL) to demand jobs and other benefits. The agitators, who are calling their agitation “Mahkukur Kundoli Janakroash Talabandi (lockout)”, have vowed to continue their demonstration for 72 hours. They will also lock the main gate of BSL if their demands are not met in this period. There were minor scuffles between the protesters and Home Guard jawans when they tried to stop the demonstrators from reaching Ispat Bhavan. Harinand Rai, director (technical) of SAIL, who has been in charge of BSL as the interim CEO for the past 10 months, has reached Bokaro from Delhi. This is his second visit to Bokaro after the Covid-19 lockdown was imposed. The protesters feel that this time, the management and the district administration will take their demands seriously and respond positively. Else, they will intensify their protests. A large number of CISF and police personnel have been deployed at the protest site. The flow of traffic was affected for two hours between City Centre and Nayamoad under the City police station. Nirmal Digar, who is leading the agitation, said: “We gave our land so that BSL could be set up, but the management cheated many of us by not providing jobs and compensation against our land. This time, we have vowed to fight till the end. We have begun our agitation and will continue it for 72 hours staying at the spot. And if our demands are not fulfilled, we will lock the BSL main gate and intensify the stir.” Digar also said that “the displaced people of BSL are the worst sufferers”. “Our villages lack basic facilities like roads, electricity and water. Our children suffer due to a lack of good education. We are not provided healthcare services. We are forced to fight for our rights. We have given a letter detailing our 14 demands, including jobs, rehabilitation and basic facilities, to the BSL management,” Digar said. The land losers, who are residents of villages near the plant, in the afternoon assembled at Birsa Chowk. There they garlanded the statue of Birsa Munda and marched towards BSL’s Ispat Bhavan, which is about 1km away. Home Guards and BSL’s security personnel tried to stop them, but they resisted and moved ahead. They held flags and placards and raised slogans against the BSL management. In front of Ispat Bhavan, the security personnel had already put barricades and stopped them. Police officers and magistrates were also present. City deputy superintendent of police Gyan Ranjan said they will be keeping strict vigil to avert any untoward incident. “We are here to handle the situation if any law-and-order issue arises,” he added. This is not the first time that agitators have demanded jobs and other benefits at Ispat Bhavan. Earlier, several agitations have taken place. Chief of communication, BSL, Manikant Dhan said: “Efforts for talks with the agitators are on. However, there has been no disruption of work at Ispat Bhavan.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-289
24-09-2020||Jharkhand||Elephants use 3 corridors to reach Hazaribagh: Regional conservator||Elephants use three corridors to reach Hazaribagh every year, regional chief conservator of forests (Hazaribagh range) Sanjeev Kumar said on Thursday while asking people to remain alert during this time of the year. On the lone male elephant which has killed two women in the Vishnugarh block, Kumar said the forest department was keeping an eye on its movements. It was last spotted on Thursday at Madmo village on the border of Hazaribagh and Giridih. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Thursday, Kumar said the three corridors elephants use to reach Hazaribagh lie in three districts: Giridih, Latehar and Bokaro. He said herds coming from Giridih use Bagodar forests which are connected with Hazaribagh to sneak in here or neighbouring Bokaro. The herds also follow this path of retreat but sometimes go to Koderma via Barhi as well. The second route is from Latehar from where elephants pass through Tandwa of Chatra to enter Barkagaon in Hazaribagh. Currently, a herd which has unleashed a reign of terror in this part of the district entered using the Latehar corridor. The third route is via Bokaro, and the lone elephant which is on a killing spree used Churchu forests to enter Hazaribagh. Kumar said the lone elephant was separated from its herd and so out of anger, it’s behaving this way. “I urge people to be extra cautious as a herd can be spotted from a distance but not a lone tusker,” he said. He said the elephant was spotted in Madmo of Hazaribagh for the last time in the morning and later information came about it going to Giridih forests via Dumri. Kumar said that they have received multiple reports of villagers disturbing the herd while taking pictures and selfies by getting close to the animals. “It’s time of their migration, which will continue till December. So, don't disturb them and if they enter a human settlement, make use of torches,” he added. Kumar said a herd never stays at one place for long. But in case any female is pregnant, the herd may prefer to stay at one spot instead of moving around, he added. Kumar even asked people to inform the forest department if they see elephants entering their village. “Though we keep a watch on the movement of elephants, especially this time of the year, still villagers should inform the department officials,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-289
24-09-2020||Jharkhand||Pollution within limits, but higher than lockdown months||Pollution levels in the steel city of Jamshedpur and adjoining Adityapur are higher than what they were during the lockdown, but are still within permissible limits, an ambient air quality survey by the state pollution board carried out in August has revealed. According to the findings of the Jharkhand State Pollution Control Board survey, pollutants like sulphur dioxide (SO2) and nitrogen dioxide (NO2) were below prescribed limits in Bistupur, Sakchi, Golmuri in Jamshedpur and in the Adityapur industrial area in adjoining Seraikela-Kharsawan district. Respirable suspended particulate matter (RSPM) was also found to be within specified limits in all these places. JSPCB regional officer Suresh Paswan said they conducted the survey to determine the extent of pollutants in the air since more vehicles had started plying and industries had re-opened after lockdown rules were relaxed. He said that during the May survey, there was an appreciable improvement in the air quality index of Jamshedpur and Adityapur due to the Covid-19 induced lockdown which prompted closure of industries and running of diesel-run heavy vehicles and auto-rickshaws, both major contributors to air pollution. "During the survey (August) we found that all the parameters were within prescribed limits," Paswan told The Telegraph Online. But the numbers were higher than what they were during the lockdown. According to the August survey, RSPM at Bistupur was 85.0 µg/m3, which was 15 µg/m3, less than the permissible limit of 100 µg/m3.  A similar survey in May, during the lockdown, had revealed that RSPM was 72.04 µg/m3, which was 28 µg/m3 less than the permissible limit of 100 µg/m3. At Sakchi, a commercial hub, RSPM was 85.66 µg/m3 and at Golmuri market it was 80.12 µg/m3. The May reading at Sakchi was 75.5 µg/m3 and at Golmuri 73.68 µg/m3. RSPM in Adityapur, an industrial hub, was marginally higher at 94.56 µg/m3, around 6 µg/m3 less than the permissible limit of 100 µg/m3. During the May lockdown, the reading was 80.23 µg/m3 in Adityapur. The JSPCB survey team used respirable dust samplers to measure air pollution levels at all places. The other two elements, sulphur dioxide and nitrogen dioxide, on which ambient air quality is judged, were also found to be below prescribed limits. The August survey revealed that sulphur dioxide (SO2) levels in Bistupur, Golmuri and Sakchi were 55 µg/m3, 47 µg/m3, and 62 µg/m3, respectively. At Adityapur, SO2 was found to be 63.25 µg/m3. The prescribed limit is 80 µg/m3. Nitrogen dioxide (NO2) levels in ambient air in Bistupur, Golmuri and Sakchi were found to be 61.32 µg/m3, 59.0 µg/m3 and 64.10 µg/m3. The NO2 level in Adityapur was 68.24 µg/m3. The prescribed limit for NO2 is 80 µg/m3.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-289
24-09-2020||Jharkhand||Hard coke factories choking due to poor quality raw material||A majority of the 100-odd hard coke factories of the district have not been able to resume operations due to a host of reasons primarily centred around lack of demand due to a sluggish economy, inadequate workforce and poor quality raw materials in the form of coal supplied by Bharat Coking Coal (BCCL). Only around 30 of 100 factories have so far resumed operations after closing down since the imposition of the nationwide lockdown in March. Rajeev Sharma, general secretary of Jharkhand Industries and Trade Association, an umbrella organisation of industries based in Dhanbad, Giridih and Koderma, explained their plight. “It is a general rule for any supplier to keep in mind the requirement of buyers. But hard coke factory owners, who buy from BCCL, are in a terrible state since they are being provided with non-coking coal which is of no use to them,” he said. “Non-coking coal creates problems while making hard coke,” explained Sharma, adding that they had raised the issue, time and again, with BCCL authorities, but to no avail. He alleged that the marketing division of the PSU was ineffective as a little value addition, by washing the coal, could help the company fetch rates higher than the auction price. “It is ironic that despite being in Dhanbad, the workplace of BCCL, which is the largest producer of coking coal in India, hard coke factories here are facing such a crisis. Their counterparts in Gujarat are doing brisk business with imported coal,” Sharma said. B.N. Singh, the president of Industries and Commerce Association that represents over 150 hard coke factories of Dhanbad, Giridih and Koderma, said there was no way a factory could operate fully in view of the lack of raw materials. The Telegraph Online made multiple efforts to contact the CMD of BCCL, Gopal Singh, and BCCL director (technical) Rakesh Kumar for their comments. Their views will be added as and when they respond.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-289
24-09-2020||Jharkhand||Doctors to visit Covid patients in home isolation||Covid-19 patients staying in home isolation in Ranchi will now be visited by a government doctor twice in 10 days to keep a tab on their health, officials from the district administration said on Thursday. The district administration has constituted a dedicated team of 24 doctors for this purpose. These doctors, officials said, have been treating Covid-19 patients since the appearance of the virus in Jharkhand and have expertise in dealing with Covid cases. “One of our 24 doctors will visit the house of a Covid patient, who decides to stay in home isolation, as soon as the person tests positive. The doctor will check the patient’s condition and keep in touch with him/her over phone,” said Ranchi Deputy Development Commissioner Ananya Mittal. “The same doctor will revisit the patient within the next 10 days and examine his or her condition,” Mittal added. The doctors, officials said, will also interact with patients over video calls and ensure timely admission to a hospital if he or she starts developing severe symptoms that cannot be treated at home. As per government data, as many as 16,574 people have been infected by the novel coronavirus in Ranchi so far, and at least 3,491 of them were still battling the infection. In Ranchi, a majority of the patients were asymptomatic and staying in home isolation, officials said. The district administration here has also started providing free of cost medical kits to Covid patients in home isolation in a bid to ensure that all such patients have access to necessary medications, including some anti-malarial drugs and a 1 per cent hypochlorite solution to clean floors. The patients, who do not have thermometers at home, are also provided with one by the district administration, the DDC said. “All Covid patients may not be able to afford medication, so we decided to provide free medicines to them at home,” said Mittal. The state health department had earlier constituted a team for checking oxygen level in Covid patients staying in home isolation. This team is active in Ranchi, and visits patients, who do not have an oximeter at home. Ranchi is among the worst-affected districts of Jharkhand in terms of Covid cases and fatality rate. As many as 102 people have died of Covid-19 in the district and some of them were initially in home isolation, officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-289
24-09-2020||Jharkhand||Tata Motors chips in to support anti-rabies drive||Tata Motors, as part of ongoing Tata Volunteering Week, will be supporting an active animal welfare group to hold a five-day drive to administer anti-rabies vaccines on strays in the steel city. This will be the first time that Jamshedpur Red Paws Rescue Foundation will be getting much-needed support from the automobile giant. The drive will be undertaken between 9.30 am and 12 noon on all five days, beginning on September 26, across different areas of the Telco township, including Kharangajhar, Plaza Market and Sector Market. Tata Motors is providing the vaccines. It will also provide reflective collars to be put on dogs after they are vaccinated. The drive is being organised to commemorate World Rabies Day on September 28. It is observed annually to raise awareness about rabies prevention and to highlight progress in defeating this horrifying disease. September 28 also marks the anniversary of Louis Pasteur’s death, the French chemist and microbiologist, who developed the first rabies vaccine. “We have set a target of over 100 stray dogs. The entire process of anti-rabies vaccination and putting on reflective collars on dogs will be executed by us. We are thankful to Tata Motors for its support,” said foundation founder Aniz Patel. Patel said an 8-member team would be conducting the drive. “We have members who have the required experience of vaccination. We need to be very careful. We are looking to the endeavour,” Patel told The Telegraph Online. Such a drive has rarely been conducted at Telco even though stray dogs are found in good numbers in the township maintained by Tata Motors. Established in 2018, the foundation had on Sunday last conducted a “feed-the- stray drive” wherein members drove to different localities to provide food to dogs, cows, donkeys and pigs. In July, it had conducted an anti-rabies vaccination drive across the steel city. Around 100 dogs were vaccinated and reflective collars put around their necks. The essentials were procured from Dinky Mart, a New Delhi-based NGO.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-289
24-09-2020||Jharkhand||Coal town residents want city buses to start plying again ||The suspension of Dhanbad Municipal Corporation’s city bus service since March, the time there was, first, a “janata curfew”, followed by a national lockdown, has dealt a cruel blow to daily wagers, vendors and office-goers living in distant areas of Sindri, Katras, Nirsa, Chirkunda. Commuters have been further inconvenienced as local trains, connecting Dhanbad with Sindri and Chandrapura, have also been suspended, while auto-rickshaw fares have gone through the roof after the administration imposed a cap on the number of passengers three-wheelers can carry. Only 14 of 70 city buses were operational before the lockdown. Most of the buses were plying on the Dhanbad-Katras, Dhanbad-Sindri and Dhanbad-Chirkunda routes. The remaining 56 buses are idling, in various stages of disrepair. DMC transport services in-charge Uday Kachhap did not have much to explain. “How can we operate the buses on our own when the transport department has not given specific permission” he said, trying to point the finger at another department. Ranjit Singh, a resident of Ranibazar locality of Katras block, said, “The auto fare between Katras and Dhanbad was Rs 20 per person. Now, it has increased to Rs 50 per person. This has led to of difficulty for people like us.” Singh said if city buses were plying, then the fares would not have been more than Rs 30 per passenger. “Even if social distancing norms were imposed on buses, like in autos, the fares would not have gone up this much,” said the speech therapist at Jeevan Jyoti School for physically and mentally challenged children at Bekar Bandh in Dhanbad. “Daily wagers and vendors visiting Dhanbad from Katras are finding it extremely difficult to commute,” he added. Councillor of ward 3 of Katras circle Vinayak Gupta said trade was suffering too as Katras is the centre of the garment trade with traders visiting from across the district. “These days traders are facing difficulty to come to Katras due to the lack of city bus services and exorbitant auto fares. We will be writing to the Dhanbad municipal commissioner, Satyendra Kumar, demanding the resumption of city buses so that common people, suffering due to the pandemic induced economic downturn, can have some relief,” Gupta said. President of Sindri Chamber of Commerce Deepak Kumar Dipu said residents of Sindri were the worst sufferers. “In the absence of city buses, auto rickshaws are charging Rs 100 per person per trip. This is too expensive for most people,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-289
24-09-2020||Jharkhand||Covid tally crosses 75000 in state, more than 1200 recoveries in a day ||Jharkhand’s Covid-19 tally crossed the 75,000 mark on Wednesday after as many as 1141 people tested positive in the state in 24 hours, figures released by the state health department stated. However, the number of Covid patients recovering from the infection surpassed the number of fresh cases on Wednesday. As many as 1232 Covid patients recovered from the viral infection on the day, taking the total number of Covid recoveries in the state to 61,559, government data highlighted. While the number of active cases further dropped to 12,882 in Jharkhand, the count increased in Ranchi, which reported 413 cases against 285 recoveries. As per a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM), the number of active cases also increased in East Singhbhum after the district reported 131 cases against 50 recoveries. These two districts are the worst-affected districts in Jharkhand in terms of Covid cases in fatality rate. The number of active cases of infection in Ranchi jumped to 3,491, while as many as 2,459 people were still battling the virus in East Singhbhum. The number of active cases was around 900 in Dhanbad, above 600 in Hazaribag district. There were around 600 active cases in Koderma too, while all other districts had fewer than 500 active cases. The Covid toll in Jharkhand rose to 648 on Wednesday after three Covid patients, including one each from Ranchi and East Singhbhum, died during treatment, the NHM bulletin further stated. West Singhbhum reported one death on Wednesday, further increasing the number of fatalities in Kolhan division. Jharkhand’s Covid mortality rate, as per government records, was 0.86 per cent against the national average of 1.60 per cent on Wednesday night. The government has so far collected swab samples of 19.19 lakh people and tested 19.08 lakh of them in Jharkhand. On Wednesday, health workers tested the swab samples of 21,755 people and 20,614 of them came negative, highlighted government data. State’s Covid recovery rate was 81.98 per cent on Wednesday, which is higher than the national Covid recovery rate of 81.30 per cent, the NHM bulletin stated. It further highlighted that state’s Covid doubling rate was 36.04 days against the national Covid doubling rate of 41.1 days. The Growth rate of Covid-19 virus in Jharkhand was 1.99 per cent against the national Covid growth rate of 1.69 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-290
24-09-2020||Jharkhand||Hemant govt to move SC to try save 9000 teachers’ jobs   ||The Jharkhand government has decided to move the Supreme Court against a high court directive cancelling the ongoing recruitment of high school teachers for 17,572 vacancies based on a 2016 policy that reserves all class III and IV government jobs in 13 scheduled districts for local applicants. At Project Building on Wednesday night, Hemant’s comment to reporters was brief. “We have decided to approach the Supreme Court against the high court ruling on teacher’s recruitment.” But sources close to the chief minister confirmed that the state advocate general Rajiv Ranjan and his team had been asked to begin the legal formalities. Delivering a judgment through video conferencing on Monday, a full bench of Jharkhand High Court comprising justices H.C. Mishra, S. Chandrashekhar and Deepak Roshan scrapped the recruitment based on the 2016 policy calling it as violation of fundamental rights. “The state is already facing problems of joblessness, besides other collateral challenges in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. Cancellation of appointment of thousands of teachers and stalling of the process would aggravate the situation and lead to further unrest. The government is treading cautiously to find a way out,” said an official, unwilling to be named. The BJP government headed by former chief minister Raghubar Das came up with the recruitment policy in 2016. It was notified by the Jharkhand Governor. Under the policy, all class III and IV government jobs in 13 scheduled districts were reserved for locals while in non-scheduled districts it was open to all. After the policy was notified in mid-2016, the Das government floated an advertisement for recruitment of 17,572 high school teachers. Of these, the Jharkhand Staff Selection Commission (JSSC) has so far recruited 9,000 people in both scheduled and non-scheduled districts. Subsequently, the government also filled thousands of other vacancies in departments such as police, forests, etc. The high court order has now put a question mark on the fate of all those who have secured jobs. Das has, however, defended the 2016 recruitment policy. On Tuesday, he described the recruitment policy as pro-tribal and pro-moolvasi and accused the Hemant Soren government of acting out of political vendetta in not defending it convincingly in court. The former chief minister also advised the Hemant government to move the Supreme Court against the ruling. Hemant and his party, the JMM, however, criticised Das and his BJP government for shoddy drafting of a policy that had perpetuated chao. He also asked Das to accept responsibility for the turn of events that has left thousands jobless overnight.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-290
24-09-2020||Jharkhand||Youth dies in truck accident||A newly-married couple met with an accident on Urimari road, killing the husband on the spot. Ami Raza and his wife Sania Perween were returning from Bariatu on Wednesday afternoon when a mini truck coming from the opposite direction hit their bike. Sania sustained serious injuries and was being given treatment at a local hospital in Barkagaon. Doctors said she was in a critical condition. Girender Ganjhu, zonal commander of TPC, a banned splinter group of rebels was caught on Tuesday and remanded in judicial custody on Wednesday in Daltonganj. Ganjhu has 8 cases against him from 2015 in Palamau. SDPO Shambhu Kumar Singh said Ganjhu’s arresr has weakened the TPC. The commander was caught in Chhaterpur. The rebel outfit is now left with Udesh Ganjhu. A 12-year-old boy sustained serious head injuries when a tractor hit him near Kheskaro Mor on Jai Nagar-Jhumriteliya road in Koderma on Wednesday afternoon. Local villagers said the boy was playing on road when the tractor was passing. Officer-in-charge of Jai Nagar police station, Shyamlal Yadav said tractor was seized and a case registered against the driver. The driver told the police that he had failed to notice the boy. PMCH Blood Bank of Dhanbad has been granted plasma therapy license by the Central Licenses Approving Authority and state drugs control directorate on Wednesday. The plasma therapy is likely to begin from September 25. Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner Uma Shankar Singh said, "The SOP for launching the plasma therapy is ready and the core advisory task force, coordinating task force, executing task force and antibody testing task force have also been constituted much earlier". PMCH is the second centre after RIIMS, Ranchi to get the license in the state. In a bid to encourage creative activities among children admitted to different Covid centres in Dhanbad, Shubh Sandesh is distributing comics and drawing books to them. District Mineral Foundation Trust officer, Asha Rosaline Kujur said that the distribution programme began on September 18 and so far materials have been distributed among 17 children admitted in different treatment facilities. "During teleconference the children show the painting made by to the doctors present in the Telemedicine studio and they in turn encourage them to further engage in creative activity," said Kajur. A former BCCL officer’s daughter who was raped by a family friend was recorded before the judicial magistrate of Dhanbad.on Wednesday. On Tuesday, the 32-year-old married woman had lodged an FIR against a coal trader named Badal Gautam. In her FIR, she said that Badal, a friend of her childhood friend, had raped her multiple times Delhi and Dhanbad when she was living in an accommodation by him. The woman had left her husband’s house in Calcutta on July 11 due to complications in her marriage. A camera, laptop, Rs 3000 cash and other articles were stolen from a photo studio by unidentified assailants in in Telipara locality on Tuesday night. The owner, Vickey Kumar, reached the studio on Wednesday morning and found the front shutter gate broken. He has lodged a case against the assailants.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-290
24-09-2020||Jharkhand||Plea for food security in Jharkhand||A delegation of the Jharkhand chapter of Right to Food Campaign met food and public distribution minister Rameshwar Oraon here on Wednesday and urged the government to ensure that all eligible persons are covered under the state’s food security scheme. The delegation also handed over a letter apprising the minister of some related problems. The state government recently announced expansion of coverage of the public distribution system (PDS) by giving new ration cards to 15 lakh people but the link for online application was not activated though the deadline of September 30 was approaching fast, the letter said. The delegation included, among others, economist Jean Dreze, state convener of the Right to Food campaign, Asharfi Nand Prasad, and former state adviser to the Supreme Court-appointed committee on food related cases, Balram, who also signed the letter. About 10 lakh people had already applied for ration cards and were waiting for to get one but it was not clear if they would also be included among the 15 lakh people who would be given the new green, the delegation said. “The notification inviting online application for new cards by September 30 was issued on September 15 but the application link was not activated even on Tuesday,” Prasad told The Telegraph. He said Oraon, however, assured that the application link would be activated immediately. There was also no clarity about the eligibility of persons who could apply for the proposed new cards and the selection process or if such applicants who were waiting for ration cards would also require to apply afresh, he said. The delegation also told the minister that the 15 lakh new cards would cover about 3 to 3.5 lakh families only as those cards would be issued in the name of individual members of a family and requested Oraon to include all eligible persons. The deadline of September 30 for applying online was too short and should be extended by another month, the delegation told the minister. They said some publicity should also be carried out in rural areas so that people know about the green cards and apply for them. The members of the delegation also requested Oraon to arrange for distribution of pulses, oil and salt through the PDS and not to ask the old applicants to do it again. They also requested for engaging local teachers to assist rural people in applying online for the green cards. “The minister welcomed the campaign’s demands and suggestions and also proposed a follow-up meeting with the food secretary within a few days to discuss how to act on those (suggestions),” Dreze said, when asked about the outcome of their meeting.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-290
24-09-2020||Jharkhand||Man posing as Army officer dupes two Sonari youth into losing over Rs 9 lakh||Two young men from Sonari have been duped into losing over Rs 9 lakh by a man posing as an army officer. Mukesh Kumar Kushbah and Avinash Chowdhury, residents of Bal Vihar and Ashiana in Sonari respectively, lodged separate FIRs against the impersonator. According to the FIR,  Mukesh had seen a car for sale on OLX online recently and subsequently contacted the seller on the phone number provided. After speaking with the seller, who introduced himself as an Army officer, Mukesh received a few photographs of the vehicle from him. After negotiations, the price was settled at Rs 5 lakh. Mukesh was first asked to pay Rs 5,000 for the delivery of the car.  Subsequently, the accused asked him to deposit money online under various pretences, making him pay a total of Rs 9.13 lakh via 11 transactions. The seller then went incognito without delivering the car. Avinash Kumar said that he wanted to sell his laptop on OLX. According to the FIR, a person contacted Avinash, claiming to be an Army officer, and showed interest in buying his laptop. He then sent Avinash a barcode, asking him to scan it in order to receive payment for the laptop. The moment the barcode was scanned, Rs 60,000 was deducted from Avinash’s account. The perpetrator then went off the grid. Cyber thana Bistupur inspector Upendra Mandal confirmed that two FIRs have been lodged against an unknown man, posing as an Army officer for duping two young men of over 9 lakh rupees. "We have received FIRs from Mukesh Kumar Kushbah and Avinash Kumar on Wednesday. The frauds took place in the month of June.  We have registered separate cases against the perpetrator and started investigation," Mandal told The Telegraph Online.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-290
