25-09-2020||Calcutta||Misti Hub reopens after six months||Misti Hub, which brings sweets from multiple makers under a roof in New Town, finally reopened on Monday. Though only seven of the 11 outlets have opened shutters, residents are more than happy to see the confectionery address back in business. Tanima Ray, a resident of Action Area II, walked in the very first day. “I was on my way to meet my grandparents near Chinar Park when I noticed the lights at Misti Hub on. My grandparents are big fans of north Calcutta sweets and so we picked some up for them,” she said. “I’m so glad this place has opened again. It gives a feeling that things are getting back to the normal.” Harsha Jain and her friends had come to New Town for a long drive from Salt Lake’s AE Block. “We stopped for snacks at Dhaba Ekante and dropped by when we heard Misti Hub would be opening today itself. We’ve packed sweets for home,” she smiled. Misti Hub had opened in 2018 and boasts of some of the best-known brands from across the state. It attracts bulk orders from offices in Salt Lake, Rajarhat and New Town. Apart from online orders placed on Zomato and Swiggy, passers-by would make for a good crowd in terms of sales. Another avenue for business was air travellers who would pick up sweets from here before rushing to catch a flight at the nearby airport. During the pandemic, the state government had allowed sweet shops to reopen in June, but it is only now that Misti Hub has opened. “Each stall here is manned by three people. Plus there are cleaners, caretakers and security personnel deputed at all hours. This amounts to a headcount of almost 40 people apart from customers. This is one of the reasons we were closed till now,” explained Suprabhaat Dey, owner of  Nabakrishna Guin. While people seemed reluctant to step out initially, Dey said that he was hoping that business would look up soon. “We know sales will take time to pick up after such a pandemic. They are lower than what they used to be but we are keeping our fingers crossed,” said Sandeep Basu, of Banchharam. Housing and Infrastructure Development Corporation (Hidco), that runs the hub, has set aside several safety protocols. No more than 10 people can be inside the building at a time, the porch will not be allowed for casual photography and the benches will be cross-marked in a way that people maintain social distancing. Everyone entering the hub will be given sanitisers and will have their temperatures checked. No one will be allowed to linger for more than 10 minutes inside Misti Hub. The hub is operational from noon to 8pm but Rahul Chowrasia of Ganguraam said they had requested the authorities to allow longer hours. “Sweet shops have a fixed customer base that walks in during the wee hours looking for kochuri-jilipi-samosa. If we open at noon, we miss out on that breakfast crowd. I hope we are granted permission to open early and stay open till late.” A chunk of the business at Misti Hub used to come from Eco Park but that is still closed to the public. The stall owners have also requested Hidco for a waiver for rent for the last six months as there was no business. No decision has been taken on this issue. “About 100 people dropped in on the first day. But that was a Sunday. Monday to Thursday the crowd is usually less and it is on weekends that footfall is highest. About 50 people came between Monday and Wednesday thereafter,” said an official. saltlake@abpmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-293
25-09-2020||Calcutta||Diabetes on the rise in pandemic season||People with existing predispositions, who do not have diabetes, would do well to keep a watch over their blood glucose level in this pandemic season. We are getting a lot of new patients now. One big reason for that is stress that has increased manifold amid this uncertainty. Young people are unable to go out, children cannot play outside, adults who are bread-earners for their families are under economic duress… Stress is precipitating diabetes. Perhaps they would have got diabetes but after a year or two or five. But this period of stress is acting as an immediate trigger. There is a definite reason for this. Stress triggers the release of hormones, one of which is steroid. Steroid causes a spike in blood sugar. Lack of exercise is also not helping. People usually cite a packed schedule for being unable to exercise, though they are aware it would help keep diabetes under control. They do have a lot of free time now. But if they are mentally down, the motivation would be missing. Many are in a constant state of panic wondering what would happen if anyone in the family got infected with coronavirus. Existing diabetic patients are also reporting poor control because of stress and lack of exercise. Another hindrance to their well-being is lack of medical supervision. Many patients are unable to visit their doctor because of transport problems during lockdown. Many pathology laboratories were shut. Some others are avoiding doctor consultation as they are scared to visit a hospital. Watch over meals In some houses, the lockdown has led to feasting. That is not a good idea for diabetics. Avoid fried items and fast food, in general. Take fruits that are rich in fibre and green leafy vegetables. Timely meals help in blood sugar control. We advise patients to take three major meals and three minor meals a day. The minor meals are to be taken between breakfast and lunch, between lunch and dinner, and at bedtime. This cuts down the risk of sugar fall as well as sugar spike, as one would not feel hungry enough to crave a big meal at either lunch or dinner. The timings of the meals should be maintained. If one is house-bound, one can do freehand exercises indoors for 15-20 minutes. One can even do spot walking, simulating feet and hand movement during a walk but standing at one place. Look up yoga routines on YouTube and follow them. One can do meditation also. Mental peace is very much needed in controlling diabetes. Check for warning signs Are you feeling thirsty all the while? Is your throat getting parched? Are you feeling the urge to urinate every now and then? Are you having to even wake up at night to relieve yourself? Are you eating a lot but still losing weight? These are some of the common symptoms of the onset of diabetes. Some suffer blurring of vision. Some report genital infection. Some experience a tingling sensation under their feet or in their palm. Some in contrast lack sensation in the glove and stocking areas. Diabetes affects the nerves of the hands and feet, effecting the extremities first. Sexual problems like erectile dysfunction or apathy towards intercourse are also possible. Patients admit such problems only on being probed. Delayed healing of wounds is another give away. Some patients who leave diabetes undetected for three or four years may end up with heart attack or brain stroke or kidney ailment. Their high blood sugar is detected on hospitalisation. Diabetes and Covid Are diabetics more prone to Covid-19 infection? No, the risk is the same as that of non-diabetics. But seriousness of the infection, like requirement of oxygen, will be more in diabetics especially if the sugar level is poorly controlled (i.e. HbA1c test result is more than 7.5 to 8). In my experience, in 30 to 40 per cent Covid-19 deaths, diabetes was a significant contributor. If you add their heart, kidney or blood pressure ailments, the percentage of mortality goes up to 70. We endocrinologists are having a tough time managing blood sugar in Covid patients. Someone requiring 20 units of insulin might need 200 or more units daily once Covid-19 sets in. We are then forced to administer insulin intravenously round the clock. As told to Sudeshna Banerjee. Hammadur Rahaman is an endocrinologist with Medica Superspeciality Hospital and consults at Path India Polyclinic, next to New Town Business Club.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-293
25-09-2020||Calcutta||Online paeans to patriotism||● Kolkata Uchchhas, a DB Block-based dance group celebrated Independence Day with an online dance contest. Named Bivongo, the contest was announced a month in advance and dancers recorded their videos and sent them in for judgement. “This was the first time we tried something like this but were delighted to get about 70 entries,” said Sonali Basak, founder of Kolkata Uchchhas. The theme was patriotism and it was open to all dance forms. Some entries gave it a classical touch, some danced to evergreen songs like Dhan dhanyo pushpe bhora and yet some more danced to recent Bollywood numbers like Aye watan (Raazi). “After being locked down for months, this contest came as a breath of fresh air. I was all the more excited as the registration fee would go to charity. I shrugged off my lethargy and asked my dance teacher Puloma Sen to help me prepare a dance,” said Shirin Anwar, a resident of Falguni Abasan who is waiting to take admission in college. The judges included Susmita Nandi Sethia, who runs the Kalapi dance school in BB Block, Roshmi Bandopadhyay, who runs Vorot Nritya School of Dance at Vidyasagar Niketan and Sreemoyee Kaushiki Basak Dey, who is a dance teacher at Salt Lake School. “It was a treat for us judges to watch so many different kinds of presentations. It was tough choosing the winners but we enjoyed it,” said Sreemoyee. The videos were shared on Facebook by the organisers from August 15 and the results were announced on a Facebook “live” session where the judges and participants logged in. There was even a participant from as far away as Canada — Diya Das. The winner was Sibayan Ganguly from Bhowanipore. “Another reason this contest drew such robust participation is because the proceeds are going towards Amphan relief,” said Esha Goswami, secretary of Inner Wheel Club of Salt Lake Down Town, that handed over the money as ration to 50 needy families. Goswami runs the dance school Tarana Nritya and was one of judges of the contest too.  ● Swadhinata Tumi was the theme of the online Independence Day event organised by Gulabi Gang, a ladies club of DB Block. Mahua De Sarkar began by quoting from a poem by Shamsur Rahman and little Sharanya Mitra danced to Des rangila from the movie Fanaa. Mother-daughter duo Mousumi and Amisha Saha presented the song Bharat anokha raag hai, Rinku Banerjee recited Shamsur Rahman’s Tomake paoar jonyo je swadhinata and Anjana Banerjee recited  Swadhinatar Mane. “Though I’m cooped up with my daughter in Gurgaon since February, while performing today I felt like I was in DB Block community hall,” smiled Indrani Basak, who along with daughter Somdatta Basak presented Tagore’s vision of future India, as showcased in his poem Prarthona. Lakshmimoni Sen, another club member stuck in Bangalore, recited Harivanshrai Bachchan’s poetry. A group called Panchojonyo presented a colourful depiction of women leaders down Indian history. Chandrani Mukherjee played the role of Rani Lakshmibai, De Sarkar played Annie Basant, Mou Dubey played Sarojini Naidu, Banerjee Matangini Hazra and Sonali Basak danced to the patriotic number Dhan dhanya pushpe bhora. Towards the end, young Sharanya appeared dressed as Bharat Mata and everyone sang the national anthem in chorus.  ● Ever since I was a child, I never missed listening to the song Tobu mone rekho in Tagore’s own voice, played on the radio on Baishey Srabon. But this year owing to the pandemic I missed hearing it,” lamented Swati Sanyal, a resident of Vidyasagar Abasan. The septuagenarian was attending an online event centred around Tagore’s death anniversary. It was organised by the HA Block-based Paritosh Sen Memorial Elderly Care Society and Sanyal, in fact, sang the inaugural song Achhe dukhkho achhe mrityu. Other members followed suit. Tripti Chakraborty sang another Rabindrasangeet, Sunil Das recited Amar chetonar rongey and his wife Bani Das sang Dhaay jeno mor. Hardly an online event passes without technological issues these days and this show was no exception. Col (retd) Amit Banerjee was visible as he sang Jayo tobo bichitro anando but not audible as his sound button got muted. Chhobi Ghosh was announced as the upcoming performer but she simply could not connect due to network disturbance, so Nupur Ganguli Ghosh presented Sandhya holo go maa before her. The senior-most member, Ratish Ranjan Bhattacharjee, 94, recited Anjali, Amit Banerjee was requested for an encore and readily sang a monsoon number and Amal Laha, who has recently enrolled in the society, performed Anandodhara bohichhe. “I am not really a singer but watching everyone else perform, I too developed an urge to sing,” said Laha. “I am associated with a audit firm but am confined indoors during the lockdown so am keeping busy with cultural activities.” “This is the 10th year of our society and despite the lockdown we are trying to keep members engaged with online events,” said founder and secretary of the society Sarmishta Sen Das. The society provides medical, social and legal help to members.” She also mentioned their Suraha project, whereby members have adopted marginalised senior citizens living in the slums behind Ruby General Hospital and how they have been tending to their needs even during the lockdown.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-293
25-09-2020||Calcutta||A thought for rhinos||The World Rhinoceros Day on September 22 may have quietly passed by this year but the colourful presence at the junction near Aliah University, where two colourful rhino sculptures stand, is a reminder of the informative session that used to be held at the spot to mark the occasion till last year. Naturalist Arjan Basu Roy, who would be a regular presence at the programme, shared some interesting facts of the rhinoceros with The Telegraph. The lockdown hasn’t spared anyone this year. Has it had any effect of wild animals? It has — both good and bad. The lockdown meant no more tourists at national parks so the rhinos were at peace without any intrusions. But monitoring of the forest through the eyes of tourist also stopped. Besides the forest department’s internal patrols, 30 to 40 tourist jeeps would do rounds of the parks twice a day. It allowed that much more surveillance. If anyone spotted an ill rhino or any suspicious activity it would get reported.The mention of ‘rhino’ brings to mind a huge and strong creature. How strong are they? The females weigh about 1,600kg and the males 2,200kg. Rhinos have a life span of about 35 years and after the age of two, they could be strong enough to kill a tiger. Rhinos and tigers rarely fight, though. And they can run at 55-60kph.Are they dangerous? They are only dangerous if threatened. If you go within 10 feet of a rhino, he’ll think you’ve come to harm him and attack. With their magnificent horns rhinos usually fight with fellow rhinos. But if they decide to attack a person they usually bite. Males fight among themselves to decide who mates with a female and these fights are deadly. They can go on non-stop for days and at times end only when one has killed the other.Do rhinos have predators? Adult rhinos have no natural predators but the young ones can be targeted by lions. Once a rhino dies and decomposes, hyenas and other carrion-animals (those that eat carcasses) feed on it.Is the skin of the rhino really that thick? Oh yes! It is extremely tough and smooth. So much so that sometimes when poachers shoot at rhinos, the bullets slip off their rounded body.And the horns? Rhino horns are actually modified body hair. Baby rhinos are not born with them and the horns grow with age. Both males and females have them. Curiously, despite being tough, the horns weigh at most 2.5kg.And these horns are what poachers are after? Sadly, yes. Rhino horns are said to have medicinal properties and fetch big bucks in the south east Asian black markets. Rhinos defecate at the same spot every day. That’s where poachers wait for them. They shoot the animals at specific spots where their skin is soft — such as the neck. Villagers tip off poachers about rhino movements for a share in the price it fetches.Do poachers tranquillise the rhinos and saw off the horns? No, that would be too risky. If this two tonne beast even stirs in pain while under sedation, he could crush the poacher under its weight. So the poachers shoot to kill. And then they saw off the horns.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-293
25-09-2020||Calcutta||This month, that year||2018: Two underground passes on the EM Bypass are inaugurated in September — one at Beleghata Connector and the other near Hyatt Regency. 1914: A Japanese ship Komagata Maru arrives in Calcutta from Canada on September 27 carrying hundreds of Indians who had wanted to migrate but were refused entry by the Canadians. The British government believes those returning are political agitators and tries to arrest those like Baba Gurdit Singh on board, who they believe are the leaders. Chaos ensues, shots are fired and 19 passengers are killed. Canada Post releases a stamp to commemorate the Komagata Maru incident on its 100th anniversary (in picture).  1932: As per Masterda Surya Sen’s plan, freedom fighter Pritilata Waddedar leads a team to attack the Pahartali European Club in Chittagong that bears a signboard “Dogs and Indians not allowed”. Pritilata is shot by police during the September 23 attack and later swallows cyanide to resist arrest. After Independence, a statue of the lady would be installed adjacent to the club where she died.  2009: Chief minister of Andhra Pradesh Y.S.R. Reddy dies after a helicopter he is flying in crashes in a forested area on September 2. YSR, as he was popularly known, was a doctor before joining active politics in 1978. He became chief minister in 2004 and was sworn in a second time months before his death in 2019. Over a hundred of his supporters are reported to have committed suicide on hearing the news of his death. 1846: American dentist William Morton publicly demonstrates the use of ether as an anaesthetic during a tooth extraction on September 30. Before this, patients used to be conscious during surgery and suffer excruciating pain. Morton, however, tries to patent the chemical under a different name but the truth comes to light and he receives much flak. He remains embroiled in controversy for the rest of his life. 1950: An article in The Miami Herald on September 17 describes mysterious disappearances in the Atlantic ocean between Florida, Puerto Rico and Bermuda. More reports follow about missing planes and ships and soon a triangular area is demarcated to show where in the sea they are all going missing. Even though no pattern or explanation is ever established, the Bermuda Triangle captures public imagination.  1999: Communication is lost with Mars Climate Orbiter, a robotic probe launched by American space organisation Nasa on September 1999. The probe had been launched in December 1998 to study the Martian atmosphere and climate. Investigation reveals that the failure had happened as the ground-based software had calculated some figures in the non-SI units pound-force seconds instead of the SI units of newton-seconds that they were using. 1916: M.S. Subbulakshmi is born in Madurai to a family of musicians on September 16. She learns both Carnatic and Hindustani classical, and at the age of 13 manages to impress the selection committee of the prestigious Madras Music Academy, which breaks tradition and hosts a child as key performer. The audience hails her as a prodigy and she embarks on a lifelong career of music, winning the greatest of laurels across the world. 2006: Steve Irwin, popular Australian zookeeper, television personality and wildlife expert dies on September 4 after being attacked by a stingray while filming in the Great Barrier Reef. Famous for his documentaries with animals, Irvin was fondly known as “The Crocodile Hunter” and news of this death shocked fans as well as heads of states.  2007: Indian cricketer Yuvraj Singh hits six sixes in an over off English bowler Stuart Broad in a World T20 tournament game on September 19. In the same match in South Africa, Singh scores the fastest 50 in any format of international cricket, in just 12 balls. He finishes his innings with 58 off 16 balls, winning the man of the match award. India wins the game and eventually the tournament. What is your most treasured personal memory of September? Write to The Telegraph Salt Lake, 6 Prafulla Sarkar Street, Calcutta 700001 or email to saltlake@abpmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-293
25-09-2020||Calcutta||Civic bodies on anti-dengue drive||The Sector V authorities are running a pilot project with a machine that will determine the kind of mosquitoes swarming the area. “The machine has been developed by a start-up and attracts mosquitoes using lactic acid. It can determine the breed of the mosquito by counting its wing-flapping rate,” explained Debashis Sen, chairman Nabadiganta Industrial Township Authority (NDITA) on Sunday. “The findings have suggested that the dengue-causing Aedes Aegypti is most active from a time period of 6am to 7am and so we have adjusted our larvaecide-spraying and mosquito-fogging schedules accordingly,” said Sen. The Salt Lake, Sector V and New Town authorities carried out a number of dengue eradication measures and awareness programmes on the day as part of the state-wide “Dengue Vijay Abhijan”. NDITA has also chalked out a map using footage from drones to mark potentially vulnerable areas in Sector V as breeding grounds for mosquitoes. “We have mapped the entire township and have identified the problem areas,” said an official. “As very few people are going to the offices now there has been a let-down in the cleaning of highrise buildings and we have noticed water accumulation on roofs and other places. We have notified the building authorities and asked them to clean up from time to time.” In New Town, too, teams from the New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) cleaned up vacant plots of bushes and garbage and sprayed larvaecide over a span of two days. Sen, who is also the NKDA chairman, said that in New Town a team of officials meet regularly in the Covid-19 war room where mosquito eradication progress reports are also discussed. “From discussing the best and effective chemicals to using the latest technology that can help ease the work of vector control teams, we are always concerned about dengue. Even during the pandemic we have not let our guard down,” said Sen. According to him, regular spraying of larvaecide and fogging is being done. Guppy fish have also been released in several New Town waterbodies that are close to housing complexes and offices. Mayor of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation, Krishna Chakraborty led a rally from her ward to the Nagarayan building near the Karunamoyee crossing. The rally included vector control teams of the corporation which sprayed larvaecide on the roads. The teams also cut down and burnt bushes in a vacant plot of land beside the HSBC building that is used as a parking lot during the fairs held at the Central Park fairground. Chakraborty said that they carry out mosquito eradication programmes throughout the year and had taken out the rally to spread awareness among the residents of the township. “Dengue is under control in Salt Lake. There are no cases reported here as of now. We organised this event both to raise awareness and raise the morale of our field workers and vector control teams who work tirelessly to ensure that the mosquitoes do not breed,” said Chakraborty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-293
25-09-2020||Calcutta||Covid-19 has triggered hoarding of oxygen cylinders||Soumadeep Mondal got a call in the dead of the night one of these days. It was from the CBI. “I got alarmed until I heard the reason,” says the director of PharmaCo, a medical equipment company. “They needed oxygen. They had been searching all day but every other centre had run out of it.” TriMedicare, another such company, has on its rolls 20 oxygen concentrator machines that they rent out but not a single piece is in stock now. “People are just not returning them,” says director Somnath Maity. “Those who hired the machines back in December decided to keep them once the pandemic started, just in case. Now I have nothing to rent out to new customers. “Politicians to pulmonologists are all enquiring if oxygen can be managed somehow in case they get Covid.” As an increasing number of Covid patients resort to home quarantine, demand for domestic oxygen is shooting through the roof. Some are prescribed the gas, others want to keep a cylinder handy just in case their condition worsens. This is, of course, over and above the regular demand for oxygen by non-Covid patients who may have chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and other respiratory problems. “Oxygen is an essential that I’m asking Covid patients to keep,” says HB Block-based geriatric physician Rajesh Kumar Chel. “If they receive oxygen supply at home, 60 per cent patients can be spared hospitalisation.” Chel recommends an oxygen cylinder as it provides oxygen of up to 90 per cent purity. “But it needs to be refilled from time to time. Also available in the market is the concentrator, that is a plug-and-play machine providing 60 to 70 per cent purity. Demand for both has risen during the pandemic,” says the doctor who is still making house calls and has, in fact, developed antibodies against Covid. On Mahalaya, Rotary Club of Calcutta Labanhrad launched a slew of health services for residents, including oxygen cylinders and concentrators. “We can judge how grave the oxygen scarcity is from the fact that we got an enquiry on the very first day. A 93-year-old Covid patient is to be discharged from hospital and his family wants oxygen at home,” said Anindya Chatterjee, president of the club. One needs to register first with the club by paying Rs 100 to avail of their services. At most places, a 1,500l cylinder  (called B type) can be rented at upwards of Rs 10 a day plus Rs 250 for refill. How long it lasts depends on the dosage prescribed by the doctor. Some agencies charge a security deposit along with rent. Rent for a concentrator could cost upwards of Rs 3,000 a month. Despite the rush, Samar Kar Chaudhury says demand is more reasonable now than what it had become in June-July. “I live in Dakshineshwar and it was very difficult coming to my workplace in Salt Lake’s DL Block. So customers would pick me up so I could refill their cylinders,” says Kar Chaudhury of Prasanthi Enterprises. Mondal of PharmaCo says he has been getting calls from far-flung neighbourhoods. “I’ve ferried cylinders to Howrah on my scooty at midnight; police jeeps have come and picked up cylinders at unearthly hours too,” says the man who keeps his service open 24 hours a day. PharmaCo not only rents out but also sells cylinders. “Pre-corona, I would sell 10 cylinders a month. Now I’m selling 200. Wholesalers cannot sustain such supply and I’ve paid advance for more that I’m waiting for,” says Mondal, adding that the state relies heavily on oxygen supplied from places like Gujarat and Maharashtra. “The crisis had deepened some time ago when Maharashtra had banned the export of oxygen to other states but thankfully the ban was revoked by the central government. The situation is better now,” Mondal adds. The social work wing of Tarun Sangha Club is also falling over backwards renting out oxygen. “Asymptomatic patients are hiring cylinders, those without any trace of Covid are hoarding cylinders... We are requesting customers to return those that they aren’t using but they say they are playing safe. They tell us to take the cylinder back if we find someone in greater need but who are we to judge?” asks Barun Saha of the club. Annapurna Medical Hall in Kestopur adds another reason for the spike in demand. “Customers are anticipating shortage of supply and ordering a refill the moment they start using a cylinder. There is a meter on the cylinder to check just how much is left and these days I’m asking customers to show me that meter over video call so I can be sure of their emergency,” said Ujjwal Kumar Biswas. Some medicine shops are selling — not a cylinder but — a can of oxygen. “We have sold four or five of these in August and are out of stock now but this is a waste of money,” says Jishu Saha of Nandan Medical Stores, next to the sub-divisional hospital. “These cans are used by mountaineers when they run out of breath at high altitudes. It provides one or two puffs of oxygen and cannot correct a Covid patient’s oxygen saturation level. Anyone marketing these as a Covid-care product is cheating customers,” he says. When Greenwood Sonata complex in New Town became the first housing complex in the state to build its own safe house, it had to buy oxygen. “The vendor we contacted asked us to submit a letter on our housing society letterhead, stating our purpose, and later furnish the approval letter from the government for starting the safe house. He said this would serve as proof that we had a genuine medical reason for buying the cylinders,” said Sudipta Mukherjee, president of the apartment owners’ association. Mukherjee added that the vendor had mentioned how oxygen cylinders were being sold in the black. Prasanthi Enterprises at DL Block would rent out cylinders once upon a time. “We stopped — much before the pandemic — as it’s a thankless job. People neither return the cylinders nor settle their debts. Now we only refill empty cylinders and if they want to buy one, source it from our head office,” says Kar Chaudhury. Nandan Medical Stores has stopped renting out cylinders during the pandemic as it is deemed risky to be visiting homes to deliver them. “We are only renting out concentrators, provided customers pick them up from the outlet. We are explaining the usage here itself,” says Jishu, who runs the shop. They have four or five concentrators and using them are chronic respiratory patients. “We are only renting the machines out after seeing prescriptions and besides, Covid patients would require much more than concentrators,” adds Saha. Bidhannagar Medical Hall in CA Market has also stopped renting out oxygen. “Our dealer can’t supply anymore as demand from hospitals has increased manifold,” said a salesman. Maity of TriMedicare says he used to rent out concentrators at Rs 3,000 a month. “Now the market rate has shot up to Rs 5,000 but I cannot cash in as I don’t have a single machine left at hand. Each of my 20 machines is out from before the pandemic and it would be unethical to raise the rental fee now mid-way,” says Maity, for whom it’s a lose-lose situation. “Customers say I shouldn’t complain as long as I’m getting my rent but blocking the machine in one house without using it means depriving others in need.” The requirement for oxygen has gone up by 10 times, but Maity says many people cannot afford the service any more. “Concentrators used to cost about Rs 45,000 before the pandemic but a major player has increased its price to about Rs 75,000. This company has minted their entire annual revenue in a single month and are still exploiting customers as they know none of their other products will sell this year,” he says. “Shame on them!” Mondal says that while cylinders are priced at about Rs 8,000, the shortage has given it a black market value of Rs 15,000. Barun of Tarun Sangha says that while the rent for their cylinders is between Rs 250 and 300 they are being forced to charge Rs 500 now. The reasons are many. “Firstly, the oxygen shortage is making us look for new suppliers based far away so the transportation cost is rising. New customers are calling up from the farthest corners of town so again delivery charges rise.” Finally, they are charging a higher rate from those who can afford it so they can use it to subsidise those who cannot, explains Barun. “Often we reach a home and see people living in abject poverty. We let them have it for free and bear the cost ourselves. Since oxygen is a matter of life and death we don’t charge security deposit either.” Mondal is now worried about the winter, a season when respiratory patients, as it is, suffer a lot. “Ideally I would like to stock up on oxygen before winter but there is neither a guarantee of supply nor certainty of price,” he shakes his head. Maity predicts the day is not far when oxygen devices will be as common as phones. “Every home will have one,” he says. “But the government should cap their prices to protect consumers.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-293
25-09-2020||Calcutta||Ceiling drilled to rob Lenin Sarani shop||Robbers broke into a ground-floor shop in a three-storey building on Lenin Sarani by drilling a hole in the ceiling after getting into a first-floor abandoned room through a window AC opening, police said. The owner has reported Rs 50,000 missing from the cash box in his complaint with Bowbazar police station. The room on the first floor was used in the past by a nationalised bank, the police said. Two more shops in the same row were found with drilled ceilings but the owners haven’t reported anything missing. There have been no arrests till late on Thursday, the police said. The shop in the building at 157B Lenin Sarani that reported the theft sells aluminum products. It was operational on Wednesday night. On Thursday morning when the owner opened the shutter, he found a gaping hole in the ceiling and the sale proceeds missing from the cash box. One of the two other shops in the building with drilled ceilings is a photography studio. The other sells rubber products, the police said. All three shops share a common ceiling. The police said cops had found evidence suggesting the robbers had accessed the first floor of the building by scaling the building’s rear wall and squeezing in through the window AC opening. But the fact that nothing was stolen from the other two shops has made cops suspect that the drilled ceiling in the other two shops was meant to divert the police’s attention. The police said cops were going through footage of CCTV cameras installed along Lenin Sarani. An officer of Bowbazar police station said the upper floors of the building were abandoned and no one accessed them. “This is an unusual theft where a shop on the main road has been targeted,” the officer said. A few years ago, a departmental store on SN Banerjee Road had been robbed by a man who had used an abandoned staircase in the building to reach the first floor and enter the store through a secret backdoor that was accessible only to employees. Investigations are on to find out if anyone with knowledge of the shop’s sale proceeds leaked the information to someone, which led to the robbery, the police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-293
25-09-2020||Calcutta||Cyber cheats in Rs 82 lakh net||Two men were arrested in Bangalore on Thursday on charges of cheating a businessman in Calcutta of Rs 82 lakh by promising to help him set up a seed and fertiliser company’s distribution network in eastern India, police said. Donous Arnold Patrick, alias Domo Raud, 30, and Bake Adoro, 30, both Nigerian nationals, were arrested by a city police team based on a complaint lodged by the businessman with the cyber crime police station in Salt Lake. The two had opened a fake account on a social networking site with the profile picture of a woman, along with photographs, and used the account to approach the businessman on the networking site, an officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said. They had used its messaging service as well to contact the businessman, the officer said. The profile looked like it belonged to a senior official of a company dealing in high-quality seeds and organic fertilizers, the officer said. The two offered the businessman a distribution network in eastern India, he said. “They exchanged phone numbers and were in touch for a few months. During this time, the men managed to persuade the businessman to start a distributorship by citing a very high profit margin,” the officer said. The businessman sent Rs 82 lakh in installments to the bank account numbers they had sent him. Once they got the money they snapped all forms of communication with the businessman, the officer said. “He was even blocked from the account on the social networking site. After several days, the businessman became suspicious when no one from the supposed company met him in the city.” He then lodged the complaint with the cyber crime police station. He gave cops the numbers from which he had received the calls and the account numbers to which he had sent the money, the police said. “We tracked the phone numbers and followed the money trail and zeroed in on the two. We are bringing them to the city from Bangalore on transit remand,” another officer said. “We will seek their custody... they have to be questioned. We are investigating if they had cheated others in a similar manner.” At their houses in Bangalore, cops seized a cloning machine used to clone debit and credit cards and other gadgets. “It seems they are part of a well-organised racket,” the officer said. The men will be produced in court in Salt Lake once they reach the city.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-293
25-09-2020||Calcutta||Durga Puja scaled down to help Amphan-hit||Durga Puja celebration in the city may not be the boisterous extravaganza it usually is as most big puja organisers have had to slash their budgets. One puja committee has taken a conscious decision to cut its budget and against staging a jamboree as it wants to spend the resources to support families in Hingalganj, in North 24-Parganas, who have lost their livelihoods after being struck by Cyclone Amphan in May and are still struggling to stitch their lives together. Samaj Sebi Sangha on Lake View Road in south Calcutta has brought down its budget this year to Rs 15 lakh from Rs 60 lakh it had spent last year and will hand over Rs 15 lakh in three phases to 75 families of Sardar Para village in Madhabkati block, Hingalganj, 150km from Calcutta, before the Puja. The 75-year-old Samaj Sebi Sangha puja, which had created a separate entrance to its pandal for people with autism last year, has picked up 75 families from the Amphan-struck village in its platinum jubilee year. “Since we are known as Ballygunge Samaj Sebi Sangha, we are describing our outreach as a bridge spanning from Ballygunge to Hingalganj. We are spending one fourth of what was our budget last year to support these families,” said Arijit Maitra, the general secretary of the puja committee. How did a club based in Calcutta get to know of the plight of these families and what was the trigger behind the initiative? A member of the committee said that as stories of large-scale devastation started emerging from areas like Hingalganj, close to the Sunderbans, they felt the urge to help those whose misery had worsened after Amphan lashed large parts of south Bengal on May 20. He said they got to know about the distress through an NGO, Sarani, which has been working in the Hingalganj area since Cyclone Aila had caused devastation in 2009. “We had gone to the area in June to provide some relief. While we were visiting the area, we realised they needed some long-term help, which would enable them to stitch their lives together. This we could do by cutting our puja budget,” he said. Another member said Sarani, the NGO, had surveyed storm-hit people to decide who required how much help. Some of the affected families in the Madhabkati block are fishermen, others peasants. They have lost their livelihoods as the cyclone damaged their fishing boats and breached embankments, leading to saline water from the sea gushing into cultivable land. The support from government agencies did not reach adequately to these families even months after the calamity, said Antara Ghosh Sharma, the secretary of Sarani. “As the club wanted to do more in the platinum jubilee year of their puja and wanted to know what could be done, we advised them to help these families who are in extreme distress. I believe there is a case for supporting as many as families as possible and other pujas should emulate Samaj Sebi Sangha,’’ said Antara. The club will pay each affected family Rs 20,000. On Chaturthi, the 75 families will be invited to inaugurate the puja and each will be handed a medical insurance policy of Rs 50,000. “The club will keep paying the annual premium of Rs 2,000 for the policy of each family,” said Maitra. “Besides, the year-long celebration in the platinum jubilee year will remain focused on helping the families in as many ways as possible. We will look after their food, shelter, clothing and educational needs,” said Maitra Samaj Sebi Sangha was founded in 1946 to help families who had suffered in the Calcutta riots. On its platinum jubilee, the clb wants to live up to that cherished legacy, said a veteran member.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-294
25-09-2020||Calcutta||Covid: Mamata announces guidelines for Durga Puja||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday laid out the plan for Durga Puja 2020, issuing guidelines from inauguration to immersion that the organisers and administration are expected to follow. A set of directives has been issued keeping the spread of Covid-19 in mind. Based on Mamata’s announcements at Netaji Indoor Stadium on Thursday, here’s what Puja 2020 could be like “Khola-mela mandap korun. (Make the pandal open and spacious). Cover the space just above the idol but keep the sides open. Experts are advising this,” Mamata said. “If the ceiling is blocked, keep the sides open. If the sides are blocked, keep the roof open. Please see that there is enough space for physical distancing.” Entry and exit should be different. Puja committees have been asked to keep the inauguration low-key. Those who would not be able to organise an inaugural programme can consider the online option. Pandal-hopping at night will be allowed between Tritiya and Ekadashi, the chief minister announced, asking the police to make necessary arrangements. Overcrowding during anjali or sindoor khela will not be allowed this year. Anjali timings should be staggered and priests should use a microphone to say the mantra so that people do not have to huddle in a narrow space and the sound reaches those standing even far away. Those who will offer anjali may carry their own flowers. Staggered timings and separate places have been suggested for sindoor khela to avoid crowding. The chief minister said most of the cultural programmes are held outside pandals or on the roadside to attract crowds. Such gatherings may lead to a spurt in infections. “This year we are requesting you to avoid cultural programmes as too much mixing would cause a spike in the number of Covid cases,” Mamata said. The chief minister urged the puja organisers to avoid big processions during immersion. Fewer people should be involved in the process, she said. The officers in charge of the police stations will have to coordinate and fix dates for immersions in a way that the ghats do not get crowded. The single-window system for organisers to apply for permission will start functioning on October 2. The government has launched a web portal called Aasaan, which will serve as the single window for applying for permission. The offline option is open, too. The chief minister urged the organisers to deploy more volunteers during the puja and to mark circles in the pandals to ensure visitors maintain a safe distance among themselves. She cited the example of how she drew circles in markets at the start of the Covid pandemic in Calcutta. Every volunteer has to be given a mask and sanitiser and, if possible, a face shield. The chief minister asked organisers to provide hand sanitisers to visitors at least half a kilometre before the pandal. She also asked them and the police to keep excess masks for the poor, who would not be able to afford one. “If someone comes with-out a mask, give the person a mask if you have one or request him or her to get a mask. Or at least ask them to cover their face with cloth,” she said. Wearing a mask and disinfecting hands with sanitiser before entering a pandal is a must. The puja committees have been told not to allow more than two outside vehicles for judges at a time. “Please opt for virtual screening. This year Biswa Bangla will do a virtual tour of pandals to select its winners. Those who will give away prizes should limit their visiting time between 10am and 3pm. Please avoid the evening rush,” she added. Crowds have to be avoided at any cost, the chief minister stressed. “Start using social media and conventional media to spread awareness about physical distancing,” was the chief minister’s message to the organiser and the police. All clubs should have a public announcement system for timely announcements.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-294
25-09-2020||Calcutta||Scientist Sekhar Basu is no more||Former Atomic Energy Commission chairman Sekhar Basu, who had tested positive for Covid-19, died at a private hospital in Calcutta early on Thursday. He was 68. The nuclear physicist, who was awarded Padma Shri in 2014, is survived by his wife and son. Originally a mechanical engineer, Basu is revered for his contributions to the country’s atomic energy programme. He pioneered the highly complex reactor for India's first nuclear-powered submarine INS Arihant. He was also secretary to the government of India’s department of atomic energy. Before that he was director of Bhabha Atomic Research Centre (BARC). He played a major role in establishing India as a lead country in various domains of nuclear sciences and engineering. Recently, as Homi Bhaba Chair Professor, Basu was with Variable Energy Cyclotron Centre (VECC), Calcutta, where he set up the medical cyclotron facility at VECC’s Chakgaria campus. His continued guidance to Team VECC ensured continuous supply of isotopes to hospitals through the lockdown, said some of those associated with the project. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee tweeted: “Grieved to hear about the passing away of veteran nuclear scientist and former Atomic Energy Commission chairman Sekhar Basu. My condolences to his family and colleagues.” Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted: “I join the atomic energy fraternity in grieving the passing away of Dr. Sekhar Basu, a renowned nuclear scientist who played a key role in establishing India as a lead country in nuclear science and engineering. Our thoughts and prayers are with his family and friends…” President Ram Nath Kovind described Basu’s death as “a huge loss to the nation”. Born on September 20, 1952, at Muzaffarpur in Bihar, Basu went to Ballygunge Government School and graduated in mechanical engineering from VJTI, Bombay University, in 1974. He was responsible for the design, construction and operation of nuclear recycle plants at Tarapur in Maharashtra and Kalpakkam in Tamil Nadu.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-294
25-09-2020||Calcutta||Run health services during Durga Puja: Mamata Banerjee||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee said the impact of Covid-19 made her sad, which was why she could not be cheerful during the coordination meeting with Durga Puja organisers on Thursday. Mamata asked the organisers to adopt a host of safety measures and also reminded senior government officials to ensure that the health services ran well during the festival, when Covid cases could spike because of people stepping out in large numbers. Mamata asked the health department to deploy extra volunteers during the Puja and also reminded them that providing treatment to anyone taking ill was the government’s responsibility. She said she was not smiling like she did in previous years’ meetings because the pandemic’s impact had made her sad. “The situation this year is different from previous years. This year I am very sad. Usually I talk to you with a smile,” she said. “Many doctors, health workers, municipal workers, journalist friends, police personnel have lost their lives in the pandemic. Many known friends are no more. I am reminded of them very often and it reates an element of sadness even amidst happiness.” She stressed the need to ensure that the health services ran properly during Puja. “The Covid-19 helpline numbers should work properly during Puja. If required we have to do some extra arrangements. Suppose a hospital is full, we still have to give treatment to the (sick) person. Health department has to increase the number of volunteers. People will step out during Puja and there may be a spike.” She then turned towards the chief secretary and home secretary and asked them to see that the arrangements were in place. Her stress on running health services well during the festival is important because usually doctors and others associated with health care go on leave during the period. Mamata then announced a host of measures that should be adopted during the Puja and during immersion. “I had created circles for people to stand in markets when the pandemic started. Make similar circles or at least draw lines at your pandals so that people wait in a queue,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-294
25-09-2020||Calcutta||Relief for hawkers, civic volunteers, Asha team||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday announced a one-time financial assistance for hawkers ahead of the festive season and also a salary hike for civic volunteers and Asha workers. She also announced that Anganwadi workers would now get pension. “Hawkers are very poor. Their shops have been shut for many days. Some are failing to arrange even one square meal a day. We will not be able to extend any big help, but we have got a list of 81,000 hawkers,” the chief minister said while speaking at the Puja coordination meeting in Netaji Indoor Stadium. Mamata then turned towards her government’s finance secretary. “The finance secretary will be angry at me, but I am telling him that we will give hawkers Rs 2,000 each during the month of Puja so that they can at least buy new clothes for their children,” she said. The Covid-induced lockdown has left many hawkers in severe financial distress. The hawkers have since been allowed to reopen their stalls but business has not yet picked up. The hawkers’ community welcomed the chief minister’s decision, but said the actual number of hawkers in the city was far more than 81,000. “The chief minister’s announcement will really help a lot of hawkers. Sales are still nearly 70 per cent less than what it was a month before Puja last year. We do not think sales will improve significantly till the suburban train services resume,” said Debraj Ghosh, a hawker union leader in Gariahat. He said the count of 81,000 was based on a survey conducted by police among hawkers on pavements after the phased unlock started. Mohammad Nasim Akhtar, a hawker at the Oberoi Grand Arcade who sells shirts, said the business had been severely hit. “I sold between 60 and 70 shirts a day ahead of Puja last year. This year I am selling six, eight or maximum 10 shirts a day. Our income has dipped badly,” he said. Fears about not being able to maintain physical distance is driving buyers to stay away from buying from the hawkers. The chief minister also announced salary hikes and retirement benefits for Asha and Anganwadi workers. Both categories of workers play an instrumental role in delivering public health services to the people. “Asha (Accredited Social Health Activist) workers have visited nearly 36 crore houses. They have conducted the comorbidity survey, risking their lives. I am increasing the salary of Asha workers by Rs 1,000 from October 1,” Mamata said. “The Anganwadi workers do a lot of work, too. They did not get any retirement benefit. After retirement, they will get Rs 3 lakh,” she went on to announce. Civic volunteers, who assist cops in discharging a number of duties such as traffic management, have also been given a salary hike. “Civic volunteers used to get Rs 3,000 when they were first inducted. I increased their salary to Rs 8,000. This time I am increasing their salary by Rs 1,000. This is for green police, civic volunteers and that category of people,” Mamata said. She added that her government had already provided them with retirement benefits. “We are giving Rs 3 lakh pension benefit to civic volunteers,” she said. Each of the announcements drew loud applause from Puja organisers who attended the meeting. Mamata said at the meeting that 2,509 Durga pujas were held in Calcutta, more specifically the area looked after by Calcutta police.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-294
25-09-2020||Calcutta||Dark days ahead for home help who travels by local train||Thousands of women working as help in city homes have been jobless for the last six months after the local train services were paused because of the Covid-19 pandemic. The trains may soon be back, but the jobs may not. The scare of Covid-19 infection and the chances of getting exposed to infected persons on local trains have prompted many Calcuttans to decide against resuming the services of help whose only mode of commute is the local train. Chhaya Mandal, 45, a single mother in Diamond Harbour’s Madhabpur who had been commuting almost 100km a day to work at three homes in Gariahat and Ballygunge, has been asked not to return even after the train service resumes. Munni, 50, who works in an apartment in Ballygunge, has stopped returning home to save her job. She is staying at her employer’s home and has been visiting her family in Kankinara once or twice a month only when she and her friends, who have adopted the same model, save enough to share the fare of a taxi. There are thousands of women like Chhaya and Munni whose lives changed forever after the train service was suspended. They expect little change in their lives even after the service resumes. A large number of women from poverty- stricken pockets of the Sunderbans, Kultali, Lakshmikantapur, Diamond Harbour and Baruipur used to earn their living by working as domestic help in the city. Only those who worked in houses close to their own home have been able to retain their jobs. “A family in whose home I had worked for 20 years has sacked me with the assurance that they will pay my salary till the day I worked. But I have not been able to meet them till now. Another family has snapped all ties and are not even receiving my calls,” Chhaya narrated her plight from her Madhabpur home. Abandoned by her husband at a young age, Chhaya has no other source of income and has been surviving on boiled rice and wild plants. Many of her neighbours, who used to travel together by local train to reach their workplace in the city and have the financial support of their families, have shifted to selling vegetables. Munni, too, is apprehensive about how long she would be able to stay away from her family like this and sustain her job. “I have two sons, daughters-in-law and grandchildren at home. Earlier, I would start my day at 4am, board a train for Ballygunge and return home by 7pm. Everything changed after the trains stopped. Now, I cannot see my family for months,” Munni said. Yet, she is not complaining and said she was lucky to have been retained by her employers. Namita Khatoon, 42, and her likes — whose family members are attached to emergency services — are the luckiest of the lot. Namita, who used to travel by local train from Baruipur to Jadavpur, now commutes with her brother-in-law on his bicycle. The brother-in-law works as a guard at a housing complex on Prince Anwar Shah Road. Several Calcuttans Metro spoke to expressed their helplessness over not being able to resume the services of their old help. “I never thought we would ever have to say ‘No’ to our trusted maid, who had been looking after my family for the last 15 years,” said Rima Mukherjee, a resident of Anandapur, off EM Bypass. “We used to transfer her monthly salary to her son’s account during the lockdown. But honestly it would not be possible to pay her without work forever. So we have decided to make a one-time payment to her annually to take care of a part of her expenses.” Pritha Mitra, who stays in Bansdroni and had hired the services of an elderly woman for her parents who live in an apartment in Garia, said she was too scared to expose her parents to someone who would travel by train. “I had no other option but to terminate her. We are still looking for someone who would not commute in public transport,” Mitra said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-294
25-09-2020||Business||Vodafone wins Rs 22,100 cr retro tax case against India||British telecom giant Vodafone Group plc on Friday won an arbitration against the Indian government over a demand for Rs 22,100 crore in taxes using retrospective legislation. An international arbitration tribunal ruled that India's demand in past taxes were in breach of fair treatment under a bilateral investment protection pact. "The award is confidential but Vodafone can confirm that the tribunal has found (it) in Vodafone's favour," Vodafone Group said in a statement. "We are studying the lengthy documents and can make no further comment at this time." It was not immediately known if the Indian government will abide by the arbitration award. The Government of India's liability will be restricted to about Rs 75 crore -- Rs 30 crore in cost and another Rs 45 crore in tax refund, sources with direct knowledge of the matter said. Vodafone had before the arbitration tribunal challenged India's usage of a 2012 legislation that gave it powers to retrospectively tax deals like Vodafone's USD 11 billion acquisition of 67 per cent stake in the mobile phone business owned by Hutchison Whampoa in 2007. It challenged the demand of Rs 7,990 crore in capital gains taxes (Rs 22,100 crore after including interest and penalty) under the Netherlands-India Bilateral Investment Treaty (BIT). Sources said the tax demand was on the UK-listed company and Vodafone's India venture faced no liability. Vodafone merged its India operations with billionaire Kumar Mangalam Birla's conglomerate but the combined entity Vodafone Idea Ltd is facing a USD 7.8 billion bill in past statutory dues. Tax authorities had in September 2007 served notice to Vodafone International Holdings BV (VIHBV) for its alleged failure to deduct withholding tax from consideration paid to the Hutchison Telecommunications International Ltd. Vodafone challenged this in the Supreme Court, which in January 2012 set it aside, saying the transaction was not taxable in India and so the company had no obligation to withhold tax. In May that year, Parliament passed the Finance Act 2012 that amended various provisions of the Income Tax Act 1961 with retrospective effect to tax any gain on transfer of shares in a non-Indian company which derives substantial value from underlying Indian assets. The company was in January 2013 served a tax notice of Rs 14,200 crore after including interest on the principal amount. A year later, Vodafone challenged the tax demand under the Dutch BIT. Sources said the company in April 2014 served the notice of arbitration after out-of-court dispute resolution talks failed. The tax department in February 2016 served a demand notice of Rs 22,100 crore, including interest accruing since the date of the original demand. Vodafone has always maintained that there is no liability and that it will "continue to defend vigorously any allegation that VIHBV or Vodafone India Ltd is liable to pay tax in connection with the transaction with Hutchison and will continue to exercise all rights to seek redress". Besides Vodafone, the Indian government also used the retrospective tax legislation to seek Rs 10,247 crore from British oil explorer Cairn Energy Plc over a 2006 reorganisation of its Indian businesses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-279
25-09-2020||Business||ED notice to attach Rs 127 cr London flat of Yes Bank co-promoter Rana Kapoor||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has attached a Rs 127-crore flat of Yes Bank co-promoter Rana Kapoor in London in connection with a money laundering investigation against him and others, the central agency said on Friday. The agency issued a provisional order for attaching the property -- Apartment 1, 77 South Audley Street, London -- under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). "The market value of the flat is 13.5 million pound (about Rs 127 crore). The property was purchased by Rana Kapoor in 2017 for 9.9 million pound (Rs 93 crore) in the name of DOIT Creations Jersey Limited and he is the beneficial owner," the ED said in a statement. It claimed that the agency had obtained "information from a reliable source that Kapoor was trying to alienate this property in London and that he has hired a reputed property consultant." "Enquiries from open sources confirmed that this property has been listed for sale on several websites," it said. The agency, as per procedure, will now approach their counterparts in the United Kingdom to execute the attachment order and will issue a proclamation that the asset cannot be sold or purchased as it has been seized under the criminal sections of the PMLA. The ED has earlier attached assets in the US, Dubai and Australia in a similar fashion as part of other investigations under the PMLA. The ED had booked Kapoor, his family members and others under the PMLA after studying a CBI FIR that alleged that dubious multi-crore loans were given by Yes Bank to various entities in contravention of the law and in lieu of purported kickbacks given to the Kapoor family. The CBI FIR had stated that during April-June, 2018, Yes Bank Limited had invested Rs 3,700 crore in the short term debentures of DHFL. "Simultaneously, Kapil Wadhawan of DHFL paid kickback of Rs 600 crore to Rana Kapoor and his family members in the garb of loan of Rs 600 crore (given by DHFL) to DOIT Urban Ventures (India) Pvt Ltd (Rana Kapoor group company)." "In addition to the above, Yes Bank Ltd had also sanctioned a loan of Rs 750 crore to RKW Developers, a group company of DHFL beneficially owned by Kapil Wadhawan, Dheeraj Wadhawan and their family members," the ED alleged. This loan of Rs 750 crore had been sanctioned to them for their Bandra Reclamation Project, Mumbai, but the entire amount was siphoned off by Kapil Wadhawan and Dheeraj Wadhawan through their shell companies, it said. Rana Kapoor, Kapil Wadhawan and Dheeraj Wadhawan have been arrested by the ED in this case and they are in judicial custody at present. The agency had also filed charge sheets before a special court in Mumbai in this case. The ED had earlier attached properties in this case and with this order, the total attachment in this probe stands at Rs 2,011 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-279
25-09-2020||Business||Govt extends suspension of fresh insolvency proceedings||The government on Thursday extended the suspension of fresh insolvency proceedings under the insolvency law by three months till December 25. The six-month period of suspension, which was effective from March 25, was to end on Thursday. According to a notification issued by the corporate affairs ministry, the suspension of fresh proceedings under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code has been extended for a “period of three months from the 25th September, 2020”. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s office tweeted that the extension gives companies “breathing time” to recover from financial stress. “Extension of suspension of sections 7, 9, 10 of the IBC reinforces the government's commitment to protecting businesses,” the tweet said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-279
25-09-2020||Business||UTI AMC fixes share price for IPO||UTI Asset Management Company (AMC) on Thursday fixed a price band of Rs 552-554 per share for its initial public offering (IPO) that will open for public subscription on September 29 and close on October 1. The bidding for anchor investors would open on September 28. The issue comprises the sale of 3.8 crore equity shares, or a 30.75 per cent stake, held by existing shareholders. State Bank of India (SBI), Life Insurance Corporation and Bank of Baroda (BoB) are offering to sell about 1.04 crore shares each, while Punjab National Bank (PNB) and T Rowe Price International are offloading around 38 lakh  shares each. SBI, LIC, PNB and BoB hold 18.24 per cent stake each in UTI AMC. US-based T Rowe Price owns 26 per cent stake in the company. The fund house has also reserved two lakh equity shares for its eligible employees. Bids can be made for a minimum of 27 equity shares and in multiples of 27 equity shares thereafter. Sebi norms The offer for sale will comply with Sebi norms which stipulate a shareholder or a sponsor owning at least 10 per cent stake in an asset management company is not allowed to have 10 per cent or more stake in another mutual fund house operating in the country. In August, the market regulator had imposed a penalty of Rs 10 lakh each on  SBI, LIC and BoB for not complying with the regulations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-279
25-09-2020||Business||Ministry allows airlines to decide domestic baggage limits||The aviation ministry has allowed airlines to decide on baggage limitations for domestic passengers — an indication that the sector may resume normal flight schedules soon. Passengers were so far allowed only one check-in bag on domestic flights since May 25. Before domestic flights were suspended on March 25, Air India would allow check-in luggage of up to 25 kg and private airlines — with some limiting the number of bags — up to 15 kg for economy flyers. “The matter has been reviewed based on inputs received from stakeholders. Considering the convenience of passengers, it has been decided to (allow)… baggage limitation according to airlines’ policies,” said an order issued by Usha Padhee, joint secretary in the aviation ministry. Air India says it will now allow domestic passengers in economy and business class to check-in up to 25 kg and 35 kg, respectively. Air India Express says it “permits 25 kg as checked-in (on domestic flights) and 7 kg as hand bags which continues”. Vistara said it will be “restoring the pre-Covid baggage allowance from Monday (September 28)… in response to the latest advisory issued by the government.” Most airlines are likely to return to their piece concept (allowing one bag without extra charge and payment for subsequent checked in baggage) and a 15-kg weight limit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-280
25-09-2020||Business||Harley-Davidson to discontinue sales and manufacturing ops in India||Harley-Davidson Inc said on Thursday it would discontinue its sales and manufacturing operations in India, effectively abandoning the world’s biggest motorcycle market after a decade of unsuccessful efforts to gain a foothold. The move involves $75 million in restructuring costs, some 70 redundancies and the closure of its Bawal plant, walking away from a market worth about 17 million bike and scooter sales a year. It will retain only a scaled-down sales office in Gurgaon. “As part of The Rewire, an overhaul of its operating model and market structure, the company is changing its business model in India and evaluating options to continue to serve its customers,” a press release said. The Harley-Davidson dealer network will continue to serve customers through the contract term. “The present contract term is till December,” said Adarsh Tulsyan, proprietor of the sole Harley Davidson dealership in Calcutta. The company has a total of 33 dealerships in the country. Tulsyan said he sold 100 motorbikes in a year on an average. “We are naturally disappointed. With the closure of the factory, the possibility of having new bikes is low. The news is yet to sink in. However, servicing of bikes continues.” Last year, Ford Motor ceased independent operations in India by entering into a joint venture with M&M. General Motors, which stopped domestic sales in 2017, plans to stop manufacturing and exports from India by the end of this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-280
25-09-2020||Business||Maruti Suzuki India launches vehicle subscription programme||Maruti Suzuki India on Thursday launched its vehicle subscription programme for individuals to cash in on the festive demand even as a survey of car dealers threw up two key concerns —  support for future business evolution and to re-start business post lockdown. Maruti Suzuki Subscribe will be launched initially in Delhi, NCR region and Bangalore. The company plans to extend this programme to  up to 60 cities in the next three years. The company has partnered ORIX Auto Infrastructure Services India, a subsidiary of Japan’s ORIX Corporation, to launch the service. Customers can choose to subscribe to a new Swift Dzire, Vitara Brezza and Ertiga from Arena showrooms and the Baleno, Ciaz and XL6 from Nexa dealerships. “Maruti Suzuki Subscribe allows a customer to use a new car without actually owning it by paying an all-inclusive monthly fee that covers maintenance, insurance and roadside assistance,” Maruti said. Dealer woes FADA, an auto dealer association, said dealers were looking to rationalise their assets as well as manpower, especially in bigger cities, and also expect original equipment manufacturers to improve their profitability. “Dealers are moving to smaller places with lower rent and are also looking to rationalise manpower in order to carry forward in these challenges times,” FADA president Vinkesh Gulati said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-280
25-09-2020||Business||Competition Commission approves Adani Group's Mumbai airport deal||The Competition Commission has approved Adani Group’s proposed acquisition of a controlling stake in Mumbai airport from GVK Airport Developers under the green channel route. The green channel route provides for automatic approval of certain deals, subject to various conditions. “The commission received the green channel combination pertaining to acquisition of GVK Airport Developers by Adani Airport Holdings,” the regulator said in a tweet. Adani Group had announced in August that it would acquire GVK Airport Developers’ (GVKADL) 50.50 per cent stake as well as buy out the 23.5 per cent stake of Airports Company of South Africa and Bidvest Group. Deals beyond a certain threshold require approval from the Competition Commission of India (CCI). According to a notice filed with the watchdog, the acquirer proposes to take sole control of GVKADL through one or more steps, which will involve purchase of all external debt, conversion of the said debt to equity and purchase of its balance shares. Adani said there is no overlap in the relevant geographic market and there are also no vertical or complementary linkages between the activities of the group and GVKADL in India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-280
25-09-2020||Business||Borrowing road map for fiscal second half on Monday||The government is expected to come up with a borrowing road map for the second half of the fiscal on Monday amid a raging debate whether it would raise Rs 4.34 lakh crore as planned or a higher sum to foot the burgeoning pandemic bill as tax collections moderate. Some analysts said the government would wait till the third quarter was over when it would be better able to assess its revenue post the festive season. Hard-pressed for funds to combat the rising coronavirus infections, the government in May increased its market borrowing for the current financial year by more than 50 per cent to Rs 12 lakh crore. In February, the budget had set a target to borrow Rs 7.80 lakh crore. Aditi Nayar, principal economist, Icra said: “The government’s net tax revenues, non-tax revenues and disinvestment proceeds will together trail the FY2021 budget estimate by a huge Rs 6 lakh crore.” “Moreover, expenditure will rise on account of the fiscal support announced under the ‘Aatma Nirbhar Bharat Abhiyan’, and the cash outgo for other items included in the First Supplementary Demand for Grants.” She said the  fiscal deficit would widen to at least Rs 14 lakh crore this fiscal from the budgeted Rs 8 lakh crore. Accordingly, this entails a further expansion in the GoI’s borrowing calendar for the second half of at least Rs 1.1 lakh crore. However, Madan Sabnavis, chief economist of Care Ratings, said: “It is unlikely to be more than Rs 12 lakh crore for the full year….therefore no surprise is expected.” “The government would wait and watch the situation and take a call at the end of the third quarter of the current fiscal. The Covid-19 pandemic has created uncertainty on the demand spur in the coming months and the government would be cautious to watch out and take a call,” Devendra Kumar Pant, chief economist in India Ratings & Research, said. Collections suffer Tax collections have taken a huge hit owing to lockdowns imposed since March to contain the spread of Covid-19. With GDP contracting a record 23.9 per cent in the first quarter, the expectations are that the government may have to announce additional measures to boost demand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-280
25-09-2020||Business||Sensex slumps 1110 points over Covid second wave fears||Investors ran for cover and the Sensex slumped 1110 points on Thursday over fears of a second wave of the coronavirus triggering more lockdowns and derailing the global economy. The Sensex suffered its biggest single-day fall since May 4 to end at 36553.60, wiping out Rs 3.95 lakh crore of investor wealth. The NSE Nifty tanked 326.30 points to close at 10805.55. Market circles are divided on their forecasts: some are expecting a pullback but others are warning of a difficult period as recovery is far away and the much awaited vaccine is expected only next year. Investors are not just spooked by the global factors. Back home, measures taken both by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and the central government have failed to yield tangible results. The first stimulus package was a major disappointment. And the Modi government is holding off on a second round of fiscal measures, giving investors enough reason to stay on the sidelines. Though the RBI is likely to maintain its accommodative stance and use unconventional tools to kickstart the economy such as targeted long-term repo, an interest rate cut is being ruled out at its forthcoming meeting given the elevated retail inflation. Market circles said it was the negative global cues that led to stocks opening in the red and remaining under pressure through the session. There were apprehensions about global economic growth as the UK is set to go into a second lockdown and travel restrictions return in several countries in Europe. Further, there were  mounting concerns over the recovery in the US with the weekly jobless showing a surprising rise on Thursday. There were more fears as the US Federal Reserve indicated it would not increase the size of its asset purchases amid fears that investors were poised to dump junk bonds. “Investors have largely given up on the idea the US Congress will provide a new stimulus, while worrying about a recent rise in Covid-19 cases. Economists at Goldman Sachs cut their US growth forecast for the fourth quarter by half, to 3 per cent from 6 per cent,” said Deepak Jasani head of retail research, HDFC Securities. “Investors are bombarded by a perfect storm of problems including rising virus infections, new lockdowns, a slowing economic recovery, stalled US stimulus talks and election uncertainty.” Sliding for the sixth straight session, the 30-share BSE Sensex opened 37282.18 and fell below the 37000 mark to hit a day’s low of 36495.93 — a fall of 1172.44 points. It later settled at 36553.60 showing a drop of 1114.82 points or 2.96 per cent. The benchmark thus posted its biggest single-day fall since May 4 this year, when it had plunged over 2000 points. Similarly, the NSE Nifty tanked 326.30 points or 2.93 per cent to close at 10805.55. The Sensex has now lost 2749.25 points in six days, while the Nifty has declined by 799 points. Barring Hindustan Unilever, which inched up 0.36 per cent, all Sensex components ended in the red on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-280
25-09-2020||India||Balasubrahmanyam: The gifted singer with no formal training||Sripathi Panditaradhyula Balasubrahmanyam, popularly known by the magical three letters SPB, belonged to a rare breed of playback singers whose golden voice cast a spell over generations. The mesmerising voice of Balasubramanyam, who died aged 74 at a hospital in Chennai after being treated for Covid-19, endeared him to millions of fans as he strode like a colossus in the film and stage music world with numerous hits in 16 languages, more dominantly in South Indian films -- Tamil and his mother tongue Telugu. Quite unassuming despite his unparalleled achievements, including countless national and state awards and the coveted Padma Shri and Padma Padma Bhushan, he worked with generations of music composers, crooning a staggering 40,000 plus songs during his enviable over five decade career. An extraordinary singer, who was influenced by veteran Mohammed Rafi, SPB stamped his class in thousands of evergreen songs, evoking various emotions, be it joy, romance or pathos and later also took to acting in some films. Living and breathing music aptly fitted him as the gifted singer said a couple of years ago that he was recording a song every day, even over 50 years after he made his debut in 1966, besides being associated with several reality shows on TV. The evergreen song Ayiram Nilave Vaa (come thousand moons) from MGR starrer Tamil flick Adimaipen catapulted him to fame in 1969 and there had been no looking back for SPB since then. He carved out a niche for himself after entering the field when the then veterans like T M Soundararajan (TMS) and P B Srinivas were ruling the roost. For someone with no formal training in classical music, the heights SPB scaled were not something that even well trained singers could touch. Born on June 4, 1946, in Nellore in neighbouring Andhra Pradesh, the film world was never in the mind of SPB, also fondly called Balu by many of his friends such as music maestro Illayaraja. "It was never my desire to enter the film industry. I wanted to become a gazetted rank engineer which could fetch Rs 250 salary, a jeep with a chauffeur in the 1960s," he had repeatedly said over the years. It was renowned playback singer S Janaki who first spotted his talent when he took part in a music competition while pursuing engineering (AMIE) in Chennai and told him he will have a bright future in the film industry if he gave it a shot. In 1966, his career began with Telugu and Kannada songs with S P Kothandapani, whom SPB regarded as his guru, giving him the opportunity. His debut song in Tamil "Athanodu Ippadi Irundhu" a duet song with L R Easwari in a movie titled Hotel Rambha never saw the light of the day. Undeterred, he continued to try for opportunities and his entry in the Tamil film industry happened with Shanthi Nilayam and Adimaipen, both of which hit screens at the same time in 1969. He bagged the best playback singer award from the Tamil Nadu government for songs in both Adimaipen and Shanthi Nilayam. SPB went on to sing under music directors spanning generations from Kodhandapani, M S Viswanathan, Ilayaraja, A R Rahman and Deva and pairing female artists like P Suseela, S Janaki, Vaani Jayaram and Chitra, among others, and won six national awards. He could whistle, mimic any sound or voice and had the uncanny ability to seamlessly blend stammer, laughter, cough or give a voice form to any emotion in songs. There are thousands of melodies to soothe as in "Vannam Konda," and "Pehla Pehla Pyar Hai", which are all an inseparable part of people's everyday lives. He proved he can handle classical also with a sterling performance in the 1979 super hit "Sankaraparanam" by K Vishwanath, rendering as many as nine songs, including "Dorakuna Ituvanti Seva" and "Samaja vara gamana". Celebrations became merrier with his peppy numbers and for over three decades, no new year eve event has gone on in Tamil Nadu without playing of his "Elamai Etho Etho" song. Songs in several languages, including south Indian and Hindi have the indelible mark of his sweet voice and going beyond playback singing, he showed his impressive music composing skills in movies like "Sikaram." Acting and dubbing came to him naturally and many movies like "Midhunam", "Kadhalan", "Priyamanavaley", "Manadhil Urudhi Vendum" and "Sathya" vouch for it. He also had the knack to make his voice appear as though the particular actor himself rendered it. On the "secret", he had once said a singer has to be an actor to bring compatibility. "I have never changed my voice for Rajini or Kamal," he had said years ago. Once he suffered vocal cord nodule or singers nodule after singing in a very coarse voice for Nachina foodu song in Kamal Haasan starrer Telugu movie Indrudu Chandrudu (1989). He underwent a surgery, though Latha Mangeshkar had advised him against it and started singing after a gap. In his 54-year career, SPB acknowledged the influence of veteran singer Mohammed Rafi on him , especially during his early years in playback singing. Renowned for his diction in Tamil now, it would be hard to believe that music composer M S Viswanathan had once told SPB that he could consider giving him an opportunity only if he learnt Tamil pronunciation properly. "I learnt Tamil mainly through movie wall posters," he used to tell his fans with a chuckle. he always improvised, wherever it was possible, in making songs more lively and he candidly disclosed even things considered closely guarded secrets. "Singing in a single go without pausing for breath is just a gimmick and not true and it is only a technological innovation," he had said. In the 1990 Tamil flick Keladi Kanmani the "Mannil Indha" song had a portion that was claimed to have been rendered "without taking a breath." He always reinvented himself and for about 20 years, hosted innumerable reality music shows on television. SPB was known for self-ridicule, love for ice-cream, a self-proclaimed smoker for 35 years and a social drinker. Though accolades kept pouring his way as his stature rose, he continued to be humble and became more spiritual. On his success, he used to say it was a God given gift and probably had a connection to his previous births since he had even rendered classical compositions, which he neither understood nor was trained for. "I love my life. If possible I dont want to die. I have a passion for life," he had said once while speaking about his spiritual inclinations. Contrary to the special care taken by many singers to protect their voice, SPB enjoyed ice creams, chilled drinks and sweets. "I used to effortlessly eat half a kilo of sweets at one go," he had said several times. His friendship with music maestro Ilayaraja is legendary and their combine produced innumerable songs, which will forever be remembered in the Tamil speaking world. His love for K J Yesudas is also well known and he used to always address him as guru. SPB's sister S P Sailaja and his son Charan are also well known playback singers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-647
25-09-2020||India||Chhattisgarh provides mid-day meals for children during pandemic  ||The Chhattisgarh government has shown the way by ensuring school children are given mid-day meals during the duration of the Covid crisis. Also, sources in the government have confirmed that 90 per cent students get the benefit of dry rations. So far, the state government  of Bhupesh Baghel has disbursed a host of benefits to farmers, livestock owners and tendupatta collectors. On the occasion of the birth anniversary of former prime minister Rajiv Gandhi on August 20, it handed out a number of benefits. Among the benefits were the second instalment to farmers from a corpus of Rs 1,500 crore. The money was directly transferred to 20 lakh farmers under the Rajiv Gandhi Kisan Nyay Yojana. This apart, the Baghel government also sanctioned Rs 5 crore that was to be paid under Godhan Nyay Yojana.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-647
25-09-2020||India||Chhattisgarh to appoint over 14,500 teachers in state||The Chhattisgarh government has shown the way by deciding to appoint over 14,500 teachers in the state, a move that will help the youth of the state amid the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. So far, the state government of Bhupesh Baghel has disbursed a host of benefits to farmers, livestock owners and tendupatta collectors. On the occasion of the birth anniversary of former prime minister Rajiv Gandhi on August 20, it handed out a number of benefits. Among the benefits were the second instalment to farmers from a corpus of Rs 1,500 crore. The money was directly transferred to 20 lakh farmers under the Rajiv Gandhi Kisan Nyay Yojana. This apart, the Baghel government also sanctioned Rs 5 crore that was to be paid under Godhan Nyay Yojana.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-647
25-09-2020||India||Farmers across India begin protest on farm bills ||Farmers on Friday began their protest as part of the 'Punjab Bandh' call against the contentious farm bills that were recently passed in the Parliament. As many as 31 farmer organisations, under the aegis of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) have joined hands for the complete shutdown of Punjab. Among farmers' unions which are supporting the bandh call included Bharti Kisan Union Krantikari, Kirti Kisan Union, Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan), Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee and BKU (Lakhowal). Several organisations in Haryana, including the BKU, have also extended support to the nationwide strike called by some farmers' bodies against the bills. Police personnel in adequate strength were deployed across the state to maintain law and order, officials said. While the ruling Congress and the AAP have extended support to the farmers' protest, the Shiromani Akali Dal has announced to hold road blockades. Farmers at several places in the state started gathering at roads for stopping the movement of traffic. Women protesters under the banner of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee in Amritsar took out a protest march. Shops and commercial establishments at many places in Punjab remained shut on Friday morning in the wake of farmers' stir. Shopkeepers had been appealed to keep their shops shut in support of farmers. Krantikari Kisan Union president Darshan Pal said farmers would hold protests at over 150 places across the state adding that they were getting support from traders, transporters and taxi operators among others. The Punjab Bandh call is getting support from government employees' unions, singers, commission agents, labourers and social activists. Farmers on Thursday had started a three-day rail blockade against the bills and squatted on tracks at many places in the state. Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh had said on Thursday the state government was fully with the farmers in their fight against the bills and no FIRs would be registered for violation of Section 144, which bars assembly of more than four people. The protesters have expressed apprehension that the Centre's farm reforms would pave the way for dismantling of the minimum support price system and they would be at the "mercy" of big corporates. The farmers said they would continue their fight till the three farm bills were revoked. The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill were passed by the Parliament earlier this week. Security beefed up at Delhi borders The Delhi Police has intensified deployment of its personnel at the border areas in view of a nationwide protest call given by various farmer associations against the agriculture-related bills passed by the Parliament recently, officials said on Friday. They said police personnel have been deployed in the Chilla area near Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border in the wake of the protest. Police said adequate arrangements have been made to ensure the situation remains peaceful at the border areas. The situation is under control, according to the Delhi Police. "Our personnel have been deployed in Delhi-Uttar Pradesh picket borders as a precautionary measure in the wake of a protest call given by farmers in neighbouring states," said a senior police officer. Congress backs Bharat Bandh Voicing support for the Bharat Bandh call given by farmer organisations to protest the farm bills, the Congress on Friday alleged that the new agriculture laws will "enslave" farmers and the MSP will be "snatched away" from them. Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra spoke out against the farm bills and backed the Bharat Bandh. "A flawed GST destroyed MSMEs. The new agriculture laws will enslave our farmers," former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi tweeted with the hashtag 'I Support Bharat Bandh'. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi also hit out at the government, saying the three farm bills brought by it are reminiscent of the "East India Company rule". The MSP (minimum support price) of the farmers will be "snatched away" and they will be forced to become slaves of billionaires through contract farming, Priyanka Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi. `"Neither will they get the price nor respect. Farmers will become labourers in their own land," she alleged. "BJP's agriculture bills are a reminder of the East India Company rule. We will not allow this injustice to happen," she added, using the hashtag 'Bharat Bandh'.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-647
25-09-2020||India||S.P Balasubrahmanyam dies at a Chennai hospital ||Celebrated playback singer S P Balasubrahmanyam, who held sway over millions of fans with his golden voice for over five decades, died on Friday at a hospital in Chennai where he was being treated for Covid-19 since last month. The 74-year old singer, whose condition became extremely critical on Thursday, breathed his last at 1.04 pm, a statement from MGM Healthcare, where he was admitted on August 5 after testing positive for Covid-19, said. However, the hospital said he had tested negative for Covid-19 on September 4. A six-time national award winner, Balasubrahmanyam, who had sung over 40,000 songs, was also honoured with Padma Shri in 2001 and Padma Bhushan in 2011. He is survived by wife, a son and a daughter. Announcing the death of SPB, as he was popularly known, his son and filmmaker S P Charan told reporters that his father's songs would live forever in the hears of his fans. Charan thanked all those who had prayed for the recovery of his father and the doctors, nurses and the administrative staff of the hospital for their attempts to save him. A statement from MGM Healthcare said: "In a further setback this morning, despite maximal life support measures and the best efforts of the clinical team, his (Balasubrahmanyam's) condition deteriorated further and he suffered a cardio-respiratory arrest. "With profound grief, we regret to inform that he passed away at 13.04 hours," it said. The hospital extended its condolences to his family, friends and well wishers. The hospital noted that from August 14 the singer was put on life support measures -ventilator and extracorporeal membrane oxygenation support- in view of severe Covid-19 pneumonia.' "He continued to be closely monitored by our multi-disciplinary team in the critical care unit. He tested negative for Covid-19 on September 4," it added. Tributes poured in from all parts of India as the news of the demise was mourned by celebrities and common man alike. President Ram Nath Kovind condoled death of the celebrated playback singer and said Indian music has lost one of its melodious voices. "In the passing of music legend SP Balasubrahmanyam Indian music has lost one of its most melodious voices. Called 'Paadum Nila' or 'Singing Moon' by his countless fans, he was honoured with Padma Bhushan and many National Awards. Condolences to his family, friends and admirers," the president tweeted. Paying rich tributes to legendary singer S P Balasubrahmanyam, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said that he was a household name across the country and that his melodious voice and music enthralled audience for decades. In his condolence message, Modi tweeted, "With the unfortunate demise of Shri SP Balasubrahmanyam, our cultural world is a lot poorer. A household name across India, his melodious voice and music enthralled audiences for decades. In this hour of grief, my thoughts are with his family and admirers. Om Shanti." Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Friday expressed grief over the demise of playback singer S P Balasubrahmanyam and said he would forever remain in people's memories through his melodious voice and unparalleled music compositions. "Deeply saddened by the passing away of legendary musician and playback singer Padma Bhushan, S. P. Balasubrahmanyam ji. He will forever remain in our memories through his melodious voice & unparalleled music compositions. My condolences are with his family & followers. Om Shanti," Shah tweeted. Prominent names from Indian film industry such as veteran singer Lata Mangeshkar, music composer AR Rahman, actors Salman Khan and Akshay Kumar paid tributes to legendary singer SP Balasubrahmanyam and remembered his contribution in the field of music. "I'm very disturbed by the demise of SP Balasubrahmanyam. We have recorded many song together and did a lot shows. My condolences to his family," the veteran singer wrote on Twitter. Anil Kapoor remembered the musician as "great human being" and "an incredible singer" and said that he will be "missed truly". "Lucky to have had him dub for me... Give his voice to my performances in my first Telugu and Kannada film... SP Balasubrahmanyam will be missed truly...my heartfelt condolences & prayers to the family..." he added. A.R Rahman shared his photo with Balasubrahmanyam and posted, "#ripspb ...Devastated". Akshay Kumar expressed his condolences and said he was 'deeply saddened' to hear the news. "Just a few months back I'd interacted with him during a virtual concert in this lockdown..he seemed hale, hearty & his usual legendary self...life is truly unpredictable. My thoughts & prayers with his family," he wrote. Balasubrahmanyam's voice played a huge role in establishing Salman Khan as a romantic hero in the 1990s with songs "Mere rang main", "Pehla pehla pyaar hai", "Mausam ka jaddu", and "Hum aapke hain koun" among others. Khan, who on Thursday wished the legendary singer a speedy recovery, said he was heartbroken by the news of his demise. "Heartbroken to hear about #SPBalasubrahmanyam sir... you will forever live on in your undisputed legacy of music! condolence to the family #RIP," he tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-647
25-09-2020||India||Bihar polls in three phases from October 28, results on November 10||Voting for Bihar assembly elections will be held in three phases on October 28, November 3 and November 7 in one of the biggest elections globally during the Covid-19 pandemic, followed by counting of votes on November 10, the Election Commission announced on Friday. Announcing the poll schedule for the 243-member Bihar assembly, Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora said voting will begin as usual at 7 am but the period will be extended by one hour until 6 pm, except in the Left Wing Extremism-affected areas, so that Covid-19 patients can vote in the last hour of the day. "The world has changed significantly since the last major election in our country, which was held for Delhi assembly, and the Covid-19 pandemic has forced a new normal in every aspect of our life. "Bihar assembly polls will be one of the biggest elections globally to be held during prevailing Covid-19 situation," Arora said. He also said special protocols have been readied for voters who are Covid-positive patients. Announcing the poll schedule at a press conference here, Arora said the number of phases for 243-member Bihar assembly polls has been reduced keeping in mind security arrangements and festive season, among other factors. Voting for the first phase on October 28 will cover 71 assembly constituencies, while the second-phase voting on November 3 will cover 94 seats. The third phase of voting on November 7 will cover 78 assembly seats. Counting of votes for all seats will take place on November 10. According to the Election Commission, 7 lakh hand sanitisers, 46 lakh masks, 6 lakh PPE kits, 6.7 lakh face shields and 23 lakh pairs of hand gloves have been arranged for Bihar polls. Besides, postal ballot facility will be provided wherever required and requested. Social distancing norms will need to be followed at public gatherings during the poll campaign. Arora further said anyone using social media for mischievous purposes, such as for flaring communal tension, during elections will have to face consequences, while hate speech will be also dealt with harshly by the Election Commission. On bypolls for one Lok Sabha seat and 64 assembly constituencies, Arora said the Election Commission will take a decision after a meeting on September 29 where issues raised by some states on timing of polls would be discussed and a press release should be issued subsequently the same evening. The notification for the first phase of Bihar assembly elections would be issued on October 1, while last date of nominations would be October 8 and withdrawal of candidature can be done till October 12. For the second phase, notification would be issued on October 9, nominations can be filed till October 16 and candidature can be withdrawn till October 19. The third-phase notification would be issued on October 13, the last date of nominations would be October 20 and the last date for candidature withdrawal has been fixed October 23. The number of people accompanying a candidate for submission of nomination has been restricted to two, while door-to-door campaign can have maximum five people including the candidate. Arora further said there are about 18.87 lakh migrants across 38 districts of Bihar, out of which 16.6 lakh are eligible to vote. While 13.93 lakh already had their names on the electoral rolls, 2.3 lakh more have been registered and the the process is still on, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-647
25-09-2020||India||Covid measure dips but no inference yet||A mathematical measure of the new coronavirus epidemic’s growth in India has dipped below 1 for the first time, researchers said on Thursday but cautioned against attempts to draw any inferences from the change. An analysis by the researchers at the Institute of Mathematical Sciences, Chennai, has found that the R value — a measure of the epidemic’s growth speed — fell from 1.04 estimated over September 13 to 17 to 0.93 estimated over September 19 to 22. The reduced R reflects a fall in the numbers of coronavirus disease patients under medical supervision for six successive days, as reported by the Union health ministry earlier this week, resulting from daily recoveries exceeding new cases detected. “We still see large numbers of new infections every day — but R has gone below 1 for the first time since local transmission started here in early March,” said Sitabhra Sinha, a computational physicist who led the analysis. “The number of active patients has been decreasing for several days.” India on Thursday recorded 86,508 new cases but the number of active patients declined to 966,382 from 968,377 on Wednesday. India’s total number of lab-confirmed infections is now over 5.73 million, of whom 4.67 million patients have recovered and 91,149 have died. But Sinha and medical researchers tracking the epidemic warn that the trend has been observed for too short a period and it is unclear whether other factors, if any, such as the number of samples tested daily might have influenced the change. “We cannot yet make any inferences from this dip — we’ll have to wait, possibly for weeks,” Sinha told The Telegraph, pointing out that the R value for Delhi had dipped below 1 for about a month during July-August, but increased and remains above that level. The analysis also found that R values for the five states with the largest numbers of active patients have also fallen below 1. Maharashtra, for instance, has an R of 0.86 while the values for other states are 0.91 in Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh, 0.80 in Andhra Pradesh, and 0.99 in Tamil Nadu. Bengal, Jammu and Kashmir, Madhya Pradesh and Punjab are among states with R slightly above 1. “We cannot make any interpretations from this data without looking at the numbers of the samples tested and what tests were used,” said a community medicine specialist and member of a research group on epidemiology and surveillance set up by the Indian Council of Medical Research. Diagnostic labs across the country are using two types of tests — one called the PCR test looks for viral genetic material and is considered reliable while the other so-called antigen test looks for viral protein components and is less reliable.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-647
25-09-2020||India||Kashmir: Hours after liquidation video, Babar Qadri killed||Lawyer and TV panellist Babar Qadri was shot dead outside his Srinagar home on Thursday, shortly after he had publicly excoriated separatist ideologue and Kashmir High Court Bar Association president Mian Qayoom and accused the advocate’s associates of looking to kill him. Eyewitnesses said two youths came looking for Qadri, 40, late in the afternoon and shot the father of two young daughters as he stepped out of his home in the Hawal locality. “We heard gunshots and saw him lying blood-soaked. He had multiple gunshot wounds,” a neighbour said. No group has claimed responsibility so far. Qadri was a frequent participant in debates about Kashmir on national television and was variously dubbed an Indian or Pakistani agent by his opponents. He knew people in high places in both countries. A few hours before his murder, Qadri had in a Facebook video accused Bar Association lawyers of planning to kill him. Qayoom had been released recently after being arrested ahead of the abrogation of Article 370 on August 5 last year. A key aide to Hurriyat hawk Syed Ali Shah Geelani, Qayoom had been a vocal advocate of the pro-azadi struggle. A lawyer close to Qayoom said the Bar had neither any role in Qadri’s murder nor any knowledge of who killed him. Retired army officers and BJP politicians had, however, accused Qadri of being a Pakistani agent. During a TV debate, BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra had addressed the lawyer as “Mr Gaddari”. “Khate India ka ho, gaate Pakistan ka ho (You eat India’s bread but sing for Pakistan),” Patra told him. In his Facebook video, Qadri cited messages that some lawyers close to Qayoom had apparently exchanged among themselves, possibly within their WhatsApp groups. “If you look at their comments… it is clear their intention is to liquidate me. This is because they have no answers to my questions,” he said, without revealing the content of these “comments”. Qadri had accused Qayoom of using militants and Pakistani agencies to stifle opposition within the Bar and turning it into an extension of Geelani’s Hurriyat faction. He had also criticised senior lawyers for sending their children to the US and other foreign countries to study while provoking the children of ordinary people to pick up arms and stones. In the video, he claimed that Qayoom had secured his release from jail by pledging silence on political issues. A lawyer close to Qayoom claimed Qadri had recently sought renewal of his Bar membership, terminated in 2012 because of his constant criticism, and had resented it when told a decision could be taken only after internal elections at an unspecified date. National Conference politician Agha Ruhullah appeared to blame the government's inaction for Qadri's death. "They didn't listen to you and you had to pay with your life for their deafness. They ignored you and it proved criminal," he tweeted. It's unclear whether the police had investigated Qadri's allegations. Former chief minister Omar Abdullah condemned the assassination and demanded a probe. "The assassination of Babar Qadri this evening is tragic & I unequivocally condemn it. The sense of tragedy is all the more because he warned of the threat. Sadly his warning was his last tweet," Omar tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-648
25-09-2020||India||Farmers block train tracks while Modi tracks fitness routine||On a day Prime Minister Narendra Modi persuaded captain Virat Kohli to give him a crash course on the Yo-Yo test, farmers in Punjab began blockading tracks and the railways expressed fear that the movement of food grain and other essentials could be severely affected. Farmers in Punjab and Haryana, supported by the Opposition, are protesting against the farm bills that they fear will deprive them of the minimum support price for their produce and aid a takeover of the farm sector by big companies. A three-day rail blockade was launched on Thursday in Punjab, ahead of a call by farmer unions for a nationwide strike on Friday. By nightfall, at least 20 trains had been “partially cancelled” and five “short-terminated” till September 26 as the protesters in Punjab blocked tracks at several places. “The disruption of rail services at this time will have a serious impact on freight loading as well as passenger movement. It will affect the movement of essential goods,” Northern and North Central Railway general manager Rajiv Chaudhry told PTI. While the Congress on Thursday offered support to Friday’s strike, the Prime Minister marked the first anniversary of the “Fit India Movement”. One of the fitness influencers Modi interacted with over video was Kohli. The Prime Minister asked the skipper about the Yo-Yo test and a smiling Kohli explained the running aerobic fitness routine to him. The two farm bills have been passed in both Houses of Parliament disregarding Opposition protests and are awaiting presidential assent. For all its show of nonchalance, the BJP has decided to deploy the full might of its massive organisation to try and restrict the farmers’ protests to Punjab and Haryana. Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said on Thursday: “I am ready to talk to any farmer or any farmers’ body even at midnight.” A day before the countrywide protest called by the farmers, the BJP’s central leadership directed all state units to launch a massive campaign at the district and block levels to counter the Opposition's charge, sources in the ruling party said. “I have personally reached out to thousands of farmers and explained to them the benefits of the (proposed) laws,” said BJP parliamentarian Virendra Singh Mast, who heads the party’s farmer cell. The BJP leadership is hoping that the farmers’ agitation will fizzle out in Punjab and Haryana and not spread. The BJP leadership is concerned about Haryana, where the party is in power with the support of the regional Jannayak Janata Party. The BJP fears that if the protests intensify in Haryana, JJP leader and deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala could come under pressure like the Shiromani Akali Dal in Punjab. The Akali Dal has pulled out its lone minister from the Union cabinet in protest at the passage of the farm bills.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-648
25-09-2020||India||Digvijaya accuses BJD of supporting BJP||Senior Congress leader and former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Digvijaya Singh on Thursday targeted the BJD for supporting the BJP, which he said was working against the interest of the farmers. Addressing a press conference here, Singh said: “The BJD opposed the farm bills but it continues to support most of the BJP-led Centre’s decisions. There seems to be some kind of an understanding between both the parties. Both have joined hands to finish the farmers.” The Naveen Patnaik-led BJD had opposed the two farm bills — the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, and the Farmers’ (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 — in the Rajya Sabha. It had also demanded that the bills be sent to the standing committee in the Lok Sabha and the select committee in the Rajya Sabha for scrutiny. Singh said “The Congress is in touch with different parties at the state and the national level to oppose the two bills. We will also appeal to the BJD to support us and oppose the BJP’s anti farmer policies.” He said the Congress would continue to oppose the bills which were introduced by the BJP-led government in Parliament because of international pressure. “India during the Congress regime had resisted these pressures and never allowed anti-farmer powers to succeed. But the BJP government has succumbed to these pressures. We will take the issue to the farmers,” he said. Stating that all kinds of misinformation was being spread by the ruling dispensation with regard to the bills, he said now even rich people can open grain mandis. “Earlier, if there was a farmer related grievance, it was decided at the collector level and even in the civil court. Now the appeal will be heard at the joint secretary level in New Delhi. Is it possible for farmers to run to Delhi all the time for justice?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-648
25-09-2020||India||Uttarakhand government eases Covid norms for tourists  ||The Uttarakhand government has eased coronavirus norms for tourists, exempting them from producing a negative test report on arrival. The requirement of a mandatory stay of a minimum two days in a hotel or homestay will also not be required anymore, chief secretary Om Prakash said. However, it will be mandatory for tourists coming to the state by any mode of transportation to register on the Smart City portal prior to their travel. The new directions supersede the order issued on September 19 by which tourists were required to produce a negative RT-PCR test report issued by an ICMR-authorised lab not more than 96 hours ahead of their arrival, the order issued by the chief secretary said. Checks like thermal scanning, sanitisation and other prescribed health protocols for hotels and restaurants must be complied with, the new guidelines said. In case a tourist is found coronavirus positive, the hotel management shall intimate the district administration and make an arrangement for random testing to ensure the compliance of the guidelines issued by Union Ministry of Home Affairs and the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-648
25-09-2020||India||Tweet from Jammu officer’s handle blames one religion for spreading terrorism||A post from the Twitter handle of a senior police officer in Jammu appears to accuse followers of one religion of spreading terrorism across the world and names Myanmar and Sri Lanka as countries that have learnt this lesson well. Swarn Singh Kotwal, senior superintendent of police (security), Jammu, on Thursday posted he had “no relation whatsoever” to the controversial tweet, but had not removed the 26-day-old post by late evening. The IPS officer said he had complained to the police cyber cells in Jammu and Srinagar against “trolls” who were abusing him but said nothing about hackers. The controversial August 29 tweet said: “Time n again all political parties after every terrorist act of violence paddles (sic) aatankwad Ka koi dharm Nahi hota (terrorism has no religion)...but this I think is the biggest fraud being played on all of us. From Delhi Bengaluru to Sweden the religion is very much visible. Srilanka n Burma knew it in days.” Myanmar authorities are accused of genocide against Rohingya Muslims while in Sri Lanka, Muslims have faced attacks in recent years, especially since the April 2019 Easter Sunday bombings. Ironically, the worst and longest terrorist threat in Sri Lanka’s history came from the Tamil Tigers, a secular outfit whose leaders and cadres were mostly Hindus. Kotwal’s tweet had initially gone unnoticed, perhaps because he has few followers, but it has been widely read in the past few days. Police sources said there was anger in the force, where the ranks are largely Muslim. While the tweet did not name any religion, Kotwal later expressed agreement when some of those replying to him explicitly criticised Muslims in this context. Kotwal, whose Twitter profile describes him as a Hindu nationalist, appears to be a fan of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “Many PMs served the country in d past n many will in future, but d way u r serving like a true Sewak, this Bharat is indebted of (sic) Ur integrity, Dynamism, Vision n Energy. Very happy birthday Mr PM. May God bless on this n keep u Hale n hearty in future yrs. Long live my PM,” he tweeted on September 17. Kotwal’s August 29 tweet underlines a recent trend of people in uniform being increasingly associated with sectarian views. Former interim CBI chief and one-time Modi government favourite M. Nageswara Rao had days before his retirement in July alleged a “Project Abrahamisation of Hindu Civilisation” and accused past governments of whitewashing “bloody Islamic invasions/rule”. Gupteshwar Pandey, who retired as Bihar police chief this week, had been aggressively vocal about the Sushant Singh Rajput case, which the BJP has been accused of using to divert attention from its failures. Pandey had publicly hurled allegations, without citing evidence, against actress Rhea Chakraborty and questioned her “aukaat” to comment on chief minister Nitish Kumar. When The Telegraph called Kotwal, the call dropped before the officer could answer the first question. He did not respond to further calls. In response to this correspondent’s WhatsApp query whether he was advocating an anti-Muslim pogrom by referring to Myanmar and Sri Lanka, he said: “Never supported, will not support.” He gave no further explanations, nor answered the remaining queries. On Thursday afternoon, Kotwal posted a tweet that said: “Three days back some 8 t 9 tweet handerlers (sic) from valley suddenly followed me, started trolling n (and) threatening me about a tweet to which I have no relation whatsoever. I have formally lodged a complaint in this regard with SP Cyber cell Srinagar n SP Cyber cell jmu for n / a.” Superintendent of police Tahir Ashraf, the Kashmir cyber police chief, neither denied nor acknowledged that Kotwal had lodged a complaint. “People don’t complain with the SP, they can complain at police stations…. His writing a tweet (that he has lodged a complaint with Ashraf’s office) does not make any sense,” Ashraf said. “Why should he file a complaint here… he is (posted) in Jammu. If he has any grievance he can forward a complaint to cyber police Jammu.” Asked whether this meant he had no knowledge of the complaint, Ashraf asked this newspaper to check with his police station. The cyber police station did not answer calls. On social media, Kotwal has been accused of fanning communal disharmony. “Now I realise where this bigotry is coming from! SSP saab is very keen what kapil mishra has to say! After seeing this I rest my case!,” a tweet said. Kotwal replied: “I don’t subscribe to any idealogy (sic) or party. These r my personal views. You r my fellow countrymen. Let’s b proud of our nation. Hindustan Zindabad.” Mishra, a BJP leader, has been accused of making communally provocative speeches in the run-up to the Delhi February riots that killed 53 people. Kotwal has re-tweeted several of Mishra’s tweets, suggesting he is a fan. Kotwal’s Twitter timeline is crammed with tweets attacking Muslims. When one tweeter said that “people of only one religion take to rioting, burning public property, loot, arson and plunder each time they feel their religion is insulted, no matter which country they live in...”, Kotwal’s reply was: “Because they are taught so.” “Excellent sum up Ma’am. The sooner we all realize n accept it the better it is !!# Delhi Bengaluru n Sweden,” Kotwal said in reply to another tweet that read: “They seek asylum in ‘secular’ liberal western democracies crying victimhood, saying they want to escape from their oppressive sharia states. Once they get citizenship, they use the liberal laws of the same western democracies to turn them into oppressive sharia states! #BoloKaun.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-648
25-09-2020||India||Bhima-Koregaon case: 2 years in jail, ‘good case’, but no bail yet for Sudha Bharadwaj ||The Supreme Court on Thursday refused interim bail to rights activist Sudha Bharadwaj in the Bhima Koregaon case, questioning her claim that her poor health was a “ticking time bomb”. Bharadwaj, 58, has spent over two years in a Pune jail since her August 2018 arrest in the case, which relates to caste violence on January 1, 2018, and an alleged Maoist plot to target the Prime Minister’s rallies. Her lawyer, senior advocate Vrinda Grover, had underlined in court that Bharadwaj suffered from heart ailments, diabetes and arthritis. She said Bharadwaj could easily pick up Covid-19 from fellow inmates, with her existing diseases making her particularly vulnerable against the virus. But the bench of Justices U.U. Lalit and Ajay Rastogi decided after going through health records furnished by the Maharashtra government that her medical condition did not warrant interim bail. The bench advised Bharadwaj to approach the appropriate court for regular bail. “I am in custody since two years as an undertrial. Charges are not proved. I am only seeking interim bail,” Grover said. “She is 58 and is not severely diabetic,” Justice Lalit remarked, referring to her medical reports. Grover said Bharadwaj had developed her heart problems in jail and her condition was “a ticking time bomb”. “It (Bharadwaj’s condition) needs a cardio profile, lipid profile. Let me get the check-up done. She has also developed arthritis. She has never abused any court order,” Grover said. She argued the prosecution had produced no evidence to connect Bharadwaj with the violence in Bhima Koregaon, and asserted her client had at the time been practising at Bilaspur High Court. Justice Lalit asked why Bharadwaj had not applied for regular bail from the competent court. Grover replied that a plea for regular bail was pending with Bombay High Court. Justice Lalit then said that Bharadwaj’s blood sugar level was not excessive — it was only 114. (It’s normal to have sugar levels of 100 mg/dL after fasting for at least eight hours, and 140 mg/dL two hours after eating.) Grover said Bharadwaj’s family was concerned more about her cardiac problems and arthritis. Justice Rastogi then underscored that jail doctors had examined Bharadwaj on August 20 and found no serious problems. The apex court noted that the high court too had recorded that the medication provided to her was in order. “Are you saying this report is false? You have a good case on merits, why don’t you file a regular bail application? Either you withdraw it (interim bail plea) or we will dismiss it,” the bench said. Grover then withdrew the plea for interim bail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-648
25-09-2020||India||Trade unions to join farmer protests||Ten central trade unions have decided to support the all-India protests by farmers on Friday against the farm bills and highlight the employer-friendly provisions in the three labour code bills recently passed by Parliament. The trade unions, including Indian National Trade Union Congress, CPM-affiliated Centre of Indian Trade Unions (Citu) and CPI-affiliated All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC) will hold a meeting on Saturday to decide their future action against the passage of Occupational Safety, Health and Working Conditions Code, Industrial Relations Code and Social Security Code with many relaxed provisions. RSS-affiliated Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS) said these bills were “tilted too much in favour of employers and bureaucrats”. The Sangh in a statement said it would hold a three-day national conference from October 2 to discuss these bills. Citu secretary A.R. Sindhu said central trade unions would join farmers’ organisations on Friday to protest against the farm bills. “We are extending solidarity to the agitation against the farm bill. The labour bills are equally dangerous in terms of their impact on workers. We will highlight the anti-worker provisions like the weakening of trade union, restrictions on holding strikes, relaxation in the requirement of permission for industry to sack employees and relaxation of norms on probation, promotion or initiation of inquiry against any employee,” Sindhu said. Parliament on Wednesday passed the three labour bills amid boycott of the session by major Opposition parties. Officials in the labour ministry said the rule-making process would be fast-tracked with regard to the Occupational Safety, Health and Working Conditions Code and Industrial Relations Code after their notification. “They do not have much complexity. The rule making should not take much time. But the Social Security Code will need wide-ranging consultations and data. That may take a long time,” the official said. Parliament had passed the Wage Code in August last year. The rules of bill are not yet ready. G.P. Bhatia, former labour welfare commissioner, expressed doubt about the completion of the rule-making process before 2024. He said many of the provisions were not clear and had been left to the bureaucracy. “In all the codes, many things have not been defined like the applicability conditions. Once the Centre frames the rules, the states will take time to framing theirs. I feel it may take three years for these laws to come into force,” Bhatia said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-648
25-09-2020||India||Assam board cuts Nehru chapters from syllabus||If Nehru is not to blame, then better to keep him out. The Assam Higher Secondary Education Council (AHSEC), the state board, has removed several chapters on Jawaharlal Nehru while pruning the syllabus for Classes XI and XII to “reduce exam stress” and make up for the academic time lost because of the pandemic. The 30 per cent reduction in syllabus will be for the 2020-21 academic year. The AHSEC, an autonomous body, was established on June 1, 1984, to “regulate, supervise and develop” higher-secondary education in Assam. Many, however, pointed out that Assam is ruled by the BJP, which blames India’s first Prime Minister for all that ails India over half a century later. The topics that have been lopped off the Class XII political science syllabus are “Unit-I: First three general elections”, “Unit-II: Nehru’s approach to nation-building”, “Unit-III: Famine and suspension of five-year plans”, “Unit-IV: Nehru’s foreign policy” and “Unit-V: Political succession after Nehru, politics of and Garibi Hatao”. Chapters on the Ayodhya dispute and the Gujarat riots have also been deleted. Nehru was Prime Minister from 1947 till his death in 1964. The five-year plans were launched in 1951 under his watch. “Garibi Hatao” (abolish poverty) was the pet slogan of Nehru’s daughter and Prime Minister Indira Gandhi. “The Nehru years are the defining years of an emerging new India,” educationist Paresh Malakar told The Telegraph. “It is bit surprising,” he added, referring to the removal of the topics related to Nehru. Asked why topics related to Nehru had been chucked out, an AHSEC official told this newspaper: “There are still a lot on Nehru in the syllabus that the students can learn. We have not dropped whole chapters but only sub-topics. It is only for this session.” A government official said the AHSEC was an autonomous body that took its own decisions, ruling out government interference in the syllabus changes. In a brief report uploaded on its website on the reduced syllabus, the AHSEC said the move had been influenced by the decision of the CBSE, the country’s largest education board, to cut down the volume of the curriculum in view of the pandemic. The report pointed out that valuable time had been lost to the coronavirus pandemic, which had affected 1.6 lakh people and claimed 597 lives in Assam till Wednesday. All government schools in Assam have resumed physical classes for students of Classes IX to XII from September 21 in keeping with a central government suggestion. However, attendance, which is voluntary and requires mandatory parental consent, has been thin. The other deleted topics included the Punjab militancy crisis and the anti-Sikh riots of 1984, the implementation of the Mandal Commission report to introduce reservations, the United Front, NDA and UPA governments, and the 2004 elections. The Plus II syllabus has been trimmed after seeking views from other state boards, experts, college principals and teachers, the AHSEC said. The decision was taken at a meeting held on August 19, it said, adding that subject experts from various reputed institutions had been physically present during the finalisation of the reduced syllabus. “The main objective is to reduce the exam stress of the students for the 2020-21 session due to this pandemic situation and to prevent learning gaps,” Manoranjan Kakati, the AHSEC secretary, was quoted as saying in the report uploaded on the board website.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-648
25-09-2020||India||Modi ‘busy with fitness’, not farmers||The Congress on Thursday lent its voice to the agitating farmers by accusing the government of giving licence to the corporates for profiteering in agriculture trade and also exposed the inconsistencies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi who was busy discussing fitness regimes of celebrities. As farmers started a rail roko agitation in Punjab, a precursor to Friday’s nationwide strike, the Congress held media conferences in Delhi, Nagpur, Ahmedabad, Thiruvananthpuram, Patna, Jammu and Shimla to explain the ill effects of farm reforms, while Rahul Gandhi took a dig at Modi for spending time on celebrities instead of solving the country’s pressing problems. Senior Congress leaders will on Friday move to other big cities to talk about farm bills. Rahul, who returned to Delhi on Wednesday along with Congress president Sonia Gandhi from the US where she went for medical check-up, tweeted: “Priorities of Modi Government: Instead of talking to farmers and labourers to find a solution to their problems, they are busy in public relations.” Rahul attached a report with the tweet which explained how Modi told cricketer Virat Kohli that Delhi’s famous “chhole-bhature” got ignored because of his strict fitness  regime. The Prime Minister was talking to celebrities as part of Fit India dialogue. While Rahul clearly hinted that Modi’s priorities were wrong, party spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi also lamented tactics of “diversion and distraction” as issues ranging from economy to Chinese intrusion and Covid-19 were crying for attention. Apart from creating a noise about the injustice meted out to the farmers across the country, the Congress also pointed to the Prime Minister’s duplicity on the question of problems of agriculture sector. Former Union minister Jairam Ramesh recalled how Modi as Gujarat chief minister wanted statutory guarantee for MSP (minimum support price) and refused to concede the same as Prime Minister. “U-Turn Modi. 1. Opposed GST as Chief Minister. Introduced it as Prime Minister (and made a mess of it) 2. Wanted MSP for private trade in law as Chief Minister. Against it as Prime Minister,” Ramesh tweeted. Modi as Gujarat chief minister had chaired a working group on consumer affairs in 2011 and submitted a report to then Prime Minister Manmohan Singh. The report said, “Since intermediaries play a vital role in the functioning of the market and at times they have advance contract with farmers, in respect of all essential commodities we should protect farmers’ interest by mandating through statutory provisions that no farmer-trader transaction should be below MSP wherever prescribed.” This is what the Opposition and the agitating farmers are demanding now. In the report, Modi had also suggested strengthening of the public distribution system (PDS), improvement in effectiveness of the Essential Commodities Act and other statutes and stepping up vigilance against hoarding to ensure reasonable prices of essential commodities. Ironically, the Modi government has now removed stock limit by diluting the Essential Commodities Act. Abhishek Singhvi said at a news conference: “This government is introducing new forms of feudalism. By removing the stock limit, they are giving licence to hoarding and profiteering. Modi is lying that now there will be no restrictions on selling the produce anywhere in the country. “There was never any restriction on the farmers. He calls the reform historic and says the moves are good for farmers. With friends like these, farmers don’t need an enemy.” He added: “Why didn’t any other Prime Minister think of contract farming? Is Modi the wisest? Over 86  per cent farmers have less than five acres of land, mostly two acres. Will a farmer having two acres of land have the bargaining power against big corporate players? “This is new feudalism. Also, the changes are unconstitutional and will be struck down by the Supreme Court as agriculture as well as trade and commerce are exclusive domains of the state. Markets and fairs also fall in the state’s jurisdiction.” Singhvi demolished the attempts to paint a rosy picture by recalling the Bihar example where the Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) Act was abolished in 2006. He cited from several studies which suggest that promises of private investment proved fallacious and the public procurement system got completely ruined. Procurement of grains by government agencies in Bihar have been less than 1 per cent over the last many years and the number of procurement centres  got reduced from 9,000 in 2015-16 to merely 1,600 in 2019-20.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-648
25-09-2020||India||Delhi riots: Kapil Mishra meets special cell||Kapil Mishra appeared before the special cell over the riots in the capital in February. The former MLA, who had delivered a provocative speech immediately before the riots in which 53 people were killed, has been accused by the Delhi minority commission of provoking the flare-up. The police, however, have said in a chargesheet that Mishra did not deliver any inflammatory speech. Senior police officers remained tight-lipped about Thursday’s interaction, in sharp contrast to the official and unofficial media briefings whenever students and social activists are questioned in connection with the case. Mishra said after coming out of the Lodhi Gardens office of the special cell: “At a time when the police are filing chargesheets in the case and rioters are being arrested, a section is running a hate campaign against me and trying to save the real conspirators. That is why I came to the special cell office to file a complaint so that these people can be investigated.” Delhi police have been accused of conducting a “one-sided” investigation into the riots and “shielding” some BJP politicians, including Mishra. The Delhi minority panel has alleged that “the police were complicit and abetted the attacks” during the riots and arrested the victims rather than the perpetrators.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-648
25-09-2020||India||Air quality improves in Delhi’s 13 hotspots||Air quality in Delhi’s 13 pollution hotspots improved significantly because of restrictions on industrial operations and commercial and vehicular activity during the lockdown, according to the Central Pollution Control Board. The Delhi government has identified 13 pollution hotspots in the city based on the annual average of PM10 and PM2.5 levels. These are Okhla Phase-II, Dwarka, Ashok Vihar, Bawana, Narela, Mundka, Punjabi Bagh, Wazirpur, Rohini, Vivek Vihar, Anand Vihar, R.K. Puram and Jahangirpuri. PM2.5 is tiny particulate matter less than 2.5 microns in diameter. It can enter deep into the lungs and even into the bloodstream. The CPCB said it analysed air quality data in three stages — pre-lockdown (March 1-21), lockdown phase-I (March 25-April 19) and lockdown phase-II (April 20-May 3). A comparative analysis was also done for the corresponding time periods in 2019 to assess the improvement. “Noticeable reduction in PM2.5, PM10 and NO2 levels in hotspots of Delhi was observed during the lockdown period as compared to 2019 levels, in all likelihood due to restrictions on operations of industrial and commercial areas and vehicular activity,” it said. The reduction in PM2.5 levels varied from 54 per cent in Jahangirpuri to 26 per cent in Punjabi Bagh. Dwarka recorded a 50 per cent decline in PM2.5 levels.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-649
25-09-2020||India||CBSE retest result for Class XII by October 10||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on Thursday informed the Supreme Court that it would declare the compartment exam results for Class XII by October 10. The University Grants Commission (UGC) also informed a bench comprising Justices A.M. Khanwilkar and Sanjiv Khanna that it would start the academic calendar for undergraduate courses from October 31 and by that time the retest results will be out. The top court was hearing a plea filed by Anika Samvedi seeking a direction to ensure that the academic year of these students shouldn’t go waste. The statements of the CBSE and the UGC assume significance in view of the earlier observation of the bench that they should work in tandem to ensure that the academic year of students appearing for the retest was not wasted. It had said that the CBSE should declare the results of compartment examinations expeditiously and the UGC ensure that students get admission in colleges.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-649
25-09-2020||India||Covid: Supreme Court to examine civil services exam postponement plea ||The Supreme Court on Thursday agreed to examine the plea by some aspirants seeking postponement of the upcoming civil services exams by two-three months in view of the spiralling Covid-19 cases in the country. A bench of Justices A.M. Khanwilkar and Sanjiv Khanna, while adjourning the matter to September 28, asked the counsel for petitioner Vasireddy Govardhana Sai Prakash to serve a copy of the petition to the Centre and the Union Public Service Commission. The court, however, refrained from either issuing notice or any interim directions like stay on the exams as sought by the students. “Liberty is granted to serve advance copy on the Standing Counsel for the Union Public Service Commission as well as on the Standing Counsel for the Central Agency representing Union of India through email/online. List the matter on 28.09.2020,” the bench said in its order. An estimated 6 lakh students would be taking the UPSC exam scheduled on October 4 in over 72 centres in different parts of the country. The petitioners have contended that the UPSC and the authorities had decided to proceed with the exams in an “arbitrary” and “whimsical” manner in utter disregard of the rising number of Covid-19 cases, thus ignoring the safety and health of the 6 lakh-odd aspirants. According to the candidates, making them write the exams being conducted in an offline mode has made lakhs of students vulnerable to get affected by the pandemic and cause a threat to their lives, which they said was a violation of their fundamental rights guaranteed under Article 21 (right to life and liberty). Besides, it was argued that in several other parts of the country the flood situation would make it difficult for the students to take the exams scheduled for October 4. Hence, they pleaded that the exams be postponed by two-three months as by that time the pandemic situation may stabilise in the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-649
25-09-2020||India||Delhi riots: witch-hunt of India’s brightest, say scholars||More than 200 scholars, writers and artistes on Thursday demanded the release of Umar Khalid and other social activists arrested in connection with the Delhi riots and the protests against the new citizenship regime, denouncing the action as a “premeditated witch-hunt” against “India’s best and brightest”. The signatories include linguist Noam Chomsky; authors Salman Rushdie, Amitav Ghosh and Arundhati Roy; philosophers Angela Davis, Cornel West, Achille Mbembe and Akeel Bilgrami; economists Richard Jolly and Prabhat Patnaik; filmmakers Mira Nair and Anand Patwardhan; actress Ratna Shah; former Indian Navy chief L. Ramdas; and historians Ramachandra Guha, Sheldon Pollock, David Hardiman, Rajmohan Gandhi and Sumit Sarkar. They said in a statement: “Currently, 19 of the 21 people falsely accused under terror laws (in connection with the February riots) are Muslim. If we allow their identity to become their crime, India shall stand shamed in the global community of secular nations. These people are not terrorists, and the police investigation into the Delhi riots is not an investigation. It is a pre-meditated witch-hunt.” Demanding the release of Khalid and others arrested for protesting against the new citizenship matrix “that denies equal citizenship rights”, the signatories said: “We stand in solidarity and outrage with the brave young scholar and activist Umar Khalid, arrested in New Delhi on September 14, 2020, under fabricated charges of engineering the Delhi riots in February 2020…. “This process of criminalising all dissent has been underway for a few years and even under a Covid-19 pandemic, relentless political arrests under fabricated charges are punishing the innocent long before they are brought to trial.” They added: “He (Khalid) has been projected as a jihadi and a figure of hate by sections of a compromised Indian media, not only because he speaks persuasively against government policies that he believes are unjust, but also because he is Muslim. “Today Umar Khalid joins a long list of those targeted, implicated and unjustly incarcerated under the UAPA (Unlawful Activities Prevention Act), only because they were active in the equal citizenship movement, against the CAA-NRC. To send its chilling message to all critics, the State has chosen India’s best and brightest; the young, the fearless, the dreamers of a better country, where inequality is not a bitter pill for some to swallow but a vile aberration to be fought against at all times.” The statement comes days after the police denied, in a chargesheet, that BJP leader Kapil Mishra had delivered a provocative speech before large-scale rioting started and that he was merely conveying his intention to cops to start protesting if they did not clear a road in northeast Delhi of those agitating against the new citizenship regime.  Delhi High Court had pulled up the police for not acting against Mishra and played his speech in court. The signatories said: “Although between December 2019 and February 2020, leaders from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) gave hate speeches inciting their supporters to ‘shoot the traitors’, no cases have been registered against them. The role of BJP leader Kapil Mishra has shockingly not attracted the merest police scrutiny; even though he stood in Northeast Delhi on February 23, 2020, along with the deputy commissioner of police and threatened that his supporters would ‘take matters into their own hands’ if the CAA protesters were not removed.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-649
25-09-2020||India||Jurists see NGO ‘harassment’ in amendment||The Geneva-based International Commission of Jurists has condemned the passage of the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Amendment Bill in the Indian Parliament, saying it would seriously undermine the work of civil society and small NGOs that seek to safeguard the freedom of speech and fundamental rights with the help of foreign funding. The commission, an NGO that defends human rights and the rule of law worldwide, noted that “the restrictions in the Bill continued a larger pattern of threats and harassment faced by civil society in India”. “The Indian government has sought to restrict human rights defenders from travelling outside India and used overbroad laws like sedition (Section 124A, Indian Penal Code) and Unlawful Activities Prevention Act, 1967, to arbitrarily arrest human rights defenders. At present, over 20 human rights defenders are in pre-trial detention. The spirit of the Bill is to stigmatise certain NGOs and lend credence to the authoritarian voices that have attacked them as ‘anti-national’,” the commission said. According to the commission, the proposed law had significantly amended the previous Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act, 2010, which too had imposed overbroad and vague restrictions on civil society. The bill, which cleared the Rajya Sabha on Wednesday and is awaiting presidential consent, makes it mandatory for NGO office-bearers to furnish their Aadhaar numbers, enables the Centre to allow NGOs or associations to surrender their FCRA certificates and bars public servants from receiving funds from abroad. The government has said the legislation is aimed at ensuring transparency. While tabling the bill in the Rajya Sabha, minister of state for home Nityanand Rai had said the proposed amendments were in the interest of good NGOs that want to do good work in the country. “Those NGOs which do not adhere to transparency may feel bad,” Rai said, adding that some NGOs misused money to fund extremists and anti-national outfits. The Geneva-based commission said the measures would effectively restrict access to foreign funding, particularly for public servants and smaller NGOs. The bill adds onerous governmental oversight, additional regulations, certification processes and operational requirements while simultaneously reducing the limit of administrative expenditure that can be allocated to foreign contributions to 20 per cent from 50 per cent, the commission pointed out. In the statement issued from Geneva, Ian Seiderman, the legal and policy director of the commission, alleged that the bill had failed to comply with India’s international legal obligations and constitutional provisions to respect and protect the rights to freedom of association, expression and assembly. The commission stressed that the bill’s provisions would impose arbitrary and extraordinary obstacles for human rights defenders and other civil society actors. Alleging that the bill was incompatible with international law, the commission called on India’s President to withhold assent. It urged the government to at least scrap the provisions that are inconsistent with international law. “The bill has been passed by both Houses of Parliament only four days after it was tabled, and without any stakeholder consultation. This hasty lawmaking that clearly undermines human rights and the work of civil society is yet another attempt by the government to destabilise the functioning of democratic institutions in India,” Seiderman said. He pointed out that the UN Human Rights Council had in its Resolution 22/6 on Protecting Human Rights Defenders declared that “no law should criminalise or delegitimise activities in defence of human rights on account of the origin of funding”. Further, the UN Special Rapporteur on Assembly and Association has clarified that controls in laws should not “unduly obstruct the legitimate work” and need to be “fair, objective and non-discriminatory, and not be used as a pretext to silence critics”, the commission said. The statement added: “The unfortunate result is that many civil society organisations will be chilled from seeking or accepting scarce funds from the largest pool of donors, even in cases where it is not clear whether they would be running afoul of the FCRA. These resources are also vital to maintaining the independence of the work of NGOs.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-649
25-09-2020||West Bengal||Mamata announces Durga Puja package for organisers||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday announced Rs 50,000 each for all community Puja organisers in Bengal and waived the fees they normally have to pay to the civic body and fire services. She added that the Puja organisers would need to pay only half the electricity bill they run up, whether with CESC or the state-run WBSEDCL. As Mamata made the announcements at her annual meeting with Puja organisers at Netaji Indoor Stadium, the audience of nearly 6,000 broke into applause that continued for a while. Struggling to arrange the funds in a year of pandemic and lockdown, Puja organisers had turned up in strength, eager to hear what the government had in mind for them. They perked up when Mamata said: “Taholey Puja kintu hochchhe, hobe (So, the Pujas are happening). Let’s lock down Covid.” She, however, repeatedly reminded the organisers to take the virus seriously and follow all the protocols. She said there would be no “carnival” — the pre-immersion road show — on Red Road this time. “Ami apnader jonyo ki korte pari (What can I do for you)? Sudhu gyan dilei toh hoy na (Sermons aren’t enough). The economic situation is so bad. You will probably not get advertisements and sponsorship this year; how will you hold the Puja?” she wondered aloud. She added: “Anyway, we’ll try to do as much as we can.” She mentioned the funds crunch her government was facing, and the money it had had to spend to manage and control the pandemic. “It’s true that we haven’t got money. It’s also true that this time the Puja committees are in deep trouble. I’m aware of that,” the chief minister said. “Ami toh apnaderi gharer lok, ar eta amader jatiyo utsav (I’m one of you, like family, and this is our premier festival). Since the problem is deeper this time, the state government will give Rs 50,000 to every Puja committee.” The amount is double what her government had offered last year to the state’s about 37,000 community Puja organisers. Before Mamata could finish, the organisers had begun chanting: “Mamata Banerjee zindabad.” While the officially recognised community Pujas — those that have police permission — number 37,000, many smaller community Pujas are held without official sanction across the lanes and alleys of the state’s towns and villages. Mamata asked the police to grant permission to the older among these Pujas, which means the number of recipients of the government’s grant could rise this year. “Several committees have been organising Puja for almost 10 years now but have not received official permission. I request the police to grant permission to such Puja organisers,” Mamata said. Puja organisers said Calcutta had around 1,200 such Pujas and Bengal, as a whole, some 6,000-odd. Saswata Basu of the Hatibagan Sarbajanin Durgotsav Committee said all the Puja committees were “indebted” to the chief minister. He lauded Mamata’s gesture in recognising the smaller Pujas. “What’s most touching is that she realised our plight and doubled the grant,” he said. The Puja largesse comes amid a single-minded BJP campaign to paint Mamata as “anti-Hindu”, and follows the recent announcement of a monthly grant for poor Hindu priests that many view as a sop to the majority community ahead of next year’s elections. Aware of the criticism, Mamata herself broached the subject, saying the aid for the Hindu priests did not mean her government was unsympathetic to the other communities’ needs. She said all religious communities could approach the government for help. “If a Christian father (priest) approaches me, a Buddhist or a representative of the Jains approaches me, I shall do the same. Karon policy kokhono discriminate kora jaye na (There cannot be any discrimination in policy),” Mamata said. In the audience were representatives of various religious communities — something Mamata ensures every year to emphasise the Pujas’ cross-community appeal. Among them were monks from the Ramakrishna Math and Ramakrishna Mission and representatives of the Christian, Sikh, Muslim and Buddhist communities. “Pujo mone rakhben Hindu, Muslim, Sikh, Isai sabai mileyi korey (Remember, all communities together celebrate Puja),” Mamata said. She cited how, before she had taken the mike, “representatives of all the religions spoke the same language of pluralism”. Hawkers: 81,000 to get Rs 2,000 ahead of Puja Asha workers: Monthly hike of Rs 1,000 Civic volunteers and Green Police: Monthly hike of Rs 1,000 Anganwadi workers: Retirement benefit of Rs 3 lakh||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-362
25-09-2020||West Bengal||Pass motion against farm laws: Left & Cong to CM||Leaders of Opposition parties in Bengal have written to chief minister Mamata Banerjee, requesting her to call a special session of the Assembly immediately to pass a resolution against the contentious farm and essential commodities laws enacted by Parliament recently “We want to propose and discuss an anti-central government stand at the assembly. If the government makes a similar proposal during the session, we will be in favour of it for the interest of the people,” the letter signed by Opposition leader Abdul Mannan and Left legislative party leader Sujan Chakraborty read. “The issues covered by the bills are matters of the state... In such a situation it is imperative that immediate action is taken to ensure that the bills aren’t implemented in our state,” the letter added. Asked to comment on the issue Trinamul MLA and the party’s chief whip Nirmal Ghosh said since the letter had been written to the chief minister, a decision would be taken at the highest level. The Congress and Left parties have hit the streets to protest the provisions in the farm bills. The Trinamul Congress also announced a series of political programmes as part of its strategy to highlight the Narendra Modi government’s anti-farmer policies. “The Left and the Congress want to take the first mover advantage by tossing up the proposal for a resolution against the bills... This is not only a strategy against the BJP, but also a plan to castle Trinamul,” said a political analyst. According to him, if the ruling party agrees to the proposal, the Left and the Congress, which are likely to contest the Assembly polls in an alliance, will claim victory once the Assembly adopts a resolution. “If the ruling party doesn’t pay heed to the demand, they will accuse Mamata of having some understanding with Prime Minister Narendra Modi,” said the analyst. In January, a resolution against the Citizenship Amendment Act had been passed by the Assembly. Parliamentary affairs minister Partha Chatterjee moved the resolution with both the Congress and the Left parties supporting it. Referring to that resolution in their letter, Mannan and Chakraborty urged Mamata to take necessary action with no delay. “Opposing the bills just for the sake of doing so will not do any good. If the government truly wants to stop the implementation of the bills in the state, it has to take some concrete action,” Chakraborty told a news conference. Mannan said: “Two legislative parties in the opposition have taken this step together. We hope the government will listen to us.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-362
25-09-2020||West Bengal||3,196 new Covid cases in Bengal||Bengal on Thursday reported 3,196 Covid-19 cases and 62 deaths on one hand, and 3,014 recoveries on the other, taking the total number of patients past 2.37 lakh, of whom over 2.08 lakh recovered and 4,606 died. Of the new cases, Calcutta reported 607 and North 24-Parganas, 632. “The five high-incidence districts (Calcutta, North and South 24-Parganas, Howrah and Hooghly) have once again started showing signs of a surge, with more new cases than recoveries, resulting in rise in active cases,” said a minister. On Thursday, the five districts logged a net addition of 261 (new cases minus deaths and recoveries). The minister stressed that “renewed intervention” would be necessary over the next four weeks. “We cannot afford to have a flare-up ahead of Puja,” he added. Bengal has 25,221 active cases now, reporting a rise in total active cases for the 17th consecutive day. Of the total 4,606 deaths reported, these five districts accounted for over 80 per cent. Calcutta alone reported 1,633, with 14 deaths on Thursday. With 20 more deaths, North 24-Parganas logged a toll of 1,031. The state government reported 3,936, or 85.5 per cent, as deaths with co-morbidity “present”. Bengal’s overall mortality rate remained at 1.93, substantially behind the national rate of 1.58 per cent. However, mortality rate in infected males improved in a month from 2.17 to 2.15, and in infected females from 1.69 to 1.56 per cent. On the brighter side, Bengal’s recovery rate continued to rise, reaching 87.46 on Thursday, marking a rise by over 25 per cent in two months. The national rate now is 81.53 per cent. On Thursday, the state also reported 43,432 tests, taking the total past 29.67 lakh, at 32,977 tests per million people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-362
25-09-2020||West Bengal||Rescued girl killed in road accident||A minor girl abducted from Siliguri and rescued in Cooch Behar district died in a road accident with her mother and uncle on Thursday, hours after she was reunited with her family. A police constable also died in the accident. A sub-inspector, a lady constable and the youth accused of abducting the girl, have suffered injuries. Sources said a few days back, Kailash Das of Khochabari under Sahebganj police station of Dinhata subdivision in Cooch Behar, who knew this 17-year-old girl, had convinced her to elope with him. As she went missing, her family filed a complaint with Pradhannagar police. Police tracked the girl to Khochabari. A police team led by sub-inspector Biswajit Das, a police constable and a lady constable headed for Sahebganj on Wednesday in an SUV, with the girl’s mother and uncle. The team reached Khochabari, rescued her and arrested Kailash. “All started for Siliguri on Thursday morning in the SUV. As they were crossing Ghokshadanga, a dog came in front of the vehicle. We suspect the driver lost control, the vehicle skidded off the road and fell into a ditch. The girl and three others died. Three others were injured,” said Chandan Das, the DSP (traffic) of Cooch Behar. Residents and a police team reached the accident site and took all passengers to a local health centre. There, doctors pronounced the girl, her mother and uncle, and Pradhannagar constable Gobinda Sen, 40, dead. Accused Kailash, sub-inspector Das and constable Chandana Pal are admitted to Ghoksadanga hospital. The driver managed to flee. “Search is on to nab him,” said Das. The vehicle, police sources said, was running at 80kmph. The injured police personnel have confirmed that the driver was dozing. “He had driven from Siliguri to Khochabari, and after the rescue, he started for Siliguri. It seems he was feeling sleepy. He should have rested. That could have averted the accident,” said a police officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-362
25-09-2020||West Bengal||Traffic back on landslide-hit road to Sikkim||Traffic to and from Sikkim along NH10 — the principal highway that connects the Himalayan state with the rest of the country — was restored on Thursday morning, a day after four landslides had occurred along the road between Sevoke and Teesta Bazaar. NH10 also links the Kalimpong district of Bengal. On Wednesday, heavy monsoon downpour had brought down debris from hillsides at three locations along the highway, while the road had caved in at Swetijhora, located around 35km from here. “Excavators and workers were engaged on all the sites to clear the debris from the road. In Swetijhora, as a major portion of the road had fallen into the gorge, machines were used for back-cutting or cutting the mountainside to create space so that vehicles can move,” said a source in the Kalimpong district administration. After the landslides, movement of heavy vehicles had stopped from Siliguri to Sikkim and Kalimpong, while light vehicles were advised to take turnaround routes. There was an apprehension among residents of the neighbouring state and those in Kalimpong over the halt in supply of essential commodities. “In some places, vehicles are moving in a single flank at lower speed but at least, traffic could be restored. If the weather remains sunny and dry during the next few days, appropriate repairs would be taken up,” the source said. On Thursday, though it did not rain much in the sub-Himalayan districts of Bengal, districts like North Dinajpur and South Dinajpur reported rainfall and also waterlogging at some locations. While the downpour on Wednesday led to landslides along the highway, it also affected at least 30 houses at Panigolai, a locality near Soureni in the Mirik subdivision of Darjeeling district. Ashwini Roy, the SDO of Mirik, along with the BDO and some other officials, reached the spot on Wednesday late evening and shifted the families to safer places while handing over relief materials to them. “Around 11pm on Wednesday, we had to shift around 80 persons of 30 families from the Panigolai area. This is because their houses are standing precariously and mud and water are sliding in the area. There was no other choice but to relocate them for their safety,” said the SDO. On Thursday, Anit Thapa, the chairperson of the BoA at the GTA and L.B. Rai, the civic chairman of Mirik, visited the affected area. Both spoke to the families and said they would be provided with necessary help in rebuilding their houses. Met Office said the southwest monsoon was still hovering in the region. “There is a chance of rain and thundershowers in most places of sub-Himalayan Bengal and Sikkim during the next two days,” said a weather expert.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-363
25-09-2020||West Bengal||Team to rush supplies to Covid patients||A rise in Covid cases in Krishnagar prompted its municipal authorities to form a team of 50 dedicated volunteers to deliver essential items at the doorsteps of positive patients in home isolation in the town’s 25 wards. The volunteer service, launched on Thursday, will be available from 9am to 8pm every day over the next three months. Among the volunteers are young municipal employees who own motorcycles. Others are members of clubs and social organisations in the town. An official of the Krishnagar Municipality said the names of volunteers for respective wards, their contact numbers and other necessary details had been sent to councillors and circulated among residents of the municipal area. SDO Krishnagar (Sadar) Manish Verma, who is also the administrator of Krishnagar Municipality, said: “Our objective is to ensure the fastest possible doorstep service with the support of dedicated motorcycle-borne volunteers who will rush to meet the need of the people recuperating in home isolation.” Verma said the decision to field volunteers was taken as the town was of late witnessing a rise in the number of Covid cases. Till Thursday, 238 cases have been recorded in the town with 47 positive cases reported during the past seven days. “Since the number of positive cases has been increasing, the need to serve on a real-time basis has become very important. Dedicated volunteers have been engaged to supply essential items such as medicine, (drinking) water, and other items of daily needs to the recuperating people,” Verma said. “We invited volunteers to join the service and engaged them only after they gave their written consent,” said Verma. On Thursday the volunteers were briefed about their duties and trained how to handle calls beyond their duty hours. A magistrate later randomly checked their preparedness. Volunteers will not be paid for the service but their fuel cost will be reimbursed. This apart, they will be given mandatory protective gear such as mask and 35ml of sanitiser every day. “This is a sort of community participation. We are taking the support of people who often come forward to organise social activities such as blood donations camps,” Verma added. Palash Das, one of those who volunteered for the service, said: “I, along with a few of my friends, am providing support to Covid patients ever since the first case was reported in Krishnagar. The invitation from the municipal authorities to do the same job on their behalf is a kind of administrative recognition.” Even though Covid cases have been reported from nine wards in the town, the administration prepared a team for all wards to be ready to handle any emergency situation. “We have also drawn up a reserve team if the number of cases rises further,” said former chairman and member of the administrative board Ashim Kumar Saha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-363
25-09-2020||West Bengal||Proposal for new police stations in 2 districts||The superintendents of police of Murshidabad and Jangipur police districts have submitted proposals to the state home department for creation of new police stations and manpower. In the Murshidabad police district, authorities have requested the formation of four new stations at Rajdhapara, Karnasuvarna, Sargachhi, and Gangadhhari to serve the extended municipalities and gram panchayat areas. Sources said police personnel in the district had reported feeling “understaffed” despite the bifurcation of the district police dispensation into two (Jangipur police district) in January 2020. “We want the erstwhile Berhampore station to serve only the municipality now, whereas the one at Karnasuvarna will serve six gram panchayats west of Berhampore town,” said a source. “The old station in Beldanga can be shifted to Sargachhi to include more gram panchayats whereas the one in Nowda’s Gangadhari can cover four gram panchayats, including those in Hariharpara and Domkal,” the source added. The sources said the Murshidabad police district had also leased out an office in the Beldanga station area and posted a DSP there. Murshidabad superintendent of police K. Sabari Rajkumar acknowledged the need of expanding police rosters and capacity. “Our population is growing by the day and this has led to a spurt in crimes. Cybercrime has become a major problem of our times. Keeping these things in mind and with an aim to decentralise the force, we have sent the proposal to create four new police stations to the government,” he said. In the Jangipur police district, sources have said officials are pushing for the current Raghunathganj headquarters to be split into one in Jangipur and another station east of the river in the municipal town. “We want the introduction of two new stations in total. One could be located in Suti’s Ahiran as well, which is centrally located,” said a source. Officials in Murshidabad said a host of other concerns made them come up with the initiative, explaining that 2021 would be a crucial election year. “Murshidabad has a long history of political violence. Domkal also sees a lot of violence and murders over land disputes and elections,” said an officer. The officials also said Murshidabad’s status as a district with an international border had always made it prone to crimes, including smuggling and trafficking. These criminal incidents often go unnoticed along the 100km-long border in the district. Currently, the stretch is manned by 10 police stations with Farakka on one end and Jalangi on the other. “The fencing and personnel in this area need to be drastically improved,” said an officer. The last census recorded the population as having grown two-fold to nearly 72 lakh in the last three decades. The two police districts taken together, Murshidabad has 28 police stations. However, a district like South 24-Parganas, which comes closest to Murshidabad in terms of population (81 lakh), has 35 police stations and this excludes areas that come under Calcutta police.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-363
25-09-2020||West Bengal||Erosion protest yields BDO word||Over 1,000 residents of villages near the Leesh river that flows through Malbazar subdivision of Jalpaiguri on Thursday went to the BDO office to demonstrate for over five hours, alleging government and administrative negligence in addressing erosion for years. The demonstration lifted only after Malbazar BDO Biman Chandra Biswas said anti-erosion work would start in the area on an emergency basis from Sunday. A large police contingent was posted at the BDO office premises to ensure peace was not breached. Aggrieved residents, who were stopped at the entrance of the BDO office at 10am, resorted to sloganeering against the BDO. The policemen tried to dissuade them but the protests continued. Seeing the villagers, several others turned up to know what has led to the protests. Vivek Mani Lakra, a resident of Shaugaon, one of the affected villages, said acres of land have been washed away by the Leesh river these past three years. “Many of us lost our homes and farmland and yet, the block administration and state irrigation department did not do anything to check erosion. This year, the river is aggressively gobbling chunks of land in our locality. That is why we came to the BDO office,” said Lakra. At 3pm, BDO Biswas spoke to villagers. “We have heard their demands and have spoken to irrigation department officials. It was decided that work would start on an emergency basis from Sunday. As of now, a new channel would be dug to divert the water. Also, work to protect banks would be taken up under the 100 days’ job,” said the BDO. His assurance pacified villagers, but as they left the site, they said they would block NH31 if the administration did not keep its word.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-363
25-09-2020||West Bengal||Tourism day splash to get back to business||The Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA) and tourism stakeholders have lined up an array of events in the hills and in plains for World Tourism Day on September 27. The events, which include car and bike rallies, seminars, award functions, panel discussions and visits to popular tourist destinations, are being seen as a bid to build the confidence of people in prominent tourist spots to ensure seamless movement of tourists across north Bengal from October. After Covid-19 cases were reported from different locations of the hills and foothills, some residents had expressed apprehension that tourists might cause a spike in Covid cases. “Now that the hills and the plains are ready to welcome the tourists again, it is necessary that local residents are taken into confidence. The tourism industry has taken a beating in the past few months and it is time that initiatives are taken to revive the sector that provides jobs to over five lakh people,” said Samrat Sanyal, general, secretary, Himalayan Hospitality & Tourism Development Network (HHTDN). According to the stakeholders, the pandemic and consequent lockdown led the sector to lose around Rs 21 crore a day since mid-March. “It is over six months now and the total loss would be over Rs 3,000 crore,” added Sanyal. In such a situation, GTA authorities, who have time and again stressed resumption of tourism activities in the hills, plan to celebrate this World Tourism Day differently. A Land Rover and mountain bike rally, a 5km run and a seminar would be held, all while adhering to the prescribed protocols to check the spread of the pandemic. Suraj Sharma, assistant director of tourism in GTA, GTA, said the events would be organised on a small scale. There would be only 20 Land Rovers, around 50 mountain bikers and similar number of runners. The attendance at the seminar would be around 50. “Those in Land Rover, mountain bike rallies, and runners will maintain distance at all times.  The seminar will be held at Chowrasta with limited participants,” said Sharma. The seminar will revolve around educating hotel and homestay owners on norms to be adhered when hosting tourists. In the plains, the HHTDN will host an award function to recognise people associated with the industry and working in sectors such as homestays, transport, hospitality and tourism promotion. “We will also have a panel discussion on tourism,” said a member. The Eastern Himalaya Travel & Tour Operators’ Association is hosting “Naya Sabera (new dawn)”, at Lataguri on the fringes of Gorumara National Park, the most popular tourist destination in the Dooars. “There will be panel discussions, felicitation of people and cultural functions. We also want to tell tourists that the region is ready to welcome them,” said Debasish Maitra, the association’s president.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-363
25-09-2020||West Bengal||In-laws murdered for property||Police on Thursday morning arrested the son-in-law and a contract killer he had hired to murder the retired army man and his wife at their home at Habra’s Tunighata-Mandalpara in North 24-Parganas early on September 16. The police claimed that Bunty Sadhu, 32, had planned the murder of his parents-in-law  Ramkrishna Mandal, 58, and Lila Mandal, 51, in a manner that would not bring him under suspicion. Based on a complaint filed by the family members of the deceased, the police had earlier arrested Tanmay Bar, the estranged husband of the couple's niece, who had on a number of occasions threatened to eliminate the family after his wife filed for divorce. But probe revealed Tanmay had no role in the murder. Speaking to mediapersons on Thursday, superintendent of Barasat police district Avijit Banerjee said: "It’s true that we had begun the probe on the basis of the FIR that named Tanmay Bar as the accused. But during Tanmay’s interrogation it gradually became clear that he had no role in the murder and the couple's son-in-law Bunty Sandhu surfaced as the accused." Banerjee said that Bunty, who runs a grocery store in Habra, planned the murder of his parents-in-law apparently to grab their property after they refused to shell out Rs 8 lakh he had demanded to clear his “debts in the market”. On Wednesday night, the police picked up Bunty and contract killer Ajay Das, who was allegedly lured into killing the couple on a promised payment of Rs 10 lakh. Bunty allegedly told Ajay that he would pay after getting control over his parents-in-law’s property. “It’s bizarre that the supari killer had carried out the murder on credit,” said a police officer. Banerjee said it was Bunty who deliberately floated Tanmay’s name as the killer and got the family members of the deceased to name him in the FIR. As Bunty was present at the time of the crime, he used Tanmay’s name to mislead the investigation, Banerjee added. A police officer said during interrogation, Bunty confessed that he had hired Ajay and gave him directions about how to sneak into the house of Ramkrishna and Lila after landing on the terrace on September 16. Ajay shot them from close range in the presence of Bunty. As the entire incident happened around 3am, family members could hardly identify the killer and Bunty saw this as an opportunity to frame Tanmay. An investigating officer said that some crucial leads provided by Tanmay during the interrogation helped cops crack the case. “It was Tanmay who told us that Bunty had serious differences with his parents-in-law ever since they refused to pay him Rs 8 lakh,” an investigating officer said. “We also came to know that Bunty had got in touch with a person to buy the firearm used in the crime. As circumstantial evidences substantiated Bunty's role in the murder, we picked up him for interrogation. He tried to mislead us, but eventually broke down and confessed his role in the murder," a sleuth said. Sources said Bunty had married the couple's younger daughter a few years ago. He had run up huge debts in the market as his grocery business was not running well and needed money to clear his debts. "During interrogation Bunty disclosed that he requested Ramkrishna to give him Rs 8 lakh to clear the debts. Ramkrishna refused. Bunty’s effort to convince his mother-in law did not work either. This led Bunty to plan the murder of the couple. He thought that in the absence of the couple he will be able to grab the property as the husband of their only surviving daughter,” Banerjee said. The couple’s elder daughter had died a couple of years ago. When asked if the couple’s younger daughter (Bunty's wife) had any role in the murder, the senior policeman said: “It will also be examined.” Both the accused persons were produced before the ACJM court in Barasat that ordered them 10 days of police custody. The police will soon begin a process to exempt Tanmay of the charges and drop his name from the case, the SP added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-363
25-09-2020||West Bengal||Road rage against civic woes||Residents of two districts on Thursday were forced to block roads to draw the administration’s attention to basics such as road and drainage woes. Nearly 2,000 residents of Murshidabad’s Mahalandi, Sherpur, Sankarpur and Gatla villages on Thursday morning blocked the Haldia-Farakka state highway in Khargram, protesting the administration’s refusal to either reopen the nearby Jibanti-Sherpur highway or address people’s complaints. The Jibanti-Sherpur highway in Kandi was closed indefinitely on June 3 by district authorities citing safety concerns over huge craters on the road. The road was a vital thoroughfare for North Bengal-bound heavy vehicles and served around 1 lakh residents in the area, many involved in the construction material trade that relies on heavy vehicles. “We pooled together in July and raised Rs 80 lakh to repair the road but the district authorities are still ignoring our pleas to reopen the road,” said a protester, referring to the Jibanti-Sherpur Road Repairing Committee formed by traders and residents. District and PWD officials at the time said they were unaware of whether necessary permissions had been granted for this step, and that they would look into it. Residents claim there has been no word from the administration since, although the road is ready. District officials did not respond to the protest on Thursday. Agitators were forcibly removed by police around noon, clearing up the way for a 6km-long backlog of vehicles on the highway. In a separate incident on Thursday, residents of wards 13 and 14 of Basirhat municipal town in North 24-Parganas blocked a local arterial road protesting the “lackadaisical approach” of civic authorities in repairing the drainage system. Protesters alleged that poor drainage systems in the area had forced them to “live in a pool of water” for the past few days following heavy rainfall. Around 10am in Sardarati area, residents forcibly dug up a part of the road and blocked it for two hours until police and local councillors responded. Biswajit Debnath, a resident in the agitation, said: “The situation is unbearable. A 10minute-long spell of heavy rain turns the area into a pool of knee-deep water. A spate of incessant rain floods our homes and we are often forced to live with snakes and frogs.” Resident Baidyanath Das said: “There is actually no existence of a drainage system in the two wards and the area remains inundated. Today (Thursday) we were compelled to dig up a stretch of the road as a mark of protest and clear a part of the waterlogged area. We have appealed to the local councillors and drawn the attention of the chairman of Basirhat Municipality, but unfortunately, they have offered us no help so far. If the authorities do not respond with action, we will be forced to launch a bigger movement.” Basirhat municipality administrator Tapan Sarkar admitted the grievance was “genuine”. “But we have a paucity of funds. We are trying our best to take up the work as early as possible.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-363
25-09-2020||West Bengal||Push for Vidyasagar place growth||The Bengal cabinet on Thursday decided to set up Birsingha Development Authority for carrying out several development projects at Ishwarchandra Vidyasagar’s birth place in West Midnapore district. “The chief minister had promised to set up the development authority for Vidyasagar’s birth place last year. The cabinet approved the proposal,” home secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay said after the cabinet meeting at Nabanna. According to officials, the district magistrate would be the chairperson of the development board and local MP and MLAs along with district officials would be inducted into the board as members. The announcement of the board’s establishment is significant as Trinamul Congress insiders said Mamata Banerjee made it clear that she would keep focusing on Vidyasagar to embarrass the BJP. “The sentiment associated with Vidyasagar had given us a dividend in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls after the BJP had vandalised a bust of the polymath in central Calcutta just ahead of the last phase of the general election. In the forthcoming Assembly polls, we will keep the issue alive,” said a minister present at the cabinet meeting. With the board, sources said, the state government would start working to develop Birsingha, the polymath’s birthplace, as an educational tourist hub, which Mamata had announced during her visit to the village last year. “As soon as the board is set up, the government can release funds to start the required work... In all likelihood, some visible development work would start before the Assembly polls scheduled for April-May next year,” said the minister. The cabinet also approved a proposal to set up a 5MW floating solar power in Murshidabad’s Sagardighi to supply electricity to nearly 1 lakh homes. Besides, the government extended deadlines to set up an educational institute and a hospital in the riverbank township project at Mahestala in South 24-Parganas. The cabinet approved the “Purohit Kalyan Prakalpa”, under which a honorarium of Rs 1,000 each will be given to poor Hindu priests.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-363
25-09-2020||North East||3 arrested over Assam police exam paper leak||Assam police on Wednesday arrested three persons in connection with Sunday’s question paper leak leading to the cancellation of the statewide recruitment examination for 597 posts of sub-inspectors in the Assam police. While CID sleuths arrested one Hirakjyoti Barua, a candidate who had allegedly collected the answersheet and had forwarded it on social media, the crime branch of the city police arrested Jugami Brahma and Kushal Das. The crime branch and the CID have conducted raids in the residence of P.K. Dutta, an ex-DIG and in many hotels owned by his family and several other places in and around the state capital, adds PTI. Three persons, including a woman employee of the state government, have been arrested and five others, one from the Special Task Force (STF), have been detained in connection with the leaking of the question paper for unarmed police sub-inspector's post, officials said on Wednesday. Four more have been picked up for questioning from a hotel here for questioning, sources said, adding the “picture will become clear by tomorrow”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-43
25-09-2020||North East||Manipur CM axes 6 ministers, inducts 5  ||Manipur chief minister N. Biren Singh on Thursday evening carried out a shuffle of his council of ministers, dropping six ministers and inducting five, including two former Congress MLAs. The axed ministers included three from the BJP and two from allies National People’s Party and one from another ally LJP. The dropped BJP ministers are V. Hangkhalian, Nemcha Kipgen and Th. Radheshyam Singh and while those from the NPP are L. Jayantakumar and N. Kayisii. The size of the ministry is 12, including the chief minister. Ruling BJP leaders told The Telegraph that the party had no option but to carry out the reshuffle because of the intense infighting within the party and differences among ministers were taking its toll on both the government and the party. Manipur governor Najma Heptulla said in an official order that she had appointed sitting BJP MLAs Sorokhaibam Rajen, Thokchom Satyabrata Singh, Vungzagin Valte and two former MLAs Okram Henry Singh and Oinam Lukhoi Singh  as ministers. Henry and Lukhoi were among the five Congress MLAs who resigned and joined the BJP in Delhi on August 10. Henry is the nephew of Manipur CLP leader and former chief minister Okram Ibobi Singh. Manipur state BJP president S. Tikendra Singh told this newspaper that the reshuffle was carried out with the blessings of the Central leadership after thorough consultations. He also said that the remaining vacancy will be filled up after the byelections to be held in November-end. Both Tikendra and Biren Singh returned from Delhi with BJP national vice-president Bijaiyant Panda on Monday and initiated the reshuffle process. There was stiff opposition from the NPP with one of the ministers saying that they will pull out of the government if any of their four ministers is dropped. A senior BJP leader said: “The national leadership was apprised of the need for reshuffle or face electoral reverses in the ensuing bypolls and the next Assembly polls. To save the government and party from disintegration and ensure its return, the reshuffle was required.” He also said there was no threat to the Biren Singh government as it has the numbers. Manipur has a 60-member Assembly but the strength of the House is 47. “ The BJP on its own has 20 MLAs plus support of our allies,” one of the leaders said. Sources said that the move to reshuffle the ministry started soon after the Biren Singh government won the Rajya Sabha polls on June 19. Two days before the polls, the four ministers of the NPP had pulled out of the ministry along with five other MLAs, including three from the BJP, to reduce the government into a minority. After talks involving both the NPP and BJP leaders in Delhi, they soon returned with their ministership intact. “But it only complicated matters,” one of the BJP leaders said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-43
25-09-2020||North East||RTI plea seeks Clause 6 report status||A Guwahati-based advocate Santanu Borthakur has taken the RTI route to get information about what the state government did with the Clause 6 report after it was submitted to Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal on February 25 by a committee constituted by the Union ministry of home affairs in July 2019. “I filed an application under the Right to Information (RTI) Act with the home and political department and the Assam Accord department on September 21 to know in details what steps have been taken by the government on the Clause 6 report between February 25 and September 20. I want to know things like meetings or discussions held, when these were held, their minutes — to clear our doubts,” Borthakur, who practises in Gauhati High Court, told The Telegraph on Wednesday evening. Clause 6 of the 1985 Assam Accord, an outcome of the six-year-long Assam Movement against illegal foreigners, provides for constitutional, legislative and administrative safeguards “to protect, preserve and promote the cultural, social, linguistic identity and heritage of the Assamese people”. Borthakur said he filed the RTI application because there were a lot of speculations surrounding an important document like the Clause 6 report, which most believe will secure the future of the state if implemented. “People are saying the government sat on the report for over six months while the Centre says in Parliament that the recommendations of the committee are under examination of the state government. All speculations will end, all doubts will be cleared once I receive my answers,” Borthakur said. The RTI application was filed by Borthakur on Monday, a day after cabinet minister Himanta Biswa Sarma told the media after a meeting with Union home minister Amit Shah that the Centre wanted the state government to get the Clause 6 report examined by legal experts to avoid future complications. Critics said the bid to vet the Clause 6 report allegedly smacked of inaction and insincerity to resolve issues pertaining to the state. The Clause 6 committee had to submit its report to Sonowal after “failing” to get an audience with Shah in Delhi. However, three members of All Assam Students’ Union, also members of the committee, made the report public on August 12 since the government, according to them, was allegedly sitting on the report for about six months. AASU chief adviser Samujjal Bhattacharjya had tweeted after the Centre’s revelation: “Planned inaction & reluctance of @mygovindia in implementing ClauseVI Committee Report of #AssamAccord is clear. Centre’s claim that @mygovassam is yet to forward report shows hypocrisy & insincerity. Demand safeguard as enshrined in Report alongside fulfilment of PM & HM’s promise.” Congress MP from Assam, Gaurav Gogoi, raised the issue in the Lok Sabha on September 21, dubbing the government move to get the report examined by legal experts as a “delaying tactic” to postpone the consideration of the report. He also wanted the government to clarify when it will accept the committee’s report, a statement issued by his office said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-43
25-09-2020||Opinion||Private affair: Legal intimation of marriage||Times have changed since the enactment of the Special Marriage Act, 1954, which aimed to transcend the barriers of caste and religion in order to give Indians substantive rights when it came to choosing a life partner. But care was taken to ensure the necessary checks and balances. For instance, Section 6 of the Act requires a public notification at the office of the district marriage officer concerning the personal details of the couple intending to marry, including their religion, residential addresses, phone number and so on at least 30 days before the marriage can be solemnized. In a nation where underage marriage and human trafficking are not uncommon, Section 6, demanding the disclosure of details, was probably intended to be a deterrent so that the authorities could take timely action against such transgressions. The clause of public intimation of personal details has now been challenged in the Supreme Court by a petition that argues that Section 6 violates the fundamental right to privacy. Such an apprehension is not unwarranted even though the problem lies not in the spirit but the misuse of the clause. Earlier this year in Kerala, notices of inter-faith marriages under the Special Marriage Act were reported to have been circulated on social media by right-wing groups as instances of ‘love jihad’ and led to communal tensions in some places. There is thus the possibility of bureaucratic corruption leading to such sensitive data falling in unscrupulous hands. The consequences, the tradition of honour killings shows, can be lethal for the couple. The way forward around the dilemma is not simple, either for the law or its custodians. The momentum in favour of individual privacy must be respected without weakening the protective framework that is meant to prevent abuse. For instance, instead of issuing a public notice, can the marriage registrar be authorized to examine the veracity of the application and alert the authorities only when mala fide intent is suspected? Here too, there must be serious deliberations on the method of assessment of such applications so that a routine examination does not get transformed into an act of surveillance. Perhaps the ruling of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, which said that the State and its institutions must not be seen as “laying snares and landmines” in the path of consenting adults from different faiths, must be taken as a model to emulate. The tension, however, lies elsewhere. Marriage still requires a societal seal of approval of what is essentially a deeply personal bond. Such approval is predicated upon the possibility of interference.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-143
25-09-2020||Opinion||On point: Gloating on Modi's popularity||Sir — It is intriguing that in the article, “Rated highly” (Sept 17), Swapan Dasgupta has considered the increase in the support base of the prime minister, Narendra Modi — this was reportedly 66 per cent in August 2020 according to a particular survey — as the only parameter to judge his competence. Even if one sets aside the doubts regarding the modus operandi of the survey, does an increase in popularity always mean that the leader is right? History is proof that many decisions supported by the masses have been wrong. The persecutions of Socrates and Galileo Galilei were supported by the majority at the time; even the abolition of the practice of Sati was denounced by many. It is not clear if Dasgupta believes that the Bengal government was sceptical about the importance of the lockdown or the use of face masks. Before the Centre declared the lockdown, the state had already closed schools and colleges. In mid-March, members of the Trinamul Congress even attended Rajya Sabha with masks on their faces — this was then severely objected to by the chairman of the assembly. Dasgupta seems to be criticizing the Opposition parties, the intelligentsia and the international media for highlighting the plight of the migrant labourers during their exodus. But can the declaration of a nationwide lockdown with only four hours’ notice be considered justified, when lakhs of people were far from their homes? Can the -23.9 per cent contraction of the gross domestic product be attributed to the pandemic alone when the Indian economy has been sinking on account of errant steps taken by the Centre, such as demonetization and the implementation of the goods and services tax? Even the economic package of Rs 20 lakh crore did not provide any direct help to those suffering from the impact of Covid-19. The only benefit for the people would have been the offer of liberal bank loans, but even this would cause banks to suffer, for they would be burdened with more non-performing assets. Many former governors of the Reserve Bank of India and renowned economists have failed to understand how the Centre is trying to revive the economy. Surely that cannot be solely because they are opposed to the government. The Centre has given little cause for the people to be jubilant. Somak Ghosh,Calcutta Sir — The article by Swapan Dasgupta was amusing. He seems to gloat over the fact that the widespread criticism of the prevalent crises in India by the Opposition parties and the common people has made little impact on the popularity of Narendra Modi — a poll was cited to show that in spite of the critical state of affairs in the country on several fronts, Modi’s popularity has increased since January. Dasgupta pins all his hopes on this and makes an attempt to assure citizens that there is nothing to worry about, no matter how gloomy the situation may look. Faith in a popular leader, it seems, is the only means of finding a way out of this labyrinth of misery. But the question is that if it is ‘faith’ that will get us through these difficult times, then what is the need for the prime minister? One could simply resort to praying to gods. In the same breath, Dasgupta ridicules experts’ views on economics and the pandemic, and asserts that Modi’s strength lies in his dependence on managers and politicians. The indication is clear — it reiterates the prime minister’s earlier claim that hard work is more important than Harvard. However, Dasgupta conveniently overlooks the recent findings of the Indian Council of Medical Research, the ruling dispensation’s trusted institution. According to the ICMR, for every detected case of Covid-19 in India, there are 80 to 130 cases that remain undetected. By that logic, if officially the current number of Covid-19-affected Indians is taken to be six million, in reality around 480 to 780 million people are actually infected. How, then, does Dasgupta claim that the predictions of the expert who said that 70 to 80 crore Indians could get infected in the worst-case scenario are off the mark? The answer possibly is that the faith in the leader is above every truth. Premangsu Dasgupta,Calcutta Sir — Stuck between a rock and a hard place — a sliding economy and an aggravating pandemic — Swapan Dasgupta contends that the prime minister’s popularity is directly proportional to the crises faced by India, and pegs his arguments on a survey carried out by a private media channel. At around the same time, however, a survey by the RBI showed that consumer confidence was at a dismal 53.8 per cent, the lowest in a long time. Which study, then, should we trust? Perhaps this paradox could be better explained by those teaching economic theory than “managers and politicians” preferred by the regime. Amit Mukherjee,Calcutta Sir — What Swapan Dasgupta did not point out in his article — even as he mentioned a “Rajabazar model” with respect to counter-Covid strategies — was the high chance that the ‘Namaste Trump’ event contributed to the spread of Covid-19 in India. Feroz Ahmed Khan,Calcutta  In deep waters Sir — This monsoon — like every other year — several states in India have begun suffering from floods; Maharashtra being the latest example. Disaster management groups are doing their best to alleviate the sufferings of the people. However, the plight of animals must not be forgotten. This year, too, scores of animals were reported to have lost their lives during the floods in Assam. Care must be taken that the same fate does not befall animals in other states. Besides having special rescue teams allocated for them, citizens should also take it upon themselves to provide shelter to as many stray animals as possible. Snigdha Choudhury,Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-143
25-09-2020||Opinion||Less is good: Dip in farmer suicides||A silver lining recently is the decline in suicides of farmers. The report on accidental deaths and suicides of 2019 published by the National Crime Records Bureau indicates this: from 11,379 deaths in the farm sector recorded for 2016 they have dropped to 10,281 in 2019. The problem with the 2019 NCRB report is that it no longer enlists causes, such as crop failure or debt, for the suicides. The reason for this, according to the Union minister of state for home, is that several states and Union territories — reportedly 19 — gave no figures for farmer suicides. Hence listing causes became ‘untenable’. This argument is not quite clear since a total number of suicides in the agricultural sector is being given. Why did these cultivators and farm labourers kill themselves? The negligence of the states and UTs who failed to report farmers’ deaths cannot be excused, and they should explain it. At the same time, glossing over causes of suicides by blaming the states cannot be overlooked either. Both omissions reflect a casualness towards the dignity and value of a large number of human lives. Meanwhile, how safe is the inference that suicides in the farming sector have declined if the data is declaredly partial? True, a study of trends would support this belief; analysis would also indicate that the decline in suicide rate of farm hands is much steeper than that of cultivators —those who own or lease their land for farming. In spite of the numbers of deaths still, it must be remembered that farmers’ suicides have been earlier termed a national catastrophe, with the count reportedly reaching a quarter of a million in 2011. In that context, the 2019 report, even if partial, does indicate a positive change. Some questions have been raised about mix-ups, for example, whether farm hands have been brought under the head of daily wagers. But if it is to be established that there has truly been an improvement in the conditions of the agricultural sector in the last few years, this NCRB report is obviously inadequate. A serious examination of farmers’ suicides in every state together with the reasons behind them needs to be conducted to see what is going right after all this time. It is important to hope.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-143
25-09-2020||Opinion||Dual burden: Women and domestic space||Challenging the sexual division of labour has been one of the magnanimous victories of the struggles launched by the women’s movement in the last century. Striking at one of the pillars of patriarchy, it was an early step towards revolutionizing the lives of women. Unfortunately, in most of the third world today, women joining the ‘productive’ workforce has not translated into equality in division of labour in the domestic sphere. Rather, there is now dual pressure on women to manage not only their professional lives but also shoulder a disproportionate share of household and familial responsibilities. Ironically, this has opened up a new challenge for women: to be counted as the ‘good’ daughter, wife or/and mother, she has to prove her commitment to domestic responsibilities and her professional life. The pandemic, however, has marked an important moment in the reconfiguration of women’s relationship with the domestic space. It is important to cast a glance back at this contested domain to understand the gender implications of a pandemic. While the differential experiences of women in the domestic sphere are significantly mediated by the intersectional vulnerabilities of their location in terms of class, caste, religion and sexuality, I shall focus largely on the plight of middle-class Indian working women who are being compelled to manage the demands of work life while being confined to the domestic physical space. What does it mean for these women to be confined to the domestic physical space without being limited by the demands of domesticity? Does it in some ways signal an undoing of the advances made by women through a century of struggle against patriarchy by a historic overturning of the traditional sexual division of labour?Different space For most women in the third world, the domestic space — ‘home’ — is, contrary to the idealized imagination of it, far from a safe haven. It is a space which is experienced as unequal, demanding, violent and, therefore, precarious for them. In fact, as pointed out by radical feminists decades ago, domestic and intimate spaces are those where patriarchy manifests itself most powerfully in order to control women’s lives. What then are the implications of their confinement to the domestic physical space while catering to the demands of the professional world? It has meant an intensification of the various challenges shaped by an archaic imagination of a patriarchal domestic space and its predominant practices. It has meant lesser control over limiting domestic reproductive labour. Women are now overburdened with greater domestic responsibilities of managing household chores and care functions. It has meant lesser control over their sexuality and biological reproduction, the idea of sexual consent and ownership of one’s own body being still remote in many intimate relations even today. It has meant that they are now exposed to various forms of domestic abuse and violence, mental and physical. It has also meant that the promises held by a workspace as a potentially liberating space has been snatched away. Notwithstanding the challenges that women face in male-dominated workspaces, these are also spaces for them to explore their own self, develop a sense of self-worth, nurture camaraderie with colleagues, often of the same gender, and unwind after work hours on their own terms, away from the restrictive and the regulatory space that is home. It has also adversely impacted their productivity in the labour market. The pandemic has brought newer challenges for women entrapped within patriarchy and exposed, once again, the regressive nature of the domestic space. Clearly, there are newer battles to be fought. Are we ready for it?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-143
25-09-2020||Opinion||Hollow test||In his eminently entertaining first autobiography, My Early Life: A Roving Commission, published in 1930, Winston Spencer Churchill (1874-1965) spent a fair amount of time discussing the examinations he sat for as a young man, from the time he took the entrance test to get into Harrow, to his serendipitous success in the preliminary examination to get into the army, to his successful (third) attempt to enter what was then the Royal Military College at Sandhurst. Anyone who has gone through the ordeal of tests and examinations, and lived to tell the tale, will find Churchill’s account both instructive and providing food for thought. Churchill begins his second chapter, “Harrow”, by narrating how, when he had “scarcely passed [his] twelfth birthday”, he “entered the inhospitable regions of examinations, through which for the next seven years [he] was destined to journey”. “These examinations,” Churchill confesses, “were a great trial to me” for “I should have liked to be asked to say what I knew” but the examiners “always tried to ask what I did not know. When I would have willingly displayed my knowledge, they sought to expose my ignorance.” Moving on to the prelims to get into the army, Churchill writes of how examinees were expected to “draw from memory a map of some country or other”; and how, “the night before [the examination] by way of final preparation [he] put the names of all the maps in the atlas into a hat and drew out New Zealand... Sure enough the first question in the paper was: ‘Draw a map of New Zealand’”. Young Winston’s luck held when, after two unsuccessful attempts to enter Sandhurst, he was packed off to a “crammer” (the English upper-class equivalent of our coaching centres) where he was rigorously tutored in Mathematics, and, sure enough again, on the day of the Mathematics test, there was a question about “these Cosines and Tangents in a highly square-rooted condition which must have been decisive upon the whole of my after life. It was a problem. But luckily I had seen its ugly face only a few days before and recognized it at first sight.” This occurs in the third chapter of the book, titled, simply, “Examinations”, and Churchill goes to some pains to show his readers just how arbitrary the whole system of examinations is, as also how much of an individual’s future may depend on these fickle things. I first encountered My Early Life a few months before my Class X boards when my father — who had lived through the Second World War, and was, as a consequence, a great admirer of Churchill (even though he had to admit that the man’s attitude towards Indians left much to be desired) — decided it would soothe my frazzled nerves if I read about young Winston’s encounters with examinations. I suspect the effect was not quite what he had hoped for. Instead of cheering me up about, and preparing me for, the forthcoming ordeal, my nerves got even more frazzled, especially when I contemplated the vast oceans of my ignorance as compared to the little puddles of learning I had somehow managed to acquire, and I became convinced that there was no way in which I would get a passing grade. In the event, like the British Bulldog, my luck held, and I managed to get a creditable result, the first of many I would acquire — more by accident than by conscious design — over the next many years. But my deep suspicion about examinations, especially the formal ones conducted by educational institutions, never left me. Which is deeply ironic when one considers the fact that, for the last almost-thirty years, I have been preparing those instruments of torture called question papers, and passing judgment on the performance of young minds which are, almost invariably, scarred (to a greater or lesser degree) by the experience of taking examinations. Consider the circumstances in which most examinations are conducted, at least in our country. You are made to sit in a closed room, guarded by unsmiling invigilators, unable to ask your neighbour for a simple fact, prevented from looking up a quick reference, needing to take permission if you want to go to the toilet — in brief, the closest most of us will get to a PoW camp. I cannot think of any other situation in life which even comes close to the stifling, oppressive atmosphere of a typical examination hall. And for what? What do such examinations actually test? Certainly not the examinee’s intelligence, or knowledge, or wisdom, or creativity, or understanding, in any meaningful sense of these terms. At best, perhaps the ability to memorize and regurgitate “facts”, and to do so in a reasonably organized manner. What doing well in an examination tells us is one thing, and one thing only — the candidate’s ability to do well in exams. Nothing more and probably quite a bit less. As Churchill had noted, luck plays an inordinately important role in examinations. I have had many classmates over the years who were far more knowledgeable, and much better prepared, than me, yet who failed to do as well in a particular examination simply because they were unlucky in the choice of topics they had prepared while I wasn’t; so they cursed their luck, and I claimed it was all due to hard work and consistent labour (which was far from the truth). When still an undergraduate student, one of my teachers told me that I would do well in the finals, not because I was knowledgeable or intelligent, but because I possessed “low cunning”. Upset though I was then with what I felt was an unnecessarily cruel remark, I have since come to recognize the wisdom of that statement. Examinations are basically tools of ideological control, where — in order to score well — the person taking the examination has to figure out not just what to write but how to write it — to become, as it were, his or her master’s voice. If one can do it successfully, one does well; if one tries to be different, to express one’s own views, to interpret matters creatively, from a perspective other than that “prescribed” by those who are conducting the test, one fails — often, quite miserably — and has to live with the stigma of unsuccess, maybe even for the rest of one’s life. One of the guiding principles of power is the need to remind the one being controlled of just who is doing the controlling. Even as the ongoing pandemic has opened up avenues for a more democratic, more egalitarian, more cooperative process of learning and evaluation, it has also provided the opportunity to those wielding power to forcefully remind the underdogs just who is boss. As students across the country grapple with poor internet connections, lack of access to books and other resources, the inability to consult others face-to-face, and much else that is necessary to confront the terminal examinations now underway, as a result of the diktats of the highest functionaries of the land, they must be cursing their luck and those like me who are enforcing this ordeal on them. After such knowledge, what forgiveness can we expect? The author is professor of Comparative Literature, Jadavpur University, and has been working as a volunteer for a rural development NGO for the last 30 years||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-143
25-09-2020||Jharkhand||Residents walk to protest poor condition of Hazaribagh’s main road||The poor condition of Hazaribagh’s Main Road, which is a part of NH100, prompted a group of residents to march 8km to demand repairs. Craters and potholes dot the road that passes through the heart of the town. Several important businesses line the road in Hazaribagh. The condition of the road is such that bikers are frequently injured in accidents. Residents, angered by the nonchalance of the administration, have demanded immediate repairs of the road that connects Hazaribagh and Chatra districts. Sachidanand Pandey, who is spearheading the protests, led the march from Katkamdag block headquarters to Jhanda Chowk in Hazaribagh town. “We faced a tough time even while walking on the road. It’s not tough to imagine the pain commuters face while travelling on this important stretch of the road,” he told The Telegraph Online. Prasad said that in addition to NH100, other roads in the town too are in poor condition, but the authorities are not taking steps to fill the potholes. “Kisi ko bhi logon ki taklif ki chinta nahi hai (No one is concerned about the people’s problems),” he added. Around 200 people walked in the protest march. Some even joined the march on their motorcycles. Priyanka Kumari, a zila parishad member from Katkamdag, said she had threatened to block the road that is also used to transport coal from NTPC mines. “After my threat, the potholes were filled with mud, which was washed away by rain in a day or two,” she said. “I have written to National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) officials, as well as to the district administration, and have been told that the tender has been awarded to an agency that would start work after the monsoon ends,” she said. “The way the issue has been neglected shows that no one is serious about sorting out the people’s problems,” she added. Manish Jaiswal, the Hazaribagh Sadar MLA and BJP leader who raised the issue in the Assembly, said an agency had been tasked with constructing the 14.65-km stretch of NH100 from Singhani Chowk to Sultana, including the town’s main road, for Rs 20 crore. He said the construction will start once the monsoon is over and completed within 11 months. Officials of the state’s highways authority have said work will start in the next few days to fill the potholes in this stretch. When this correspondent brought this matter to the notice of former Union minister of state for civil aviation and Hazaribagh MP Jayant Sinha, he said he would talk to NHAI officials on when the work will start to construct this road.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-288
25-09-2020||Jharkhand||Youth shot at for taking on chain snatchers||A youth was shot at and injured when he tried to stop two bike-borne chain snatchers from robbing an elderly woman in a densely populated Sonari police station area on Friday morning. Kalicharan Sahu, who lives near the Sonari police outpost, suffered a bullet injury in his right leg. The incident took place near Sonari gurdwara around 7am, while the area was bustling with morning walkers. As soon as Sahu, 28, fell, some local residents rushed him to MGM Medical College and Hospital where he is undergoing treatment. According to sources, the two bike-borne chain snatchers had stopped near an elderly couple who were returning to their Sonari home after their morning walk. After stopping the couple, one of the bikers tried to snatch the gold chain from the woman’s neck. As Sahu was passing by, he tried to save the elderly woman. One of the bikers first asked him to leave, but when he resisted, the youth fished out a pistol and fired at Sahu’s leg. Having fired the shot, the bike-borne duo sped away towards Kagalnagar market area. Some local residents chased them but in vain. About 15 minutes later, police arrived at the scene. The Sonari police station officer in charge, Renu Gupta, inquired about the incident at the scene of the crime and then went over to the hospital to take a statement from the victim. City superintendent of police Subhash Chandra Jat, who is monitoring the investigations, said: “An incident of firing took place near the gurdwara in Sonari and a youth suffered a bullet injury.  We are investigating the case.” Jat said the police were scanning footage from surveillance cameras installed at the gurdwara and adjoining buildings to identify the chain snatchers. He said the old couple had lodged a complaint after a nudge from the police. After the incident, the residents of Sonari have become apprehensive. “Crimes are being committed with impunity. The criminals don’t fear the police. Even walking in our own locality could be dangerous,” local resident Satbir Singh told The Telegraph Online.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-288
25-09-2020||Jharkhand||Hemant pans new laws, says farmers will be pushed to the brink||Jharkhand joined the list of states that are opposing the recently passed agriculture bills with chief minister Hemant Soren calling them “the biggest attack on the country's federal structure” on Saturday. On a day when farmers and trade unions observed a Bharat Bandh, Hemant criticised the Narendra Modi-led NDA government for leaving the nation’s “annadata (famers)” at the mercy of his corporate friends by “forcefully” and “unconstitutionally” getting the bills passed in Parliament earlier this week. Hemant said Jharkhand would never be on board with the Centre’s anti-people decisions. “Chanakya ne ek baat kahi thi, ‘jis desh ka raja vyapari hota hai, us desk ka janta hamesha bhikari hota hai.’ (Chanakya had said that if the ruler of a country is a businessman, its people will always live in penury). Our farmers have been duped by this law and it’s time to stand against it,” he said. The chief minister hinted at not implementing the laws in Jharkhand, even as he was exploring various legal options. Addressing the media at Project Building, Hemant said, “Today, all farmers are out on streets as part of the Bharat Bandh against the farm bill. I don’t know what our PM is up to in his second stint and where he wants to push this country to in the garb of reforms? “After the failure of goods and services taxes (GST), his government tried to push through coal block privatisation, then brought in a new education policy and now the farm laws. All these without taking the states on board. For me, this farm bill is the biggest attack on the country's federal structure till date by any elected government.” Hemant accused the Union government of playing into the hands of corporates to privatise the country’s farming sector, which in turn would push farmers to the brink. “The contract framing section has enough indications of the horrors our farmers are likely to confront in the coming days. We all know the condition of contract workers in the country, how they often struggle to earn a day’s meal. Now, our farmers will join this rank, thanks to the Modi government. “The law doesn’t talk about whom farmers should approach if companies abruptly end their contracts. Can a petty farmer of Ranchi fight with giants like Adani and Ambanis in case their contract turns up in court? In a nutshell, this law will give birth to a new kind of mahajan pratha to exploit farmers.” Asked if Jharkhand was planning to pass a resolution against the laws in the state Assembly, he said, “If need be, we will do it after talking with our alliance partners, the Congress and RJD.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-288
25-09-2020||Jharkhand||Puja organisers await guidelines from government||Jamshedpur Durga Puja Kendriya Samiti, the apex body which monitors pujas in the steel city, is concerned that even though the festival is less than a month away, the administration is yet to issue any guidelines for organisers. Samity functionaries said on Friday that they were yet to get any directives from the district administration with respect to pandals and idols. "We had recently met health minister Banna Gupta, who also looks after the disaster management portfolio. But he is yet to get back to us. We have, therefore, asked several puja organisers not to book idols with local artisans, " said Ram Babu Singh, general secretary of the samiti. The samiti has started zonal meetings with puja organisers in the run up to the festival to be held between October 22 to 26 and has also issued certain guidelines for puja organisers. It has banned donations and has asked organisers to do away with bhog, dhaki, fairs, lighting and lavish pandals. Organisers of community pujas at housing societies have been asked to use photographs of the goddess instead of idols. Singh said it was time the state government made its stand clear. This year’s community puja count for Jamshedpur is 320, the same as last year. However, sources said, so far orders have been placed with local artisans for only 150 idols. " We are waiting for government guidelines on the Puja. If it imposes restrictions on pandals and idols we will perform puja using a photograph, " said a member of a Durga Puja committee at Sakchi. The samiti has announced a number of Covid-related restrictions for pujas such as social distancing and use of face masks. The festive mood is, however, missing among people of the steel city although a couple of companies, including Tata Steel, have already declared their annual bonus, a welcome announcement at this time of the year. There is no rush at markets too. Puja shopping, a big part of the celebrations, is yet to pick up.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-288
25-09-2020||Jharkhand||State’s first virtual lok adalat to be held on Saturday||Jharkhand is all set to hold its first ever online lok adalat on Saturday wherein cases related to insurance claims and redressals, together estimated at Rs 50 crore, will be heard and resolved. Jharkhand Legal Services Authority (JHALSA) executive chairman and high court judge H. C. Mishra said, “There are about 9,000 cases in the pre-litigation stage and 500 ongoing cases pending in various courts. The lok adalat will aim to settle these disputes through virtual mode this time.” He said the lok adalat would be inaugurated by National Legal Services Authority (NLSA) executive chairman M.V. Ramana and Aniruddha Bose, both judges of the Supreme Court. The district legal services authority (DLSA) will form virtual benches and ensure the smooth conduct of the lok adalat. Mishra said the concerned people had been contacted and informed about Saturday’s lok adalat. The pandemic has already pushed courts to function through virtual mode like many other institutions. Officials said JHALSA’s future public initiatives would also be conducted using online modes to continue to help those in need. “This lok adalat to solve insurance disputes is the first such initiative towards our endeavour,” said the judge. Even during the lockdown JHALSA and DLSA worked overtime to help people in distress by organising various activities such as food and mask distribution, and creating awareness on Covid precautions with the help of para-legal volunteers. In May, JHALSA launched a scheme titled, Shramev Vadante, to help migrant workers through its district affiliates (DLSA) by educating them about legal rights and government schemes meant for them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-288
25-09-2020||Jharkhand||Maithon boatmen, shopkeepers stare at penury as tourist flow dries up||Over 150 boatmen, tea sellers and owners of roadside eateries of Maithon, one of the most familiar tourist attractions of the region, are without any earnings ever since visitors stopped coming and the government imposed restrictions on boating ever since the lockdown was imposed. Over 70 boatmen, from adjoining villages, including Goghna and Kalibasti, were operating their boats in the dam under various self-help groups as per district administration guidelines. Although many of them have started repairing their boats in the hope of certain relaxations ahead of December tourist season, most are apprehensive about the future. Nepal Chaudhary (42), a boatman of Goghna village of Maithon, said, “All 24 members of our group, Matsya Gandha, which is authorised to operate boats from one of the three ghats, are facing penury of the worst kind. We are finding it difficult to meet family expenses.” Chaudhary explained that theirs was primarily seasonal income that takes place during the tourist season of December to January. “We are hoping that the government will allow some relaxation in norms. Otherwise, all will be lost,” he said. He said usually, during peak tourist season, their income is in the range of Rs 3,000 a day. On other days, they would earn around Rs 500 to Rs 1,000 a day. “Our income is almost zero since the last six months of lockdown due to lack of permission for operating boats,” said Chaudhary. Surendra Soren (22), another boatman of the same village, said they were ready to adhere to all Covid protocols, like maintaining social distancing and using sanitisers and allowing less number of people on boats. “The dam has been given a new look with the recent renovation work carried out by DVC. Now is the best opportunity for the authorities to attract tourists,” he said. The plight of those running the 80 roadside eateries is no better. Kanchan Sao, a coffee shop owner of Kali Basti village, said, “Very few tourists are visiting the dam these days. Our income, which used to be around Rs 1,500 a month, has reduced to less than Rs 100 per month. During the first few months of the lockdown, our income was almost zero.” Situated about 48 km from Dhanbad district headquarters, the major attraction of Maithon is the 15,712 feet long and 165 feet high Maithon Dam situated over the Barakar river, and the Maithon Lake spread over 65 sq km. Boating around the lake’s many islands, including Sabuj Deep and Chamoch Deep, is an enjoyable experience. The Maa Kalyaneshwari Temple, less than 100 meter from the dam is another attraction.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-288
25-09-2020||Jharkhand||4 cyber criminals arrested from Dhanbad||Police arrested a gang of four cyber criminals who posed as customer service executives of a payment app and siphoned off close to Rs 50 lakh from unsuspecting customers. Dhanbad SP (city) SP R. Ramkumar told the media that the members of gang, three from Jamtara and one from Giridih, were arrested from Vrindavan Apartment of Dhaiya locality of Dhanbad after a tip-off. Police seized two iphones, one Apple laptop, a car (Innova Cresta), two motorcycles, five debit cards and six smartphones from the arrested persons who have been identified as Shambhu Nath Mandal (22), Praduman Mandal (20), Rohit Kumar Mandal (19) and Abhishek Kumar Mandal (19). Ramkumar said the members of the gang of cyber criminals would pose as Google Pay customer care representatives after taking out fake advertisements. The modus operandi wasn’t immediately clear, but police said they had enough evidence against them. “We have sufficient evidence against the arrested persons. The seized laptop and mobile phones have video recordings of their operations by virtue of which they would obtain access to their victims’ devices and then siphon off money,” Ramkumar said. Ramkumar appealed to people to never attend to calls from unknown numbers and never to share OTPs, QR codes etc. “Never share passwords with anyone, he said. “We will also request people also to not download any software at the instruction of any strange controller as they may get access to your mobile phone or computer” said Ramkumar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-288
25-09-2020||Jharkhand||More than 1300 infected in a day, death toll crosses 650 ||Ranchi and East Singhbhum continued to witness a spike in the number of Covid-19 active cases on Thursday despite the count of active cases dipping in Jharkhand, figures released by the state health department stated. As per figures compiled by the health department, as many as 1349 people were found infected by the lethal virus across Jharkhand on Thursday, taking the Covid-19 tally in the state to 76,438. However, at least 1386 Covid patients recovered from the infection during the same duration, bringing the total number of active cases in the state down to 12,841. As many as 362 people were found to be infected in Ranchi against 229 recoveries, while East Singhbhum reported 123 cases and only 41 recoveries. The findings take the number of active cases in Ranchi up to 3,624 and that in East Singhbhum to 2,540. The figures indicate that these two districts account for around 50 per cent of the total active cases of Covid-19 infection in Jharkhand. Koderma district reported the highest number of Covid recoveries in 24 hours. A bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated that as many as 264 patients recovered in the district in 24 hours, while only 36 fresh cases surfaced. The number of active cases of infection in the district dropped below 500 on Thursday. Meanwhile, the Covid toll in Jharkhand jumped to 652 after four patients, including three from East Singhbhum, died during treatment on Thursday. East Singhbhum alone has reported 282 Covid casualties so far, the highest among all the 24 districts in Jharkhand. The toll rose to 18 in Ramgarh, where one patient died on Thursday. Despite four casualties occurring in 24 hours, Jharkhand’s Covid-19 mortality rate dropped to 0.85 per cent, the NHM bulletin stated. The Covid recovery rate in the state jumped to 82.34 per cent, which is higher than the national Covid recovery rate of 81.60 per cent. The state government has so far collected swab samples of 19.62 lakh people and tested 19.49 lakh of them. On Thursday, health workers tested swab samples of 23,482 people and 22,133 of them came negative. As per data compiled by the NHM, the doubling rate of Covid-19 infection in Jharkhand was 37.24 days against the national average of 41.34 days. The past seven days growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 1.88 per cent, against the national average of 1.67 per cent, the data further said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-288
25-09-2020||Jharkhand||Liquor haul at Bihar border||Harihurganj police in Palamau recovered and seized a huge consignment of liquour near the Bihar border on Thursday. The consignment had thousands of bottles of alcohol which was being smuggled to Bihar. Police have stepped up border checks before the Bihar Assembly elections. SDPO Shambhu Kumar Singh said as the election gets nearer, smuggling of illicit wine will be rampant which they are determined to foil. Singh said along with the illicit wine police have recovered a huge consignment of government rice meant for the public distribution through PDS shops. The wine and government rice were clandestinely stocked in a godown owned by Umesh Sao, a  mukhiya and PDS shop owner. Singh said Sao who is absconding will face criminal charges under essential commodities act. Sao will also be charged for stocking illicit wine with the purpose of inter state smuggling. Vinoba Bhave University will be conducting its final year examination from Friday across five districts. Around 30,000 undergraduate students are expected to appear for the exam. The exams were delayed by two months due to the Covid induced lockdown. There are 25 centres in Hazaribagh, Koderma, Chatra, Ramgarh and Giridih. Pro-vice chancellor Ajeet Sinha said the varsity had left no stone unturned to conduct the examination by keeping all the Covid norms in mind. He said distance between two examinees will be three feet. Classrooms will be sanitised and it is mandatory for students to wear masks and gloves. "We have conveyed all these guidelines to principals in a meeting recently",said Sinha. Vice chancellor Dr. Mukul Narayan Deo said he has passed clear instructions to the principals. He said he had inspected the arrangements and found it satisfactory. Activists of CPI (M) on Thursday took out a procession at Randhir Verma Chowk against the new farm bill and also against the proposed changes in  the labour laws. The protesters said at a time when common people are facing the problem of economic constriants and recession during the pandemic, the central government is bringing new anti people bills to add to their woes. They claimed the proposed changes in the labour laws will benefit the capitalist forces and will deprive the common workers of all their rights. Deputy commissioner of Bokaro, Rajesh Kumar Singh on Thursday asked the district mining officer and police officials to ensure that there is no illegal mining and transportation of minerals including stone, sand and coal in the district. A meeting of the district mining task force was held under the chairmanship of the DC. Information related to stone, sand, brick kiln and coal mining lease located in the district was given by the district mining officer at the meeting. The circle officer and divisional forest officer have been asked to give a point-wise report of the sand ghats. The CCL and BCCL management should carry out regualar checks in their authorised areas to stop illegal mining and transportation of coal. The DC said illegal mining and transportation of minerals will not be tolerated in the district. Barwaddah Police on Thursday seized 182 bottles of liquor from an SUV during a vehicle checking drive conducted at Kalyanpur area. The police arrested three persons, all residents of Patna, on the charges of smuggling illicit liquor to Bihar. Officer in charge of Barwaddah Police station, Ganga Sagar Upadhyay said, "we received a tip off regarding the liquor being smuggled from Durgapur in Bengal to Bihar through national highway-2 and organised the vehicle checking drive in various places of the district on the basis of which the liquor consignment was found lying hidden beneath the seat of the SUV and arrests were made".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-289
25-09-2020||Jharkhand||CAG finds hurdles to Jharkhand cop upgrade||The scheme for modernisation of police force in Jharkhand could not achieve its target owing to several factors, ranging from irregular pattern of funding to shortage of modern weapons and inadequate training. The Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) of India observed this in the report on general, social and economic sectors for the year ended March 2018. The report was tabled on Monday during the just concluded monsoon session of Jharkhand Assembly. The CAG conducted a performance audit on the activities related to the modernisation scheme from 2013 to 2018. The scheme aimed at making state police force capable of facing emerging challenges and to reduce its dependence on the army and central armed police forces. Under the scheme, the Union and state governments were to share the expenditure in the ratio of 60:40, but neither the Centre nor the state released full components of funds during the period, the CAG observed. Though, the police needed to equip itself adequately to combat sophisticated weapons used by criminals and Maoists, it was still dependent on phased out weapons as shortage of modern weapons increased from 28 per cent in April 2013 to 32 per cent in April 2018, the report said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-289
