26-09-2020||Calcutta||9 in IPL betting net; 1 held in high-rise||Police arrested a South City resident on Thursday night in connection with an IPL betting syndicate after grilling him for 90 minutes in his 13th floor flat. The arrest was made when the match between Kings XI and Royal Challengers was on in Dubai. He was busy on the phone fixing bets in his flat, the police said. He was part of a team of nine men. The eight others were arrested from across the city, including south and central Calcutta, and Salt Lake on Thursday night. A team of eight officers of the detective department’s anti-rowdy squad entered the South City residential complex around 8.40pm. Two of them stayed at the security desk of Tower I while six went up to his flat on the 13th floor. A little later, the two cops joined the team when the man was found inside the flat, the police said. He has identified himself as a businessman. He left South City along with the police team after 90 minutes. Three laptops, a television set, three mobile phones and some money were seized from the flat, the police said. His wife and child were at home when he was arrested. Multiple raids were carried out across the city, including in pockets of Park Street, and India Exchange Place, and Salt Lake based on a tip-off and the eight were arrested, the police said. All the nine have been charged with cheating and criminal conspiracy. They have been booked under the West Bengal gambling and prize competition act, too. Apart from the seizures in South City, cops have seized Rs 1.5 lakh, 14 mobile phones, 11 laptops, two television sets, and a car in the raids. These days most betting happens on online apps and sites and can be tracked only if there is specific information, an officer said. “Any form of cricket betting is illegal in India. These men who fixed bets are punters. Usually, betting happens within a closed circle where people bet on the future possibilities in an ongoing match,” the officer said. A city court on Friday sent the nine to police custody, the police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-291
26-09-2020||Calcutta||Employee held for stealing LPG agency’s money||An employee of a company that supplies cooking gas, who had reported that he lost the money he had been asked to deposit in an office, has been found to have allegedly engaged a neighbour to throw the bag in a garbage vat after clearing its contents. A CCTV footage allegedly showing the neighbour disposing of the bag in the vat led the cops to the employee. The incident happened in New Alipore on Wednesday when Sanjib Thakur, an employee of a cooking gas supply company that has an office in Joka, was entrusted with depositing Rs 2 lakh in the firm’s New Alipore office. Around two hours after he was handed the money, Thakur returned to the Joka office and said the bag had fallen off his motorcycle. The company’s owner, Olivia Roy, had launched a search for the bag and it was found in a garbage vat of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation between Mahabirtala and Joka. Roy lodged a general diary with New Alipore police station on Thursday morning. “The owner was convinced that the employee had genuinely lost the money. But we decided to carry out a probe. Luckily, we found that the garbage vat where the empty bag was found was directly under a CCTV camera,” said an officer of New Alipore police station. The CCTV footage showed a man throwing the bag into the vat. “We took a still from the footage and went to the home of the employee. We showed the image to people in the neighbourhood, who said the man was a resident of the area and his name was Ramjan Sheikh,” the officer said. Sheikh’s house was searched and the money was allegedly found there. “Sheikh admitted that Thakur had asked him to empty the bag and throw it into the garbage vat,” the officer said. Thakur and Sheikh have been arrested on charges of cheating, criminal breach of trust and criminal conspiracy. Senior officers said such incidents of employees breaching the trust of employers and stealing the former’s money when asked to submit it in banks or other offices were becoming very common.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-291
26-09-2020||Calcutta||Talks on restarting classes||Education minister Partha Chatterjee will hold a videoconference with the vice-chancellors on Sunday to decide how classes can be started from November 1 while following the UGC academic calendar, a higher education department official said on Friday. Minister Chatterjee did not take calls from The Telegraph on Friday evening. The department is unsure of starting classes from November 1 in colleges and universities because of the pandemic but it is exploring the alternative models some institutes are following to hold classes, the higher education department official said. Endorsing the UGC’s academic calendar, the education ministry had on September 22 announced it had taken into account the pandemic and that first-year undergraduate and postgraduate classes could start from November 1. Now that the date has been announced, the department has to explore ways to start classes and it is looking into the models being followed by Jadavpur University and IIEST, Shibpur, the official said. “All these institutes are holding regular classes for students who are in the intermediate semesters without requiring them to visit the campus because of the pandemic. We will consider their models and take the opinion of the vice-chancellors to find out how much of that can be applied,” he said. Among the state universities, Jadavpur has been the first to start classes through the distance digital mode that involves holding online classes but taking into account a student’s accessibility to devices and Net connectivity. At JU, if students are sure of attending live online classes, they can do that. But teachers have to ensure if anyone misses out on live online classes because of connectivity problems, he/she isn’t left out, a university official said. “We are uploading recorded lectures on a digital platform the university has subscribed to and sharing the link with students,” a JU teacher said. Additionally, study materials are being uploaded on a central repository created on the digital platform. Once the content is uploaded, the addresses of the files — in Word or PDF format, audio notes or video recordings — are shared with students through email or over WhatsApp. A student can interact with teachers over WhatsApp or through email to clear doubts, if any. Lectures and study materials are uploaded on YouTube, too, and students given the links, the JU official said. The university is in the process of buying smartphones and data packs for students facing Net connectivity problems. “Since JU has been holding classes for close to a month, the model can be considered,” the higher education department official said. “Let the education department consult us. We will have an idea. But the model that is applicable at a unitary university like JU may not be easily implemented at CU, which has so many colleges affiliated to it,” a vice-chancellor said. An official of the Indian Institute of Engineering Science and Technology (IIEST) said the institute had created a central repository to supplement the online teaching-learning process in the autumn semester that started from August 24. The repository has a section where course materials, including lecture notes, resources and assignments, are uploaded by members of the faculty. Students in remote areas who are unable to attend online classes can download study materials when they have proper Net connectivity and go through them whenever they feel like, an IIEST official said. IIEST director Parthasarathi Chakrabarti had told The Telegraph earlier that the institute would help students without access to laptops or computers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-292
26-09-2020||Calcutta||Salt Lake civic body blaze||A fire broke out on the third floor of Poura Bhavan, the headquarters of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation in Salt Lake’s FD Block, on Friday evening. A meeting of outgoing councillors was on when guards spotted smoke billowing out of the wing where assistant engineers of the civic body have their offices. They alerted the fire brigade before rushing upstairs to tell the councillors that a fire had broken out. Some guards and civic employees started evacuating the building. Five fire engines from Sector V fire station reached the spot and doused the flames in 30 minutes, a fire officer said. A preliminary investigation showed the fire might have started in an AC unit on the floor. A couple of AC units have been damaged, the fire officer said. Krishna Chakraborty, the Bidhannagar mayor, said some AC units and a few curtains had been gutted. “We don’t know if any documents have been damaged.” The civic body is worried that documents related to several departments that were on the floor might have been damaged in the fire or water, another civic official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-292
26-09-2020||Calcutta||CAG report highlights lapses in museum modernisation||The Indian Museum executed a Rs 100-crore “modernisation” programme to celebrate its bicentennial year in 2014 without any conservation plan or detailed project report and proper planning, says a Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) report for the year ended March 2018. Major work on providing a modern storage system, fire fighting, fire detection and prevention and ventilation and air conditioning, standard provisions for museums all over the world, was not taken up at all though money was sanctioned, the report says. According to the report, proper conservation processes were also not followed during renovation, resulting in damage to priceless artefacts like the Lion Capital, more than 2,000 years old, at the entrance to the museum. The Gandhar Stupa, too, was damaged by the executing agency, the National Building Construction Company (NBCC) Limited, a public sector undertaking, says the CAG. The modernisation work was funded by the museum, which sanctioned Rs 66 lakh for repair of the external façade of the Anthropological Society of India building and the office Union ministry of culture, both of which are on the museum premises. The audit of the modernisation project was taken up in April 2018. When records relating to the modernisation project were requisitioned by the CAG team, the museum submitted a copy of the complaint filed by its security officer on July 24, 2018, with the New Market police station  reporting loss of the documents. When the present Indian Museum director Arijit Dutta Choudhury was asked about this, he told Metro: “Yes this happens on and off at the museum. Files disappear and reappear again.” This newspaper had in March 2019 reported how chunks were coming off the walls, corners were breaking off, water was dripping from the roof and lime plaster was coming off just four years after work was completed. Work on the lift and gravity fall system is yet to be awarded, the report says. When asked about this, the director said: “Work is presently on to replace the lifts and an annual maintenance contract has been drawn up with the CPWD for a further sum of money that will be allocated from the general maintenance fund given annually to the museum by the ministry.” For modernisation of the museum, Rs 99.76 crore was estimated. Work was executed and completed at a cost of Rs 95.87 crore. Major part of the work including restoration and modernisation of reserve store, installation of fire fighting, fire detection and prevention system, and heating, ventilation and air-conditioning system, estimated at Rs 25.73 crore, was not awarded at all. The audit team noted that the storage and upkeep of reserve artefacts was completely ignored. The reserve accounts for almost 94 per cent of the museum’s collection and consists of inorganic objects susceptible to heat and humidity. They are now under excessive temperature and humidity variance, crumbling walls and loose hanging electrical wires. On the lapse in the modernisation programme, the director said: “For storage, we need an entire new building. Right now most of the objects are stored at various places, some othe top floor, some sections have their own storage. We need to have one centralised storage with modern facilities and we are working on this proposal.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-292
26-09-2020||Calcutta||Clothes on fire, lady chokes on fume||An 83-year-old woman died apparently after inhaling carbon monoxide after her clothes caught fire from a diya she had lit while offering her prayers at her New Alipore home on Friday morning, police said. Her son was in another room when the fire broke out. Gouri Dasgupta, a resident of Block P in New Alipore, was taken to SSKM Hospital, where she was declared dead. Police said the incident happened around 5.35am. Dutta had been living with her son since he returned home from abroad because of the pandemic, an officer said. “She was wearing a nightgown that got burnt. The apparent cause of death is inhalation of carbon monoxide,” an officer said. “We are investigating the circumstances leading to the death. Till now we have not found anything that suggests foul play,” said an officer||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-292
26-09-2020||Calcutta||Lorry on reverse kills 69-year-old||A man returning home to Surya Sen Street from the market died after a reversing lorry hit him inside College Square on Friday morning, police said. Surya Sen Street runs along the southern boundary of College Square. Subir Modak, 69, was declared dead at Calcutta Medical College and Hospital. The lorry works for the Calcutta Municipal Corporation. The pathway inside the park is not a motorable road, a police officer said. The accident took place near the eastern gate of College Square opposite the Mahabodhi Society building and Paramount store, which leads to Bankim Chatterjee Street. “The man was leaving the park through the gate and the lorry was reversing when it hit him,” the officer said. An official of the CMC, the custodian of College Square, said Modak was a member of the committee that organises Durga Puja inside College Square. “It is an unfortunate accident,” the official said. The CMC had hired the lorry for work in Borough V that covers College Square. The borough office is right across Surya Sen Street from the boundary wall of College Square. The truck had brought cow dung for a nursery inside College Square and was entering the park in reverse to unload it. There was no helper with the driver. “Had there been a helper, he would have noticed Modak behind the lorry and alerted him and the driver,” the CMC official said. The driver fled after the accident, the police said. The matter is with Amherst Street police station. The driver has been booked under sections 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way) and 304A (causing death by negligence) of the IPC, the police said. The charges carry a maximum punishment of up to two years in jail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-292
26-09-2020||Calcutta||Tough therapy times for kids with disability||The pandemic has posed intervention and assessment challenges for children with disabilities, professionals who work with them have said. It is difficult to keep children, aged between three and eight, engaged in an hour-long online session and an interaction with a therapist — when done from home — is not free of interruptions, according to psychologists. The pandemic has held back parents and unless children have a major meltdown, parents are reluctant to approach and seek help, at least two professionals who work with children have said. For young and new parents, it is often the schoolteacher who identifies such issues among children while observing them in a group and alerts parents who might be unaware of the signs. “In terms of intervention, there has to be play, music and art therapy, which does not work in an online session. Many children who were attending schools or vocational classes for speech or behaviour therapy are now unable to do so and it has affected them,” psychiatrist Sanjay Garg said. Some of his patients who were “stable” are now showing signs of behavioural anxiety after being stuck at home during the pandemic. Six months into the pandemic, mental health professionals are facing certain limitations in online sessions. “Children can have delays in several developmental aspects. This entails that a multidisciplinary team be set up for the therapy and training, which is hard to coordinate remotely,” clinical psychologist Parmeet Soni said. “There are many interventions that parents will need to employ; conventionally, these interventions will be taught using hands-on demonstrations, something that is not feasible in online sessions.” Some children experience “restlessness” and need to be engaged in physical activities, Soni said. “They cannot engage in development needs of playing and socialising with other children because of the pandemic.” Some mental health professionals said they were “grappling” with ways to reach out to children. “In our interaction and remedial intervention, the physical presence of the therapist is important because the relationship between the child and the professional is built on a rapport but that is a huge challenge now,” psychotherapist Farishta Dastur Mukerji said. Also, in a clinic therapists can make changes and closely monitor and engage with a child without letting him/her to venture out of the room. “The environment is not in our control anymore,” Dastur Mukerji said. For young and new parents the situation is more challenging because they are not sure whether they should seek consultation if there is delay in speech or any other milestone, according to mental health professionals. “The pandemic is holding back parents from seeking help and some of them are not aware that the delay is causing harm,”  Indrani Basu, the founder of Autism Society West Bengal, said. Some of the interventions are dependent on parental interviews and recordings of children sent by parents but professionals said it was not enough. “In some cases, a visit to the clinic is important and some assessments cannot happen online.... In children, the faster the intervention, the better the prognosis,” Dastur Mukerji said. Doctors are forced to start “presumptive treatment”, Garg said. In normal circumstances, a therapist would have needed a few sessions with the child before starting treatment but in some homes the situation has become unmanageable with parents having professional commitments and the child “getting agitated”. It is important to equip parents to handle the situation at home though it is not easy, given the fact they have to juggle working from home and at home. The Autism Society West Bengal will conduct an online training workshop for parents to manage early learners with autism. “If the child’s condition has been recognised there has to be some kind of training on communication and toilet training.... Also, since parents are at home some children have become dependent on them and they need to be made independent,” Basu said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-292
26-09-2020||Calcutta||Pandemic lesson of self-reliance for marginalised women||The pandemic has made women from marginalised sections of the society realise the importance of self-reliance and independence, feel many organisations working with them. There is a greater demand for vocational courses and underprivileged women have understood the need to upskill themselves to be more employable in these dire times, according to those working with underprivileged women. For many such families, the men have been out of work during the pandemic and the responsibility of feeding the children and others is on the women. The pandemic has created a sense of “urgency and desperation” among the women and their husbands, too, are creating “far less obstructions” now, according to members of some NGOs that have been running vocational courses such as tailoring, handicraft, cooking, and bakery long before the coronavirus struck. Some NGOs have been flooded with requests for training and they had to screen candidates because it was not possible to accommodate everyone. For example, Ek Tara, a trust that works with women and children in the Tiljala-Topsia area, received 90 applications for 24 seats in the tailoring course. The Kolkata Mary Ward Social Centre (KMWSC), a wing of the Loreto Congregation in South Asia, had received requests from women to reopen the vocational units in the initial days of the lockdown. “Before the pandemic we had to persuade women to acquire some skills… they would usually cite financial and time constraints and not join the courses,” Manjusmita Bagchi, the associate director at Ek Tara, said. “In fact, some would commit to join but not turn up. Now, they have realised the importance of self-reliance.” For the sake of accountability, the women have to pay 10 per cent of the course fees in instalments, which works out to roughly Rs 400. The trust runs a community kitchen to provide subsidised meals to workers in manufacturing units in the area. And the trust trains and employs women for this. “The training for tailoring is for two days a week… on other days they need to have exposure to the machines to set their hands. It will create an opportunity for them to work in the leather manufacturing units in the locality,” Anupriya Bhattacharya, the head of the community centre at Ek Tara, said. The KMWSC runs a beautician’s course apart from tailoring, bakery and manufacturing sanitary pads. “We train them and sell the products manufactured by them and give them the money. The sense of urgency and responsibility is more among these women now. They say if they do not earn, their children will go hungry,” Sister Monica Suchiang, the director of KMWSC, said. “Because of the number of requests we are trying to complete the training by holding more classes. This will enable us to start fresh batches and train more women,” Sister Suchiang said. In Calcutta, the KMWSC currently trains 150 women in batches of six for 90 minutes from 9am to 4pm. “Sanitisation is expensive but that cannot stop us from helping these women to get upskilled,” Sister Suchiang said. The pandemic has made the men in these households more “cooperative” now. They allow the women to go out for work, which means fewer dropouts. “The women are more regular now… there is less obstruction from their husbands. The need is more now,” Arjun Dutta, the president of NGO, Calcutta Social Project, said. Saba Parveen, in her 30s, with two boys, aged 9 and 12, has been working at the kitchen of Ek Tara after completing her training. She received her first salary of Rs 6,000 on Thursday. When the pandemic struck, her husband lost his job at a bag manufacturing unit. She overcame her inhibitions and her husband did away with his high-handed attitude and allowed her to step out. “There is no money at home… we know the kind of hardship we are going through to manage a meal. Earlier, my husband would not approve of me stepping out to work and I, too, would be happy at home taking care of the children… now, the situation is different,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-292
26-09-2020||Calcutta||95-year-old puja to keep three sides open||A north Calcutta Durga Puja that bills itself as the oldest sarbojanin (community) celebration of the goddess in Bengal is going back to the past in the year of the pandemic. The Simla Byayam Samity Puja, in its 95th year, is going for a pandal with a covered roof and three open sides. The design is in keeping with chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s advice in the backdrop of the Covid-19 pandemic. The design is also similar to what pandals of the puja looked like till as late as the 1970s, said old timers of the area, off Central Avenue. “Traditionalism is our essence. With time, some grandeur has crept in. But open and spacious pandal is like revisiting the past, when the idols would be under a covered roof and the rest of the area would be open,” said Baikunthanath Seal, 77, a former secretary of the puja committee. The puja was started in 1926 by Atindra Nath Basu with the support of Mahendranath Dutta, Swami Vivekananda’s brother. “For years, the Samity used to be the cradle of freedom fighters initiated by the chant of revolution (biplob-er mantre dikshito),” said Seal. Basu, a freedom fighter himself, is said to have come up with the term sarbojanin because he felt the need for “a puja for all”. Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose was the president of the puja in 1939. Seal has heard stories from his father about Bose “relishing on the bhog” along with other members. The puja has also shattered a glass ceiling this year. For the first time in 95 years, the committee will have a woman joint secretary. “Legendary women freedom fighters, led by Kalpana Dutta, have been part of the Samity and the puja. So, in a way, this is also a throwback to the past,” said Sohini Roy, one of the joint secretaries this year. The puja, while harping on the past, will also embrace technology for crowd control and social distancing. A “giant LED screen” will be set up outside the pandal. The pandal stands on a part of a ground spanning 30,000sqft. Every day’s puja will be telecast on the screen. Every year, the puja sees a huge gathering during anjali and sandhya-arati. “We will not be able to allow visitors to stand and watch the puja in the pandal. If people want, they can watch the proceedings on the scre-en. The space outside can accommodate 100 people at a time without violating social distancing norms,” said Roy. The height of the goddess, usually around 17ft, has been reduced to around 12ft this year. The idol is being prepared at the puja venue, like past years. The organisers have contributed to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund for Covid-19 and Amphan relief. “We have also provided help to the poor in the neighbourhood,” said Roy. The economic crisis spawned by the pandemic has led to smaller contributions from corporate sponsors this year, said organisers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-292
26-09-2020||Calcutta||Tweak in plans to abide by CM advisory||Additional gates, extra windows, provisions for visitors to watch idols without entering the pandal — puja committees across Calcutta remained busy throughout Friday trying to tweak their pandal designs to abide by chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s advisory. The chief minister wants the pandals to be spacious and designed in a way that they allow free flow of air, which are among the basic precautions against Covid-19. While some puja committees started making necessary additions or exclusions, several others who have been waiting for a clear set of directives from the government began firming up their plans for the celebrations. “Only the portion of the pandal above the idols will remain covered. The rest of the pandal will remain open for air circulation. Even the road that leads to the ground where the pandal will come up will not be covered,” said Somnath Das of Santoshpur Lake Pally Durga Puja Committee. “There will be small houses inside the arena as part of our theme. But visitors won’t be allowed to enter them. We have been waiting for the directives. Now we will start our construction.” Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had advised puja organisers on Thursday to keep the sides of the pandals open if the ceiling was blocked to allow proper air circulation. “Khola-mela mandap korun (Keep the pandal airy and open)” she had said while laying down guidelines for constructing pandals this year. Behala Notun Dal had decided to keep a buffer space of around 20 feet between visitors and the idols despite the restrictions posed by their theme. Now even that doesn’t seem enough. The organisers decided on Friday to keep the area around this buffer space open to allow adequate air circulation. “We will set up more open windows as part of our theme. We will also erect two additional exits of 12ftX12ft each to ensure faster dispersal of visitors,” said Sandipan Banerjee of the puja committee. Several committees had a word with their artists about how to find ways to adhere to the norms laid down by the chief minister on Thursday for pandals. Less than a month left for the Puja, it isn’t an easy task. But all organisers said there was no alternative but to stick to the new set of guidelines. “The mandap for the idols is being done in such a way that if visitors don’t want to step inside and see the intricate designs, they would be able to see the idols from a distance and move on,” said Biswanath De, the artist working for Kalighat Milan Sangha. “There will be three large exit gates to avoid crowding at any point of time. We will have to work around the theme for openness and air circulation.” Opening up will also mean embracing the challenge that a smart shower may pose on the five Puja days and even before that. Several puja organisers said they could only hope that by the end-October (Puja begins on October 22) the monsoon clouds would bid adieu to the city. Else, they could do little to provide a canopy for shelter. “This year visitors would have to come prepared. We have noticed that real pandal-hoppers are not deterred by such showers,” said an org-aniser of a Sovabazar puja committee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-292
26-09-2020||Calcutta||Designer’s friends, kin seek probe||Some relatives and friends of late fashion designer Sharbari Datta went to Lalbazar on Friday and said police should probe the immediate circumstances before her death. The police told them they should give in writing if they had a specific complaint. Datta’s 87-year-old brother-in-law Jyoti Datta and his wife Minakshi; Datta’s niece Rajlakshmi Mohan; Ananya Chakraborti, chairperson, West Bengal Child Rights Commission; Srabanti Bandyopadhyay, member of the commission; filmmaker Sudeshna Roy; and Sanjukta Nath, who was a friend of the designer, met Santosh Pandey, joint commissioner (traffic), at Lalbazar. Pandey now holds the additional charge of joint commissioner (crime). The delegation wants a “fair probe” and Datta’s immediate family to be questioned about the circumstances in which she was found dead. On the night of September 17, Datta was found dead in a washroom on the ground floor of her home she shared with her son and daughter-in-law. Her husband had passed a few years ago. A probe by the police revealed that she had died more than 12 hours before but no one in the family had enquired about her till her body was found. “The meeting lasted 40 minutes. We were given a patient hearing and asked to give our complaint in writing with specific charges. We are contemplating writing accordingly. We all know how she was treated by her son and daughter-in-law,” Ananya Chakraborti told The Telegraph. She recounted how Jyoti Datta conveyed to the police his shock about the state the talented designer found herself in before her death. “It was clearly a case of abuse of an elderly person and we will give our complaint in detail as suggested,” Chakraborti said. A day after Datta’s death, Chakraborti had written to the joint commissioner (crime) alleging that the designer was abused by her son and daughter-in-law. “She had confided in me several times… how they (son and daughter-in-law) had taken away everything from her, her wealth, her property, her brand and was paying her a small allowance… She also said how she had been coerced into signing off everything in the favour of her son and daughter-in-law….” A senior officer said they would start an inquiry if they received a specific complaint against her family members. The post-mortem report is yet to arrive. A section of privy to the findings of the preliminary autopsy said Dutta had suffered a cerebral stroke.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-292
26-09-2020||Calcutta||Panel censures 2 hospitals for overbilling, orders refund||The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission on Friday found to be true complaints of inflated billing against two private hospitals and ordered them to return various sums to the patients. The commission also warned the hospitals — Desun Hospital and BP Poddar Hospital — against repeating the practice. Desun Hospital was ordered to return Rs 65,478. BP Poddar Hospital offered to return Rs 50,000 and the commission asked it to do so. The commission’s chairperson, retired judge Ashim Kumar Banerjee, said both hospitals had charged exorbitant amounts for some pathological tests. “The rates were more than what the most reputable diagnostic laboratory in the city, whose results most doctors accept without any doubt, charge,” Banerjee said. BP Poddar Hospital had also violated the cap imposed by the state government on the PPE charge and doctors’ consultation fee. “Fifty-seven-year-old Ashok Kumar Choraria lodged a complaint that he had been billed Rs 1,15,478 for a mere 16-hour stay at Desun Hospital on August 22. The hospital has claimed that he stayed for 19 hours. The hospital charged the patient Rs 26,000 for bed for this duration,” said Banerjee. The patient was suffering from Covid-19. “When we examined the bill, we found some discrepancies. The IL6 test, that is done for Covid-19 patients, was done twice during this short stay. The charges of some routine tests seemed to be very high. For example, the hospital had charged Rs 1,900 for the liver function test. We compared this with the charge of the most reputable laboratory in the city. They charge Rs 1,250 for the test,” he said. He said the commission told a representative of Desun Hospital during the hearing that their charges were “exorbitant”. The patient’s family deposited Rs 50,000 during admission and paid the remaining Rs 65,478 of the total bill during discharge. They alleged during the hearing that the hospital refused to discharge him if the balance amount was not paid. “We have asked Desun Hospital to return Rs 65,478 to the patient. We have also warned the hospital that we do not want a repeat of this practice,” the chairperson said. When asked about the commission’s order, Tapas Mukherjee, the deputy managing director of Desun, said: “We have not yet received a written copy of the order. So we will not comment.” Choraria got himself admitted in another hospital after being discharged from Desun. A similar complaint of inflated billing was filed against BP Poddar Hospital. “A man suffering from Covid remained in the hospital for eight days and was billed Rs 2,77,169. The insurance company paid only Rs 1,26,673. The patient’s family had to pay the rest,” the chairperson said. While scrutinising the bill, the commission found that the hospital had violated the cap set by the government for doctors’ consultation fee and personal protective equipment (PPE) charges. “The hospital had charged more for doctors’ consultation. It showed two heads and charged Rs 1,000 each for doctors’ consultation and medical officer’s fee. This cannot be done,” said Banerjee. “The hospital also charged high rates for pathological tests. They charged the patient Rs 6,525 for IL6 test and Rs 2,683 for the liver function test,” said Banerjee. “They also charged for masks separately from the PPE.” The government has capped doctors’ consultation fee and the PPE rate at Rs 1,000 each a day. The commission later issued an advisory clarifying that PPE rate would include the charged for gloves and masks. “I am not aware of this particular case…. We allow every patient or family to speak to the senior management if they have any complaint about billing or treatment. Every patient has the right to approach the commission if they feel, but I would like to say that they can also approach us before that if they want,” said Mohit D. Bhagat, the assistant general manager of BP Poddar Hospital and Medical Research Limited. The commission on Friday also asked two hospitals in Durgapur to file affidavits in the case of the death of a 17-year-old boy who had tested positive for Covid-19. One of the hospitals did not make any arrangements for the boy’s admission in any other hospital when they could not admit him. A doctor at the hospital who examined the boy had advised admission. “We have asked the hospital to show cause why they did not help the patient get admitted to another hospital,” said Banerjee. The boy underwent treatment for four days in the other hospital. The second hospital has been asked to provide all medical records.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-293
26-09-2020||Business||I lead a disciplined lifestyle, Anil Ambani tells UK court||Reliance Group chairman Anil Ambani has told a UK court that suggestions of his lavish tastes are speculative because his lifestyle is "very disciplined" as he gave evidence in a dispute involving a loan agreement with three Chinese banks. The 61-year-old former billionaire appeared via videolink from Mumbai before the High Court on Friday for compulsory cross-examination in aid of an asset disclosure order obtained by the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China Ltd Mumbai Branch, China Development Bank and Exim Bank of China. The order required Ambani to give full disclosure of all of his assets worldwide exceeding USD 100,000. "My needs are not vast and my lifestyle is very disciplined," Ambani told the London court. Asked about his fleet of luxury cars and other references to his lavish lifestyle as the counsel for the banks cross-examined him, the Reliance Communications chief dismissed them as "speculative" media stories. "Mr Anil Ambani has always been a simple man of simple tastes, contrary to exaggerated perceptions of his flamboyance and lavish lifestyle," said a spokesperson for Anil Ambani. "He is devoted to his family and company, an avid marathon runner, and deeply spiritual. He is also a lifelong vegetarian, teetotaller and non-smoker who would much rather watch a movie at home with his kids than go out on the town. Reports that suggest otherwise are completely misleading," the spokesperson said. The dispute revolves around an alleged breach of a personal guarantee on a company debt refinancing loan of around USD 925 million dating back to February 2012. Ambani denies providing authority for any such guarantee, resulting in the High Court action in the UK - the jurisdiction agreed upon as part of the terms of the loan agreement. In May, the Commercial Division of the High Court of England and Wales in London had ruled that the personal guarantee was binding on Ambani and directed him to pay early USD 717 million to the three Chinese banks. "The banks will use the information from the cross-examination to pursue all available legal avenues to protect their rights and recover the outstanding loans owed to them, the banks said in a statement this week. At a hearing in the case earlier in the year, a UK judge had ruled that he did not accept Ambani's defence that his net worth was nearly zero or that his family would not step in to assist him when "push came to shove". Reliance Group chairman Anil Ambani has told a UK court that suggestions of his lavish tastes are speculative because his lifestyle is "very disciplined" as he gave evidence in a dispute involving a loan agreement with three Chinese banks. The 61-year-old former billionaire appeared via videolink from Mumbai before the High Court on Friday for compulsory cross-examination in aid of an asset disclosure order obtained by the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China Ltd Mumbai Branch, China Development Bank and Exim Bank of China. The order required Ambani to give full disclosure of all of his assets worldwide exceeding USD 100,000. "My needs are not vast and my lifestyle is very disciplined," Ambani told the London court. Asked about his fleet of luxury cars and other references to his lavish lifestyle as the counsel for the banks cross-examined him, the Reliance Communications chief dismissed them as "speculative" media stories. "Mr Anil Ambani has always been a simple man of simple tastes, contrary to exaggerated perceptions of his flamboyance and lavish lifestyle," said a spokesperson for Anil Ambani. "He is devoted to his family and company, an avid marathon runner, and deeply spiritual. He is also a lifelong vegetarian, teetotaller and non-smoker who would much rather watch a movie at home with his kids than go out on the town. Reports that suggest otherwise are completely misleading," the spokesperson said. The dispute revolves around an alleged breach of a personal guarantee on a company debt refinancing loan of around USD 925 million dating back to February 2012. Ambani denies providing authority for any such guarantee, resulting in the High Court action in the UK - the jurisdiction agreed upon as part of the terms of the loan agreement. In May, the Commercial Division of the High Court of England and Wales in London had ruled that the personal guarantee was binding on Ambani and directed him to pay early USD 717 million to the three Chinese banks. "The banks will use the information from the cross-examination to pursue all available legal avenues to protect their rights and recover the outstanding loans owed to them, the banks said in a statement this week. At a hearing in the case earlier in the year, a UK judge had ruled that he did not accept Ambani's defence that his net worth was nearly zero or that his family would not step in to assist him when "push came to shove".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-278
26-09-2020||Business||Harley-Davidson Inc and Hero MotoCorp distribution deal on talks||Harley-Davidson Inc is in advanced talks with Hero MotoCorp for a distribution deal which will allow the US company’s motorcycles to be sold in India, after it stops local manufacturing there, three sources told Reuters. The Milwaukee-based company said on Thursday it will stop sales and shut its manufacturing plant in India, effectively abandoning the world’s biggest motorcycle market after a decade of unsuccessful efforts to gain a foothold. Harley, however, is in talks with Hero over a distribution arrangement that will allow the Indian company to import and sell Harley bikes as its sole distributor, two sources with familiar with the talks said. “Hero will be the master distributor for Harley bikes in India... This will be a partnership, a strategic alliance,” said one of the sources, all of whom declined to be named as the discussions were private. Discussions are also ongoing to let Hero become a contract manufacturer for at least one Harley motorcycle with 300-600cc engine capacity, which it will launch later, the first source added. The financial details of the deal were not immediately clear. Asked about the talks with Hero, a Harley spokesperson said the company would not comment on speculation. On Thursday, it said it was changing its business model in India evaluating options to continue to serve customers. Hero MotoCorp, India’s largest two-wheeler manufacturer by sales, also declined to comment on market speculation. It produced 6.4 million scooters and motorcycles in the financial year ended March 2020, a third of India’s total output. Harley manufactured 4,500 motorcycles during that period, largely assembled from imported knock-down kits at its plant near New Delhi, which it will shut as part of its restructuring. Harley’s decision to stop direct manufacturing marks another major exit by an automotive player in India and is a setback for Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who has invited foreign firms to ramp up local production. Ford Motor and General Motors have both cut back their India operations in recent years. Harley, known for its heavy touring motorcycles, struggled in India mainly because of high import duties and also because its locally assembled bikes faced high taxes. Hero typically sells motorcycles with engine capacity of under 200cc and a deal with Harley will boost its entry into the mid- and high-engine market favoured by biking enthusiasts and fashion conscious younger riders, the second source said. Harley’s 33 dealerships will likely to come under Hero’s management under the new arrangement, said one of the sources. In a statement on Friday, the Federation of Automobile Dealers Associations (Fada) in India criticised Harley for not informing dealers about their India plans. “It goes without saying that dealers who have invested their hard-earned capital in this iconic brand are left like an abandoned baby without any compensation package,” Fada said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-278
26-09-2020||Business||Berger Paints to scale investment in upcoming UP plant||Berger Paints plans to scale up its investment in the upcoming plant at the Sandila industrial area in Uttar Pradesh to around Rs 260 crore. The plant, which was originally stated to be commissioned by 2021 at an investment of around Rs 200 crore, will now go onstream in 2022. The company has added waterproofing, besides decorative, industrial and putty lines. Waterproofing is a Rs 8,000 crore-market where the company plans to make further inroads. “The capital expenditure for the current year has not been scaled down. The major expenditure this year will be on the  plant that we are setting up in Sandila near Lucknow. This new plant will have decorative, industrial, water proofing, putty. Construction work going on. The plant is expected to be operational from 2022,” said Berger Paints managing director and CEO Abhijit Roy. He added that slight changes in design and delay in obtaining approvals, including environmental clearances, have delayed the commissioning of the plant. Roy said that the paint maker has seen an improvement in demand from the smaller markets and this will help in recovering part of the business lost during the first quarter of the fiscal. “We have had double-digit growth from June onwards in volume and even in value in the months of June and August. July was muted though we had volume growth. The second quarter will be positive over last year,” Roy said. “Waterproofing is doing well. We believe the segment has got good potential and it is starting to open up in India,” he said. He added that the company is strengthening its distribution in certain pockets to bridge the gap with market leader Asian Paints. At the company’s annual general meeting, Berger Paints chairman Kuldip Singh Dhingra said that the market capitalization of the shares of the company stood at Rs 48,363 crores as on 31st March, 2020 as against Rs 31,440 crores as on 31st March, 2019 - an increase of more than 50 per cent in one year. The company has paid an interim dividend of Rs 1.90 per share in March 2020 and the board has recommended a final dividend of Rs 0.30 per share aggregating the total dividend to Rs 2.20 per share in 2019-20.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-278
26-09-2020||Business||Sebi imposes Rs 1 crore penalty on Rana Kapoor||Sebi on Friday imposed a penalty of Rs 1 crore on Rana Kapoor, former managing director and CEO of Yes Bank, for not making disclosures about Morgan Credit’s transaction. By not disclosing the transaction to Yes Bank’s board of directors, Kapoor has created an opaque layer between him and the stakeholders, Sebi said in an order. Morgan Credit which was an unlisted promoter entity of Yes Bank, raised Rs 950 crore from Reliance Mutual Fund, now Nippon India Mutual Fund, through unlisted zero coupon non-convertible debentures in April 2018. Kapoor, who was also the promoter of Yes Bank, entered into an agreement as a “guarantor” with Morgan and Milestone Trusteeship Services with respect to the transaction through a trust deed. Kapoor has provided a “personal guarantee” for the obligations of Morgan to the extent of Rs 410 crore and provided his shares in the company as a security for the outstanding amounts equal to Rs 820 crore, Sebi noted. According to the regulator, Kapoor has hidden the material information of him being a “guarantor” from the board of the bank and the same has directly impacted the lender in terms of market capitalisation. London property The Enforcement Directorate has attached a Rs 127-crore flat of Kapoor in London in connection with a money laundering investigation against him and others.  The agency issued a provisional order for attaching the property — Apartment 1, 77 South Audley Street, London — under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-278
26-09-2020||Business||Appointments committee of the cabinet approves SAIL board restructuring||The appointments committee of the cabinet (ACC) has approved the restructuring of the board of Steel Authority of India Ltd (SAIL), which would give more powers to the officials directly heading steel plants. After the approvals, the four posts of the chief executive officers (CEOs) of SAIL’s integrated steel plants (ISPs) will be elevated to the level of functional directors, by designating them as directors-in-charge of the Bokaro, Rourkela and Bhilai plants. The Burnpur and Durgapur units will be represented by one director-in-charge.  This would enable them to be part of the board meetings and take up issues concerning their plants at the board level, officials said. Moreover, the post of director (raw materials and logistics) and that of director (projects and business planning) will be merged with the post of director (technical) and consequently re-designated as director (technical, projects and raw materials). An official statement said the restructured board of  SAIL will consist of the chairman, director (finance), director (commercial), director (technical, project and raw materials), director (personnel) and the directors in charge of the ISPs. The board will also have non-official directors under the Companies Act 2013 and two government nominee directors. According to the policy of the department of public enterprises, it is expected that the elevation of CEOs (now Directors in-charge of ISPs) into the company board as Functional Directors would lead to a greater degree of decentralisation of decision making within the company. It will also give more say to CEOs in the future investment decisions that will be made by the SAIL Board. “The restructuring of the board will facilitate greater de-centralisation and nimble decision making with the Directors-in-charge of plants as direct ACC appointees, with their views having weight in the central corporate governance structure. This will also facilitate a speedy modernisation and expansion programme of SAIL,” the official statement said. “Directors as in-charge of ISPs would in turn be critical in having the corporation respond with agility in a globally challenging environment,” the statement added. Besides, the board will have non-official directors as per the Companies Act 2013 and 2 government nominee directors as per the DPE (Department of Public Enterprise) policy. SAIL aims to reach 50 million tonnes of capacity through brownfield/greenfield expansion and this input has also been considered while formulating the National Steel Policy 2017, having a vision of 300 million tonnes capacity in the country by 2030-31.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-278
26-09-2020||Business||SC to consider making flight refund vouchers transferable||The Supreme Court on Friday said it will consider the Centre’s suggestion to make transferable the refund vouchers to be given to the passengers in lieu of the tickets booked for the flights which were cancelled because of the lockdown. Solicitor-general Tushar Mehta told the court the vouchers would be transferable from one passenger to another passenger. “We have done our best to ensure that the passenger either gets the money back or gets the voucher which is transferable,” Mehta told the court. At the hearing, private airlines opposed any move by the DGCA (directorate-general of civil aviation) to levy a monthly interest of 0.1 per cent at the time of refund of the tickets cancelled between March 23  and May 5. The DGCA had earlier told the court it would ask the airlines to pay a nominal interest on the cancelled fares after many passengers complained that airlines were refusing to refund the fares. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R. Subhash Reddy and M.R. Shah, which heard the arguments of passengers, travel agents and airlines, reserved its verdict. The court is expected to give the verdict in another fortnight. Senior advocate Pinaki Misra for Air Asia and Vistara argued that there was a wrong impression that the money retained by the airlines was parked in some bank. Advocate Puneet Jain for an intervener complained that the DGCA had failed to address the issue of passengers who had booked their tickets outside India for travel to the country. Mehta clarified that the DGCA has jurisdiction only on tickets booked in India and not abroad||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-279
26-09-2020||Business||Balmer Lawrie to go ahead with expansion plan||Balmer Lawrie plans to go ahead with its expansion and capital expenditure plan even though the Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown has affected its business verticals. The city-based diversified public sector undertaking   has a presence in segments such as industrial packaging, greases and lubricants, leather chemicals, refinery and oilfield services, logistics, travel and vacation services. “Balmer Lawrie spends around Rs 30-35 crore every year as capital expenditure for both modernisation and replacement of old machinery. This year, our target capex is around Rs 35-40 crore. We are setting up a new temperature controlled warehouse in Bhubaneswar that we hope to commission in the last quarter,” said Prabal Basu, chairman and managing director of Balmer Lawrie. “Going forward in the next two years, we will continue with a capex of around Rs 40 crore per year. We are thinking about expansion in cold chain space and some modernisation of our plants,” he said. Balmer Lawrie has recorded a profit before tax of Rs 232 crores in 2019-20 as against Rs 280 crores in 2018-19. “The decrease is being attributable to the decrease in the performance of some SBUs, primarily on account of adverse impact of onset of Covid-19 pandemic during the last quarter of the financial year,” Basu said at the company’s annual general meeting on Friday. He added that despite a challenging first quarter, the company would remain profitable for the rest of the year. The travel and vacation vertical however will take a longer time to recover, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-279
26-09-2020||Business||Equity benchmark Sensex rallies 835 points||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied 835 points on Friday after six days of declines as investors returned to buying mode amid a modest recovery in global markets. A strengthening rupee — which spurted 28 paise against the dollar — added to the momentum, traders said. The 30-share BSE Sensex opened higher following Thursday’s selloff and stayed in the positive territory throughout the session. It finally closed at 37388.66, up 835.06 points, or 2.28 per cent. The NSE Nifty vaulted 244.70 points, or 2.26 per cent, to finish at 11050.25. On a weekly basis, the Sensex lost 1457.16 points, or 3.83 per cent, while the Nifty tumbled 454.70 points, or 4.04 per cent. Global markets stabilised following an overnight pullback on Wall Street after reports said US lawmakers were working on a stimulus deal that could be voted on as early as next week. “Stimulus measures, if any, in the US could provide support to the markets. If the market corrects from these levels, then investors should actively look for accumulating good quality stocks for long term wealth creation,” said Sanjeev Zarbade of Kotak Securities. In the rest of Asia, bourses in Tokyo and Seoul settled with gains, while Shanghai and Hong Kong ended in the red. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading on a mixed note in early deals. In the forex market, the rupee strengthened by 28 paise to finish at 73.61 against the dollar. All sectoral indices finished higher. The BSE Telecom index spurted 5.73 per cent, led by Vodafone Idea, following reports that Vodafone has won the arbitration case against India over the latter's Rs 20,000 crore retrospective tax demand. Teck, IT, auto, capital goods, banks, basic materials and metal indices rose as much as 4.02 per cent. The broader BSE midcap and smallcap indices jumped up to 2.90 per cent. Global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.05 per cent higher at USD 41.96 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-279
26-09-2020||Business||Govt sale of 52.98 per cent stake in BPCL likely to be delayed by two years||The strategic sale of the government’s 52.98 per cent stake in state-owned refiner BPCL is likely to be delayed close to two years, complicating the Centre’s ability to raise Rs 2.10 lakh crore from the centrepiece of its disinvestment plan this fiscal. The deadline for the submission of bids for the oil refiner and retailer, which has been extended three times till now, ends on September 30. For the sale, only the third step of a 25-step process has been completed so far and it could take as long as another 21 months for the disinvestment to be completed, although some of the stages could be carried out concurrently. Potential buyers still need to obtain security clearance, conduct valuation assessments and agree to the financial terms. After the initial bids are submitted by the prospective bidders, they are given access to the data room to study the financials of the firm. However, given the restrictions on international travel at present, global bidders are unlikely to travel immediately, the officials said. Aramco of Saudi Arabia, Adnoc of Abu Dhabi and Rosneft of Russia were expected to be strong bidders for the oil company. On November 21, 2019, the Centre cleared the privatisation of Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd (BPCL). The government invited bids for the sale of Rs 3.27-lakh-crore BPCL on March 7 this year. The government is proposing a strategic disinvestment of its entire shareholding in BPCL, comprising 114.91 crore equity shares, which constitutes 52.98 per cent of BPCL’s equity share capital, along with the transfer of management control to a strategic buyer, the notice inviting the offer said. BPCL’s equity shareholding of 61.65 per cent in Numaligarh Refinery Ltd, however, will not be part of the disinvestment. The government has barred PSUs from bidding for BPCL and expects private sector Indian players and global MNCs to bid for its stake. It will be sold to a state-owned oil and gas firm.The bidding will be a two-stage affair, with qualified bidders in the first EoI phase being asked to make a financial bid in the second round. The Centre has allowed prospective bidders with a minimum net worth of $10 billion to present their bids. Another condition pertains to a maximum of four members are permitted in a consortium, and the lead member must hold 40 per cent in proportion. Other members of the consortium must have a minimum $1 billion net worth. The EOI allows changes in the consortium within 45 days, though the lead member cannot be changed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-279
26-09-2020||Business||Law Tribunal to decide validity of spectrum sale by Aircel||The National Company Appellate Law Tribunal (NCLAT) will decide the validity of the spectrum sale by insolvent operator Aircel. The Supreme Court on Friday allowed Aircel’s plea to let the NCLAT decide on the vexed issue instead of the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) as earlier ordered by the court on September 1. The application for the modification of the order was filed by the committee of creditors of Aircel on the grounds that the matter was pending with the NCLAT and not the NCLT. Solicitor-general Tushar Mehta appearing for the department of telecommunications (DoT) also told the court that the issue should be before the NCLAT and not the NCLT. Technically all appeals against orders passed by the NCLT are dealt by the NCLAT, an appellate body. A bench headed by Justice Abdul Nazeer on Friday allowed the plea of Aircel. On September 1, a bench headed by Justice Arun Mishra (since retired) had asked the NCLT to decide within two months the question whether insolvent companies such as Aircel, Videocon and R-Com can be permitted to sell their spectrum to other operators towards settlement of their dues under the insolvency code. The apex court had passed the order after inferring that the insolvency proceedings were being resorted to by the operators  in an apparent bid to avoid payment of the Rs 1.47 lakh crore AGR (adjusted gross revenue) arrears to the government in terms of the court’s October 2019 order. While passing the direction, the court had, however, granted the telecom operators a 10 year period to pay the dues. The government, which allowed spectrum trading in October 2015 but does not permit the sale of the leased asset, believes the liability of repayment of past telecom dues passes to the new acquirer of the spectrum assets. The apex court was hearing the petition filed by Aircel which sold a part of its spectrum to Airtel. In 2016, Airtel has entered into the Rs 3,500-crore deal with Aircel to acquire rights to use the latter’s 4G spectrum in eight telecom circles – Tamil Nadu (including Chennai), Bihar, Jammu & Kashmir, West Bengal, Assam, North East, Orissa and and Andhra Pradesh. In its order issued in the AGR case on Sept 1, the Supreme Court said: "...the liability of the purchaser/buyer with respect to past dues of the seller shall not arise. In a case where the entire spectrum is under sale, in that case, the past dues of the seller shall be the liability of the buyer except the amount/dues, if any, found recoverable after the effective date of the trade..." It added: "... in such a situation, the liability of such dues of the buyer and seller would be (held) jointly or severally and the government at its discretion is entitled to recover such amount." The Supreme Court allows the issue of spectrum sale under IBC to be decided by NCLAT in the case of Aircel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-279
26-09-2020||Business||Vodafone wins arbitration case against Indian government||Vodafone Group Plc on Friday won an international arbitration case against the Indian government, ending one of the most high-profile disputes in the country involving a Rs 22,000-crore tax claim. An international arbitration tribunal in The Hague ruled that India’s imposition of a tax liability on Vodafone, as well as interest and penalties, were in a breach of an investment treaty agreement between India and the Netherlands. The tribunal, in its ruling, said the government’s demand is in breach of “fair and equitable treatment” and it must desist from seeking the dues from Vodafone. It also directed India to pay £4.3 million ($5.47 million) to the company as compensation for its legal costs, sources said. Vodafone said in a statement the amount of the award was confidential. Shares in the company’s India unit, Vodafone Idea, ended 13 per cent higher on Friday. “The tribunal held that any attempt by India to enforce the tax demand would be a violation of India’s international law obligations,” the Vodafone statement said. India’s finance ministry said it would carefully study the award along with its lawyers. “After such consultations, the government will consider all options and take a decision on further course of action, including legal remedies,” the ministry said in a statement. The government of India’s liability will be restricted to about Rs 75 crore — Rs 30 crore in cost and another Rs 45 crore in tax refund, sources  said. “Vodafone has finally got justice. Hopefully, this award brings an end to all litigation around the issue,” said DMD Advocates, which represented Vodafone. The ruling brings an end to one of the most controversial disputes in India under the international treaties that it enters into with countries to protect foreign investments. India is entangled in more than a dozen such cases against companies, including Cairn Energy, over retrospective tax claims and cancellation of contracts. The exchequer could end up paying billions of dollars in damages if it loses. To reduce future arbitration claims, India has ended such agreements with over 50 countries and is working on a new law to protect foreign investors by offering relief from possible policy changes even as it upholds the right to tax them, a Reuters report said. Long tussle Vodafone’s tax dispute stems from its $11 billion deal to buy the Indian mobile assets from Hutchison Whampoa in 2007. The government said Vodafone was liable to pay taxes on the acquisition, which the company contested. In 2012,  the Supreme Court ruled in favour of the telecom provider but the government changed its tax laws with retrospective effect to nullify the apex court’s verdict and arm itself with powers to tax acquisitions involving deals between overseas entities with direct or indirect equity interest in Indian entities that account for more than 50 per cent of their global revenues. In 2014, Vodafone initiated arbitration proceedings against India. Details of the arbitration award were not available at the time of going to press. But the crux of the tribunal’s verdict was that it had the “jurisdiction under the terms of the agreement between the Netherlands and India for protection of investments, done at The Hague on November 6, 1995, to consider Vodafone’s claims for breach of the agreement”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-279
26-09-2020||India||Akali Dal quits BJP-led NDA over farm bills||The Shiromani Akali Dal has quit the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) after differences over the controversial farm bills, SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal announced late on Saturday. Badal made the announcement after a core committee meeting of the party in Chandigarh. The highest decision-making body of the SAD at its emergency meeting decided unanimously to pull out of the NDA, he said. According to a party statement, he said the decision to quit the NDA was taken because of the Centre’s stubborn refusal to give statutory legislative guarantees to protect assured marketing of farmers crops on MSP and its continued insensitivity to Punjabi and Sikh issues like excluding Punjabi language as official language in Jammu and Kashmir. The SAD had also requested President Ram Nath Kovind to “please stand by farmers” and not to sign off on the laws, NDTV reported. Badal’s wife Harsimrat Kaur Badal had resigned as Union minister in protest over the bills. The SAD becomes the third major NDA ally to pull out of the alliance after the Shiv Sena and the TDP. Badal said the SAD will continue to stand by its core principles of peace, communal harmony and guard the interests of Punjab and Punjabis in general and Sikhs and farmers in particular. He said the decision has been taken in consultation with the people of Punjab, especially party workers and farmers. Badal said the bills on agricultural marketing brought by the BJP-led government are lethal and disastrous for the already beleaguered farmers. He said the SAD was the oldest ally of the BJP, but the government did not listen to it in honouring the sentiments of farmers. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has defended the bills, saying they will rid India’s agricultural sector of antiquated laws and allow farmers to sell to institutional buyers and retailers. Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh has described the Akali Dal's decision to quit the NDA as a case of "political compulsion" for the Badals, who were left with no other option after the BJP's public criticism of the SAD over the farm bills. Amarinder Singh said there was no moral high ground involved in the decision of the SAD. The Akalis had no choice before them, since the BJP had already made it clear that it held the SAD responsible for failing to convince the farmers about the benefits of the agriculture bills. The SAD's decision to quit the NDA was just the culmination of their saga of lies and deception, which eventually led to the party being cornered on the issue of farm bills, said the Punjab chief minister. Badal was virtually caught between the devil and the deep sea after his initial unprincipled stand on the farm ordinances, followed by the sudden U-turn in the face of farmer protests, he added. The chief minister said with the BJP-led ruling coalition at the Centre exposing the SAD's web of lies, fabrications and doublespeak, the Akalis could not have done anything except leave the NDA. But far from helping them save face, which they probably hoped to do, the Akalis will now find themselves in a bigger political mess, having been left with no place either in Punjab or at the Centre, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-645
26-09-2020||India||How long will India be kept out of Security Council, asks Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday raised questions on the response of the United Nations in combating the COVID-19 pandemic, and assured the global community that India will use its production and delivery capacity to help all humanity in fighting the deadly disease. "Over the last 8 to 9 months, the whole world has been battling the pandemic of the coronavirus. Where is the United Nations in this joint fight against the pandemic? Where is its effective response?" Modi said as he asserted that reform in the responses, in the processes, and in the very character of the United Nations is the need of the hour. In his pre-recorded video statement to the landmark General Debate of the 75th session of the UN General Assembly, Prime Minister Modi said that even during these very difficult times of the raging pandemic, India's pharmaceutical industry has sent essential medicines to over 150 countries. "As the largest vaccine producing country of the world, I want to give one more assurance to the global community today. India's vaccine production and delivery capacity will be used to help all humanity in fighting this crisis," Modi said in a strong assurance to the international community that is battling the devastating coronavirus pandemic. The COVID-19 pandemic has so far infected over 32 million people and more than 993,500 people have died across the world. In India, the deadly virus has infected nearly 6 million people and killed more than 93,000. The Prime Minister's remarks questioning the UN's effectiveness in combating the pandemic came amidst the strident criticism of the role played by the World Health Organisation (WHO) by US President Donald Trump, who this week alleged that the top world health body was virtually controlled by China. Trump has repeatedly blamed China for the coronavirus pandemic which originated in the central Chinese city of Wuhan in December last year and accused Beijing of suppressing the details of the deadly contagion. Modi told the 193-member UN General Assembly that in India and the neighbourhood, we are moving ahead with phase 3 clinical trials in India." He further assured the UN that India will also help all the countries in enhancing their cold chain and storage capacities for the delivery of the vaccines. Prime Minister also made India's strongest pitch yet for a more prominent role in the UN Security Council, asking the global body, "Till when do we have to wait? Till when will India be kept away from the UN's decision-making process?" In his opening remarks, Modi said, "When we were weak, we didn't trouble the world. When we became strong, we didn't become a bojh (burden) on the world. Till when do we have to wait? India has sent soldiers to UN peace-keeping missions and India has lost the most number of soldiers. India has always thought about the welfare of the world." In his speech, which was for around 22 minutes, the Prime Minister also spoke of several milestones the country had crossed, including setting up over 40 crore bank accounts to propel financial inclusion. This year's high-level UN General Assembly is being held in a largely virtual format as world leaders did not travel to New York for the annual gathering due to the coronavirus pandemic. Heads of State and Government and Ministers sent in pre-recorded video statements for the high-level week, including the special commemoration of the UN's 75 years and the General Debate. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-645
26-09-2020||India||Ram Madhav moved out in BJP reshuffle of office-bearers  ||BJP president J.P. Nadda announced a new team of party's national office-bearers on Saturday with party sources describing it as an exercise aimed at combining young people, women as well as experienced faces. The list of eight general secretaries, crucial organisation positions in the party as they are the link between state and central leadership, has five new faces with Bhupender Yadav, Arun Singh and Kailash Vijayvargiya being retained. However, Ram Madhav, P Muralidhar Rao, Saroj Pandey and Anil Jain have been replaced. Dushyant Kumar Gautam, D. Purandareshwari, C. T. Ravi, Tarun Chugh and Dilip Saikia are new choices as general secretaries. Party MP Tejasvi Surya, a fiery speaker, has been made the president of the party's youth wing in place of Poonam Mahajan. The party has also expanded its list of spokesperson to 23, with MP Anil Baluni being elevated as the chief spokesperson and remaining its media head. The new spokespersons include Rajeev Chandrasekhar, Rajyavardhan Singh Rathore, Sanju Verma, Iqbal Singh Lalpura, Aparajita Sarangi, Heena Gavit, M Kikon, Nupur Sharma, Raju Bisht and K.K. Sharma. Prime Minister Narendra Modi welcomed the changes on Twitter. This is the first reshuffle under Nadda who was elected unopposed as party chief in January, taking over from Amit Shah. Radha Mohan Singh, Mukul Roy, Rekha Verma, Annapurna Devi, Bharti Shiyal, D.K. Aruna, M Chuba Ao, A.P. Abdullakutty were appointed national vice presidents. Other appointments include K. Laxman as head of the OBC (Other Backward Classes) Morcha, Jamal Siddiqui as chief of the minority wing and Lal Singh Arya as chief of the SC (Scheduled Castes) Morcha. Ram Madhav reacted to the new appointments on Twitter, saying, "Congratulations to the newly appointed office-bearers of d BJP. Grateful to d party leadership for providing me d opportunity to serve for one term as Gen Sec."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-646
26-09-2020||India||S.P Balasubrahmanyam laid to rest with state honours||Versatile singer, actor and music composer S P Balasubrahmanyam, hailed as "singing moon" and "music cloud" by his millions of fans, was laid to rest at his farm house near here on Saturday with a 24-gun salute by Tamil Nadu police. After the singer's son S P Charan performed the funeral rites amid Vedic chants by priests, last post was played by a police band and 24 personnel in ceremonial attire gave a gun salute. Later, the body with SPB's glasses on and smeared with Thiruneeru (sacred ashes) on the forehead and draped in zari dhoti was lowered into a deep pit and buried. With policemen, their rifles tucked under their arms marching along, the body was brought on a traditional hay lined bier to the final resting place on the verdant premises from a pandal earmarked for people to pay homage and perform rituals. The farm house at Tamaraipakkam in nearby Tiruvallur district teemed with his fans, well-wishers and celebrities for the funeral and 500 police personnel were deployed to regulate the crowd. Tamil Nadu Culture Minister K Pandiarajan, Andhra Pradesh Irrigation Minister Anil Kumar Yadav, Tiruvallur District Collector Mageswari Ravikumar, SP Aravindan, top actor Vijay, film director Bharathiraja, music composer Devi Sri Prasad, singer Mano were among the celebrities who turned up to pay their last respects. Though police had initially said only about 150 people would be allowed to pay homage, more and more men and women trooped to the singers idyllic house to pay homage. Several people could be seen without masks and they jostled to catch a glimpse of the dead star singer and individual distancing went for a toss. The 74-year old singer, praised as "Paadum Nila" (singing moon) and "Isai Megam" (music cloud) by his fans for his mellifluous voice tested positive for coronavirus and he was admitted to MGM Healthcare here on August 5. On August 20, when he remained critical, SPB's long time friend and legendary Tamil filmmaker Bharathiraja gave a call for a mass prayer and it evoked a tremendous response with people from all walks of life including celebrities and the general public coming together to pray for his early recovery. His condition improved, he stabilised and towards the end of last month, he underwent passive physiotherapy and later he actively participated in physiotherapy. A video clip of him rotating a device as part of the physiotherapy exercise also went viral following his death. Early this month, the hospital had said that his condition warranted an extended stay requiring ECMO and ventilator support. He was declared extremely critical on September 24 and passed away on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-646
26-09-2020||India||NCB questions Deepika, her manager for 5 hours   ||Actress Deepika Padukone was on Saturday questioned here for five hours by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) probing the alleged Bollywood-drug nexus linked to film star Sushant Singh Rajput's death case, an official said. Padukone was confronted with her manager Karishma Prakash during questioning, sources said. Prakash's WhatsApp chats, including purported conversations about drugs with one 'D', are on the radar of the anti-drugs agency, sources had said. Padukone, who reached the NCB guest house in Colaba in south Mumbai around 9.50 am, left around 3:50 pm, a police official deployed outside the guest house said. After questioning, both Padukone and Prakash were allowed to go home around 3.40 pm, NCB sources said. Prakash first came out of the guest house, followed by Padukone. They left in their cars separately, the police official said. Media personnel were present in large numbers outside the barricaded area near the guest house. There were reports that Padukone's husband and actor Ranveer Singh had asked NCB if he could also remain present during her questioning. However, the NCB had on Friday clarified that it did not receive any such request. The NCB is also questioning actresses Shraddha Kapoor and Sara Ali Khan at its office separately in connection with the alleged drug nexus. The federal agency had arrested actress Rhea Chakraborty, her brother Showik, and some suspected drug peddlers, earlier. Rajput (34) was found hanging in his apartment in suburban Bandra on June 14. Actor Sara Ali Khan reached the NCB's zonal office in Ballard Estate around 1 pm to record her statement in connection with drugs probe linked to film star Sushant Singh Rajput's death, an official said. Her name cropped up during the questioning of Rhea Chakraborty, Rajput's girlfriend who has been arrested by the NCB in the drugs case along with over a dozen others, officials said. Sara was Rajput's co-star in "Kedarnath". Another co-star of Sushant, Shraddha Kapoor arrived at the NCB's zonal office in Ballard Estate on Saturday to record her statement. The NCB probe team will record her statement regarding the drugs case related to Rajputs death and Bollywood-drugs nexus as well, the official said. Shraddha’s name cropped up during the interrogation of some persons, who were earlier summoned by the probe team, sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-646
26-09-2020||India||Bihar three-phase Assembly elections from October 28||Bihar will witness three-phase Assembly elections from October 28 to November 7, the Election Commission announced on Friday, with the counting coinciding with the IPL final on November 10. To improve physical distancing, the number of polling stations has been increased by almost 63 per cent — from 65,367 in 2015 to 106,526 — and the upper limit of voters per polling station has been lowered from 1,500 to 1,000. Voters will be provided gloves at the booths — and masks too, if necessary. Those with confirmed or suspected Covid-19 infection can vote only during the last hour, under health authorities’ supervision. They can cast postal ballots if they choose. Bihar elections, with 243 seats and 7.3 crore voters, usually stretch over a longer period. The last election in 2015 took place in five phases, between October 12 and November 5. Asked about this, chief election commissioner Sunil Arora shot back: “Will the disease spread more in three phases or seven phases?” Although the Bihar Assembly’s term expires on November 29, Opposition parties had requested the poll panel for a deferred election. Arora defended the decision to have the election now. “See the figures on children from how many districts who appeared for NEET and JEE and what extensive arrangements were made,” he said, without mentioning the figures. “I don’t consider conducting Bihar polls a misadventure…. It is a leap of faith, not a leap in the dark.” Attendance at the JEE, the all-India engineering entrance exam held early this month, was 75.5 per cent nationwide, lower than last year’s figure of 94 per cent. The stats for Bihar could not be ascertained. Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal had in a written reply told the Rajya Sabha this week that the NEET figures were still being calculated. Polling will be held from 7am to 6pm, an hour longer than usual, except in the Maoist-hit districts where the timings haven’t been decided. The booths will be located only on ground floors for the convenience of the disabled and the elderly. The disabled and those above 80 also have the option of postal ballots. Southern constituencies that share their borders with Jharkhand, and any other seat with a Maoist presence, will vote on October 28. Central seats including Patna will vote on November 3, and northern seats that include all those bordering Nepal will vote on November 7. By-elections to eight legislative council seats in Bihar will take place on October 22, with the votes counted on November 12. A by-election to a council seat in Nizamabad, Telangana, will be held on October 9, with counting scheduled for October 12. Arora said he and the two other election commissioners would visit Bihar on September 30 and 31 after the September 29 declaration of by-election dates in several states. He said that chief secretaries and chief electoral officers, especially from southern India, had requested a postponement of by-elections because of the Covid-19 outbreak. By-elections are due in five Assembly seats in Kerala, and in two seats in Tamil Nadu. Safety steps Elaborate Covid-19 safety measures will be adopted for polling staff, the commission said, with arrangements made for 7 lakh hand-sanitiser containers, 46 lakh masks, 6 lakh PPE kits, 6.7 lakh face shields and 23 lakh pairs of gloves. Some 7.2 crore single-use gloves have also been arranged to ensure the voters don’t get infected while using the electronic voting machines and signing the polling station registers. Face masks will be kept handy for voters who turn up without one. An official said the postal ballot facility for Covid-19 patients would be different from the one used by voters from the services, whose ballots are indeed sent by post to the poll authorities. After a Covid-19 patient willing to use the option fills in a form, an official will carry the ballot to the voter’s home, video-graph the voting to ensure transparency, and bring it back. Arora had a word of caution for social media platforms. “Social media platforms are expected to make adequate arrangements to safeguard against misuse of their platforms and set up strict protocols to handle such issues as and when they arise,” he said. “If such arrangements are not made by them then they will not be allowed to use the pretext of being only the providers of the platform and shall be held responsible if necessary action is not taken by them promptly and adequately.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-646
26-09-2020||India||Farmers and trade unions hit the streets across states||Thousands of farmers in several states hit the streets on Friday to protest against the new farm legislation that was pushed through without addressing their concerns. The protests shattered some myths and brought clarity to certain questions. A significant section of Indians is bothered about matters other than substance abuse among some Bollywood figures — something multiple TV channels have been addicted to ever since the Covid and China border crises escalated. The concerns are not limited to farmers in Punjab and Haryana. Farmers in Bihar, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra and Karnataka did participate in the protests. With several trade unions — upset over the labour bills passed in Parliament — extending support to the farmers, smaller meetings were held almost across the country. If the Opposition did manage to marshal so much support on Friday, the government should start worrying. In Muktsar district of Punjab, the Badals of the Shiromani Akali Dal, the oldest among the BJP’s current allies, sought to assume leadership of the protests. The Badals are recent converts to the anti-farm-bill movement, forced as they have been by the wave of protests to take a position. Again, not a reassuring sign for those who feel all’s well in India’s farms. The biggest acknowledgement came from Prime Minister Narendra Modi himself: he asked BJP workers to reach out to small groups of farmers and educate them over tea about the advantages of the new legislation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-646
26-09-2020||India||Share-cropper fears threat from big firms ||Damburu Soren, a 50-year-old tribal labourer who came to the Odisha capital 30 years ago from the mineral-rich belt of Keonjhar in search of work, was rendered jobless by the coronavirus pandemic. After 30 days in search of a job, he took up farming on the outskirts of Bhubaneswar as a share-cropper. But he now finds himself at a crossroads because of the farm bills passed by Parliament recently. Damburu, who joined the protests against the farm bills on Friday, is concerned that the proposed laws will pave the way for contract farming which will allow the entry of big players into the agriculture sector. “They will finish us. I took up farming on two maann (nearly two acres) of land on sharecropping basis recently. As per the understanding, I will give two quintals of paddy for one acre to the landowner and the rest would be mine. From the two acres, I hope to earn Rs 30,000. I have already spent around Rs 4,000 on the land. But these bills have now put everything in jeopardy,” he said. Soren said he has taken the land from a person who owns 10 acres. “He is not in a position to cultivate the land. He has given the land to poor landless labourers for cultivation and I am one of them. I can’t afford to lose this source of livelihood,” he said. On how he could be affected by the farm bills, he said, “As the land is only 22km from Bhubaneswar, many companies may try to grab it by making a contract with the landowner. He may agree because he will get more money. He will not give it to me anymore. Where will I go then?” asked Soren. Though he does not know about the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, he is aware that big players are going to take away his livelihood by adopting the method of contract farming. The labourer-turned-sharecropper said, “Before the lockdown, I used to work as a mason and earned Rs 550 per day. Everything was fine. I could even organise the marriage of my elder daughter smoothly. “But now my income is gone and I have to look after my other two daughters also. As no one knows when the situation will improve, I decided to opt for farming as suggested by some of my friends. But now even this work is threatened by the new laws.” Soren said “The bills should not have been passed at a time when the coronavirus has broken the backbone of our economy and poor have become poorer. I am protesting against the bills because I want to save my livelihood. Earlier we used to take part in rallies sponsored by political parties. But I have joined this protest on my own and came here by spending from my own pocket.” Like Soren, many marginal and small-scale farmers came and joined the protest rally. More than 70 per cent farmers are share-croppers in Odisha. Many of them also raising their voice against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, which allows growers to directly sell their produce to institutional buyers such as big traders and retailers. “We want government intervention and not any companies to decide our fate. We don’t want to put our future in the hands of multinationals,” said 62-year-old farmer Natabara Behera. The Congress also supported the agitation. Members of Navanirman Krushak Sangathan were detained while they were trying to force their way into the state secretariat, Lok Seva Bhavan. They also tried to gherao the Krushi Bhavan in the city. “The government should immediately roll back the bills,” said Suresh Panigrahi, state secretary of All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-646
26-09-2020||India||BJP workers thrash farm bill protesters||The protest against the new farm bills sparked violence in Patna on Friday with BJP workers attacking agitators from the Jan Adhikar Party of Rajesh Ranjan aka Pappu Yadav with their fists and sticks. The violence erupted when participants in a Jan Adhikar march of about 400 people, while passing the Bihar BJP headquarters, chanted slogans against the Centre and Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Some 200 BJP workers, wearing saffron kurtas and waistbands and some of them carrying sticks, rushed out of the party office screaming “Narendra Modi zindabad” and attacked the marchers. Most of the protesters ran away. Those who could not were beaten up. The BJP workers damaged a vehicle that displayed Jan Adhikar posters and was fitted out with a public address system. Police were present on the spot but could rescue the Jan Adhikar supporters only after the BJP workers’ initial burst had subsided. No FIR had been registered till evening. “There was a small skirmish outside the BJP office. None of the two parties involved have submitted any complaint, so no FIR has been lodged,” Patna additional superintendent of police (law and order) Swarna Prabhat told The Telegraph. The police could not say how many had to be taken to hospital. There was no statement from the Jan Adhikar Party till evening, and Pappu Yadav’s mobile was switched off. Bihar BJP president Sanjay Kumar Jaiswal alleged the protesters had attacked the party office. “The attack on the BJP headquarters by parties that have exploited the farmers and their supporters reveals their cowardice,” he said. “Jan Adhikar Party leaders attacked our office at the behest of the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD).” Farmers are protesting the passage of two bills that they say would deprive them of a minimum support price for their crops and allow big companies to dictate terms to them. Opposition parties RJD, Congress, CPI, CPIML Liberation and the CPM protested against the farm bills across Bihar. RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav led a massive tractor rally in Patna, himself driving one of the vehicles. “The BJP government plans to turn our food-grain producers into puppets of its fund-givers. The farmers are sad and frustrated. They have lost hope,” Tejashwi said. “They are becoming poorer by the day, and are migrating to become labourers. The BJP is trying to push our entire agriculture sector into the hands of private players. We demand these black bills be withdrawn.” RJD leaders in Darbhanga held a march with tractors and buffaloes. CPIML Liberation general secretary Dipankar Bhattacharya, who led a march in Patna, said: “Company raj is unacceptable to us. The anti-farmer government will have to go.” The Congress has promised a law guaranteeing a minimum support price if it is voted to power in Bihar. Elections have been announced in the state in three phases between October 28 and November 7.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-646
26-09-2020||India||Modi turns to foot soldiers for outreach||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday asked BJP workers to reach out to farmers and educate them about the advantages of the new farm laws, betraying signs of concern as farmer protests erupted in several parts of the country. “Each BJP worker should go to the villages and explain to farmers in simplified language the good work the BJP government has done,” Modi said, addressing party colleagues and workers on the birth anniversary of BJP ideologue Deen Dayal Upadhyay. He explained how the outreach could be carried out amid the pandemic: “Chhote chhote group mey... panch kisan, dus kisan charpai pe baithe hain, chai pee rahe hain, bat-chit kar rahe, sawal kar rahe hain (Small groups of 5 to 10 farmers seated on charpoys, sipping tea, talking, asking questions)....” The Prime Minister did not directly refer to the road and track blockades by the protesting farmers; instead, he accused the Opposition of spreading “lies” and using the farmers for political gain. “Some people who have always lied to farmers are these days misleading the farmers for political objectives,” Modi said. He said it was the “biggest duty” of every BJP worker to expose these people before the farmers. “Explain the minute details of the new laws so that nobody can exploit the farmers.” Road and railway traffic was severely affected on Friday in Punjab, Haryana and some other parts of the country because of the farmers’ agitation, backed by Opposition parties. The farmers are protesting against two new farm bills that they fear would deny them a minimum support price (MSP) for their produce and place them under the thumb of big companies. Modi claimed the new laws would give the farmers full rights over their produce and lead them to prosperity. He accused past governments of shackling farmers and labourers with a “complicated web of laws”. The BJP doesn’t so far seem too worried about the farm laws queering its pitch in poll-bound Bihar. It believes that farmers’ landholdings are so small in Bihar and swathes of Uttar Pradesh that they never bothered about the MSP. BJP sources explained that most small farmers cannot afford the cost of transporting their produce to the mandis (regulated wholesale markets) where they can claim the MSP, so they sell locally. Modi sought to underline the point, saying “85 in 100” farmers in the country were “small and marginal”, and the new laws would benefit them. He told the BJP workers that 85 per cent was a huge proportion and urged party colleagues to unite these farmers against those trying to paint the new laws as “anti-farmer”. Modi defended the new labour bills too, which provide for large-scale exemption to factories from regulations relating to labour rights, safety and working conditions. He argued the reforms would transform the lives of the working class while also making things easy for their employers. “So far, only 30 per cent workers were covered by a minimum wage guarantee. It will now be extended to all workers including those in the unorganised sector,” he said. Trade union bodies, including RSS labour arm BMS, have criticised the new labour laws. Modi urged the BJP workers to educate villagers about his government’s performance in general, highlighting how it had fulfilled most of its big poll promises such as those on Article 370 and the Ram temple.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-646
26-09-2020||India||Farm bill protests: Rahul Gandhi sees freedom struggle parallel||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said on Friday that the proposed agriculture laws would enslave farmers but expressed hope that they would fight back to free the country from oppression. As the nationwide bandh called by farmers’ organisations witnessed total shutdown in Punjab and massive protests at several places in Haryana, western Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Telangana, Tamil Nadu and other states, Rahul compared the movement with the freedom struggle. The former Congress chief said while interacting with farmers through videoconference: “These bills will have to be opposed for India’s future. Farmers, youths, workers fought for India’s freedom. Today again, the farmers will fight and deliver freedom to India.” When some farmers referred to “Adani-Ambani” while claiming that big companies would gain from the proposed changes, Rahul said: “East India Company had come then, now it is West India Company.” Prime Minister Modi and several industrial bigwigs trace their roots to the western part of the country. The Congress has plunged headlong into the farmers’ agitation. While party leaders held a series of media conferences in major cities for the second consecutive day, MLAs in Punjab organised and took part in protests in both Punjab and Haryana. No effort was made by the Congress-led Punjab government to prevent farmers from blocking rail tracks and roads. In BJP-ruled Haryana, the administration cracked down on protesters. The Congress has also planned a Twitter campaign using the hashtag “SpeakUpForFarmers” on Saturday. Rahul told the group of farmers selected from states such as Haryana, Maharashtra, Bihar and Delhi that he wanted to understand what their objections to the bills were. The farmers said the changes would benefit only the big companies and turn them into labourers. They said they did not have the bargaining capacity and clout to deal with big corporate entities and feared that they would be beaten up if they sought justice from them. One farmer said: “Why don’t they include MSP (minimum support price) in (the proposed) laws if they want to help farmers?” Another farmer said: “What is the problem in stating in the bill that any transaction done below the MSP will be punishable by law?” None of the cultivators had any doubt about the ill-effects of the planned changes and insisted that the good work done by previous governments had been watered down by the current regime. The farmers also pointed to the privatisation spree of the Modi government, lamenting that airports and even railways were being handed over to private players. Rahul had tweeted earlier in the day: “A flawed GST destroyed MSMEs. The new agriculture laws will enslave our farmers.” The Congress has worked out programmes for the next two months, declaring that the campaign will continue till the bills are withdrawn or a provision to ensure MSP is included in the statute. Party communications chief Randeep Surjewala recalled how Modi as Gujarat chief minister had demanded statutory backing for MSP and wondered why he had changed his stand after becoming Prime Minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-646
26-09-2020||India||S.P. Balasubrahmanyam: music titan & good man who loved life||Veteran playback singer S.P. Balasubrahmanyam, who lent his mellifluous voice to over 41,000 songs in 16 languages, mesmerised millions for half a decade with his range and versatility without a formal classical training and had become the voice of superstar Salman Khan in the 90s, passed away on Friday. He was 74. SPB, as he was fondly called, had been admitted to MGM Hospital in Chennai on August 5 with mild Covid-19 and had expressed hope in a video message to his well-wishers that he would be released in a couple of days. His health, however, deteriorated, then showed signs of improvement for weeks before suddenly turning “extremely critical” on Thursday night. SPB breathed his last at 1.04pm on Friday, according to the hospital. He is survived by his wife Savithri, daughter Pallavi and son Charan, a singer and film director. Announcing SPB’s death, Charan told reporters that his father’s songs would live forever in the hearts of his fans. MGM Healthcare said in a statement: “In a further setback this morning, despite maximal life support measures and the best efforts of the clinical team, his condition deteriorated further and he suffered a cardio-respiratory arrest. With profound grief, we regret to inform that he passed away at 13.04 hours.” Born in an orthodox Telugu Brahmin family in a village near Nellore in Andhra Pradesh on June 4, 1946, Sripathi Panditharadhyula Balasubrahmanyam was the second son in a family of three sons and five daughters who included S.P. Sailaja, a famed Telugu movie star and singer. His father S.P. Sambamurthy was an exponent of Harikatha, an art form composed of storytelling, poetry, music, drama, dance and philosophy. After completing school and graduation, SPB had enrolled for an engineering course in Anantapur in keeping with his father’s wishes. A typhoid attack, however, changed the course of SPB’s life. He dropped out and in 1964 travelled to Chennai to join an Associate Member of the Institution of Engineers course. But his heart was set on singing from an early age and he kept winning many competitions. SPB’s melodious voice caught the attention of composer S.P. Kodandapani at a music competition organised by the Telugu Cultural Organisation in Chennai, then Madras, in 1964. Kodandapani gave SPB his first break two years later in the 1966 Telugu film Sri Sri Sri Maryada Ramana. SPB followed it up with a song in the Tamil film Shanthi Nilayam. Thus began a musical journey that spanned over 50 years during which SPB recorded  41,000-plus songs in 16 languages, including Tamil, Telugu, Malayalam, Kannada, Hindi, Bengali, Marathi and Tulu. The evergreen song Ayiram Nilave Vaa (Come, thousand moons), in which SPB lent his voice to superstar M.G. Ramachandran in the 1969 Tamil film Adimai Penn, catapulted the singer to fame and there was no looking back since then. The song also launched a new genre in Tamil film music and SPB became a household name. “It was never my desire to enter the film industry. I wanted to become a gazetted-rank engineer which could fetch a salary of Rs 250 and a jeep with a chauffeur in the 1960s,” he said in interviews later. During his long and illustrious career, SPB won six National Film Awards, including for Telugu filmmaker K. Vishwanath’s Sankarabharanam in 1979. SPB was also conferred the Padma Shri in 2001 and the Padma Bhushan in 2011, besides the Tamil Nadu government’s Kalaimamani Award in 1981. An ardent admirer of Mohammad Rafi and K.J. Yesudas, SPB could also whistle, mimic any sound or voice and had the uncanny ability to seamlessly blend stammer, laughter, cough or give a voice form to any emotion in songs. A gifted singer with a soft timbre who could straddle the high notes with consummate ease, SPB composed music for films and acted in over 50 movies. He was a regular dubbing artiste, too, for top actors like Kamal Haasan and Rajinikanth when their movies were dubbed in Telugu. “I am proud of him,” Kamal said in a moving condolence message on Friday. “I have had the privilege of having been the image on screen to several songs that he has sung. In several languages, he has been the voice of four generations of heroes.” Kamal, for whom SPB sang many songs including Tere mere beech mein from Ek Duje Ke Liye and O Maria and Sach mere yaar hain from Sagar, had visited MGM Hospital late on Thursday night. SPB, who was known for self-ridicule, loved ice creams and was a self-proclaimed smoker for 35 years, had recently gifted his ancestral house in Nellore to the Kanchi Kamakoti Mutt. Shortly before testing positive, SPB had composed and recorded a song to raise awareness about the coronavirus. Singer Lata Mangeshkar said: “I am extremely saddened by the passing of SP Balasubrahmanyam ji, who was a talented singer, sweet-speaker and a very good human being….” Salman, for whom SPB had sung many hit numbers, tweeted: “Heartbroken to hear about S.P. Balasubrahmanyam sir... you will forever live on in your undisputed legacy of music! Condolence to the family.” “Devastated,” said music composer A.R. Rahman. Musician-author T.M. Krishna said: “SPB is a music titan, a natural singer; nobody has rendered such a variety of songs in Indian cinema like him, accommodative of all musical genres, a natural actor in films and above all a good man with a good heart.” Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted: “With the unfortunate demise of Shri S.P. Balasubrahmanyam, our cultural world is a lot poorer.” Thousands of people thronged Paadum Nila (Singing Moon), SPB’s residence at Nungambakkam in Chennai, to pay their last respects. The last rites will be conducted at his farmhouse near Chennai on Saturday. “I love my life. If possible I don’t want to die. I have a passion for life,” SPB had once said. Additional reporting by PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-646
26-09-2020||India||Sahitya Akademi award winning lecturer turns farm labourer||Till March, Navnath Gore was a lecturer in a college in Ahmednagar district of Maharashtra, but the lockdown took away his contract job and reduced him to a farm labourer. Gore, 32, a resident of Nigdi, a village in Sangli district, had received the Sahitya Akademi’s Yuva Puraskar for young writers in 2018, but that is hardly a consolation for a man who has fallen on hard times due to the outbreak of coronavirus. Coming to terms with the reality of losing job, a situation faced by millions worldwide, he decided to work as a farm labourer in his home district to support his family. A postgraduate in Marathi from the Shivaji University in Kolhapur district, Gore started writing his maiden novel Fesati during his postgraduation days. The book got published in 2017 and he won the award. “After I won the award, I received an offer from a college in Ahmednagar district where I started working as a lecturer on a clock hour basis and used to get Rs 10,000 per month. In February this year, my father passed away and the responsibility of my mother and a 50 year old brother, who is physically challenged, came on my shoulders,” said Gore, a postgraduate in Marathi. With the lockdown, this stopped. He now does odd jobs and works as a farm labourer, earning Rs 400 a day. After the death of his father, Gore went home in February, but could not go back to his teaching job as the lockdown was imposed in March end to curb the spread of Covid19. “I came back to my village in February. Since my job was contractual, the income from the college also stopped. With no income, it was difficult for us to make the ends meet. I then started taking up odd jobs and also started working as a farm labourer in the region,” he added. Gore, who travels long distances in the region for work, said he earns around Rs 400 if he works full day. Gore recalled his student days in Kolhapur, where, while pursuing his postgraduation, he used to work as a security guard at an ATM centre to support his family. Fesati is a story of a youth, who against all odds, completes his education. The book also depicts the plight of farmers. “I had completed the first draft of the novel in 2014. I drew from personal experience, from the time I still lived in my village. It took me almost 18 months to complete the draft. I am happy that the novel got a good response,” Gore said. Meanwhile, moved by Gore’s plight, Maharashtra minister Vishwajeet Kadam, who also manages Bharti Vidyapeeth, said he has offered a job to him with the Pune based group of educational institutes. The minister said he spoke to Gore and also assured the author that a conducive atmosphere would be provided to encourage his literary talent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-647
26-09-2020||India||Apex regulatory authority succeeds Medical Council of India||The Centre on Friday established the National Medical Commission (NMC), an apex regulatory authority for medical practice and education, promising transparency, accountability and quality and abolishing the 87-year-old Medical Council of India. A Union health ministry notification late on Thursday night established the NMC and four autonomous boards for undergraduate and postgraduate education, medical assessment and rating, and ethics and medical registrations and professional conduct of doctors, naming top doctors in key positions. “This historic reform will steer medical education towards a transparent, qualitative and accountable system,” the health ministry said in a statement on Friday. “The basic change… is that the regulator is now selected on merits, as opposed to an elected regulator.” Men and women with impeccable integrity, professionalism, experience and stature have been now placed at the helm to steer the medical education reforms further, the health ministry said. S.C. Sharma, former professor of ear-nose-throat surgery at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, is the NMC chairperson for three years, the ministry said. Besides the chairperson, the NMC will have 10 ex-officio members. Other members are Jagat Ram, director of the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh; Rajendra Badwe, director of the Tata Memorial Centre, Mumbai; and Surekha Kishore, the executive director at AIIMS, Gorakhpur. The NMC has been tasked with streamlining regulations, rating of educational institutions, human resource assessment, enhancing focus on research and giving shape to the proposed common final year exam (National Exit Test) after the MBBS course. The number of medical college seats in India has increased over the past six years from 54,000 in 2014 to around 80,000 in 2020, a 48 per cent rise. The number of postgraduate seats has increased from 24,000 to 54,000 during this period. The NMC will also prepare guidelines for fee regulations by private medical colleges and develop standards for community health providers to serve in primary healthcare centres with limited practicing licences. Parliament had passed the NMC Act in August 2019. A parliamentary panel had over four years ago urged the government to dismantle the MCI — an elected body — saying the organisation had failed to regulate medical education and the profession. An ophthalmologist in Kerala who had questioned practices by the MCI said although the tainted organisation was gone, no one was punished. “Although the primary concerns relating to the MCI was corruption, none of the officials against whom allegations had been raised was punished,” said K.V. Babu.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-647
26-09-2020||India||Antigen test without next step linked to Covid spread||Health authorities in some states may themselves be fuelling the spread of the new coronavirus disease by not directing all symptomatic patients found negative on the so-called antigen tests to take the superior RT-PCR test, experts have said. India’s Covid-19 testing guidelines require all symptomatic patients found negative on the easier and faster antigen test to take the more reliable RT-PCR test, but experts are worried that amid large-scale expansion of the antigen tests, adherence to the rule is not 100 per cent. Both antigen and RT-PCR tests are conducted on swab samples. The 30-minute antigen tests come with lower reliability than RT-PCR tests, which means some patients infected with Covid-19 may be labelled by the antigen tests as “false negatives”. The guidelines thus make it mandatory for all symptomatic patients to be tested with an RT-PCR to confirm the diagnosis. “We know that this retesting rule is not scrupulously adhered to everywhere,” a senior infectious disease expert tracking India’s Covid-19 epidemic told The Telegraph. If symptomatic Covid-19 patients are missed because of poor adherence to this retesting rule, they can further spread the infection. The RT-PCR diagnostic test is viewed as the gold standard and looks for viral genetic material but requires a sophisticated lab and skilled personnel. The antigen test has gained popularity because of its ease of use and has been deployed for mass screening such as looking for infections within large residential societies. Sources in the Union health ministry said antigen tests now make up significant proportions of daily samples tested. In Maharashtra, for instance, the state with the largest number of Covid-19 cases, antigen tests made up 41 per cent of tests last week while 59 per cent samples were tested through RT-PCR. In Karnataka, 39 per cent samples were subjected to antigen tests, and in Andhra Pradesh, 40 per cent. In Delhi, 73 per cent were antigen tests and 27 per cent were RT-PCRs. Only in Tamil Nadu, all samples are tested through the RT-PCR mode, officials have said. Public health specialists believe more local data are required to understand the reasons for poor adherence to the retesting rule. “One possibility is logistical — there appears to be a significant lag in the test-result-reconcile cycle,” said Oommen John, a physician and senior research fellow at The George Institute for Global Health, New Delhi. “We need robust mechanisms in place to identify those who definitely need an RT-PCR confirmatory test,” John said. The public as well as health authorities implementing the antigen tests need to be aware of the need for the reconfirmation and follow up, he said. The expansion of antigen tests without mandatory testing of symptomatic negatives could contribute to temporary false declines in new cases, one expert said. Experts attribute the decline in new cases in Delhi during July-August and a fresh resurgence this month as the likely outcome of false negatives spreading the infection. Delhi had recorded 3,947 new cases on June 23. New cases then fell to 613 on July 27 only to rise again to reach 4,473 on September 16. “This is not a second wave — Delhi is still in the first wave artificially suppressed through the rapid expansion of antigen tests,” the infectious disease expert said. India’s active cases of Covid-19 increased to around 970,000 on Friday from 966,000 on Thursday, a slight rise after six successive days of decline. Health authorities on Friday detected 86,052 new Covid-19 cases, raising the number of lab-confirmed infections to over 5.81 million patients, of whom 4.75 million have recovered and 92,290 have died.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-647
26-09-2020||West Bengal||Bengal worries about bill fallout on PDS source ||Three farm reform bills passed by Parliament recently may play havoc with the public distribution system in Bengal as the state government’s procurement programme is likely to get affected because of entry of big players. The Farmers’ Produce Trade And Commerce (Promotion And Facilitation) Bill, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill had been passed during the monsoon session of Parliament this week. The PDS has over 8 crore beneficiaries in Bengal and if the procurement of agricultural produce — mainly paddy — goes awry, it will have an impact on food security of poor people, said a senior state government official. “Big players will be able to buy farm produce directly from farmers and there would be no bar on stockpiling of food grains. The question is: where will the government get food grains to run its PDS?” said the official in the food and supplies department. Unlike some north Indian states like Punjab and Haryana, the government procurement process in Bengal is inefficient because of which there is a degree of reluctance among farmers in selling their produce to the administration. Although the minimum support price is a big political issue, there is not much awareness of the MSP in rural Bengal. A senior bureaucrat with the experience of handling procurement said it had been in the past that some farmers didn’t often prefer to sell their produce to government agencies even if local middlemen offered Rs 150 to Rs 200 less for a quintal compared to the MSP. According to him, the reluctance is because several procedures are involved in selling produce to the government. First, the farmers need to register their names with the procurement centres and they have to store the stock till the date they are asked to take their produce to the procurement centre. “Sometimes, a farmer gets a date after three-four months from the date of registration. Many of the farmers cannot hold the stock for so long,” said the bureaucrat, recalling his experience. Other formalities like giving bank details for transfer of money and the onus on the farmers to take the produce to the centres — often set up 15 to 20km away — also act as deterrents. “There are indeed some shortcomings and efforts are being made to make the procurement process attractive for the farmers,” said an agriculture department official. “The Centre may say that’s why the farm bills are introduced to make the process smooth and bring in more competition, but the problem is, in reality, the situation will be loaded against the farmers and the poor people in the state, who depend on the PDS,” the source said. The objective of bringing in competitive forces in agriculture, he said, would remain only on paper as the changes in the rules of the game will result in monopsony, a situation where there is only one buyer, kind of a market. Several officials this correspondent spoke to said one of the biggest problems in the reform matrix was the change in the essential commodities act that would allow big players to stock farm produce for months in their state-of-the-art warehouses. Those in favour of the reforms may say that hoarding may not be a problem in today’s world as imports can be made to tackle supply shocks, but an official referred to the weather dependence of Indian agriculture and occasional spike in prices of various agricultural products. “If the state government can’t intervene in such times, what will happen to the poor?” he asked while questioning the rationale of bringing in big players in the business of food. Another officer said the state now required more than 42 lakh tonnes of paddy every year to run its cheap grains scheme and the entry of big players would make procurement difficult as the private players would use the middlemen to scoop up farmers’ produce. “Besides, people offering warehousing services in the districts will be wiped out with the entry of big players, who will create huge storage space with modern facilities,” said the officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-361
26-09-2020||West Bengal||CAA takes back seat in state BJP||The BJP is forced to press a pause button on its strategy of using the coming festive season to build its divisive narrative using the Citizenship Amendment Act and plan a slew of programmes over the next few weeks. The strategy has been changed because of reports from rural Bengal that ordinary people are raising concerns over the three agriculture reform bills, which non-BJP parties are calling “anti-farmer”. Multiple sources in the BJP said they were preparing to use the festive season to build opinion in favour of the CAA as part of its preparations for next year’s Assembly polls. That plan is put on hold for the time being, said a source while adding that the aggressive campaign of the non-BJP parties to portray the three legislations “anti-farmer” had compelled the saffron camp to hit the streets with its side of the narrative. “The situation in Bengal warrants more action from our side as we are under attack by the Trinamul Congress and the Left-Congress combine,” said a source in the BJP. To begin with, state BJP functionaries will hold 13 news conferences across Bengal on Saturday, each describing the virtues of the three bills. The programmes will be taken to small towns and rural areas in the next week as the target audience are rural people, a majority of whom depend on agriculture. “From Monday, there will be small rallies in all districts, at the booth and mandal (smallest organisational unit of the BJP) levels,” said lawmaker and state general secretary Locket Chatterjee. “Our workers and leaders will meet farmers and their families to discuss and explain the farm bill to them,” she added. Several other plans — like small videos with farmers themselves speaking of the benefits of the bills and hand-outs on how the laws will give farmers a better deal — are also being drawn up to counter the offensive from the non-BJP parties. “The farm bills are an immediate issue and top of the mind in view of the debates surrounding them... We cannot let our opponents create a narrative,” said the source. A section of the party’s state leadership feels that the defeat it had to face in the bypolls in three legislative seats last year — within six months of bagging 18 Lok Sabha seats from the state — was because of the state unit’s failure to counter the anti-CAA narrative of Mamata Banerjee and other parties. The party can’t afford to make the same mistake this time, the source said. “For the first time, our party is so close to coming to power... We cannot allow miscommunication regarding the farm bills to continue," a senior leader said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-361
26-09-2020||West Bengal||Minister Suvendu Adhikari among new patients in Bengal||Bengal’s transport and irrigation minister Suvendu Adhikari, deemed a key leader in the topmost tier of Trinamul, and his mother tested positive for the novel coronavirus on Thursday night. They are among the 3,190 new Covid-19 cases that Bengal reported in 24 hours till Friday 9am. Bengal also logged 59 deaths and 2,978 recoveries on Friday. Adhikari, 49, who is mildly symptomatic, has gone on home isolation. His mother, septuagenarian Gayatri Adhikari, is hospitalised in Calcutta. A member of the apex seven-member steering committee of the ruling party, Adhikari got tested along with several members of his joint family, which has several elected representatives, including two MPs, after a nephew tested positive. On Thursday night, results revealed that both the minister and his mother are infected. “Rapid antigen tests for both were positive on Thursday afternoon. After that, RT-PCR tests were conducted, which were conclusively positive. He (Adhikari) has been in home isolation, consulting physicians on whether anything more needs to be done, given his mild symptoms,” said a cabinet colleague. Adhikari is the fifth member of the Mamata Banerjee cabinet to get infected after ministers Jyotipriya Mullick, Sujit Bose, Swapan Debnath and Soumen Mahapatra. “Suvendu (Adhikari) has been on the ground, leading from the front, through the pandemic. He did a lot of work with the people in the aftermath of Cyclone Amphan as well…. Such public representatives are more susceptible to the pathogen,” said a Trinamul leader. With the 3,190 new cases, the state’s total case count went past 2.41 lakh, of which over 2.11 lakh are recoveries, besides 4,665 deaths. Bengal’s recovery rate continued to rise and reached 87.54, ahead of the national rate of 81.74 per cent. Of the 59 deaths, 19 were from North 24-Parganas and six from Calcutta. As of Friday, the state government reported 3,982 or 85.4 per cent as deaths with co-morbidity “present”. Bengal’s overall mortality rate is now 1.93, behind the national rate of 1.58 per cent. The state logged 43,815 tests on Friday, which took the total past 30.11 lakh, at 33,464 tests per million people. The positive confirmation rate has dropped from 8.9 on August 23 to 8 per cent now. The state reported 35.46 per cent occupancy of 12,675 Covid-19 beds in 92 hospitals. Over 2.54 lakh telemedicine consultations have been provided, 4,135 of them in the past 24 hours. So far, over 20 sitting members of the Bengal Assembly, half of from the ruling party, have been infected by the novel coronavirus. Four Bengal MPs, the BJP’s Locket Chatterjee (Hooghly), Sukanta Majumdar (Balurghat) and Jayanta Roy (Jalpaiguri), and Trinamul’s Rajya Sabha member Shanta Chhetri, have also tested positive. The virus claimed the lives of CPM veteran Shyamal Chakraborty, Trinamul’s MLAs Samaresh Das and Tamonash Ghosh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-361
26-09-2020||West Bengal||Trinamul, Left and Congress hit streets ||Protests against the farm bills enacted by the Narendra Modi government brought the members of the Trinamul Congress and the Left- Congress combine to the streets of Bengal. Trinamul’s farmers’ wing, which held a slew of protest programmes across the state on Thursday, conducted a dharna before the Gandhi statue on Mayo Road in Calcutta on Friday. “This anti-people, anti-poor, anti-farmer Fascist government must go. They are trying to break the back of agriculture in India and invite a famine. We will take this fight to the finish,” said Becharam Manna, chief of the farmers’ wing of Mamata Banerjee’s party, Kisaan Khet-Mazdoor Cell. Trinamul organised demonstrations in several district headquarters on Friday. The state unit of the Left-backed All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee had targeted 92 points on national highways and 86 points on the state highways as a part of their road blockade programme on Friday. But heavy rain in north Bengal forced the committee to curtail their plans. The Left parties, along with the Congress, various trade unions and other democratic organisations took out a march from Esplanade to Shyambazar in Calcutta. Left Front chairman Biman Basu, Left legislature party leader Sujan Chakraborty, the Congress’s Rajya Sabha member Pradip Bhattacharya, leader of the Opposition and Congress veteran Abdul Mannan were part of the rally. “Farmers all over the country have taken to the streets in protest against the farm bills. The common man is beside the farmer. The fight against the BJP’s anti-farmer legislations has to be fought together,” said Jadavpur MLA Chakraborty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-361
26-09-2020||West Bengal||Elderly couple found murdered in Birbhum||An elderly couple was found bludgeoned to death at their Brahmanpara house in Birbhum’s Labhpur on Friday morning. Sources in the police said the bodies of Purnendu Chatterjee, 76, a retired teacher from West Burdwan’s Asansol, and his wife Swapna, 68, a retired railway employee, were recovered from their bedroom after the couple did not respond to repeated phone calls from their neighbour. The police recovered a weight and a hammer from the bedside. Hearing the news, the couple’s only son, Kallol Chatterjee, a travel agent in Asansol, reached the Birbhum village with his family. Police sources said the domestic help of the couple, Fuli Bagdi, knocked on the door for about 30 minutes to no response. She informed the couple’s neighbour Swadesh Ghosh who called on the mobile phone of the Chatterjees but drew a blank. Then people informed the cops who discovered the bodies. “All doors were closed from inside and we suspect the killers entered from the terrace,” a police officer said. Shyam Singh, Birbhum police chief, said one person had been detained for interrogation. A sniffer dog was assisting the probe. He said it was too early to reach a conclusion on the motive. Police ruled out robbery. Kallol said his parents started living in the remote Birbhum village, around 30km from Bolpur, four years ago. Family sources said the couple recently had a fight with a neighbour over giving a contract for fishing in a pond owned by the deceased couple, and the matter had been reported to the police.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-361
26-09-2020||West Bengal||Duo held with 17kg cannabis in trolley bag||The police seized around 17kg of cannabis on Friday night and arrested two persons, including a woman, from Rathbari More, a prominent crossing in Malda town. The duo planned to smuggle the cannabis to Calcutta, police said. On Friday midnight, Ahidi Bibi, from Katwa in East Burdwan district, and Chhottu Sheikh, from Bhaktinagar on the outskirts of Siliguri but in Jalpaiguri district, got down from a Calcutta-bound train in Malda Town station. From there, they reached Rathbari More to board a bus headed for Calcutta. “We acted on source information and intercepted the duo. They were carrying the narcotic in a trolley bag,” said Madan Mohan Roy, the inspector-in-charge of Englishbazar police station. The cannabis, sources said, was smuggled from Manipur. “Initially, they planned to go to Calcutta by train. However, the alertness of security personnel in stations and in the train changed their plan. They decided to take a bus to Calcutta from Malda. Police are trying to find out if they run a narcotic smuggling racket or are mere carriers,” said a source. In another incident, three persons have been arrested from Bamangola area of the district for stealing inverters and batteries. Abhishek Talukdar, the officer who is in charge of Bamangola police station, said Jitu Sarkar, a resident, had been running a gang to steal these items which were eventually smuggled to Bangladesh. During the past few months, the police had received a number of complaints of such thefts in the district. On Thursday night, police arrested Sarkar and two of his associates, said OC Talukdar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-362
26-09-2020||West Bengal||Rain and repair bane on NH27||Residents of Jalpaiguri town and those in its suburbs faced acute traffic congestion and in around the town from Thursday to Friday as traffic has virtually come to a standstill on the stretch of NH27 that skirts the town. On NH27, part of the four-lane expressway planned almost two decades back, there are a number of stretches where the road is yet to be widened and work is still in progress. According to officers of the traffic police wing in Jalpaiguri, construction work is in progress in different stretches, including the stretch that passes through the outskirts of Jalpaiguri. In addition, the condition of the existing road is already bad, and deteriorated because of incessant downpour. Trucks and other heavy vehicles often break down, causing the congestion. “From Thursday night to Friday afternoon, at least 14 trucks have broken down. It takes time to get mechanics or recovery vans, further adding to the congestion. The stretch between Raninagar and Teesta Bridge (two ends of the town) is dotted with craters and vehicles get stranded on a regular basis. Hundreds of vehicles are queued up since Thursday night along this stretch and it is tough to say when vehicular movement will get normal on this route,” said a police officer. Mohammad Tahir, a truck driver heading to Uttar Pradesh from Assam, said it took him six hours to cross 6km. “I drove my truck at a snail’s pace and that too occasionally. Most of the time since Thursday afternoon, I sat in the cabin, switching off the engines,” he said. Thousands of people from the suburbs who go to and fro Jalpaiguri on jobs faced problems. “The NHAI authorities should expedite construction work. This traffic congestion has become a major problem for us,” said a bank employee. Sanjeev Sharma, a project director of NHAI posted in Siliguri, said work was on in full swing. “We expect to finish the work in this stretch by December this year. Due to rainfall, some diversions are damaged. We have engaged workers to carry out repairs,” he said. In Jalpaiguri town, some residents have started avoiding two bridges over the Karala river that divides the town from Friday morning. This came as a result of a rumour that spread across the town that the pillars of both the bridges were damaged. This increased the vehicular pressure on two other bridges over the river, as most residents took detours. Later in the day, policemen and officers from state PWD inspected both the bridges and scotched the rumours. “Nothing has happened. After the monsoons, the bridge that connects the Collectorate Avenue will be repaired,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-362
26-09-2020||West Bengal||Rotten gram blot on midday meal||The East Midnapore district administration this week directed the food and supplies department to replace nearly 530 quintals rotten chhola (gram) that it had supplied for distribution for the midday meal scheme in schools across seven blocks and a municipality. Reports of rotten bags of the gram — part of a package comprising 2kg rice, 2kg potato, and a piece of soap as well given per student — surfaced over the last two weeks when parents collected their monthly quota of ration given as a substitute for children’s midday meals. Each student gets 1kg of gram.. Schools are closed amid the pandemic. Sources said that angry over the poor quality of gram distributed from September 8-10, some parents dumped the supplies in front of school gates. “The district administration, after receiving several reports, wrote to the food and supplies department on September 22, asking it to replace the rotten gram with better quality produce. It also asked school authorities in the seven blocks and one municipality to purchase gram selling at Rs 60 a kilo from the market and distribute it among the students,” said a source. East Midnapore has roughly 5,905 government schools with an enrolment this year of 6,35,743 students in Classes I and VIII. All these students are covered under the midday meal programme. “The gram supplied this month was of poor quality. It was full of bugs,” said a parent of a student in Haldia. Sheikh Mukhtiar Hossain, the father of a Class V student at Durmut High School, said he was forced to feed the recent supply of gram to his cows. The additional district magistrate has sent two letters — dated September 10 and 22 — to the district controller (food and supplies) directing the food and supplies department to replace “poor quality gram at once”. Sources said the food supply department procures potatoes and soaps for the midday meal package from local markets. It was directed this week to do the same for gram. Asked, the educational administrator of the Trinamul-run district zilla parishad said functionaries had “alerted district authorities to replace the gram immediately”. District controller (food and supplies), Saikat Chakraborty, acknowledged receipt of the ADM’s letter this week and said the food and supplies department had been informed. “We are awaiting their response,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-362
26-09-2020||West Bengal||Twin job protests in Darjeeling||A job agitation led by Trinamul in the hills was suspended on Friday, while another led by the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (Binay camp) was extended till October 2. The TMC and Binay faction of the Morcha are both in power but their agitations have not yet helped reach their goals. The TMC affiliated Darjeeling Nagarpalika Karmachari Sangtan on Friday decided to suspend their 11-day relay hunger strike following the return of their union leaders from Calcutta after meeting state officials. The civic workers are demanding post-facto approval of the jobs of 116 employees, filling up of 70-odd vacant posts, inclusion of more than 100-odd casual and contractual workers in pay-band category and appointments of next-of-kin in died-in-harness cases. “The union leaders are of the opinion that things are moving in the right direction. This is why they decided to suspend the elections for some time. If the need arises our district president, L.B. Rai, will take up the matter at a higher level,” said N.B. Khawash, spokesperson of the TMC (hills). Trinamul union leaders said that they would wait for a couple of months, and if nothing moved, they might resume their agitation. The United Employees Union of Gorkhaland Territorial Administration, on a pen-down strike from September 1, on Friday announced they would carry on with their agitation till October 2. The union, affiliated to Binay Tamang camp of the Morcha wants regularisation of more than 4,000 pay-band employees. Shekar Thapa, spokesman of the union said that they had decided to extend their pen down strike in GTA offices till October 2. “GTA chairman Anit Thapa has written about our demands to the state government, party president Binay Tamang raised our demand during his visit to Calcutta recently. We are receiving some positive feedbacks though nothing is concrete. However, we decided to extend our agitation till October 2,” said Thapa. The union leader said that they are “hopeful” of a positive outcome during chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s visit to north Bengal from September 28. “We are hearing from certain quarters that our proposal has been sent to the finance department by the hill affairs department and hence are hopeful,” said Thapa. Health and PHE departments are exempt from the agitation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-362
26-09-2020||West Bengal||Friends kill youth over car in Alipurduar district||A 21-year-old college student residing at a tea estate on the outskirts of Birpara in Alipurduar district was hacked to death by two of his friends on Thursday. The duo, nabbed by the police along with a third person suspected to be their accomplice, had also called up the victim’s father and had demanded a ransom of Rs 10 lakh. Shahbaz Ali and Ayushman Lohar were having problems with Indradeb Suri over the ownership of a car that Indradeb and Shahbaz had bought together with the plan to put the vehicle on rent. On Thursday around 9am, Indradeb, a second-year student of Birpara College and son of a grocer in Singhania tea estate, was giving tutoring school students at home when Shahbaz on a two-wheeler asked the former to accompany him to Birpara on an errand. Ayushman and Jakir Hossain, Shahbaz’s uncle, were in another two-wheeler. Indradeb did not return home throughout the day, but his family members did not worry. The situation changed around 5.30pm when Indradeb’s father Motilal received a call on his cell phone from an unknown number where the caller demanded a ransom of Rs 10 lakh and threatened to kill his son if he did not pay. Motilal was asked not to inform the police. Though worried over his son’s safety, Motilal denied paying the amount and told Birpara police. Police officers immediately jumped into action and soon, they could trace the call that was made from somewhere in Birpara. It was found that Ayushman made the ransom call. To deflect suspicion, Shahbaz went to Indradeb’s house and told his family that Indradeb was missing. “He even advised Motilal Suri to file a police complaint and went to the police station. There, our men questioned him but his answers were not satisfactory. Eventually he broke down and admitted they had murdered Indradeb,” said a police officer. Policemen located Ayushman and Jakir, both Birpara residents, and arrested them and Shahbaz. During interrogation, they admitted that they had killed Indradeb with a sharp weapon and dumped his body in Khayerbari forest, some 25km from the tea estate. “A police team went to the spot and recovered the youth’s body and the murder weapon,” added the officer. Police said that recently, Shahbaz and Indradeb had together bought a car and planned to put it on rent for earnings. “They had problems over the vehicle’s ownership that led to differences,” a source said. On Friday, all three were produced at a court here and sent to five days of police custody. On Friday morning, as the news of the murder spread, some residents rushed to Shahbaz’s house and ransacked it, brought out furniture and set them on fire. The angry mob also tried to torch the house. A police team brought the situation under control and called up firemen who doused the flames. “We need to interrogate the trio for more information. We have also posted our men in the tea estate to prevent breach of peace,” said Kuntal Banerjee, additional SP of Jaigaon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-362
26-09-2020||West Bengal||Boy held over theft at home||A second-year BA student was arrested by Haroa police on Friday for stealing cash and gold jewellery valued at Rs 4 lakh from his home as a revenge against his father’s refusal to buy him a motorcycle. Police said accused Susobhan Mondal, 22, son of a fishery owner in Haroa’s Mohanpur, was arrested after he confessed the crime during a marathon interrogation by investigating officers on Thursday night. He told police officers that he stole ornaments and cash from his home as he was annoyed with his father for turning down his demand for a motorcycle. The police on Friday recovered the gold jewelleries and Rs 60,000 in cash wrapped in a fishing net and kept at an abandoned shed behind his house. Stunned over the arrest of his son, Susobhan’s father Sasanka Mandal, 55, appealed to the police to allow him to withdraw the complaint. The cops, however, turned down the plea and produced Susobhan before the additional chief judicial magistrate’s court in Basirhat, which sent him in three days’ police remand. Officer-in-charge of Haroa police Bappa Mitra said: “Such request is legally untenable. Law must take its own course.” The theft came to light on Tuesday night when Sasanka returned home to find his almirah broken and cash and jewelleries kept inside the locker missing. He immediately lodged a complaint for theft at Haroa police station. Beginning the probe, a police team quizzed all family members including Sansanka, his wife, daughter and son Susobhan. All family members cleared the interrogation but cops found Susobhan’s statements to be inconsistent and misleading. An investigating officer said: “Preliminary investigation indicated the involvement of a family member in the theft. There was a small period when no one was at home and the culprit used the window to carry out the theft. Such precision can be achieved by someone who has specific information about the time when there will be no one at home. So, we began questioning the family members and all except Susobhan passed the grilling.” “Susobhan’s statement was inconsistent and that made us suspicious. We spoke to other family members about him and got some crucial leads. As we intensified our interrogation, Susobhan broke down and confessed to stealing the cash and gold jewelleries to take revenge on his father for denying him a motorcycle,” said an investigating officer. Sasanka said: “If I had known my son had stolen the valuables and cash, I would not have gone to the police. He is repentant and wants to be pardoned. However, I am helpless before law and my son has to pay the price for the sin.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-362
26-09-2020||North East||Ex-DIG and BJP leader linked to exam scam||The investigation into the question paper leak that led to the cancellation of the recruitment examination for 597 posts of Assam police sub-inspectors on Sunday has revealed that around 50 candidates were allegedly “coached” about the various aspects of the exam at a lodge here on Saturday. Interrogation of those arrested from the lodge and elsewhere in the city and recoveries made from the lodge suggested that the candidates were coached into writing the paper properly on Sunday, sources said. “There are two aspects to the case now — one is the paper leak and the other is the recruitment racket. The probe is only widening with each passing day. But we are in the right direction,” a source said. Ten people have been arrested since Wednesday in connection with the paper leak, of whom one has been apprehended by the CID and nine by the crime branch of city police. Seven of the accused were arrested on Thursday. Apart from the coaching angle which has been unearthed, what is turning heads are two names doing the rounds in connection with the case — retired deputy inspector-general P.K. Dutta and a ruling BJP leader Diban Deka. Both are said to be absconding after their names started doing the rounds. Police have raided their residences in the city and elsewhere. The investigating team has also searched several hotels and properties purportedly linked to Dutta in Dibrugarh and Guwahati. Deka, who contested the 2011 Assembly polls on a BJP ticket and was a former employee of the now defunct Saradha group involved in the multi-crore deposit collection scam, is presently holed up outside the state, according to a Facebook post, because he feared for his life since several influential people, including police officials, were involved in the paper leak case. Deka, who was quizzed in connection with the case, disappeared soon after, sources said. Deka has in his post admitted to being associated with the private company that was tasked to conduct the examination. In fact, he claimed he had informed the State Level Police Recruitment Board (SLPRB) that conducted the examination about the paper leak. Deka said he has been with the BJP for 24 years and would not do anything to bring the party or the BJP-led government into disrepute while seeking protection for his family from chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal, who has said vested forces had conspired to derail the recruitment drive but none will be spared. Assam Congress chief Ripun Bora, attacking the state government for its “failure” to hold the examination, saying they saw an “RSS plot” to recruit its members. Seeking a judicial probe, Bora said a thorough probe should be initiated into reports that about 50 candidates writing the exam in a city lodge on Saturday. “These candidates should also be arrested. Such examinations, we are told, were held in several districts to help the RSS–backed candidates. We want a thorough, independent judicial probe. How can police probe against its own people?” Bora asked. BJP chief spokesperson Rupam Goswami said Sonowal and state unit president Ranjeet Kumar Dass have clearly stated those involved in the case will be taken to task and has directed the police to fast-track the probe and also hold the re-examination within a month. “We are very clear. Nobody will be spared,” Goswami said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-43
26-09-2020||North East||Plea to quiz Kerala firm on question paper leak||Assam Congress legislature party leader Debabrata Saikia has requested Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan to seek an “explanation” from the Kerala State Electronics Development Corporation Limited (Keltron) authorities after it has “become embroiled” in a question paper leak scandal in the northeastern state. More than 10 people have been arrested in connection with the case since Wednesday. Saikia, who is also leader of the Opposition in the state Assembly, made the request in a letter to Vijayan on Thursday drawing his attention to the case which is being probed by the Assam police till now. Founded in 1973, Keltron is a public sector enterprise owned by the Kerala government and is managed by a board of directors. Its website says it is “India’s first and the largest” state electronics enterprise, producing a “wide range of products from discrete electronics components to complex equipment and system”. In his letter, Saikia said the Assam government had chosen Keltron to conduct the statewide written examination for the posts of 597 police sub-inspectors. However, the question paper got leaked on social media a day prior to the examination on September 20. As a result, the fate of around 66,000 applicants has become shrouded in uncertainty. “According to preliminary reports, the leak occurred because Keltron awarded sub-contracts to two local firms, namely Amain Tech Consultants Private Limited and M/s Akshay Tele Communications, which have dubious bonafides. “While the first firm has already been involved in at least two question paper leak scandals involving other departments of the Government of Assam in recent times, the other firm is reported to be operating as a call centre and has no experience of conducting an important examination of this sort. “As such, there is ample scope to believe that Keltron ‘blindly awarded’ the sub-contracts at the behest of at the behest of BJP leaders of Assam,” the letter said. Saikia requested Vijayan to call for an explanation from the Keltron brass because there was a “serious lapse” on its part for “failing to properly ascertain the track record of the sub-contractors” and such a case has grave ramifications. “Further, the authorities of Keltron may be instructed to exercise extreme caution while conducting similar examinations in Assam in future, because leakage of question papers of recruitment-related examinations has become the norm in Assam under the present BJP-led state government,” the letter said. Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal has directed the police to conduct a thorough probe and spare nobody found to be involved in the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-43
26-09-2020||Opinion||In danger: Air pollution affecting wild bees||Sir — A study has shown that air pollution in cities does not only affect the respiratory and cardiovascular health of human beings — it is also causing significant behavioural, physiological and genetic changes in wild bees. This is alarming news, for bees are already rapidly declining in number, thereby throwing an already fragile ecological balance even more out of gear. Unfortunately, it is unlikely that these findings will have enough impact on the administrational will to bring in changes. This is a pity, because concerns for the protection of biodiversity in city spaces must also inform a large part of the strategy to combat air pollution. Natasha Ganguly,Calcutta Still stuck Sir — It was deeply disheartening to read about the new research which has shown that women in the United Kingdom still have a hard time getting top corporate roles, even though their presence in boardrooms has increased. It seems that the age-old belief that women cannot be leaders persists to an uncomfortable degree even in purportedly advanced economies in the Western world. The study has shown that while women are getting an increasing number of non-executive director roles, they are not being considered for actual positions of executive leadership. This is an exercise in self-sabotage for corporate bodies and big businesses, for women have consistently proved to be great leaders over the years. Research published last year on the Harvard Business Review blog showed that women scored at a statistically significantly higher level than men on the vast majority of leadership parameters they were measured on. Given that making women the chief executive officers of companies are likely to benefit the latter in a significant way, one wonders why such an obvious step towards greater growth is consistently rejected by company boards. Sayantan Banerjee,Calcutta Sir — The dogged refusal to allow women to take on more leadership roles is prevalent even in India. This is not restricted to businesses — recently, even the Centre had expressed great consternation at the idea of male army officers having to take orders from their women superiors. For as long as such regressive mindsets persist, businesses and institutions will keep missing out on the expertise women bring to the table. Junaid Akram,DelhiWay forward Sir — The Indian Railways, in order to boost infrastructure, is planning to explore the public-private partnership route. The ultimate aim is to increase the availability of train services for the public. However, it will be interesting to observe how the government will adopt this model. It is estimated that the Indian Railways would need a capital investment of around Rs 50 lakh crore up to the year 2030 for this project. To support such an endeavour, the Union government should frame policies that are geared towards developing and providing regulatory support to banks to encourage them to fund rail projects. Khushbu Ved,Calcutta Time for change Sir — The United Nations seems to have become an outdated organization in its present form. What it needs is a significant overhaul if it has to meet the challenges of the new world order. With only five member countries with veto powers in the security council — there is no representation from the African, South American and Australian regions — the UN certainly cannot fulfil its stated goal of maintaining peace and friendly relations among countries. Decision-making powers in the UN must be democratized, and the privilege of the veto for a handful of nations must be taken away. D.V.G. Sankararao,Nellimarla, Andhra Pradesh||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-142
26-09-2020||Opinion||Perfectly unacceptable: Taking on body-shaming||The Venus of Urbino, Titian’s erotic and enduring creation in the 16th century, has, at times, been held up as the acme of sensuality as well as an artistic expression of the idealized, universal feminine form. But then beauty, as the adage goes, lies in the eyes of the beholder. And, unfortunately for Titian and his languorous lady, who, incidentally, was made to leave very little to the imagination, the beholder’s gaze has shifted over time. Thus, the modern aesthetic of the body — always the woman’s body — would probably be outraged by the Reclining Lady’s fullness, Size-Zero being the yardstick of oomph in this millennial hour. But now, in a radical — but heartening — experiment, a television show enrolled with Denmark’s national broadcaster may have shown the world a possible way of challenging the deceit that has, for time immemorial, been integral to the tradition of endorsing or, for that matter, viciously rejecting particular kinds of bodies. In an episode of Ultra Strips Down — there can be no arguments at least about the title of the show — schoolchildren were encouraged to reflect on received ideas of body-types and beauty as they examined a group of adults — their teachers, men and women — who stood in their birthday suits before their curious eyes. Educationists believe that such an exchange facilitates an effective dialogue to raise awareness about the toxic, global culture of body-shaming. That public awareness is necessary is borne out by the consequences of this kind of discrimination. Its victims, research says, can suffer from crippling depression, the erosion of personal confidence, disorderly diet and unrestrained consumption of merchandise that sell the mirage of the perfect body. What makes body-shaming reprehensible and, more important, difficult to contain is the slipperiness of the standards applied. History suggests that ample girth was, in the West, once a symbol of prosperity, signalling abundance of health and wealth. Yet, in its colonies, the West corrupted its own ideal, projecting heavily-set Indians, to cite one example, as the embodiment of indolence and savagery. Stereotypes about bodies in the United States of America seldom preclude prejudices pertaining to race and class. Understanding definitions of beauty, then, necessitates the comprehension of power relationships among social groups. The diversity of these power relationships in different cultures could pose a significant challenge to the Danish model of emancipation. In the subcontinent, where autonomy over the body, especially for women and children, remains negligible, the discourse of body-shaming is likely to be permeated and, consequently, neutered by the uncritical acceptance of disparities — gender, social, economic and, increasingly, religious. What makes this assimilation possible is the complicity of the mass media with the market. Yet, another front in the battle against body-shamers is ripe enough to be opened. Challenging the human pursuit of perfection could be one way of exposing the trap of allurement. Imperfection — Titian would have been horrified — can have a humane dimension.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-143
26-09-2020||Opinion||True fighter : Remembering Ruth Bader Ginsburg||As if the year 2020 had not thrown enough curveballs already, just last week Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg of the Supreme Court of the United States of America passed away at the age of 87 after years of battling cancer. Ginsburg was the second woman ever to serve in the Supreme Court and pioneered the movement for gender equality and women’s rights. Condolences poured in from far and wide, especially given that she passed away just before the upcoming presidential elections. Many have viewed her life and work as the last threads holding American democracy together. In New York, the 50th Street subway station has been unofficially renamed ‘Ruth St’ in her honour by the artist, Adrian Wilson. People took to the streets in front of the Supreme Court in Washington DC. The vigil served as both a mourning and a political rally, put together by the Women’s March, Planned Parenthood Action Fund, and MoveOn Political Action. The crowd held candles as they listened to speakers celebrate Ginsburg’s achievements for women’s rights. NPR reported that Ginsburg expressed her last wish to her granddaughter: “My most fervent wish is that I will not be replaced until a new president is installed.” President Donald Trump is set to announce his nomination for the next judge, backed by several Republicans in a dramatic act of hypocrisy. In 2016, Republicans refused to accept Barack Obama’s nomination for the next Supreme Court Justice after a vacancy, asserting that the next president should make that appointment. Stay afloat The restaurant industry has been one of the hardest hit by the pandemic. After months of being shut down, eateries have begun to open up for indoor dining but are operating at less than 50 per cent capacity and require masks and social distancing. Some of them are being forced to think outside the box and use creative means to make it work. In the Upper West Side in New York City, the restaurant, Café du Soleil, is using individual plastic domes, almost like a camping tent, which it calls ‘space bubbles’, for people to sit inside. These are seven feet tall, seating between two to six guests, and protect them from inclement weather. Hashiri, a Michelin-starred sushi restaurant in San Francisco, has done the same but with a heavy price tag. Its plastic quarantine domes can be booked for $200 per diner. Each igloo-like structure costs the restaurants anywhere between $90 per dome up to $1,400. In addition, restaurants are taking advantage of public spaces such as streets, sidewalks and parking lots to create a socially distanced dining environment while meeting public health guidelines. But now with the temperatures dipping, outdoor dining will soon become challenging. A survey by NYC Hospitality Alliance indicated that 80 per cent of restaurant, bar and club respondents did not pay full rent in June, and 36 per cent paid no rent at all. The National Restaurant Association estimated permanent restaurant closures to be at 20-25 per cent. Help at hand The Covid-19 pandemic does not seem to be retreating any time soon in the US. States with strict mask-wearing guidelines are juxtaposed with — mostly red — states where the people do not believe in masks or to an extent even in the virus. In the midst of it all, several technologies and mobile apps have been released to aid contact tracing, keep track of symptoms and also cure boredom and isolation. Los Angeles is partnering with the developers of the app, SafePass, for contact tracing. The opt-in feature uses Bluetooth to anonymously track other app users with whom one may have come in close contact. If you have unknowingly spent an extended amount of time in contact with someone who later tests positive for Covid-19, you will receive a notification to get tested and even get a free at-home test sent to you. Business is also booming for therapy and mental health apps. The burden of a public health crisis, isolation and unemployment is heightening anxiety and stress levels for a lot of people. The app, Talkspace, which connects people to a licensed therapist, has seen a 65 per cent increase in its volume of users since February. Strong presence September 15 kicked off the 52nd year of celebrating Hispanic Heritage Month. Currently there are around 52 million Hispanic people in the US, making it the second largest ethnic group. While Covid-19 has cancelled most big-scale events and outdoor parades, communities are trying to make sure their heritage is celebrated. In Arkansas the Plaza de las Americas-Festival de las Manos Unidas will take place virtually. In DC, the restaurant, Immigrant Food, is offering a special date night package, where 10 per cent of the proceeds during Hispanic Heritage Month will be donated to Ayuda, an immigrant services non-profit. The Smithsonian Museum of Art is opening an exhibition called Our America: The Latino Presence in American Art featuring 92 pieces by over 70 artists. In New York, the Puerto Rican singer, Bad Bunny, whose real name is Benito Antonio Martínez Ocasio, performed atop a moving bus to honour essential workers. The show, which started in the Yankee Stadium and ended at the Harlem Hospital, also honoured the third anniversary of Hurricane Maria which ravaged Puerto Rico in 2017. Footnote The Jewish New Year, Rosh Hashanah, was celebrated this year from September 18 to 20. Spiritual leaders and observers took to virtual platforms to celebrate. Typically, the commemoration involves prayer services and a bustling gathering with Jewish foods. The New York organization, JewBelong, hosted ‘Sins, Stars and Shofars!’ — a one-hour virtual event with stories, songs and readings focused on uplifting people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-143
26-09-2020||Opinion||Standing tall||The late A.P.J. Abdul Kalam liked to tell stories with morals. A story he was particularly fond of related to the launch of a satellite by the Indian Space Research Organisation in July 1979. Kalam was in charge of the project at ISRO and when some members expressed reservations about its readiness, he overruled them and ordered it to go ahead. The launch failed; instead of going into space, the satellite plunged into the Bay of Bengal. As team leader, Kalam was humiliated by the failure and terrified by the prospect of announcing it before the press. He was saved from embarrassment by the chairman of ISRO, Satish Dhawan, who went himself before the television cameras to say that despite this failure he reposed complete faith in the abilities of his team and was confident that their next attempt would succeed. The following August, Kalam and his team tried once more to launch a satellite into space. This time they succeeded. Dhawan congratulated the team, while asking Kalam to address the press conference. In telling the story in later years, during and after his term as president of India, Kalam would feelingly recall: “When the failure occurred, the leader owned it up. When the success came, he gave the credit to his team.” This month, India’s scientific community is celebrating the birth centenary of Abdul Kalam’s hero. Satish Dhawan was born on September 25, 1920 in Srinagar. The son of a judge, Dhawan was raised and educated in Lahore, where he took degrees successively in physics and mathematics, in literature, and in mechanical engineering. The combination was unusual, if not unique, in the Indian context, bridging the three worlds of science, the humanities, and technology, respectively. The Lahore of the 1930s and 1940s was a place, which encouraged such experimentation. The city was then a great centre of culture and scholarship, a confluence of the best of the Hindu, the Islamic, the Sikh, and the European intellectual traditions. In 1945, after taking the third of these degrees, Dhawan came to Bangalore and worked for a year at the newly-founded Hindustan Aeronautics Limited. He then went off to the United States of America for further studies, obtaining an M.S. from the University of Minnesota followed by an M.S. and a PhD in aeronautical engineering from the California Institute of Technology. He was away when Independence and Partition occurred, the latter event forcing his family to leave Pakistan and migrate to India instead. Soon after returning to his now divided homeland, Satish Dhawan joined the Aeronautics Department at the Indian Institute of Science. One of his early students, Roddam Narasimha, recalls that “Dhawan brought to the Institute an element of youth, freshness, modernity, earnestness, and Californian informality that captivated the students and many colleagues.” Dhawan enjoyed his research, building the first supersonic wind tunnels in the country. He enjoyed his adopted city too, where he fell in love with and married the cytogeneticist, Nalini Nirodi (the couple went on to have three children). In 1962, he was appointed director of the Indian Institute of Science, a place that at the time was (in the words of one chronicler) “slowly slipping into a comfortable state of academic somnolence”. Dhawan woke the place from its slumber, making it the premier research institute in the country. In his tenure as IISc director, he helped incubate new research programmes in computer science, molecular biophysics, solid state chemistry, ecology, and atmospheric science, recruiting brilliant scholars from all over India (and the world) to staff and run them. In 1971-72, Dhawan was granted a sabbatical by the IISc. He went off to his alma mater, Caltech, hoping to dirty his hands with research. While he was away, the head of India’s space programme, Vikram Sarabhai, died at the tragically early age of fifty-two. This was a body blow to Indian science, and especially to our space efforts, then at a nascent stage. On the advice of her principal secretary, P.N. Haksar, Prime Minister Indira Gandhi sent a long cable to California asking Satish Dhawan to succeed Sarabhai as chairman of ISRO. He agreed, but not before stipulating two conditions: that he continue as director of IISc, and that the headquarters of the space programme shift from Ahmedabad to Bangalore. Mrs Gandhi accepted both conditions, as well as a third; that Dhawan be allowed to complete his year of research at Caltech before returning to his new responsibilities in India. In his book, ISRO: A Personal History, R. Aravamudan vividly recalls Dhawan’s taking over as chairman and the changes he brought in the organization. “Sarabhai’s management style”, writes Aravamudan, “was that of a patriarch dealing with a small well-knit family. It was a kind of monolithic structure and Sarabhai operated on a one-on-one basis. These were no formal systems in place, with parallel technical teams operating. Sometimes they would work on the same systems without any organization.” This loose, informal, style just about worked when ISRO was small and still developing; but as it grew larger and its goals became more ambitious the organization required a more structured form of management. Thus Dhawan’s “first task was to bring some order into the widely dispersed teams by integrating them and defining their individual roles and collective responsibilities. This he did by forming programme-based centres with undisputed leadership. He also arranged for a national-level review of the long-term tasks of ISRO in association with internal and external experts.” As an ISRO scientist, who experienced this transformation first hand, Aravamudan writes: “Our new chairman was a dignified man with great intellectual honesty. He encouraged honest criticism and was quick to recognize merit. Sarabhai’s style was fine when the structure was loose and still evolving. But now we needed to freeze things and get on to execution mode. Dhawan exactly fitted the role, with his systematic approach and no-nonsense style.” At ISRO, Dhawan was keen to emphasize the organization’s social role, focusing on what satellites could do with regard to weather forecasting, natural resource mapping and communications. He worked assiduously to keep the organization at a distance from powerful politicians; hence the decision to shift its headquarters even further away from Delhi, and his own unwillingness to accept personal hand-outs, such as Rajya Sabha seats. IISc is arguably our finest centre of scientific research; ISRO almost certainly our most admired public sector organization. In the making of both these organizations, and their reputations, the same individual played a critical part. These two institutions required somewhat different forms of leadership. That Dhawan could successfully guide both and at the same time is a mark of how great a leader he was. As P. Balaram wrote in an obituary published in Current Science in 2002: “The space program has a wonderfully romantic history, with Satish Dhawan as the guiding force; in times of failure he shouldered responsibility, in the heady days of success he stood quietly by the sidelines. Dhawan’s ability to build an organization [ISRO] whose success relied on teamwork, discipline and collective dedication was truly remarkable, particularly when one recognizes that he was simultaneously building an institution [IISc], where individuality and idiosyncrasy were cherished qualities.” This writer was privileged to know Satish Dhawan in his last years. He was a fine scientist, a great builder of institutions, and a warm and compassionate human being. His long-time IISc colleague, Amulya Reddy, wrote of him that “unlike most of his contemporaries, he was above caste, language, religious and provincial considerations.” Dhawan, he added, “was devoid of jealousy and envy”. Meanwhile, his ISRO colleague, Yash Pal, said of Dhawan that in his treatment of individuals, “there was no favouritism and no animosities”. The Indian scientist with whom he worked closely for the longest period, Roddam Narashima, concluded his own obituary of Dhawan by saying: “He was, most of all, the undeclared but widely accepted moral and social conscience of the scientific community.” To these tributes by colleagues, let me add some words of his daughter, Jyotsna Dhawan, herself a distinguished Indian biologist. Of her father’s deep social consciousness she writes: “In building the launch center at Sriharikota, the displacement of the Yanadi tribe troubled him, set as it was against the massive displacements going on all over India in the name of development, and he worked hard to see that some reparations were made. Medha Patkar’s selfless struggle to keep the fate of displaced people in our collective consciousness aroused his greatest admiration.” Satish Dhawan was one of the greatest of modern Indians, being to the field of science what J.R.D. Tata was to entrepreneurship, Kamaladevi Chattopadhyay to the crafts sector, and Verghese Kurien to the co-operative movement. There are many lessons in Dhawan’s life for the emerging leaders of today — be they in science, politics, business, administration, or civil society. They include an absolute integrity in personal life and professional conduct; a remarkable ability to recognize and nurture talent and to allocate responsibilities wisely and well; the generosity of spirit that encourages subordinates to claim credit for success; and, not least, the moral courage that leads the leader to take the blame for failure. ramachandraguha@yahoo.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-143
26-09-2020||Jharkhand||NDRF team fishes out Adityapur boy’s body from river||A 14-member team of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) fished out the body of a 17-year-old boy from the Kharkai river along the RIT police station area in Adityapur on Saturday. The NDRF team was pressed into service after local divers failed to locate the body of the boy, identified as Aditya Kumar Mahto, who drowned in the Kharkai river while bathing near Platinum City in Adityapur on Friday afternoon. Family members and neighbours of the boy said there is an acute water crisis in Adityapur, which prompted Aditya, like many other local residents, to go to the river for a bath. He went to the river around 12.30pm on Friday. While taking a bath, he slipped into deep water and drowned. Others at the scene had come to the victim’s rescue and even dived into the river, but could not save him. Later in the afternoon, police and family members of the boy asked some local divers to find the body, but they failed. A local social worker, Sudhir Chowdhury, arranged to get the NDRF involved following reports of the incident. Chowdhury met the Seraikela-Kharsawan deputy commissioner, Iqwal Alam, and requested him to write to the secretary of the Jharkhand department of disaster management. After Alam had written the letter, Chowdhury spoke to Amitabh Kaushal, the secretary of the department. Kaushal then communicated with officials at the NDRF headquarters in New Delhi to get a nod. The NDRF authorities then instructed the team stationed at Ranchi to rush to Adityapur. A 14-member team from Ranchi came to Adityapur early on Saturday morning and started work from around 8am. The NDRF team traced and recovered the body within 30 minutes of starting its operation. The body was found within 20m from the spot where the boy drowned. One of the team members said the body was trapped in a rock about 15ft deep in the water. The officer in charge of RIT police station, Srinivash Kumar, confirmed the events: “The boy, who was a resident of Janata Row House area near NIT, Jamshedpur, drowned while taking a bath in the river on Friday afternoon. We had pressed some local divers into service, but the body could not be found. It was ultimately fished out of the river by an NDRF team,” Srinivash told The Telegraph Online. Son of Bajrang Mahto, an auto-rickshaw driver, Aditya had passed his matric examination this year and was about to take admission in a Plus Two course soon. A pall of gloom descended in the Janata Row House area after the NDRF team found the body.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-287
26-09-2020||Jharkhand||Jharkhand’s Covid recovery rate jumps to 83.40%||Jharkhand’s Covid-19 recovery rate jumped further to 83.40 per cent on Saturday after as many as 1,324 patients recovered from the infection, while 1,226 people tested positive for the virus in 24 hours, figures released by the state health department stated. Jharkhand is among the few states that have a better recovery rate than the national average of 82.10 per cent, officials said. Despite the drop in the number of active cases in Jharkhand on Saturday, the number of patients increased in Ranchi, which continues to be the worst-affected district in Jharkhand in terms of cases. As many as 425 cases surfaced in Ranchi against 318 recoveries during the day, taking the number of active cases in the district to 3,955, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. As per the bulletin, Ranchi accounted for nearly 35 per cent of the total 12,426 active cases of infection in Jharkhand. The number of active cases dropped in East Singhbhum on Saturday after 214 people were found infected there against 263 recoveries. As per the NHM bulletin, the number of active cases in East Singhbhum dropped to 2,119. The figures also highlighted that Ranchi and East Singhbhum account for around 50 per cent of the active cases in Jharkhand. Six more patients died during treatment in the state on Saturday, taking the toll in Jharkhand to 670, the NHM bulletin stated. As per the bulletin, East Singhbhum reported two of the six deaths on Saturday and the toll in the district alone jumped to 287, which is the highest among all districts in Jharkhand. The mortality rate in Jharkhand was 0.84 per cent on Saturday against the national mortality rate of 1.60 per cent. So far, the government has collected swab samples of 20.42 lakh people across Jharkhand and tested 20.29 lakh of them. Of those tested, 78,935 have been found Covid-19 positive since March. As many as 65,839 of these patients have recovered from the infection. As per government data, on Saturday, health workers tested swab samples of 30,152 people and 28,926 of them came negative. The Covid-19 tally in Ranchi was close to 18,000, while that in East Singhbhum was nearly 13,500, the government data stated. These two districts have reported 391 casualties, which is nearly 60 per cent of the total deaths that have occurred in Jharkhand since March this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-287
26-09-2020||Jharkhand||Hemant okays CBI probe into death of freedom fighter kin||Chief minister Hemant Soren recommended a CBI investigation into the death of freedom fighter Sidhu Murmu’s descendant, Rameshwar, on Saturday to try and quell dissent within his constituency of Barhait where his body was found ahead of the upcoming byelections in Dumka. A brief communiqué issued by the CMO read: “CM has approved recommendation of CBI probe in connection with the murder of late Rameshwar Murmu, who was killed on June 12, 2020 in Bhognadih under Barhait police station in Sahebganj following a proposal from Jharkhand DGP MV Rao.” Later, Hemant issued a statement to say, “The decision for a CBI probe has been taken in view of several representations and demands by social and political organisations.” Rameshwar’s (28) body was found in a field at Bhognadih in Barhait, the Assembly segment in Dumka in the Santhal Parganas, a traditional stronghold of the ruling JMM. Four days later, the deceased’s family lodged an FIR at Barhait police station in Sahebganj district accusing one Saddam Ansari of the crime. According to family members, Rameshwar had protested against Ansari for allegedly passing lewd remarks against a village girl. But, police, citing post-mortem reports, said Rameshwar, who was an alcoholic, died of heart attack. On June 23, Ansari surrendered in court and was sent to judicial custody. The incident triggered massive protests with the Opposition BJP accusing lawlessness under the Hemant Soren government. Leaders met governor Droupadi Murmu to demand a CBI probe. The saffron camp even accused the Hemant government of covering up the murder through a shoddy police probe. Hemant’s decision to recommend a CBI probe comes a day after the Election Commision of India (ECI) announced dates for the Bihar Assembly polls, stating that a separate notification for pending bypolls would be issued soon. Political observers believe that the coming bypolls in Dumka and Bermo may have played a part in the state government recommending a CBI probe even though the culprit was in jail and the state police had not hinted at foul play in the death of Rameshwar. A political science professor of Sidho Kanho University in Dumka agreed, saying he believed that the recommendation of a CBI probe was driven by politics. “Bhognadih happens be the epicentre of Santhal rebellion by tribal brothers—Sidhu and Kanhu Murmu. That is why Hul Diwas is observed in memory of the Murmu brothers on June 30 there every year. For any elections here, you can’t but talk of tribal rebellion and freedom fighters to strike a chord with adivasi voters. By recommending a CBI probe, JMM tried to counter the BJP’s barbs,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-287
26-09-2020||Jharkhand||RPF’s prized tracker dog Shakti retires, finds new home||Shakti, a 10-year-old Doberman, who was with Railway Protection Force as a tracker for a decade, retired from active service on Thursday, but found a new home days later with Jharkhand Animal Welfare Society that has decided to adopt him. Shakti was accorded a ceremonial farewell at the RPF post near Tatanagar railway station on Thursday. On Saturday, Jharkhand Animal Welfare Society (JAWS got formal custody. JAWS deputy secretary Utkarsh Kashyap said in the past, retired RPF dogs were euthanised through intravenous injections if they weren’t bought in an auction. "JAWS president Arun Kumar Jha intervened and wrote to RPF national headquarters in 2009 for changing the practice. This led RPF to amend the policy of auctioning retired dogs at a minimum price of Rs 150 and make their adoption smooth through local animal welfare associations," he told The Telegraph Online after taking custody of the dog. Shakti is the third RPF dog to be adopted by JAWS, one of the oldest animal welfare associations of the steel city. Earlier, two RPF sniffers _ Nidhi and Diana _ were also adopted by the animal welfare outfit. As per RPF records, Shakti won several laurels in his career. Born in July 2010,  the Doberman has solved many theft cases, murder mysteries and rape cases in railway jurisdiction under Chakradharpur division of South Eastern Railway. JAWS undertakes various animal welfare activities. In June and July, it was involved in the campaign to save street dogs by providing reflective collars to strays. The campaign was undertaken in collaboration with a Ranchi-based animal welfare organisation, Mission Trust, and Pawsitivity of Indore. As many as 70 reflective collars were put on strays as a result of the campaign. Recently, JAWS volunteers rescued two Indian Rick pythons near a residential apartment on NH-33 at Pardih. The snakes were later released at the Dalma Wildlife Sanctuary.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-287
26-09-2020||Jharkhand||Flights to Calcutta resume ahead of Durga Puja||Airport authorities in Ranchi have resumed flight services to Calcutta ahead of Durga Puja, one of the largest festivals of the Bengali community during which thousands of residents of Jharkhand travel to Bengal, officials said on Saturday. “We have resumed four weekly flights to Calcutta ahead of Durga Puja. A high demand for flights is anticipated during the festive season,” said director of Birsa Munda Airport in Ranchi Vinod Sharma. Sharma added that the new flights to Calcutta would take off from Ranchi on Tuesdays, Wednesdays, Saturdays and Sundays. All the four flights are run by Indigo Airlines, he said. All flights from Ranchi remained suspended since the imposition of a nationwide lockdown on March 24 in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. Once flight services resumed on May 25, the Ranchi airport was permitted to operate only seven flights, airport officials said. While the count of flights gradually increased to 10 by August-end, the number was still less than half the number of flights that took off from Ranchi before the lockdown. Also, there were no flights to Calcutta. “We have also resumed passenger flights from Ranchi to Mumbai. Flights to New Delhi, Bangalore and Hyderabad were already operational after the resumption of air services,” said Sharma. While Jharkhand residents now have the option to fly to Calcutta during Durga Puja, railway services connecting Ranchi to Howrah have remained suspended despite demands by various groups. The government has not given any indication regarding the resumption of passenger trains from Ranchi to Howrah. The public relation officer of Ranchi Railway Division, Neeraj Kumar, said there was no plan to resume trains connecting Ranchi to Howrah in the near future. “However, passengers can travel to Dhanbad or Jamshedpur and take connecting trains to Howrah during the festive season,” said Kumar. The Federation of Jharkhand Chamber of Commerce and Industry (FJCCI) recently demanded resumption of the Kriya Yoga Express, a daily express train between Ranchi and Howrah. However, the railways is yet to take a call on their demands. Interstate bus services are yet to start, and no buses are plying between Ranchi and Calcutta as of now.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-287
26-09-2020||Jharkhand||JFC juniors to train with senior team in Goa next month||Players from Jamshedpur FC (Reserves) can look forward to rubbing shoulders with their seniors when it comes to training. Ten footballers, including eight from the reserves side, will be part of the JFC pre-seasons in Goa, the venue of the cash-rich edition VII of Indian Super League (ISL), next month. The move is aimed at giving exposure to the juniors who can learn new techniques from the likes of Nerijus Valskis, Stephen Eze and Peter Hartley, the prized possessions of the Tata-Steel-owned club. Moreover, the juniors have an opportunity to impress head coach Owen Coyle and stand a chance of getting slots in the Jamshedpur senior outfit. Jamshedpur FC CEO Mukul Choudhari said players of the reserves side would also train with the seniors. “We are working out the numbers to finalise who will train with our senior side in Goa. The names will be decided soon,” he added. Sources within JFC revealed that juniors will stay in Goa throughout the ISL season which begins at three venues _ Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium in Fatorda, the Tilak Nagar Stadium in Vasco da Gama and the GMC Athletic Stadium in Bambolim in November. Matches will be played with strict social distancing protocols. “The entire objective is to provide adequate exposure to the boys from the reserves outfit. After all, the plan is to draft Jharkhand players to the senior side in future. The process has to begin. We had already picked the likes of Tata Football Academy graduates Mobashir Rahman, Vishal Das and Sandeep Mandi who were part of the senior side last season,” one of the sources said. Some of the reserve players identified for the pre-seasons include Gorachand Mardi, Harsh Kumar, Billu Teli, Mani Sana,  Manas Gorai, Gourav Kumar and Vishal Yadav. Two upcoming footballers from Dhanbad Raj Mahto and S. Bauri will also train with the seniors in Goa. The JFC (Reserves) plays in the 2nd Division I League and some of the players had caught the eye of coaches with their performance. The boys travel to different cities to compete in the tournament organised under the banner of All India Football Federation (AIFF). Most of the players in the reserves side are from Jharkhand. The juniors stay anchored in Jamshedur during the season and are provide good facilities, including food and accommodation. They are also provided top class training facilties.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-287
26-09-2020||Jharkhand||Bank More-Birsa Bridge road repair next week||For over two lakh commuters, who have been suffering backbreaking rides on the 23km-stretch of road between Bank More and Birsa Bridge for over two years now, the news that the authorities will begin repairs next week is likely to be greeted with cautious optimism. Executive engineer of national highway division Amrendra Saha said, “We have completed the tender process for the ordinary repair of a part of the road from Bank More to Birsa Bridge for which work is likely to begin next week. Besides filling up all potholes, we will also repair the damaged railings of the bridge.” Saha explained that an underlying water supply pipeline, belonging to civic body JMADA, was the primary reason behind the damage of the road. Water leaking from the pipeline damaged the road surface. “We expect JMADA to shift the pipeline ahead of a comprehensive repair project worth Rs 80 crore to be undertaken for the 50km stretch of the Dhanbad-Jharia Road from Bank More to the Purulia border. The work order has been issued, but work will begin only in four to five months," he said. Niranjan Prasad, councillor of Bastacola in Jharia, expressed satisfaction that the road would finally be repaired. “The state of the road near Bastacola is dreadful. It gets worse during monsoon, leading to repeated traffic jams. Hopefully, now people will see some relief ahead of Durga Purja,” he said. The 23km-stretch between Bank More in Dhanbad to Birsa Bridge is in terrible shape with potholes and craters dotting the road at various places, including Bastacola, Ena Islampur, besides Jharia and Sudamdih. A comprehensive project, worth Rs 44.83 crore, to widen the road was implemented by the state road construction department in 2015-16 using contractor M/s Balkrishna Bhalotia. But the road, which was later handed over to the national highway division in 2018, developed potholes at various places.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-287
26-09-2020||Jharkhand||Babulal Marandi among 1261 to test positive in Jharkhand||Jharkhand's first chief minister and BJP legislature party leader Babulal Marandi was among 1261 people who tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday. Marandi, who represents Dhanwar constituency in the state assembly announced his status through his social media handle. He wrote, "After facing mild symptoms, I underwent covid test and was found positive for the virus today. I have self isolated myself and request all those who came in contact with me in recent days to be alert and get themselves tested." Soon after the monsoon session ended on September 22, Marandi flew to Delhi to meet BJP top brass in the wake of upcoming byelections in Dumka and Bermo and chalk out other modalities related to party's affairs in the state, where the saffron camp is currently in Opposition. He returned Ranchi on Thursday. Since the outbreak of the pandemic in Jharkhand in March a total of 77709 have so far been tested positive for the virus so far including Friday's count. Of these, 12533 are currently active cases and 64515 have recovered. Many lawmakers, including over half a dozen MLAs from the ruling JMM-Congress-RJD coalition fell prey to the virus, majority of whom had successfuly overcame it and returned back to their normal public life. State water resources minister and JMM MLA from Garhwa, Mithilesh Thakur, who was one of the few to have tested positive for the virus recently also donated his plasma at Rims. On the other hand, with six fresh casualties on Friday, state fatalty toll now stood at 691. Of these, two deaths each were reported from East Singhbhum and West Singhbhum and one each surfaced from Dhanbad and Godda.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-287
26-09-2020||Jharkhand||Partial nude demonstration for BSL jobs||Contract workers of Bokaro Steel Plant staged demonstrations partially nude demanding to be reinstated to their jobs lost during lockdown. The protesters under the banner of Bokaro Ispat Kamgar Morcha an outfit affiliated to AITUC, marched on the road in Ghandhi Chowk shouting slogans and waving red flags. The workers worked for a private company engaged in Ingot Mold Foundry in BSL.Around 65 of them were removed three months ago. Pran Singh, a contract worker who was leading the agitation said that the labourers have been working in the IMF for more than 20 years. “We are jobless since past three months. We have approached senior officials many times but no one is listening to our plea. So today we are forced to stage a demonstration,” Singh said. The protesters threatened self-immolate if they were not hired back. A BSL officer said the contract with the private company was not renewed as there is no work hence the workers were removed. BSL is seeing a rise in agitations. On Thursday hundreds of workers staged demonstrations in front of BSL’s headquarter demanding job and compensation. Ramgarh police have arrested one of the five assailants who had stolen Rs six lakh from an employee of a petrol pump. On September 21, Rajendra Bedia, an employee of Danish petrol pump was going to deposit the amount in the bank when he was robbed near Ghutuwa Basti Kabristan area. Ramgarh superintendent of police Prabhat Kumar said after the robbery, a team was constituted and with the help of technical cell they managed to identify the criminals. He said one of the involved, Manish Kusahawa(20) was arrested from Hutpa village under Muffasil police station of Hazaribagh district. Kumar said the police have recovered Rs.55,320. The general secretary of Bengali welfare society Gopal Bhattacharya expressed surprise over the appointment of NGO Shubh Sandesh as the authorized motivator for plasma therapy at PMCH. Bhattacharya is a blood donation motivator of Jharkhand State AIDS control society. "Our organisation always organises blood donation camps whenever the PMCH based blood bank faces any blood crisis while Shubh Sandesh has never organized any camp and neither motivated any person for blood donation," said Bhattacharya. He said organisations like his and Rotary Club were ignored while selecting a motivator for the plasma therapy. The Dhanbad district administration has developed an exclusive portal for redressal of various complaints of residents. The issues range from non disbursement of old age or widow pension and pension for physically challenged to non receipt of food grains. Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner, Uma Shankar Singh conducted the portal's trial run on Friday. "The portal developed by district unit of National Informatics Center and District Mineral Foundation Trust will help to avoid unnecessary rush at the district collectorate for redressal of complaints during the time of pandemic when social distancing is key to check the spread of infection as people can register their complain from their places or any common service center of even their respective block offices using the portal," said Singh. The portal will be launched officially in a couple of days. Four improvised explosive devices were discovered by the security forces near the road between Masurya and Chak pickets in Palamau. The stretch is always on high alert for Maoist rebels. SP Palamau Sanjeev Kumar said the bombs were kept hidden in the shrubs meant for security forces. The bomb disposal squad of the Jharkhand Jaguar neutralised the explosives on Friday after its discovery on Thursday. Kumar said the explosives were not planted in the Masurya Chak pickets axis but were abandoned and camouflaged in the shrubs to be used later by the CPI Maoists to strike the security forces. Communist parties on Friday took out a protest march on Hazaribagh roads opposing the recently passed farm bills. The march was led by veteran communist leader and former parliamentarian Bhuvneshwar Prasad Mehta. CPM district secretary Ganesh Kumar Citu said march started from District Mor and ended at Indrapuri Chowk in town. A massive fire broke out in the godown of the Shriram Sales at Bhalotia lane on Friday. About half a dozen fire extinguishers took eight hours to douse the flames completely, and saved other shops located nearby from getting affected by the fire, said Amitabh Chaudhary, a police officer. The loss is being assessed. Around seven years ago Shriram Sales had a similar fire accident. At that time, goods worth lakhs of rupees were burnt to ashes. The cause of the fire was stated to be a short circuit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-288
26-09-2020||Jharkhand||Tribal Christians tonsured and forced to chant 'Jai Shri Ram' in Jharkhand village ||Seven tribal Christians were allegedly beaten, partially tonsured and forced to chant “Jai Shri Ram” in a Jharkhand village on the unproven allegation that they had slaughtered a cow. Although the incident happened on September 16 and a police complaint was lodged the next day, the matter became public only on September 25 when former zilla parishad member and social activist Neel Justin Beck told a local news portal about it. Police confirmed the incident. Shams Tabrez, the superintendent of police in Simdega district where the attack took place, said four of the nine accused named in the FIR had been arrested and the rest would be picked up soon. The FIR also mentions 10 unnamed accused. Jharkhand had witnessed the lynching of several tribal people and Muslims on unsubstantiated charges of cow slaughter or beef possession during the tenure of its previous BJP-led government (2014-19). This is the first reported communal attack since the JMM-Congress-RJD-Left alliance came to power last December. Deepak Kullu, 26, a tribal Christian from Bherikudar in Simdega, about 145km southwest of Ranchi, said a group of more than 25 stick and rod-wielding people had entered the village early on September 16 morning. The men were apparently residents of nearby villages. Deepak said: “I saw them beating a villager, Raj Singh Kullu, and hurling caste-based expletives at his wife Jacqueline Kullu. When I sought an explanation, they started mouthing caste-based expletives at me too and accused us of slaughtering cows.” “Raj continued to plead that no one had killed any cows. But the mob showed us what seemed a fake video of an elderly man from a neighbouring village saying he had seen cows being slaughtered in our village.” Deepak alleged the mob dragged him and six other Christian tribal men from the village to neighbouring Mahato Tola, about half a kilometre away, all the while slapping and beating them with sticks and forcing them to chant “Jai Shri Ram”. At Mahato Tola, they were made to squat under a tree and had portions of their heads shaved by the mob. Cow slaughter was banned in Jharkhand by a 2005 law, which the state’s erstwhile BJP-led government began strictly enforcing since 2017. “The attackers called the local Simdega police station, accusing us of cow slaughter. The police arrived in a few minutes and took us to the police station,” Deepak said. “The police searched our homes but could not find any trace of cow slaughter and released all of us later in the day. The next day, Jacqueline lodged complaints with Simdega police station and the district SC/ST police station.” Police officer Tabrez said: “A case has been registered under the SC/ST Act and several Indian Penal Code sections. A special investigation team led by the sub-divisional police officer is conducting raids to arrest the remaining accused.” Beck, the activist, identified the seven victims as Raj, Deepak, Emmanuel Tete, Sugad Dang, Sulin Barla, Soshan Dang and Sem Kido. Rabindra Prasad Singh, officer in charge of Simdega police station, said the nine named accused were Nayan Keshri, Sonu Singh, Sonu Nayak, Tulsi Sahu, Shrikant Prasad, Deepak Prasad, Aman Keshri, Rajendra Prasad and Nakul Patar. ]“We have arrested Sonu Singh, Sonu Nayak, Nayan and Rajendra so far,” he said. “We searched every house whose occupants were accused of cow slaughter but found nothing conclusive.” Rabindra said the victims did not suffer serious injuries in the beating, and none of them needed medical attention.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-288
