27-09-2020||Calcutta||Amit Shah’s evocative ‘Vidyasagar ji’||“Vidyasagar ji”, “Vidyasagar ji”, “Vidyasagar ji”, “Vidyasagar Mahashay”. Amit Shah was not setting the record straight on the vandalism of Ishwarchandra Vidyasagar’s bust that coincided with the close of the BJP leader’s road show in Calcutta last year but tweeting four minutes after Mamata Banjeree had paid a bicentenary tribute to the Bengal renaissance icon on Saturday. The thoughtful and respectful “ji” was a gracious addition but it did end up reaffirming suggestions that the BJP continues to be unfamiliar with the cultural values of Bengal. “Vidyasagar ji” carries a ring of unfamiliarity to many in Bengal where the social reformer is referred to as “Vidyasagar”, which in itself is a mark of admiration and not a surname. Ishwarchandra Bandyopadhyay came to be known as Ishwarchandra Vidyasagar (Ocean of Knowledge) because of his scholarship. “Outsiders” and “their disregard for Bengal’s legacy” formed part of the chief minister’s homage, which referred to the May 14, 2019, defacement that is believed to have cost the BJP in the last lap of the general election in Bengal, somewhat spoiling its outstanding overall performance. “Remembering great social reformer and educationist Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar on his 200th birth anniversary. He was a pioneer for Bangla language and drafted primer Barnaparichay. Also known as ‘Dayar Sagar’, he fought for widow remarriage, banning child marriage and polygamy,” Mamata tweeted in the morning of Vidyasagar’s 200th birth anniversary. Vidyasagar was born on September 26, 1820. “Vidyasagar truly represents the pride of Bengal and serves as an inspiration to us till date. His bust was unfortunately desecrated in 2019 by certain outsiders, which only shows their disregard for Bengal’s legacy. However, his teachings are deeply inculcated in our values,” Mamata added. Vidyasagar’s bust was smashed at a north Calcutta college named after him, allegedly by participants from Shah’s road show. Four minutes after Mamata’s statement on Saturday, Shah posted tweets in English and Bengali. “I bow to the legendary Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar ji on his birth anniversary. As a distinguished social reformer, educationist and philosopher, he brought a huge transformation and revolution in the society through his far-reaching ideas and reforms in various fields,” he wrote. “Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar ji championed for women rights, he campaigned relentlessly for the widow remarriage act and towards their empowerment. Vidyasagar ji’s towering and immortal legacy will always continue to be a source of inspiration for millions across the world.” The Bengali tweet by Shah stuck to “Vidyasagar”, except in one sentence where it was “Vidyasagar Mahashay”. After the vandalism, which had come with just the last phase of the Lok Sabha polls remaining, the BJP had not done much to address the issue other than try to shift the blame for the act on Trinamul. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had taken two days to end his silence on the matter. The legacy of Vidyasagar, with his inclusive, reformist vision of secular humanism, had not been a priority with the saffron camp. But after the results showed a BJP rout in the final phase of an election it had till then unexpectedly dominated in the state, the vandalism came to be viewed widely as a turning point in the Bengal chapter of the polls. The BJP had bettered Trinamul or gone neck and neck with it through the first six phases, winning 18 of the 33 seats, before drawing a blank in the nine-seat final phase. Those nine Lok Sabha seats make up 63 of the state’s 294 Assembly segments, including 35 crucial urban seats in Calcutta and North and South 24-Parganas. Of these 35, the BJP secured leads in only 5, while leading from 116 of the remaining 231 Assembly segments in the state. Since the results, the BJP has been tripping over itself to declare its respect for Vidyasagar. On Saturday, state BJP chief Dilip Ghosh, too, posted tweets. Ghosh’s initial tribute did not mention the vandalism. But 42 minutes later -- and over 90 minutes after Mamata’s statement -- he posted another tweet, tagging May 14, 2019, as a “Black Day”. “The people of Bengal won’t forget… the day the statue of this great icon of the Bengali Renaissance was destroyed by miscreants inspired by Didi’s philosophy. If the BJP comes to power, it will reinstate the heritage of Vidyasagar and the incident will be investigated,” Ghosh wrote. Hooghly MP and BJP politician Locket Chatterjee, who garlanded the Vidyasagar statue at College Square with much fanfare on Saturday, too insisted that the May 2019 vandalism had been the handiwork of “goons of Trinamul”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-290
27-09-2020||Calcutta||Isher, who started out from city, is no more||Isher Judge Ahluwalia, noted economist and chairperson emeritus of the Delhi-based think-tank Indian Council for Research on International Economic Relations’ board of governors, has passed away. She was 74. As an economist, Isher Ahluwalia spoke and wrote with authority and compassion on a wide range of subjects: from the rapid industrial development in a few city-centric clusters that threatened to widen the urban-rural divide to a deeper, macro-economic assessment of the reforms that India adopted in 1991. She had a master’s in economics from the Delhi School of Economics (DSE)  followed by a PhD from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) and a fairly long stint with the International Monetary Fund in Washington. But it had all started out in Calcutta. Her parents lived in a rented flat close to Purna Cinema in the Bhowanipore area. She was a student of Shri Shikshayatan School and had stood eighth in the overall rankings for the state school board examinations in 1962 — which earned her a scholarship to Presidency College where she studied economics. She was part of the Presidency mentor group. “We are deeply saddened by the news of her untimely demise,”  said school secretary-general Bratati Bhattacharyya. A Padma Bhushan awardee, Isher Ahluwalia wrote two major books: Industrial Growth in India: Stagnation Since the Mid-Sixties and Productivity and Growth in Indian Manufacturing. Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra described Isher Ahluwalia as an outstanding economist who was meticulous in her work.  Two years senior to him in the Presidency College and Delhi School of Economics, Isher Ahluwalia and Mitra had collaborated on many projects. “I did not know her in Presidency but our paths must have crossed. When I joined DSE, I got to know of her but she had left for MIT in the US. We worked on many things thereafter, notably at a trans-continental project when I was in Virginia, US and she was in Delhi in the winter of 1991,” Mitra recalled. Mitra said he was stumped when Isher Ahluwalia met chief minister Mamata Banerjee at Writers’ Building years later. “She spoke in fluent Bengali with the CM. I was completely taken aback. I had known her for years but I didn’t know,” Mitra said. Ramprasad Sengupta, emeritus professor of economics at Jawaharlal Nehru University, had studied with Isher Ahluwalia at Presidency College. “We joined Presidency College in 1962,” he said. “She was an extremely studious and polite lady at that time. Legendary teacher Bhabatosh Datta was our head of the department. She was one of the best in the class at Presidency. She was among the first five or six of the class. Isher had a good career after completing graduation. Her real shine came out when she was doing research and was producing books after completing her doctorate at MIT. “I still remember when she was doing her PhD she came on a trip to Calcutta and came to me because she needed some data collection work on Indian Macroeconometric behaviour.  She was a noted economist.” Malabika Sarkar, who was the vice-chancellor of Presidency University till May 2014, worked with Ahluwalia when she was part of the Presidency mentor group.  She said: “Isher was a dynamic member of the group not just during discussions but also always available for help and advice from Delhi whenever needed.” Isher Ahluwalia is survived by husband Montek, and sons Pawan and Aman.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-290
27-09-2020||Calcutta||Stirrings of the 9pm heartbeat||A ride through some of the busiest city roads a little after 9pm used to give a deserted midnight vibe till a month ago. Not anymore. The traffic snarls are back at night and the parking lots busy. People are waiting outside restaurants and Gariahat stalls are open till at least 8pm. The festive season is a big pull, according to small and big business owners. Many people have accepted that the coronavirus is here to stay and decided to live with it, they said. The Telegraph toured two iconic places in Calcutta to gauge the night mood: “Ekhon kotha bola jabe na, bhir achhe dokaane (Cannot talk now. The store is crowded),” Manabendra Saha, the co-owner of Traders Assembly — a sari shop almost synonymous with the Gariahat crossing — said when Metro called on Saturday afternoon. The evening before, Metro had seen at least 20 people inside the store. On a Sunday afternoon in the middle of August, the only people Metro had seen inside the store were a handful of employees. Around 8.30pm on Friday, the footpaths near the Gariahat crossing had hundreds of buyers at stalls that sold everything from trinkets to melamine plates. In the past years, a Friday evening at Gariahat in the run-up to the festive season used to be chaotic. All one could see was black heads. Swarms of people would be at the crossing waiting for the signal to turn green for pedestrians. On Friday, Gariahat was busy but not chaotic. Around 9.15pm, scores of people waited for buses on the road. At least 30 autos waited for passengers. The familiar “Chetla-New Alipore-Taratala” shouts from drivers came constantly. A fast-food outlet, popular for kathi rolls, had more than 10 people at the counter around 8.45pm. But for shopkeepers — who have had their backs pushed to the wall in the absence of shoppers because of the pandemic — it was a welcome sight. “Thank god for the festive season,” Debasish Dey, who sells handbags at the Gariahat crossing said. He had hardly sold anything from June to the middle of August. Hawkers were allowed to resume business from May 27. From end of August, shops and stalls started registering higher footfall. By the middle of September, Dey was back to being busy. On Friday, he had sold more than a dozen bags till 8pm. Under the flyover, the kings, knights and bishops were back to fighting each other. Chess boards had been laid out on at least five tables. “We are asking senior citizens not to come. But other than that, people are coming regularly,” Abhijit Saha, the secretary of the Gariahat Chess Club, said. “Ektu egiye dekhun, ekhane hobe na (There is no space here; go a bit ahead and check out),” an attendant at the parking lot on the road in front of Silver Grill kept telling people around 9.10pm on Friday. At least 20 cars were parked in the lot. Outside Peter Cat, at least 20 diners were seen waiting to get in. Not everyone stood on the white circles drawn on the road outside to maintain distance. At 9.30pm, the waiting time at Bar-B-Q was “over 20 minutes”. Children selling balloons and candys were back, doing rounds of the footpaths on either side of the road. “We see good footfall on weekdays. On weekends, there are many people waiting outside,” a Peter Cat employee said. Pratap Daryanani, the owner of Oasis, spotted the return of an old trend. “Many people have been coming after a day of shopping, suggesting the festive season has lifted their spirits.” Almost all restaurant owners Metro spoke to said the permission to serve liquor at restaurants had led to higher footfall. The time of the last order at many places has now been extended to 10.45pm. A month ago, when the lid on bottles was still in force, it was 9.30pm. “People have realised that Covid-19 is not going anywhere anytime soon. They are prepared to lead life normally, acknowledging its presence. There has been a shift — from fear to acceptance,” Nitin Kothari, the owner of Mocambo and Peter Cat, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-291
27-09-2020||Calcutta||Cinemas with limit from October 1, tweets CM||Cinemas, jatras, open-air theatres, and some other performing arts activities will be allowed in the state from October 1 with 50 or fewer people in attendance, chief minister Mamata Banerjee tweeted on Saturday evening. The permission is “subject to adherence to physical distancing norms, wearing of masks & compliance to precautionary protocols”, she said in the tweet at 8.43pm. All these activities have remained closed since the Centre announced a nationwide lockdown in March because of the pandemic. The four unlock phases till now, too, haven’t allowed the opening of these activities apart from open air-theatres, which have been allowed to function from September 21. The Unlock 4 guidelines issued by the home ministry on August 29 said cinemas, swimming pools, entertainent parks, theatres and similar places would remain closed. “However, open-air theatres will be permitted to run from September 21,” the guidelines had said. The Centre’s guidelines have primacy over the state’s during the pandemic, according to the disaster management act,  a central government official said. People associated with cinemas, jatras, theatres have had a tough time as they haven’t had any income for six months because of the situation triggered by the pandemic. Company owners are under financial duress and employees are struggling to make ends meet, a theatre professional said. Jatras are traditionally performed in the open. Plays, too, can be performed in the open. Moreover, with up to 50 people being allowed, there should be scope for following distancing rules. The only contentious case is the reopening of cinemas and if magic shows, musicals, plays and dances are performed in a closed environment. Although the chief minister’s tweet did not elaborate on these matters, theatre professionals said they expected the government to soon come out with clear guidelines.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-291
27-09-2020||Calcutta||Family income hit, IIEST students seek fee waiver||Some students at IIEST Shibpur have requested the authorities to waive their tuition fees because “family earnings have been hit” by the pandemic. The board of governors, the highest-decision making body of the Indian Institute of Engineering Science and Technology, met recently. The board has advised institute director Parthasarathi Chakrabarti to write to the HRD ministry about the request by the students, a board member said. The board has adopted a resolution on the matter. The annual tuition fees is Rs 1,25,000, excluding the annual hostel and mess charge of Rs 50,000. Several students have been struggling to pay the fees because of loss of income in the family during the pandemic, an IIEST official said. “Students from all years other than first year (BTech as well as MTech) have requested director Chakrabarti that tuition fees be waived. As the director cannot decide on the matter by himself, it was placed before the board,” the official said. The ministry fixes the tuition fees; so, the director has been advised to write to the minister, another official said. The institute already has a mechanism in place that ensures full tuition fee waiver if a student’s annual family income is less than Rs 1 lakh, the official said. If the income ranges between Rs 1 lakh and Rs 5 lakh, he/she is required to pay half the amount. “But during the pandemic, the institute has been receiving waiver requests from all categories of students. Even students whose annual family income is above Rs 5 lakh is seeking a waiver,” he said. The institute had in August decided that students need not pay Rs 17,500 as mess advance, Rs 3,000 as mess entrance fee, Rs 1,000 as seat rent, and Rs 800 as electricity and water charges for the autumn semester that started from August 24. Following an appeal from the students’ senate, the institute had decided to waive activities fee of Rs 500 and to bring down the infrastructure fee to Rs 1,000 from Rs 2,500 for this semester. Repeated calls to director Chakrabarti went unanswered. He did not respond to text messages either. “Many are worried about the grim job situation. There is no guarantee they will get jobs after graduating from the institute, given the sharp fall in employment,” a teacher said. “People in their families have lost jobs because of the situation triggered by the pandemic. Everybody is trying to save whatever is possible.” A multinational ride-hailing company, headquartered in the US, had in early May withdrawn its job offer to three engineering students of the institute, citing “business decision” because of the economic downslide caused by the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-291
27-09-2020||Calcutta||The relevance of Vidyasagar||Vidyasagar did not want to build India based on religion; instead he wanted India to be the melting pot of all cultures, Suranjan Das, the vice-chancellor of Jadavpur University, said. He has become relevant at a time when India is encountering the threat of “religious sectarianism and fundamentalism”, Das said while speaking on the relevance of the polymath at Vidyasagar Academy. The education department had organised a programme at the academy to mark the bicentenary of Vidyasagar’s birth. He reminded all that the university should always be a place for debate and deliberations as luminaries like Vidyasagar had envisaged and not a place for “indoctrination”. “I want to talk about how Vidyasagar continues to be relevant in the context of today’s India. Vidyasagar symbolised modernity and he dreamt of India emerging as a modern state. His modernity had no connection with any religion,” Das said. “This element in Vidyasagar’s thought process is relevant for contemporary India when we are faced with the challenge of religious sectarianism and fundamentalism. “The Indian culture does not represent one particular religion or cultural trait. It is an assimilation of various cultural traits; it is syncretic in nature. Surely, Vidyasagar was aware of this trait in Indian pluralistic cultural tradition when he sought to consciously detach the modernising process with any religious thinking.” The year-long celebrations on the 200th birth anniversary of Pandit Iswar Chandra Vidyasagar had started days before May 14 last year when suspected BJP activists had barged into Vidyasagar College on Bidhan Sarani in north Calcutta while a rally led by BJP president Amit Shah was passing by and damaged the bust of Vidyasagar. The event at Vidyasagar Academy on Badur Bagan —Vidyasagar’s residence in Calcutta, about a kilometre from the college — marked the culmination of the year-long celebrations. Das was among the vice-chancellors present at the programme. “We do not know if Vidyasagar subscribed to any religious belief. In none of Vidyasagar’s texts there is celebration of any particular religion. He was averse to the practice of any religious function in an educational institution. What Vidyasagar remained firmly committed to was humanism,” Das said. Das — a historian who faced vandalism at Jadavpur University in September last year by suspected activists of the ABVP, the students’ wing of the RSS — said although Vidyasagar believed in modernity, his notion of modernity was not completely antagonistic towards tradition. “What he aspired for is to create a melting point for the best in tradition and the best in modern.” Education minister Partha Chatterjee presided over the programme and referred to the vandalism at Vidyasagar College. He accused the BJP of decimating the rich values and tradition set by people like Vidyasagar and Tagore. As academics discuss the National Education Policy, Vidyasagar’s relevance will come to their mind because he believed in liberal approach to education, which should be at the heart of any education policy, Das said. “At the core of any higher education policy lies the notion of a university. Thinkers — from Immanuel Kant to John Henry Newman, Wilhelm von Humboldt to Rabindranath Tagore and Mahatma Gandhi — had distinguished the modern university from its medieval forerunners by envisaging for it an autonomous sphere in relation to the emerging nation-state. Universities are thus required to be ‘incubators of ideas and innovations’. This fits with the liberal approach in education that Vidyasagar believed in,” he said. “In his time Vidyasagar proved himself to be an astute but a socially inclusive academic administrator and we need to fall back upon his notion of teaching-learning process to make the pursuit of higher education ‘as enlightenment’ and not ‘as indoctrination’, developing universities as sites for deliberations and debates where the community should be trained to learn, unlearn and relearn and develop themselves as inclusive global citizens.” Education minister Partha Chatterjee presided over the programme and referred to the vandalism at Vidyasagar College. He accused the BJP of decimating the rich values and tradition set by people like Vidyasagar and Tagore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-291
27-09-2020||Calcutta||Teachers need council nod to use ICSE name||The ICSE council has asked teachers of its schools not to use the council’s name or logo at any seminar, workshop or training programme without its “prior consent and approval”. The Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations has issued a circular to school heads asking them to relay the message to all its teachers. “This is to bring under your attention that the council has come across various instances of teachers from council affiliated schools using the council’s name while introducing themselves at training programmes/seminars/ workshops conducted by them using online/offline platforms,” the circular said. The council “strongly” disapproves” of such “unauthorised use of its name or logo without prior consent and approval”, the circular said. Teachers can attend or participate in such events at their own discretion, the council said. The circular hasn’t mentioned why it imposed such a restriction on teachers. Some teachers give tuitions online and try to attract students by using the council’s name, a school principal said. The council wants to stop this, the principal said. The council has received several complaints about teachers offering tuitions and using its name to reach out to students.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-291
27-09-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta Municipal Corporation’s plan for tax defaulters||The Calcutta Municipal Corporation will roll out a penalty and interest waiver scheme for property tax defaulters from October, Firhad Hakim, the chairperson of the CMC’s board of administrators, said on Saturday. The waiver will be on offer from October 1 this year to March 31 next year. The waiver can be availed for tax bills raised till March 31, 2020, the end of this fiscal. “We have received the government nod to roll out the waiver scheme. The state cabinet has approved our proposal. It will begin from October 1,” Hakim said at the CMC headquarters on Saturday. The benefits of the scheme have been broken up into two, depending on how quickly one clears the pending amount. “If one clears the pending tax in the first five months, the penalty and interest will be zero. The defaulter has to clear only the principal amount,” a CMC official said. “If the dues are cleared after five months, 60 per cent of the interest and 99 per cent of the penalty will be waived.” The penalty is a one-time addition on the principal and the sum depends on the amount of the pending tax. Interest keeps on adding to the principal with the passing of every month from the last date for payment of tax. Metro had on September 5 reported that the CMC was likely to introduce the scheme from October. The civic body has more than Rs 2,m000 crore property tax pending. This is only the principal that can be shored up during the life of the waiver scheme, a CMC official said. The authorities hope the waiver scheme would encourage property owners to clear their tax dues and generate revenue for the civic body. The last time the CMC had launched such a waiver scheme was in 2012 and it had received a “very good response from tax defaulters”. The CMC act empowers the city mayor to waive 50 per cent penalty and interest on pending property tax. But it is done on individual cases and depends on the mayor’s discretion. The waiver scheme that will be introduced in October will cover all tax defaulters. Payments can be made online and offline. Those who apply for the scheme will get fresh bills, Hakim said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-291
27-09-2020||Calcutta||Nets to stop bikers from falling off flyover||Steel nets mounted on iron frames are being fixed on the crash barriers of Garden Reach flyover to prevent two-wheeler riders from being flung off the bridge during a crash. In June last year, three youths were flung off the flyover on impact when they rammed into the crash barrier at a sharp bend. They fell on a container lorry parked on the road below. None had a helmet at the time of the accident. Police and the Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA) had been thinking of ways to prevent a repeat of such an accident. Two-wheeler riders speeding on the flyover and ramming into the crash barrier at sharp bends is common, a police officer said. “We are installing steel nets along 540m on the flyover at sharp bends. The nets are 5.9ft high and strong enough to withstand the impact of two-wheeler crashes,” a CMDA official said. “The nets are being fitted on the crash barriers, which are 2.5ft high from the road surface.” All the nets will be installed by the end of this month. The installation will cost about Rs 34 lakh, another CMDA official said. The nets are being installed on the stretch of the flyover above City of Joy fuel pump and the office of Paharpur Cooling Towers, the police officer said. The flyover has a clearance of 12m from the ground below at one place, where a freight corridor has been planned, a CMDA official said. The nets are being installed there, too. “There are tracks running the flyover on a particular stretch. Usually, a flyover is built 6.5m above the ground where there are tracks,” the CMDA official said. “But on one stretch the height of the flyover is 12m from the ground because the rail authorities okayed the construction only if the height was maintained. They have planned a freight corridor at that place,” the official said. The 4.4km-long Garden Reach flyover was thrown open to traffic in March 2018. It connects Majerhat with the Brooklyn crossing, about 800m from the Ramnagar crossing in Garden Reach. Unavailability of land to place the piers of the flyover had forced the CMDA to design the flyover in a way that included some sharp bends, the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-291
27-09-2020||Calcutta||Want your property assessed? WhatsApp CMC||The civic body has launched a number on which people with unassessed properties can WhatsApp their property details and the CMC will take steps to complete the assessment, Firhad Hakim, the chairperson of the CMC’s board of administrators, said on Saturday. The number, 8335988888, will be monitored closely, a civic official said. On receiving information, the corporation will initiate the property assessment process. It will send forms that have to be filled by the person with unassessed property. The civic body will set up camps in areas where there are several people still to complete the assessment of their properties, the official said. “We frequently receive complaints about unassessed properties and mutation. Those who have unassessed properties can WhatsApp us on 8335988888,” Hakim said on Saturday. “We will start the process after we get the message.” The move is aimed at generating revenue, a Calcutta Municipal Corporation official said. It will widen the net of taxpayers and subsequently generate more revenue, he said. The pandemic has hit the corporation’s collections. “As people respond to this initiative, our net of taxpayers will widen,” the official said. This way the CMC will be able to complete assessment of all properties in the Calcutta municipal area, Hakim said. “There are many people who want to complete assessment of their properties but have to move around from one place to another. All of them can approach us on this number. This will be like a single-window system. There will not be any unassessed property in Calcutta in another one to one-and-a-half years.” No CMC official could provide an estimated number of unassessed properties in the city. The problem of unassessed properties is more in the Kasba-Jadavpur-Behala belt where there are problems with land records, an official said. The property tax is based on the valuation of the property. The assessment means its valuation and existence gets recorded in the CMC’s books, the official said. The civic body may impose a penalty on the owner for not assessing the property. “Owners of unassessed properties should avail themselves of this opportunity to stay clear of future hassles,” the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-291
27-09-2020||Business||Mindtree founder pares stake||Mindtree co-founder Krishnakumar Natarajan and his family have sold over 4.66 lakh shares of the company, reducing their combined shareholding to 2.01 per cent from 2.29 per cent. The transactions were carried out by Krishnakumar N, wife Akila Krishnakumar and son Siddarth in multiple tranches between September 15 and September 23, Mindtree said in a regulatory filing on Saturday. Earlier this month, Natarajan and his family had sold over 42 lakh shares in multiple tranches between April 30 and September 14 that had reduced their combined shareholding to 2.29 per cent. Krishnakumar Natarajan, who held a 1.96 per cent share, sold about 2.85 lakh shares, the filing said on Saturday. After the transaction, his shareholding came down to 1.79 per cent. Akila sold about 1.32 lakh shares, bringing down her holding to 0.11 per cent. Siddarth Krishna Kumar sold 49,405 shares and bought 1,000 shares, bringing his latest shareholding to 0.10 per cent. The shares were sold and purchased in the open market, the filing said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-278
27-09-2020||Business||Trai drops Vodafone Idea probe||Trai has decided to drop proceedings against Vodafone Idea in the priority plan case after the operator withdrew contentious claims on faster speed and modified its offering. Last month, the regulator had slapped a show-cause notice on Voda Idea saying the tariff offer lacked transparency and was “misleading” and not in compliance with regulatory framework. Voda Idea recently dropped the faster data speed claims, which formed a prominent part of its pay-more-for-priority-treatment scheme, and filed a revised plan. The regulator has now informed Voda Idea that “the authority has decided not to proceed with the investigation/ further inquiry”. The Trai letter, seen by PTI, noted that the operator has informed that the earlier RedX plan has been discontinued and that a new tariff plan of RedX, without the claim of priority 4G network with faster speed, has been filed. The company’s website too had stopped touting claims of faster speeds for the RedX plan and instead spoke of benefits purely in terms of entertainment privileges (Netflix and Amazon Prime) and travel and mobility benefits. Trai had been examining Vodafone Idea’s priority plan RedX and Bharti Airtel’s Platinum offering to see if network preference to specific customers led to deterioration of services for other non-premium subscribers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-278
27-09-2020||Business||Debate on GST fund fumble||The Comptroller and Auditor General’s comments that the Centre has wrongly retained Rs 47,272 crore of GST compensation cess meant for states could become a major topic of debate during the upcoming GST Council meet on October 5. On Saturday, senior finance ministry officials countered the CAG’s audit, saying temporary retention cannot be termed as diversion. The time taken in the reconciliation of compensation receipts can’t be termed as diversion of GST cess fund when the dues to the states were fully released by the central government, they said. “The compensation receipt in the Consolidated Fund of India was subject to reconciliation in the coming months. If for that reason the amount remained in the Consolidated Fund of India, how can that be treated as a diversion,” officials, who did not want to be identified, said. The auditor raised red flags over the violation of GST compensation laws by the Centre. The CAG report highlighted that the Centre used the GST cess of Rs 47,272 crore elsewhere instead of crediting it to the GST compensation fund in the last two financial years. According to the CAG report, short-crediting was a violation of the GST Compensation Cess Act, 2017, and it has asked the finance ministry to take immediate corrective action. “Collection of the cess and its transfer to the GST Compensation Cess Fund shows that there was short crediting of Rs 47,272 crore during 2017-18 and 2018-19,” the CAG report said. Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra tweeted: “Modi government caught red-handed by its own CAG for hiding Rs 47,272 crore from the Cess Compensation Fund meant for states! Slyly put into Consolidated Fund of India. Violating GST Act. Why? To bluff us by overstating revenue collection and bluff global rating agencies by understating fiscal deficit. Shameful.” Kerala finance minister Thomas Isaac in a tweet said, “The CAG report confirms illegal diversion of undistributed GST by the government — an issue that the Council has discussed and has nearly resolved. But it totally exposes the double standards of the GoI. When the going is good, the GoI misappropriates the surplus and wash its hands of when a temporary deficit appears.” In 2017-18, Rs 62,611 crore was collected, of which the government released full compensation dues of Rs 41,146 crore to the states and Union Territories (UTs). In 2018-19, an amount of Rs 95,081 crore was collected, of which Rs 69,275 crore was paid as full compensation dues. An amount of Rs 47,271 crore collected in 2017-18 and 2018-19 had remained unutilised for reconciliation post full payment of GST compensation dues. For 2019-20, the Centre released Rs 1,65,302 crore as compensation against a cess collection of Rs 95,444 crore which it could do with the unutilised cess of Rs 47,271 crore. The GST (Compensation to States) Act guarantees all states an annual growth rate of 14 per cent in their GST revenue in the first five years of implementation of GST beginning July 2017. It was introduced as a relief for states for the loss of revenues arising from the implementation of GST. If a state's revenue grows slower than 14 per cent, it is supposed to be compensated by the Centre using the funds specifically collected as compensation cess. To provide these grants, a GST compensation cess is levied on certain luxury and sin goods.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-278
27-09-2020||Business||China chink in Damodar Valley Corporation armour||Damodar Valley Corporation is worried about the maintenance of its 1200-MW thermal power plant at Raghunathpur in Purulia district of Bengal, which uses equipment based on Chinese technology. India had imported power equipment worth Rs 71,000 crore in 2018-19, of which tools of Rs 20,000 crore are from China, Union power minister R.K. Singh said recently. The power ministry wants to cut down on imports and subject imported equipment to testing given the strategic nature of the sector and its vulnerability to cyber attacks. The two units of 600 MW of DVC was built using Chinese technology and availability of equipment and localisation of the plant could pose challenges, both technical and financial. A document from the Central Electricity Authority shows that the Boiler Turbine Generator (BTG) order of the plant was placed with Shanghai Electric Corporation of China. Anil Ambani firm Reliance Infrastructure was the engineering procurement company for the project. “Our plant at Raghunathpur is fitted with Chinese supplied equipment. The government has taken a decision and we have to abide by that. The plant is already running. Tomorrow we may need small equipment for which orders may have been placed many months back,” said DVC member secretary Prabir Kumar Mukhopadhyay at an event organised by the CII on Saturday. While there is a need for localisation, specialised power equipment may not be readily available. Bengal power minister Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay, who was also present at the event, said the state electricity transmission company could invest Rs 20,000 crore over the next five years to strengthen the renewable energy sector and improve power infrastructure through various projects in the state. State-run REC on Saturday said it shareholders have approved a proposal to raise the overall borrowing limit to Rs 4.5 lakh crore from the existing Rs 3.5 lakh crore. The company’s 51st AGM was held on September 25.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-278
27-09-2020||India||President Kovind gives his assent to 3 contentious farm bills||President Ram Nath Kovind gave his assent on Sunday to three contentious farm bills that have triggered protests by farmers, especially in Punjab and Haryana, and prompted an ally of the ruling BJP-led coalition to quit the government. According to a gazette notification, the President gave assent to three bills: The Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill 2020. The Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020 aims to permit the sale of agricultural produce outside the mandis regulated by the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committees (APMC) constituted by different state legislations. The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, provides for contract farming. The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill 2020 deregulates the production, supply, distribution of food items like cereals, pulses, potatoes, onion and edible oilseeds. The President's assent to these bills comes amid the Opposition criticising the manner in which they were passed in Parliament. Even NDA's oldest ally Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) has parted ways on the issue of these farm bills as farmers in Punjab and Haryana intensify protest. The Opposition had requested the President not to sign the bills -- which would have sent them back to Parliament for reconsideration -- after two of the bills were passed in the Rajya Sabha last week amid uproar, reported ndtv.com. The Opposition has alleged that the bills were pushed through voice vote in violation of the rules. The government, it said, lacked the numbers, which would have become clear if a physical voting was held. They also accused Deputy Chairman Harivansh Singh, who was presiding over the proceedings, of colluding with the government. Harivansh and the government have said the Opposition demands for physical voting were negated as the members were not in their seats while making the demand. But television footage of the Rajya proceedings of September 20, however, showed something else. The footage reviewed by some sections of the media, including The Indian Express and NDTV, shows that at least two of the three MPs – K.K. Ragesh and Trichy Siva -- who moved the motion to send the controversial bills to a select committee, were in their seats when they demanded a division of votes. The government has claimed that the bills, which will replace the ordinances issued by the government in June, will help farmers increase their income and free them from the interference of middlemen. Bypassing wholesale markers, the new laws enable farmers to deal directly with big corporations for the sale of produce and even allow pre-harvest contracts. Farmers, however, are apprehensive about dealing directly with corporates. They fear that they will not be paid even the minimum support price (MSP) fixed by the government and be exploited. Calling the new system "anti-farmer", they have demanded that the laws be repealed. Over the last weeks, huge farmers' protests have been held over the laws, especially in Punjab and Haryana, states that are dubbed the grain bowl of the country. On Friday, massive protests were held across the two states. Farmers from Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Bihar and even the southern state of Karnataka had also joined in. The Shiromani Akali Dal, which first quit the government and then the NDA over the new laws, said they plan to hit the roads with a tractor rally on October 1.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-644
27-09-2020||India||Monsoon to withdraw from north India in 2 days||The southwest monsoon is set to retreat from parts of north India in the next two days, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Sunday, with data suggesting that the rainy season is most likely to end on an above-normal note.  Overall, the country has received 9 per cent more rainfall than normal until September 26, according to data.  "Conditions are becoming favourable for withdrawal of monsoon from west Rajasthan and adjoining areas from September 28," the weather department said.  Mahesh Palawat, the vice president of private forecaster Skymet Weather, said rainfall has reduced considerably.  "The withdrawal of monsoon from west Rajasthan is likely to start from tomorrow (Monday). It looks like monsoon will withdraw on an above-normal note," Palawat said.  Rainfall in the range of 96 to 104 per cent of the Long Period Average (LPA) is considered as 'normal', while precipitation in the range of 104 to 110 per cent of the LPA is 'excess'.  Nine states have received excess rainfall, while 20 states have recorded normal precipitation, the data shows.  The official rainfall season in India is from June 1 to September 30. Monsoon arrived over Kerala on June 1, its normal onset date.  June recorded 17 per cent more rainfall, while July saw 10 per cent deficiency. However, there was an excess rainfall in August -- the month recorded 27 per cent more rainfall than normal.  Parts of north India -- Delhi, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir --- have recorded deficient rainfall. The Union Territory of Ladakh has recorded high deficiency of rainfall this year.  Large parts of the country in west and south India, including Gujarat, Goa, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka, have received excess rainfall. Sikkim is the only state to have received large excess rainfall.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-644
27-09-2020||India||Farmers playing major role in building Aatmanirbhar Bharat: PM||Lauding farmers for strengthening the country's agriculture sector, prime minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said the farm sector is playing a major role in efforts to build a self-reliant India.  He also said if the essence of Mahatma Gandhi's economic philosophy was followed, there would not have been any need for the 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat' campaign as India would have become self-reliant much earlier.  Speaking on various issues during his monthly 'Mann Ki Baat' broadcast, Modi said many farmers benefitted after fruits, vegetables were brought out of APMC Act in some states a few years ago.  Our agriculture sector has shown its prowess during the COVID-19 pandemic and farmers are playing a major role in efforts to build a self-reliant India, he said.  Talking about various success stories of farmer groups across states, Modi also said the agriculture sector will benefit immensely with greater use of technology in farming.  The prime minister began his monthly broadcast by talking about storytelling, saying it has been a part of our nation for centuries.  "Storytelling is as old as civilisation...These days, stories relating to science are gaining popularity," Modi said.  He said many people are making storytelling popular across the country and underlined that India has a glorious tradition of storytelling.  He also interacted with members of the Bangalore Storytelling Society.  Modi also requested all families to set aside some time for storytelling and said it will be a wonderful experience for them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-644
27-09-2020||India||Ex-Union minister Jaswant Singh dies at 82||Former Union minister Jaswant Singh, a close associate of ex-prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, died here on Sunday following a long spell of illness. He was 82.  Prime Minister Narendra Modi and other top BJP leaders paid rich tributes to Singh.  Modi said that Singh served India diligently and will be remembered for his unique perspective on matters of politics and society.  The prime minister later spoke to Singh's son Manvendra to convey his condolences.  True to his nature, Jaswant Ji fought his illness with immense courage for the last six years, Modi said. Singh, a former Army officer, had been ill after a fall at his home in August 2014 and was admitted to the Army Research and Referral Hospital. He had been in and out of the hospital since and was admitted again in June this year.  "It is with profound grief that we inform about the sad demise of Hon'ble Major Jaswant Singh (Retd), former Cabinet Minister of Government of India at 0655 hours on 27 September 2020. He was admitted on 25 Jun 2020 and being treated for Sepsis with Multiorgan Dysfunction Syndrome and effects of Severe Head Injury old (Optd) had a Cardiac arrest this morning," the hospital said in a statement. Despite the best efforts of the attending team of specialists to resuscitate him, he could not be revived and passed away, it added. His funeral will take place later today at Jodhpur in Rajasthan, family sources said. Condoling his death, "Modi said, "Jaswant Singh Ji served our nation diligently, first as a soldier and later during his long association with politics. During Atal Ji's Government, he handled crucial portfolios and left a strong mark in the worlds of finance, defence and external affairs. Saddened by his demise." Singh, considered close to Vajpayee and veteran leader L K Advani, held defence, finance and external affairs portfolios in the Vajpayee government.  He had fought the 2014 Lok Sabha election as an independent candidate after the BJP did not give him ticket, but lost.  In his message, Modi added, "Jaswant Singh Ji will be remembered for his unique perspective on matters of politics and society. He also contributed to the strengthening of the BJP. I will always remember our interactions. Condolences to his family and supporters. Om Shanti." Expressing his anguish, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said Jaswant Singh served the nation in several capacities and distinguished himself as an effective minister and parliamentarian.  "Jaswant Singh ji would be remembered for his intellectual capabilities and stellar record in service to the nation. He also played a key role in strengthening the BJP in Rajasthan. Condolences to his family and supporters in this sad hour. Om Shanti," Singh said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-644
27-09-2020||India||Cost of vaccinating entire India put at Rs 80,000 crore||An Indian vaccine maker on Saturday pegged his estimate of the cost it would take to immunise all of India’s 1.38 billion people with a coronavirus vaccine at Rs 80,000 crore, or about 23 per cent more than the Centre’s 2020-21 health budget. “Quick question: Will the government of India have 80,000 crore available over the next one year?” Adar Poonawalla, chief executive officer of the Serum Institute of India, posted on Twitter. “Because that is what MoHFW (the Union health ministry) needs to buy and distribute the vaccine to everyone in India.” Prime Minister Narendra Modi, articulating key guiding principles for the nationwide rollout of vaccines against Covid-19 during a review meeting in June, had said vaccines should be affordable and universal so that no one is left out. Public health experts have interpreted that principle as implying the government would support the immunisation of poor people while expecting the rich to buy Covid-19 vaccines for themselves — just as they already pay for other vaccines. The Serum Institute, the world’s largest vaccine maker, has signed a pact with AstraZeneca to produce a candidate vaccine against Covid-19 developed by Oxford University researchers. The company, which is conducting large-scale Phase 3 efficacy trials of the Oxford candidate vaccine in India, had signalled in August that it would make the vaccine available at Rs 225 ($3) per dose to low and middle-income countries. Poonawalla also tweeted: “I ask this question because we need to plan and guide vaccine manufacturers both in India and overseas to service the needs of our country in terms of procurement and distribution.” Clinical trials are also under way in India for two other candidate vaccines – both home-grown, one from the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech and the other from the Ahmedabad-based Zydus Cadila. Medical experts tracking these clinical trials say the earliest they expect any vaccine to emerge for mass distribution is early 2021. Vaccine researchers not associated with the Serum Institute said the calculations underlying the Rs 80,000 crore figure are unclear but point to about Rs 590 per person for India’s estimated 1.38 billion people. Scientists assume the calculations take into account the required two doses of the vaccine and the costs of distributing it across the country. “It shows how even the costs of a relatively inexpensive vaccine can add up very quickly,” said Shahid Jameel, a senior virologist and head of the Wellcome Trust-DBT India Alliance, a UK-India research partnership. The Rs 80,000-crore bill appears a lot – it is 23 per cent higher than the Rs 65,000 crore allocated to the Union health ministry for 2020-21 or 35 per cent higher than the Rs 59,000-crore deal for the Rafale fighter jet. But Jameel and other public health researchers say it is unlikely that the government would pay for everyone. They have stressed that a large section of the Indian population can afford to pay, and would be willing to pay, for the vaccine. “Even now, the government does not pay for all the vaccines but only those under the immunisation programme and those in government hospitals,” Jameel said. Households across India have for years been paying for several of the childhood vaccines such as the inactivated polio vaccine or rotavirus vaccines that are also available through the national immunisation programme. “Similarly, we can be sure that many households across the country would be willing to pay for a coronavirus vaccine,” said Raju Khubchandani, a senior paediatrician at Jaslok Hospital, Mumbai. “There is no other disease that has advertised itself the way Covid-19 has,” Khubchandani told this newspaper. “Many people are looking forward to the vaccine as a way to return to their jobs or whatever they were doing. We can all hope an effective vaccine comes along soon.” A panel of medical experts tasked by the Union health ministry is in dialogue with domestic vaccine manufacturers to assess the country’s production and distribution capacities and the likely costs the government would need to bear. The panel is also expected to outline priority populations that will be the first to receive the earliest vaccines that emerge from the race. Experts have indicated that healthcare workers, essential personnel such as police and security staff and those considered vulnerable could be high on the priority list. However, vaccine researchers caution that nationwide distribution could take time. India has significant experience with mass vaccination campaigns – the national oral polio immunisation campaigns have vaccinated millions of children over a single day, said Gagandeep Kang, a senior clinician-researcher and professor of microbiology at the Christian Medical College, Vellore. But the pace of distribution would also depend on supplies. Experts have stressed that it is unclear yet how many of the three candidates under trial in India would even be available for mass immunisation. “Any speculation about how long it might take to immunise everyone is premature,” said a senior public health specialist tracking India’s response to Covid-19. Modi, in his address to the UN on Saturday, assured the global community that India would be a major source of coronavirus vaccines. “India’s vaccine production and delivery capacity will help the entire humanity to come out of this (Covid-19) crisis,” Modi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-644
27-09-2020||India||Badals vow to quit BJP alliance||The Shiromani Akali Dal on Saturday evening announced it would quit the ruling National Democratic Alliance, a decision that reflects the success of the protests on the ground against the Narendra Modi government’s farm bills. The pullout by its oldest ally, within months of the Shiv Sena’s exit, will be a blow to the BJP even though it does not pose any threat to the government — the Akalis have a total of five MPs. Harsimrat Badal, the lone Akali minister in the Modi cabinet, had earlier resigned in protest against the “anti-farmer” bills being steamrollered through Parliament. Party chief Sukhbir Singh Badal said on Saturday “they tried to convince the BJP” to withdraw the bills but were “ignored”. Reports from the ground suggested the Akalis had no option but to quit to show they were with the farmers, their core support base. The Centre has so far played down the protests.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-644
27-09-2020||India||Manmohan Singh’s birthday: Mr Modi, thank you for the gift||History will be kinder to me, Manmohan Singh had said in the last leg of his prime ministership in 2014. His successor Narendra Modi has now fast-tracked history to pull off what was once inconceivable: make Manmohan Singh trend on his birthday. #HappyBirthdayDrMMSingh trended on Twitter for about 15 hours on Saturday, with over 150,000 tweets. The hashtag even topped the chart for some time on the day the economist turned 88. The credit must surely go to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, many feel, with some putting it across in an unkind manner that would not find favour with the courteous Singh. “The tragedy is you don’t know the value of a Dr Manmohan Singh until you get a Narendra Modi,” one Twitter user posted. Not that the name-callers were inactive. Rashtriya Maun Diwas, a hashtag playing on the discourteous word with which Modi had described Manmohan, surfaced during the day but it drew less than 10,000 tweets. Manmohan himself spent the day mourning the passing of Isher Judge Ahluwalia, the distinguished economist, author and wife of Montek Singh Ahluwalia who had helped the former finance minister with the reforms that changed India. The sudden outpouring of support for Manmohan cannot be dismissed as a storm in a Twitter cup. It came at a time there appears to be a national yearning for an antidote to the propaganda overkill, nostalgia for grace in power and escape from the overdose of bluff. Manmohan’s birthday rarely generated any curiosity when he was Prime Minister, partly because of his personality, which values quiet efficiency. Pilloried during the anti-corruption campaign that no longer looks as spontaneous or lily-white as it was projected by a large section of the media in the run-up to the 2014 general election, Manmohan had told a wrap-up media conference in January that year: “I honestly believe that history will be kinder to me than the contemporary media, or for that matter, the Opposition parties in Parliament.” Although stirrings of a reappraisal of the much underrated leader were evident soon after Modi took over in 2014, rarely before had Manmohan stood vindicated in such an emphatic manner as he did on Saturday. Many citizens warmly recalled the virtues he was condemned for when he was in office: quietness, decency, grace and simplicity. While focusing on his unimpeachable honesty and economic vision, most people stressed the importance of dignified behaviour by those in power. Ironically, the man who was condemned as weak and docile because of his humility and grace was hailed for the same virtues on Saturday by common men and women from all age groups. The Manmohan government’s failure to advertise the good work done during the 10 years of UPA was largely blamed on his quiet persona, and Modi’s skills for loud propaganda and event management were hailed as political attributes. If the mood is tilting, a clue was available last week. Modi’s birthday on September 17 was observed as “National Unemployment Day”, something that trended on Twitter the whole day. On Saturday, the subtext of thousands of tweets was a comparison between the two Prime Ministers. One tweet said: “Those were the days when the Prime Minister focused on work, not on camera.” Another listed statistics: “Happy birthday to a Prime Minister who gave 10.8% GDP growth, faced press conferences and knew the spelling of strength.” A Twitter user put brevity to devastating effect: “He spoke less but not lies.” Another supplemented: “He showed us the difference between talk and work.” If some cited Manmohan’s dire prediction on the demonetisation that came true, others dwelt on his humble background which he never tried to exploit for political gains. Many others mentioned his degrees, spoke of the respect he commanded among global leaders and recalled his scholarly achievements. Rahul Gandhi could not resist the temptation of making a loaded remark, either. “India feels the absence of a PM with the depth of Dr Manmohan Singh. His honesty, decency and dedication are a source of inspiration for us all. Wishing him a very happy birthday and a lovely year ahead,” Rahul tweeted. Former finance minister and close friend P. Chidambaram advocated the Bharat Ratna for Manmohan. “The story of Dr Singh’s life is a story of the rise of a young boy from a humble background to the heights of public service armed only with one tool — his education and scholarship. The whole nation is proud of the life and service of Dr Singh and holds him as an example for every young boy or girl. If anyone in public life alive today is deserving of Bharat Ratna, it is undoubtedly Dr Manmohan Singh.” A few contrarian voices were heard as well. Some BJP supporters criticised Manmohan for not being a mass leader and for becoming Prime Minister without getting elected by the people. They also accused him of dancing to Sonia Gandhi’s tune and tolerating corruption. None of them, however, presented a substantive critique of his performance as Prime Minister and his conduct as a public figure. Prime Minister Modi, who has effusively praised Congress leaders such as Pranab Mukherjee, wished a “long and healthy” life for his predecessor.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-645
27-09-2020||India||‘Friends’ of Krishna ask for mosque land ||Seven people identifying themselves as “friends” of Lord Krishna have filed a civil suit in a Mathura court on behalf of “Bhagwan Sri Krishna Virajman” seeking the handover of land on which a temple and a mosque stand to them. Ranjana Agnihotri, an advocate in Lucknow, and six others on Friday approached the court of the civil judge, senior division, in Mathura demanding that the 13.37 acres be transferred to them, identifying the precise location of Shahi Idgah Masjid as the birthplace of Lord Krishna (Krishna Janmabhoomi). The petitioners have sought the removal of the mosque, claiming it had been constructed by the Mughals by destroying structures of the adjoining temple. Last Sunday, 22 members of the Hindu Army had been arrested after the fringe group announced a “Krishna Janmabhoomi movement” — a longstanding Sangh parivar demand to remove the Shahi Idgah adjacent to the Krishna temple in Mathura. Such a movement is expected to help the BJP in the 2022 Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections. The petitioners in the Mathura court have mentioned the address of the birthplace of the Lord as “Bhagwan Sri Krishna, Katra Keshav Dev Khewat, Mauja Mathura Bazaar Sheher”. The case bears an uneasy resemblance with the one filed on behalf of Ram Lalla Virajman in the 1980s in connection with the Ayodhya land dispute. The Babri Masjid, whose area was identified as the birthplace of Lord Ram, was demolished in 1992 by a Vishwa Hindu Parishad and BJP mob in one of the most infamous chapters of Indian history, with the decades-old case culminating in the Supreme Court’s handover of the disputed land in Ayodhya last year for the construction of a Ram temple. In Mathura, the Krishna temple is looked after by the Sri Krishna Janmasthan Sewa Sansthan trust. The trust had entered into an agreement with the Shahi Idgah Trust in 1968 to coexist peacefully. However, Vishnu Shankar Jain, the counsel for the seven petitioners, said: “The agreement between the Sewa Sansthan and the management of the Idgah is illegal as it was done with wrong intentions.” The petitioners have alleged that the Krishna temple trust had usurped the shrine’s properties. A member of the Sewa Sansthan said on condition of anonymity that the temple and the mosque had coexisted for the past six decades. “The two trusts had entered into an agreement that they wouldn’t make this a religious issue and would allow people of other religions to visit the mosque and the temple. A local court had accepted the agreement in 1973. Some people associated with the VHP are trying to raise this issue before the 2022 Assembly elections to help the BJP claim that the Idgah was built at the birthplace of Lord Krishna during the Mughal period. We have done substantial research and didn’t find any evidence in favour of this claim,” he said. “Further, the Places of Worship Act, 1991, provides for freezing the status of religious places as they were on August 15, 1947. The act had excluded the Ayodhya case from its purview,” the trustee added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-645
27-09-2020||India||Ambulance lapse kills  new moms||Two pregnant women in Uttar Pradesh have died over the past 48 hours after failing to get an ambulance, with one case linked to the government’s strained coffers while in the other the husband made a last-ditch but futile attempt to carry his wife gasping for oxygen on a pushcart. Sone Kunwari, 32, of Sonbhadra district died of excessive bleeding during childbirth on Friday night after a futile wait for five hours for an ambulance. Government source said later that many contract workers, among them ambulance drivers and helpers, have stopped work as the government had not paid them salary for three months owing to a cash crunch aggravated by the pandemic. In Barabanki district, Puja Sharma, 30, died of post-delivery complications on Thursday while being taken to a hospital from a community health centre by her husband in a pushcart that he had hired after waiting for an ambulance for two hours. A doctor said both ambulances of the community health centre had already left with other patients. Sone’s husband Rama Shankar told reporters at Parani village in Sonbhadra, 370km east of state capital Lucknow, on Saturday: “After my wife went into labour, I had dialled 102 (the emergency number to call an ambulance), but none picked up the phone for two hours. When someone finally received the call, he said an ambulance would be sent in 20 minutes. None came, and when I called up the number again, I was told to wait another two hours. No ambulance arrived and my wife died after giving birth.” Rama, a Dalit, said local Asha worker Reena Devi had been with the distressed couple throughout but could not save Sone. “We are supposed to call the emergency health service number for immediate assistance. But nobody responded properly to our calls. Sone Kunwari died of excessive bleeding but her baby is fine,” Reena said. Village panchayat chief Manoj Yadav said he had sent a jeep as soon as he came to know about the crisis. “But she could not be saved. She was declared dead on arrival at the Myorpur community health centre (CHC). It is a sad incident. She would have lived had she received timely medical assistance. It is a damning statement on the poor health services in Uttar Pradesh, where the government thinks there is no health issue left to be addressed in the state except Covid-19,” he said. Dr Shishir Srivastava, the superintendent of the Myorpur CHC, said: “The woman was brought dead to the hospital. The emergency ambulance service provided through 102 is monitored from a control room in Lucknow. We have come to know that the ambulance didn’t reach the village. I will write to the government about this lapse.” A senior health department official in Lucknow said on the condition of anonymity: “Many ambulance drivers and paramedical staff have not got their salaries for the past three months. Recently, they had organised protests at several places. Many contract workers have stopped working out of anger.” The government sources said payment of salaries of contract workers had become irregular because of a cash crunch that had worsened because of the economic slowdown caused by the pandemic. In Barabanki, 28km east of Lucknow, Devraj Sharma of Surajpurva village said his wife Puja had been admitted to the CHC in Mathuranagar village nearby where she gave birth at 9.05am on Thursday. “Soon, the doctor referred her to the district women’s hospital as there were some complications and she required oxygen. We kept calling the emergency ambulance number (102) as none was available at the health centre. But no ambulance came for two hours. Then I rented a pushcart to carry her to the hospital 5km away but she died on the way, gasping for breath and bleeding profusely,” Devraj said. A doctor at the Mathuranagar CHC said on condition of anonymity that there was no oxygen cylinder at the health centre and both ambulances of the facility had already left with other patients.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-645
27-09-2020||India||Drop in IIM entrance test applicants||The number of students applying this year for the Common Admission Test (CAT), the entrance exam for the IIMs and many other management institutes, has witnessed a drop of more than 5 per cent over last year’s figure, at a time there has been a sharp increase in job losses among white-collar professionals. CAT 2020 has registered 2.3 lakh candidates after the last date of registration was extended by a week. Last year 2.44 lakh students had applied. The figure was 2.41 lakh in 2018, 2.31 lakh in 2017, and 2.32 lakh applied in 2016. This year’s registration number is the lowest since 2015 when 2.18 lakh candidates had applied for the admission test. There are nearly 5,000 MBA seats in the country’s 20 IIMs. IIM Indore is in charge of holding CAT this year on November 29 in 155 cities. The last date for registration initially was September 16 but was extended to September 23 without any reason being cited. The IIMs charge between Rs 12 lakh and Rs 23 lakh for the two-year MBA programme. Most students pursue the course by taking education loans, which they repay after getting jobs. “This year the job situation is gradually worsening due to the economic downturn mainly caused by the Covid-19 pandemic. The spread is yet to peak. There is no clarity on how long it would take for the economy to return to the pre-Covid levels. “That could be the reason influencing the students’ choice of courses this year,” said an IIM Ahmedabad faculty member. According to a recent report of the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE), the country lost close to one-third of its white-collar jobs between May and August. An estimated 5.9 million (32.6 per cent) of the 18.1 million white-collar jobs in the country were lost in these four months. The recently held Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) Main, for admission to engineering courses, witnessed 25 per cent absenteeism. The IITs have declared that 1.6 lakh top scorers will be eligible to take the JEE Advanced on Sunday. Till Thursday, 1.55 lakh candidates had downloaded admit cards.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-645
27-09-2020||India||RSS favourite Ram Madhav not in Team BJP||BJP president J.P. Nadda announced a new team of party office-bearers on Saturday, dropping the high-profile Ram Madhav as general secretary and giving Mukul Roy a place at the national level ahead of next summer’s Bengal polls. Bangalore South MP Tejasvi Surya has been appointed chief of youth wing Yuva Morcha, suggesting the party wants to groom the young  politician known for some outrageous tweets as it looks to build a new leadership in Karnataka. The axing of the media-savvy, RSS favourite Madhav — who was party minder for the entire Northeast apart from Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh — triggered speculation he might be given a Rajya Sabha berth and even a Union ministry. But party insiders termed this unlikely, indicating he was out of favour with the current leadership, particularly Amit Shah, and that his style of functioning had caused resentment in the Northeast. Madhav tweeted: “Congratulations to the newly appointed office-bearers of d BJP. Grateful to d party leadership for providing me d opportunity to serve for one term as Gen Sec.” Three other prominent general secretaries — Murlidhar Rao, Anil Jain and Saroj Pandey — have also been dropped. Mukul, sulking and out of sync with the party’s Bengal leadership, has been appointed a vice-president, signalling his shift to the central organisation. The 12 new vice-presidents also include former chief ministers Vasundhara Raje Scindia, Raman Singh and Raghubar Das and former Union minister Radha Mohan Singh. Among the vice-presidents dropped are Vinay Sahasrabudhhe, known to be close to the RSS, and Prabhat Jha from Madhya Pradesh. While the shuffle comes more than eight months after Nadda’s appointment as party chief, it bears the signature of his predecessor Shah, now home minister. From Madhav’s removal to the retention of Bhupendra Yadav, Kailash Vijayvargiya and Arun Singh as general secretaries — all testify to Shah’s continued grip on party affairs. Also visible in the rejig is the influence of B.L. Santosh, the general secretary (organisation) from Karnataka, party insiders said. Santosh, who acts as a bridge between the RSS and the BJP, is said to have had a hand in Tejasvi’s elevation and in the appointments of D. Purandeshwari (N.T. Rama Rao’s daughter) and C.T. Ravi (an MLA from Karnataka) as general secretaries. Amit Malviya, spearhead of the BJP’s social media campaign and a man accused of unleashing abusive trolls against opponents and critics, has been retained as the party’s IT head, a post he has held since Shah became party president in 2014. It’s a vote of confidence for Malviya at a time party Rajya Sabha member Subramanian Swamy has been demanding his ouster, accusing him of launching “personal attacks” through fake Twitter accounts. Malviya tweeted his gratitude to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Shah, Nadda and Santosh for “trusting” him. Sources said Madhav had got involved in a feud with Himanta Biswa Sarma, the high-profile Assam minister who calls the shots across the Northeast and is known to be very close to Shah. Madhav and Sarma are learnt to have collided over party affairs in Manipur after the state’s BJP-led government faced a crisis. “There were a lot of complaints against Ram Madhavji from almost all the northeastern states,” a BJP politician said. Insiders said that Shah resented Madhav’s high-profile image and his style of functioning in the Northeast as well as in Jammu and Kashmir. Madhav had been a popular RSS spokesperson before joining the BJP. After the switch, he quickly acquired a high profile and influence, not just nationally but also internationally with his India Foundation, a strategic and policy think tank that has many eminent personalities from various fields as mentors. Known to be highly ambitious, Madhav remains close to the RSS. Many in the BJP believe that the parent body could intervene to ensure he gets an important position outside the party.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-645
27-09-2020||India||Classical status plea for  Odishi music||Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Friday urged Union minister of state culture and tourism Prahlad Singh Patel to consider to confer classical status to Odishi music (vocal and instrumental). Citing the richness of the Odishi music, Naveen said, “It has been recognised as one of the classical forms and stands eminent because of its characteristic bhangi, thani, lalitya, mudra etc., but ironically, Odishi music is yet to be recognised as a classical form of music at national level.” He told Patel that the Heritage cabinet of Odisha in its meeting on September 2 decided to draw the Centre’s attention towards according classical status to the Odishi music. “Kindly appreciate our heritage, the elegant and classical ments of Odishi music and to consider to confer classical status to Odishi music ( Vocal and Instrumental) to fulfil the long cherished dream of the music lover of Odisha and that of India,” Naveen said. Naveen also reminded the minister that the Odishan music has, at least a tradition of 2000 years  and is based on written Sastra and its own core Raga. It has a distinctive rendition style based on codified grammar, the characteristic giti system of classical texts and having its own tala, different from Hindustani and Karnatak music. No doubt Odishi music has all the requisite and exclusive characteristics to be recognized as a classical music.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-645
27-09-2020||India||Floods revisit Bihar, crops damaged||Incessant rains in northern parts of Bihar and neighbouring Nepal for the past three days have revived the floods in the state just when the floodwaters were receding. This has happened at a time when dates for the Assembly polls in the state have been announced. Voting will be held in three phases on October 28, November 3 and 7. Heavy discharge of water from the Valmikinagar barrage over Gandak river on the Indo-Nepal border combined with torrential rains led to breach in an embankment in Gopalganj district. Floodwaters gushing out of the breach are set to make life miserable in several blocks in the district, which are already underwater, and further endangering the lives of several thousand people. East Champaran, West Champaran, Siwan, Saran, Sheohar and Sitamarhi districts are also facing further flood threats. The Noon river in Araria has suddenly swollen and changed its course, sweeping away dwellings and submerging agricultural fields. As per disaster management department (DMD) figures, 16 out of 38 districts of the state are already suffering from deluge for over last two months in which 84 lakh people have been affected, including 5.5 lakh who have been displaced due to the high level of water. Altogether 27 people have lost their lives in the ongoing floods. “The current heavy rainfall in north Bihar and Nepal will further swell the rivers dashing the hopes of full relief in the flood affected districts. The situation will also lead to a rise in the water level of the Ganga also,” a senior DMD official told The Telegraph on the condition of anonymity. “Though the elections are still more than a month away, the fresh floods could cause problems in preparations and even voting. Right now the situation is such that vast stretches in the affected districts are still inundated and a majority of people, mostly farmers and those engaged in farming activities, have lost their crops and work,” the officer added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-645
27-09-2020||India||‘Scapegoats are required as a diversion when there is a failure in governance…||I shall now discuss a major moment of dissent that helped to establish a free and democratic India. I have chosen this because it draws on some of the earlier strands of the Self and the Other in the creation of dissent discussed in previous pages. It also questions the essentials of Syndicated Hinduism or Hindutva. We are all familiar with this form of dissent. It has been present in the cusp of our own times and has been much discussed over the past century. It is in some ways a partial coming together of elements of the earlier forms of dissent recognisable from the Indian past. These touch on the previous examples that I have presented. Nevertheless, it created its own contemporary form from these elements. Unlike my other examples, this one was aware of its ancestry in the thought and activities of past times as were those who responded to it. To that extent, it is somewhat different. I am referring to what Gandhi called satyagraha. Since satyagraha was so integral to Indian nationalism, let me say a few words about nationalism. In India, its initial and overwhelming form was anti-colonial nationalism, a common experience to most erstwhile colonies. This implied the assertion of the free citizen ready to challenge political orthodoxies of various kinds that were inhibiting the freedom of the citizen. The construction of this identity recognises that it is new. Nevertheless, it has links from the past from which there is an implied legitimacy. So history becomes crucial. The experience of colonialism is in itself the experience of a historical change that alters the understanding that the individual has of himself or herself in the society that forms the context. Nationalism, we must remember, is part of the historical change of considerable magnitude that has, in the last three centuries, altered the way the world sees itself. Together with industrialisation, it belongs to the period that introduced radical new technologies whose functioning in many social activities was facilitated by the emergence of capitalism. Both these encouraged the evolving of the new middle class that controlled the change and consequently looked afresh at the society it had thereby constructed. At the level of knowledge, there were innovations in sciences, philosophies, religions, literatures, and in the patterns of living. One of the ways in which this change was articulated was through ideas of nationalism. Feudatory kingdoms or colonies that had framed the previous systems of governance belonged to another history and would have to be replaced by independent nation-states. Governance of the praja/subjects by the rajas of old or by the British Raj had to give way to the governance of a new category, the citizen. This was encapsulated in the interface between citizen and state through a government that was neither authoritarian nor alien but was representative of the citizens. That governance means representing the vision of the citizens was a departure from its earlier definition. Not only was it to be a relationship between the citizen and the state that marked a departure from the past but it was also to be a relationship based on the citizen having rights, which rights were to be protected by the state. This new relationship was a contract between the citizen and the state and was recorded in the Constitution. Nationalism therefore was the coming together of all citizens who claimed equal status and rights to establish an independent nation-state. Since every citizen was involved, the nation could not discriminate between citizens on grounds of religion, ethnicity, language or any such identities. Therefore, nationalism based on the identity of religion that discriminated in favour of one religion lacked legitimacy as nationalism. We may well ask why religious nationalism had a presence, although less significant, a century ago. It was in essence the response to colonial rule by those Indians who saw it as facilitating the making of a nation-state. In ascertaining the roots of Partition in 1947 and subsequent events, we quite correctly blame communal politics for the creation of the two nations; but in the process, we forget the deep imprint of colonial ideas. As was common to most colonies, the colonial reading of the colony’s earlier history that contributed to formulating its identity happened from the perspective of the coloniser. Some of this history was accepted by Indian anti-colonial nationalism but some of it was contested. The contestation contributed in part to the emergence of a legitimate anti-colonial nationalism. However, the colonial interpretation of this history resulted in two less legitimate forms, those of religious nationalisms. These were less legitimate because nationalism endorses a single all-inclusive identity, whereas religious nationalism endorses a deliberately selected identity that is not all-inclusive and excludes all but the one. One may well ask why colonial thinking was at the root of religious nationalism. The colonial comprehension of India was founded on the two-nation theory. James Mill argued in 1817 that Indian history was essentially that of two nations — the Hindu and the Muslim — and that the two had been permanently hostile to each other. Colonial scholarship based itself on this idea and its implications and applied it to its studies of Indian history and society. History was periodised into three periods, the Hindu, the Muslim and the British. This periodisation, essentially unhistorical, was given up half a century ago when the colonial view of history was questioned and much was discarded. However, this colonial theory was loyally followed by both religious nationalisms — Muslim and Hindu. The concept of the Islamic state and of the Hindu Rashtra, the latter based on the Hindutva version of history, are each rooted in the colonial understanding of Indian history. Each of the two excluded the other and each distanced itself from anti-colonial nationalism. The colonial propagation of the Muslim and Hindu nations provided the impetus for religious nationalism. The sectarian differences among sects claiming Islamic affiliation was easier to recognise, given that there were historical markers that gave it a structure. Dissident views were systematically suppressed, as they are to this day, in the attacks on Shias in places that have Sunni majorities, and such like. Mahmud of Ghazni’s raid on the Shia mosque in Multan at the same time as his raid on Hindu temples should not come as a surprise, given the sectarian conflicts within Islam. To project a Hindu nation required more planning since the historical markers to make a framework for it were obscure. This was done by re-interpreting the past and providing it with the teleology that its end purpose was the creation of a Hindu Rashtra/Hindu nation-state. This needed remoulding the religion into what was called Hindutva in such a manner that it would make the political mobilisation of Hindus feasible and would simultaneously exclude the large number of minority communities. Parallel trends were emerging in the Muslim community that was the largest of the minority communities. The reconfiguration encouraged a duality in nationalism: those that thought of nationalism as a secular, inclusive philosophy nurturing anti-colonial nationalism, as against those that thought of it as religious nationalism with its exclusive Hindu and Islamic components, each the counterpart of the other. The broad-based anti-colonial nationalism obviously had a different agenda. It saw India as a nation of citizens who, irrespective of origins and with a substantially similar identity, were all of equal status and were coming together in the demand for an independent, secular, democratic nation-state. This was different from envisaging a primary or exclusive citizenship, as in the case of the two religious nationalisms. Nationalism, if defined by a single identity from among more, ceases to be nationalism and takes the form of majoritarianism, a form that is opposed to secular democracy and brings with it the threat of fascism. This seeks success by identifying a scapegoat, preferably a minority community, differentiated by religion or language, and which can be projected as the enemy within. In the last few years, attempts have been made by some to make the minority communities into scapegoats, attempts that have had some degree of success. Scapegoats are also required as a diversion when there is a failure in governance. We should keep in mind, however, that civilised societies do not treat any community as a scapegoat.Excerpted with permission from Voices of Dissent: An Essay by Romila Thapar; Published by Seagull Books||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-645
27-09-2020||West Bengal||Raju Bista prods TMC on Sainik school failure||Raju Bista, the Darjeeling MP from the BJP, on Saturday alleged that the Bengal government had failed to sign a pact with the Centre for a Sainik school in Darjeeling despite two reminders from the defence ministry within a span of three months this year. There are currently 33 Sanik schools in the country including one in Purulia in Bengal, set up in 1962. These schools are considered as feeder institutions for the National Defence Academy, Indian Naval Academy, Indian Military Academy and Officers Training Academy. Bista in a written statement said: “I am unable to understand why the TMC-led Government of West Bengal has refused to sign the Memorandum of Agreement (MoA) with the Union Government, that will pave way for the establishment of a Sainik School in Darjeeling.” The Darjeeling MP made public a response from defence minister Rajnath Singh stating that the ministry had sent two reminders this year on June 11 and August 4 “for signing a tripartite agreement between the Government of India, State Government of West Bengal and Gorkhaland Territorial Administration…” “However, copy of agreement is yet to be received in the Ministry of Defence…,” the defence minister has written. The BJP legislators alleged that the “apathy and discrimination” meted out by TMC towards the region was apparent and termed it “ironic” as Trinamul MPs had also earlier raised the issue. The Centre had in principle agreed to set up a Sainik school in Darjeeling when the GTA was formed in 2012. The Darjeeling hill region is a strong catchment area for the armed forces. Sources said that there are more than more than 13,000 retired defence personnel in Darjeeling and Kalimpong districts presently in addition to more than 3,000 widows of personnel of armed forces. More than 150 personnel from the region have laid down their lives since 1947. Last year, Union minister of state for defence, Shripad Naik, had told Parliament that the decision to set up the school in Darjeeling had been conveyed to the Bengal government in January 2015. In 2016, GTA had said that they had identified a plot of land at Tiffin dara near Pokhriabong for the school. “I humbly request all those who are working for TMC in the hills, including their junior team (read Binay Tamang faction of Gorkha Janmukti Morcha) to pursue this matter with Hon'ble Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee ji and get them to sign the MoA, so that we can set up the Sainik School in our region,” stated Bista, who on Saturday was also appointed as one of the national spokespersons of the BJP from Bengal. Shanta Chhteri, TMC Rajya Sabha member, said she had raised the issue in Parliament a year back. “I, however, would not like to comment immediately as I am not aware of the details of the agreement Raju Bista is talking about,” said Chhetri.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-360
27-09-2020||West Bengal||Vidyasagar’s legacy now on Net||The Purulia district administration on Saturday launched an online platform named after Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar on his bicentenary of his birth to help out medical and engineering aspirants as well as motivate students to study science. The online platform — https://vidyasagar.puruliya.in — was launched on Saturday to coincide with the 200th birth anniversary of Bengal’s leading social reformer, polymath and educationist. Sources said the decision to launch the website was taken after officials found that very few students, particularly girls, were opting to study science in the higher secondary level in the district’s schools. The online platform has been linked to the official site of Purulia district administration. The website will have recorded lectures on science subjects and students can ask questions and clear doubts on visiting the website. They will be able to submit their queries in the chat section of the website. “Purulia is a district where very few students study science because of lack of infrastructure and proper coaching. Many students, particularly girls, who aspire to study engineering or medical science, fail to clear the entrance test for lack of proper coaching. We, therefore, thought of launching a platform that will address the concern of students. We planned the launch today (Saturday) as it is the birth anniversary of Vidyasagar, a person who fought for women’s education,” said Rahul Majumdar, the Purulia district magistrate. To run the website, the district administration has formed a core committee comprising 16 science teachers of the Sidho-Kanho-Birsha University and Ramakrishna Mission Vidyapith in Purulia. “We have already uploaded 63 lectures on the online platform on mathematics, physics, chemistry and biology. We will add 100 more lectures in the first phase and the process will continue. There will be doubt-clearing sessions for students,” said a district official. Mili Mandi, 18, from Khatanga village, who scored 85 per cent in her higher secondary exam this year and has taken admission to Purulia's Nistarini College to study physics, welcomed the move. “We struggled to get help in science subjects. This website will be a huge help for future students,” she said. Purulia is a district where poverty rate is very high and most students can’t afford to buy an Internet pack. Keeping the problem in mind, the district administration installed free Wi-Fi connections at  Kanyashree Bhavans in each of the district’s 20 blocks. A local cable channel has also been assigned to telecast the lectures. “We have a Kanyashree Bhavan in each 20 blocks. So, the girls and boys can come there and download the lecture by using free Wi-Fi. In our district most of the families have no ability to buy internet packages,” said a district official. Swami Shivapradananda, secretary of Ramakrishna Mission Vidyapith in Purulia, who was present at the launch, said: “It is a fact that the number of students studying science in schools and colleges in Purulia is very low. The platform will help the students, mainly girls, study science.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-360
27-09-2020||West Bengal||Madrasa teachers rally against prejudice||Teachers of madrasas joined their counterparts of other educational institutions and people from different walks of life in Malda on Renaissance Man Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar’s bicentenary of birth at a rally against the recent harassment of 10 madrasa teachers of the district who were refused rooms at a Calcutta guest house because of their identity. The rally organised by the CPM-backed All Bengal Teachers’ Association (ABTA), moved through the major roads of Malda, with the participants holding placards and banners in protest of the September 21 incident that occurred in Salt Lake. ‘Dhorme Noi Borne Porichoi’ (It is not religion but alphabets that determine one’s identity) was the theme of the protest rally. Borno Porichoi is also a primer written by Vidyasagar. The ABTA leadership, sources said, also sent an e-mail to the chief secretary of the state, seeking exemplary punishment for those had denied accommodation to the teachers. However, some of the madrasa teachers told The Telegraph that the scars had not healed. A group of 10 madrasa teachers, who had been to Calcutta for some official work, had checked into a guest house in Salt Lake. They asked to leave after sometime. From there, they went to another guest house nearby. There too, they were denied accommodation.  They eventually hired a vehicle and headed for Malda at night after getting their work done. On Saturday, Moulvi Abdul Latif, the headmaster of Harischandrapur Kawamari Suraiya Madrasah Siksha Kendra, at the rally, saidthat  the “discrimination on the basis of religion was beyond my imagination”. “The denial was only because some of us had beards and because of our clothes…they (people at the guest house) did not hesitate to drive us away despite accepting a full tariff of Rs 3,600 for three rooms in the guest house,” he said. “Would you believe that we were asked to vacate the rooms (in Salt Lake) because apparently local residents were not comfortable with our attire and look? We are not sure about the authenticity of the statement (the reason that was told to them) but it gave us deep pain,” Latif added. Mahbubur Rahman, the headmaster of Alipur Madrasah Siksha Kendra, said his wife was so afraid that she did not want him to join the Saturday rally. However, he was at the rally with some relatives who admitted they felt “insecure”. Najibar Rahman, principal of Kaliachak College, said the incident conveyed a negative message to the minority community. “Many ordinary people of the minority community have asked me if they would be getting safe accommodation in Calcutta or any of the cities in India after paying due tariff. Such is the level of fear that a peasant has decided not to take his brother to Calcutta for treatment. I had to spend a long time to assure him and arrange his journey and stay,” the principal said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-360
27-09-2020||West Bengal||Jobless migrant worker hangs self||A 38-year-old jobless migrant worker was found hanging from a tree in Birbhum’s Muraroi on Friday evening, his family members saying he was depressed as he couldn’t return to his workplace Kerala and had to spend his savings to run the family. Napu Mal, a resident of Mahurapur village of Muraroi, had moved to Kerala two years ago to work as a mason. He had been saving money from his income to build a pucca house. However, he lost his job during the lockdown and had to spend Rs 25,000 from his savings to return home from Kerala in July. “Napu lost his job because of the pandemic and had to shell out Rs 25,000 for an air ticket to get back home in July. He was getting frustrated as did not have income ever since he returned home, and there was no news of him getting back his old job in Kerala. Whatever remained of his savings was spent to run the family. This made him depressed,” said Napu’s elder brother Rupu Mal, who added that the migrant worker has left behind his wife and two children. He told that family members were aware of Napu’s frustration and had advised him to take up whatever job was available locally, but he refused to listen. Napu’s wife Sushanti Mal said: “Both my sons are minors. I don’t know how we will survive.” Though the state government had offered jobs to migrant workers under the MGNREGA, Napu was not a beneficiary. “After I came to know about the suicide of the migrant worker, I spoke to panchayat authorities. I have been told that the person had never approached the authorities for a job under MGNREGA. We have helped out at least 3,000 migrant workers who have returned from their workplace,” said Nishith Vaskar Paul, BDO of Muraroi-I. Badrunnessa Begum, the pradhan of Mahurapur gram panchayat, said: “We heard that the migrant worker was facing problems for the lack of income but neither he nor his family members approached us. However, we will try to do whatever we can for the bereaved family.” A police officer said the body had been sent to Rampurhat hospital for autopsy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-360
27-09-2020||West Bengal||Two tea estates to reopen today||Two tea estates in Alipurduar district, employing around 3,200 workers in all, will reopen on Sunday after remaining closed for around 11 months. The decision was made at a six-hour tripartite meeting at the office of the additional labour commissioner in Siliguri on Saturday. With this, the state labour department has managed to reopen three tea gardens in a short time, the third being the Longview tea estate in Kurseong subdivision of Darjeeling district. Last Wednesday, work resumed in Longview that was closed for a month. According to sources in the department, managerial representatives of the tea company that owns Raimatang and Kalchini tea estates had abandoned both the gardens on October 26, 2019. Since then, both the gardens were closed and the workers rendered jobless. “We have been consistently trying to facilitate the reopening of both these gardens. On Saturday, a tripartite meeting was held in my office that continued for around six hours. It is good that the meeting yielded results. From Sunday, the gardens will reopen. At the meeting, decisions have also been made regarding payment of dues to the workers,” said Md. Rizwan, the additional labour commissioner of Siliguri. Tea trade union leaders present at the meeting said on Sunday, the management will disburse the due wages of 16 days (of October 2019) among the workers and will also pay a month’s salary to the staff and sub-staff. “It has also been decided that workers of both gardens will receive bonus at the rate of 12 per cent and it would be disbursed by October 17. The management will also clear a portion of the due gratuity by the first week of next month,” said a trade union leader. On November 3, another round of tripartite talks would be held to review the state of affairs in the gardens and discuss other pending issues, he added. The decision has bolstered the confidence of Trinamul’s tea trade union leaders. “The state government has proved its sincerity towards the tea industry. On one hand welfare schemes have been extended to the tea population, on the other hand the government has drawn up a housing scheme for tea workers. Now, the government is focusing on reopening the closed tea gardens, and after Saturday’s decision, three gardens will reopen in the span of one week. We will highlight these developments in the tea belt, particularly because the central government is sitting idle and has not done anything for the tea industry of Bengal so far,” said Mohan Sharma, president, Cha Bagan Trinamul Congress Mazdoor Union.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-360
27-09-2020||West Bengal||FIRs against duo usurping Cyclone Amphan dole||District officials in East Midnapore’s Contai have lodged FIRs against at least two persons who had not responded to repeated notices issued since June asking them to return wrongfully received Amphan doles of Rs 20,000 each. The two are among a list of 500 persons, identified by block and district officials in East Midnapore’s 25 blocks and five municipalities in June, who had wrongfully received the doles meant for those whose homes had been ravaged by Cyclone Amphan that lashed Bengal on May 20. Out of these 500 persons, 33 are from Contai town. The district administration had carried out the verification drive to identify those who had wrongfully claimed the dole shortly after the ruling Trinamul Congress came under scrutiny for alleged widespread corruption at the panchayat and block levels. The widespread Opposition-led protests that had erupted in the Amphan-hit belt in the state over irregularities in the distribution of the state government dole had made chief minister Mamata Banerjee order the administration to fix the anomalies and take action against those who had indulged in corrupt practices. Following the chief minister’s intervention, fresh lists of beneficiaries were drawn up and those who had wrongfully claimed the compensation were identified through a massive verification drive. As the administration began to crack the whip, several people who had taken money illegally did turn up to refund the dole Many, however, refused to give in. This prompted the administration to take recourse to legal action. “We have identified 33 persons in Contai town who haven’t returned the money despite repeated reminders. We have lodged FIRs against two of them, while the bank accounts of others have been sealed,” said Contai SDO Subhamoy Bhattacharya and added that legal action would be taken against everyone involved with Amphan corruption. However, a source in the district administration said one of the two had returned the money recently. “One of the two persons against whom FIRs were lodged in Contai town returned the money this week. The other person is yet to respond. More FIRs will follow,” said a source in the district administration. Sources said the SDO’s move came in the wake of district magistrate Partha Ghosh’s direction to all block officials to act strongly against violators of the dole scheme. Sources added more comprehensive lists of existing violators were still being prepared. The administration’s step is in stark contrast to the state of affairs even two months ago when the BDO in Haldia’s Sutahata, Sanjay Sikdar, was allegedly transferred for filing an FIR against a Trinamul-run panchayat’s pradhan in the district. ‘ The BDO had accused of corruption Ashadtalia panchayat pradhan Shibani Bakuli, who claimed in July that the party intervened to put the probe against her on hold. Opposition leaders this week said district officials' initiative was “too little too late”. “Even though it is minimal, we welcome the administration’s action against the corrupt. It is the result of our widespread protests," said BJP district vice-president Pralay Pal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-360
27-09-2020||West Bengal||North Bengal University vice-chancellor flags fake email IDs||North Bengal University VC Subires Bhattacharyya has said some 100 emails were sent from two fake IDs created in his name in the past few days, cadging for favours or gift vouchers. “The fake IDs are chairman3370@gmail.com and vicechancellorp@gmail.com. ...around 100 mails have been sent to teachers, research scholars and to some vice-chancellors...that the vice-chancellor of North Bengal University needs some favour and that they should reply immediately,” said Bhattacharyya. Those who replied, he said, got another mail that he needed gift vouchers. Bhattacharyya, sources said, has filed a complaint with cyber crime police of Siliguri police commissionerate on Friday. Google has been notified as well, the source added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-361
27-09-2020||West Bengal||North Bengal rain score: 120 days out of 150||Weather experts have linked excessive rainfall this monsoon in most of the north Bengal districts to recurring landslides in the hills, and waterlogging and inundation in the plains over the last five months. “Rainfall between January and September 23 this year is close to double the average annual rainfall... Such heavy rainfall is one of the main reasons behind landslides that brought life to a standstill in parts of north Bengal,” said Gopinath Raha, a weather expert in the regional Met office, Gangtok. Not just landslides, excessive spell of rains caused havoc to agriculture in the region, he added. A senior official of the state irrigation department, who collated rainfall data, said in districts such as Darjeeling, Kalimpong, Jalpaiguri, Alipurduar and Cooch Behar, embankments along several rivers were damaged. “In some places like Alipurduar, it has rained 96 per cent more, that means, almost double the average annual rainfall, while in Siliguri, it has rained 36 per cent more. The lowest percentage of excess rainfall is 18, which indicates much more rainfall in the current monsoon season than in other years,” said Subhankar Chakraborty, the chief engineer, northeast division of the irrigation department. Such excess rainfall made weather experts at the regional meteorological office in Gangtok analyse the situation. According to them, during 150 days of monsoon months, rainfall was reported during 120 days in north Bengal. In Sikkim, it rained 112 days out of these 150 days. “Since June, southwest monsoon has been hovering steadily over the region which caused the rainfall. Also, low pressure in Bay of Bengal added to moisture and increased frequency and intensity of downpour,” said Raha. “We are analysing rain data of the past 10 years of this region to find out other factors that led to such high rainfall,” he added. In Siliguri and surrounding areas, normal life got disrupted on Saturday as it started raining from Friday midnight and continued till Saturday late afternoon. Low-lying areas of the city like Ashoknagar, parts of Champasari and Ganganagar got waterlogged. Road connectivity from Siliguri to Kalimpong, Sikkim and Dooars snapped for a couple of hours as a landslide occurred near the Kali Temple in Sevoke. A mudslide on 29th Mile on NH10 — around 45km from here — halted vehicles on the highway. “We cleared the debris, and vehicular movement in a single flank resumed within two hours,” said a representative of one of the agencies engaged in restoration work.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-361
27-09-2020||West Bengal||Mamata’s ‘A. Singh’ letter to governor||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday sent a missive to governor Jagdeep Dhankhar pointing out his recent queries into criminal investigations against an accused amounted to interference in state government’s day-to-day administration and asked if it was an attempt to influence the probe. Though Mamata’s letter termed the accused as one A. Singh, sources in Nabanna said it was none other than turncoat Arjun Singh, now BJP MP from Barrackpore, against whom a case of misappropriation of funds of a local cooperative bank is on. Sources said the governor had sent a letter to the state’s DGP Virendra on September 5 seeking details of the probe against the BJP MP. “The DGP sent a brief reply mentioning that the state police firmly adhered to the path laid down by law, but that did not please the governor, and he summoned the DGP. The chief minister wrote the letter as the governor was crossing all limits,” said a senior government official. In her letter, an “upset, anguished, and disillusioned” Mamata reminded the governor of his role as stated in Article 167 of the Constitution. “At the outset, I wish to call upon the wisdom of B.R. Ambedkar… who, while explaining Article 167 of the Constitution, had opined that the Hon’ble Governor is like the British Crown and thus the Hon’ble Governor has no right to interfere with the ‘day-to-day’ administration of the State Government,” the letter says. “He (Ambedkar) further stated that under the Article 167, the only information that the Hon’ble Governor is entitled to, is regarding executive and legislative proposals of the ministry, from the Chief Minister,” the letter added. “Sadly, your inquiry into criminal investigations in connection with a particular accused Mr. A. Singh, and seeking ‘reports’ regarding the investigation processes from the Director General of Police is not an information regarding any executive or legislative proposal and such inquiry not only amounts to interference in the day-to-day administration of the State Government but also gives rise to serious suspicions of interference in and influencing on-going investigations.” The chief minister also pointed out that the accused should have knocked the doors of the judiciary in case he had any grievance, and being a lawyer, the governor should have suggested the accused follow the path of law. As the governor wrote the letter on behalf of the accused, it might have serious consequences under law, the missive pointed out. Dhankhar in his tweets later in the evening, said the DGP did not appear as requested third time in a row, “can’t be overlooked”. “CM writes instead, on his behalf.” “Further, the accused, by successfully obtaining Hon’ble Governor’s extra-legal intervention and interference, has actually put the Hon’ble Governor in a dangerously precarious position which might have serious consequences under law,” the letter stated. The chief minister also mentioned that the instance could set a wrong example in society. “This may also give rise to a wrong impression in the mind of persons accused in various criminal cases that the Hon’ble Governor, instead of the Hon’ble Judiciary, is now the appropriate authority in the State to approach to seek redressal of grievances, if any, in an ongoing investigation process,” the letter reads.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-361
27-09-2020||West Bengal||Bengal logs 3,181 new Covid cases, 56 deaths||Bengal on Saturday logged 3,181 new Covid-19 cases, 56 deaths and 2,955 recoveries. With this, Bengal’s total cases went past 2.44 lakh, of which nearly 2.14 lakh are recoveries and 4,721 are deaths. Rising by 170, Bengal reported 25,544 active cases (minus deaths and recoveries). The state reported a rise in total active Covid-19 cases for the 19th consecutive day. Of 4,721 deaths, Calcutta so far accounted for 1,652, with 13 on Saturday. North 24-Parganas, with 14 deaths on Saturday, reached a toll of 1,064. The state government reported 4,027, or 85.3 per cent, as deaths with comorbidity “present”. Comorbidities are underlying health disorders, such as high blood pressure, diabetes, cardiovascular or kidney ailments, believed to increase chances of death for infected patients. A minister said there had been relatively less comorbid deaths over the past month. “From 87.2 per cent comorbid deaths (on August 26), we are at 85.3. Of the 1,757 deaths in this window, 82 per cent were comorbid. In the month before that (July 26), 89 per cent of deaths were comorbid,” said the minister. Bengal’s overall mortality rate remained at 1.93, still substantially behind the national rate of 1.57 per cent. However, Bengal’s recovery rate was 87.61 per cent, ahead of national 82.17 per cent. With over 11.67 lakh tests already in September, the total test count went past 30.55 lakh on Saturday, at 33,945 tests per million people. The state reported 43,285 tests on Saturday. Positive confirmation rate — the percentage of total cases found out of the total number of tests conducted — went down from 8.9 on August 23 to below 8 now, at 7.99 per cent. “Steady decline of positive confirmation rate, despite the heights we achieved in testing, is a heartening indicator,” said the minister, as decreasing positive confirmation rate indicates reducing levels of Covid-19 spread. The state reported 35.47 per cent occupancy in the 12,675 beds earmarked for Covid-19 in the 92 dedicated hospitals for the pandemic. Over 2.58 lakh telemedicine consultations for the pandemic were provided, including 4,126 in the past 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-361
27-09-2020||West Bengal||Mukul entry, Rahul exit keep BJP agog||Former Trinamul Congress No. 2 Mukul Roy was promoted as a national vice-president of the BJP and fellow Trinamul turncoat Anupam Hazra made the national secretary in the reconstituted BJP national committee that was announced on Saturday. The new committee, in which Darjeeling MP Raju Bista was also made a national spokesperson, made it clear that the party was taking its Mission Bengal seriously, but the nominations from the state further deepened the cracks in the Bengal unit of the party as some questioned the national leadership’s decision to put Trinamul turncoats in prominent positions. “It is good that the party leadership kept Bengal in focus during the rejig.… But it’s sad to see new entrants in the party getting prominent positions while the loyal supporters are getting sidelined,” said a state leader preferring to be anonymous. The murmur of discontent over Trinamul turncoats gaining prominence in the party has been brewing in the state BJP for some time. But Roy’s elevation and inclusion of Hazra on the list of national secretaries at the expense of two-time state president Rahul Sinha, who was dropped from the list, triggered outbursts. Sinha circulated a video message on Saturday evening making his displeasure clear. “After 40 years of serving the party through thick and thin this is my reward. I had to step aside to make room for someone who has switched over from Trinamul. I don’t have anything else to say,” he said adding that he will divulge his future plans within 10 to 12 days. Several state BJP leaders this correspondent spoke to said the rejig did not regard the contributions of old-timers. “If the core of the party is unhappy, the impact will be felt in the elections,” said one of the old-timers. The changes, however, were welcomed by another section in the BJP, who said the rejig was in sync with the party’s aim of wresting the Bengal Assembly. According to a senior party leader, Roy’s promotion as a national vice-president was significant as it signalled that he would play a key role in the Assembly elections. “Mukulda was one of the founding members of Trinamul... He had played a key role in building the party. Our party definitely needs his expertise,” this person said. Roy, however, was measured in his reaction. “The party has assigned me a responsibility and I’ll try my best to live up to it. In the upcoming Assembly polls, all of us in the state will work together towards success,” he said. Roy’s elevation is seen by many as a balancing act, because Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh had denied him any significant role in the party’s scheme of things here. However, Hazra’s inclusion in the list of national secretaries came as a surprise to most at 6 Muralidhar Sen Lane, the BJP state headquarters. “Is it a printing mistake?” wondered one of the state leaders. The new committee of the party’s state women’s wing was also announced on Saturday amid controversy as some existing members were dropped. Those dropped accused Agnimitra Paul, the new president who took over from MP Locket Chatterjee in June this year, of favouritism. “We don’t even know some of the new members in the state committee. We went out to the streets and worked for the party and now we get no recognition in return,” a former state committee member of the Morcha said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-361
27-09-2020||North East||Search on for exam suspects in Assam ||Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal on Saturday iterated that those involved in the question paper leak and recruitment racket will be “brought to book” soon, while retired police officer P.K. Dutta and BJP youth leader Diban Deka, suspected to be the key players in the case, are yet to be traced. Besides continuing the search for Dutta, a retired deputy inspector-general whose name was purportedly taken by one of the candidates arrested from Nagaon, the police are planning to file a case on assets linked to him with the vigilance and anti-corruption department, to pile “pressure” on him to turn himself in. Sources said the investigation is also focusing on “coaching” centres where candidates were “coached” to properly write their papers. A few centres have been searched in Guwahati and a few are under the radar in Nalbari and Dibrugarh districts. The interrogation of those arrested from the lodge and elsewhere in the city and recoveries made from the lodge suggested that the candidates were coached on writing the paper properly on Sunday, sources said. The CID and Guwahati police’s crime branch, investigating the case registered on Sunday following the cancellation of the statewide recruitment examination for 597 posts of police sub-inspectors, have arrested 12 people till Saturday. While the CID arrested three persons, the crime branch apprehended the remaining nine. Among those arrested on Saturday included a close aide of Dutta, who was caught from Upper Assam’s Tinsukia district. Searches at properties purportedly linked to Dutta continued till late on Saturday night. A leading private hospital was also searched on Friday following the arrest of one of its personnel. The state government is apparently under pressure to crack the case at the earliest because the racket has been unearthed months ahead of the Assembly polls. Deka’s Facebook post soon after he disappeared claiming influential people were involved in the racket and that he feared for his life has not helped matters for the government. The Opposition Congress has already dropped hints about flagging the recruitment racket as a poll issue just like the ruling BJP had done with the APSC cash-for jobs scam in the 2016 election, a problem which resonated with the youths in a state where unemployment is a growing problem. Congress insiders said the party will step up its attack on the government in the coming days since the chief minister also hold the home portfolio under which the police department falls. Sonowal used a function held here for distribution of appointment letters to newly-recruited government employees to reiterate that those behind involved in the leak of the question paper will not be spared. Sonowal said after assuming office in 2016, his government had unleashed an uncompromising and relentless fight against corruption. “The government adopted a zero-tolerance attitude against corruption and carried out a massive anti-corruption drive. Many government officials were arrested and put behind bars on corruption charges in the last four years,” he said. He said the government conducted recruitment processes in the most transparent manner and appointed youths purely on merit and competence. Referring to the question paper leak, he assured that all culprits would be brought to book. Sonowal said the investigation to “unearth the nexus that conspired to spoil the recruitment process is on and those who were involved would not be allowed to go unpunished”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-43
27-09-2020||Opinion||The essentials of US-China relationship||The key nations in this text are America, China and, to an extent, India. The events involving the US and China go back to the Pacific theatre during World War II. America got actively involved in the war, along with UK and the Soviet Union, after the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor. The war in the Pacific theatre against the Japanese was fought and won by the American and the British forces. At the time, Gen Chiang Kai-shek was the leader of China and a very close American ally. The Chinese were already fighting a long-drawn and grim battle against the occupying Japanese and were also already facing the menacing and long shadow of the advancing Communists under the leadership of Mao Zedong. All the resources at the disposal of Gen Chiang Kai-shek were tied down in the defence of the mainland. There are no records of the Chinese joining the allied forces in the Pacific theatre. General and Madam Chiang Kai-shek were close friends of President Roosevelt and also well-known and popular in America. During World War II, President Roosevelt was rumoured to have raised China’s status to that of an ally, which was subsequently reaffirmed by Harry Truman. However, there are no records regarding the views of Russian leader Josef Stalin and Britain’s Winston Churchill regarding this American decision. After the end of the war, China as an ally was automatically entitled to a permanent seat on the United Nations Security Council. In 1949, Communist cadres on the Long March defeated Chiang Kai-shek’s forces and drove him into exile. Mao Zedong became the supreme leader of the world’s most populous nation. In 1947, the British departed from India. Pakistan was born as a new nation and most of the sub-continent’s princely states merged with India. The border between India and Tibet had also been demarcated by the British, who recognised Tibet as an independent nation. Not long thereafter the PLA forcefully occupied Tibet, the Dalai Lama and many Tibetans fled into India and were given refuge. The two most powerful leaders of Communist China, Chairman Mao and Prime Minister Zhao Enlai, were driven by their policy to keep pushing China’s borders and progressively occupy land belonging to neighbouring nations. The Chinese believed these borders had been forced on them by imperial powers and that foreigners had taken advantage of the country when it was weak. In their view they were righting a historical wrong. In 1962, China plotted and waged war against India. A few years later, China attacked the border of their biggest benefactor and supporter, the then Soviet Union. China’s aggression in its neighbourhood may have been to divert the attention of the Chinese population, which was facing a severe drought and also famine. In 1966, Mao launched his Cultural Revolution. Mao Zedong was succeeded by Hua Guofeng but eventually Deng Xiaoping became the leader calling the shots. America had been keeping a close watch on China ever since the Communists came to power. In 1971, Secretary of State Henry Kissinger convinced President Nixon that China was not only an enormous and potential economic treasure trove, but in due course, would be inclined to embrace democracy! A clandestine trip to China by Kissinger in 1971was facilitated by Pakistan, a member of SEATO (the Southeast Asia Treaty Organization) and one of America’s major client states. A second and more compelling argument advanced by Kissinger was that bringing China into the equation would provide a balance in international relations with the two Communist giants providing a counterweight to each other. The rest is history. Over time, the Chinese market grew dramatically, attracted huge foreign investments and kept enlarging trade with America and Europe. Even the Tiananmen Square uprising and bloodshed did not interfere with the growth of China’s trade and commerce with the West. Though it looked unlikely that China would ever embrace democracy or respect human rights, that did not interfere with the OECDs commercial relations with China. Many American Presidents are said to have had reservations about China. But they had other worries. President Ronald Reagan was committed to first dealing with the growing nuclear threat from the Soviet Union. During his term, Reagan and the Soviets signed the Strategic Arms Limitation Treaty. He had also famously cautioned: “Trust But Verify”. Nevertheless, though all the presidents were increasingly aware of the threat which China posed as a powerful nuclear and economic power, they had more immediate threats to deal with. The US and indeed the rest of the world were for a time preoccupied with the end of the Soviet Union and also Yugoslavia. Then they had to contain the spread of Islamic terrorism and the failure of the Arab Spring. US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo recently quoted former President Richard Nixon who feared his move to open China to the world might create a monster. “President Nixon once said he feared he had created a ‘Frankenstein’ by opening the world to the CCP,” said Pompeo, adding sharply: “And here we are.” The appointment of Xi Jinping as the lifetime President of China and Donald Trump becoming the US President have brought to the surface China’s unambiguous global ambitions and intentions and the huge threat that it poses. President Trump has openly mounted serious trade and technology confrontations with the Middle Kingdom. China’s unprovoked aggression along its border with India may possibly be a part of a larger diversionary strategy triggered by domestic problems. Henry Kissinger still remains alert and active in America. He has argued in his book, On China, that it is “essential to global stability and peace” that both countries maintain a cooperative relationship. Did he have a premonition when he wrote that about the current chain of unsettled events?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-142
27-09-2020||Opinion||Novel immortality||A school friend died of the novel coronavirus yesterday. Most of us have learnt to keep track of the personal toll that this epidemic has taken. Of the people I’ve known and been friends with, three have died; he was the third and the youngest. The two who died earlier were five and ten years older, but he had been a classmate in junior school and was almost exactly my age. We had lost touch when he changed schools fifty years ago and yet his death was more unsettling than the deaths of the other two whom I had known better and more recently. He and I belonged to the same ‘batch’; perhaps it’s human nature to think of your childhood cohort as forever young. The intimations of mortality that age brings are banal because they are routinely experienced by everyone who lives long enough, but the shared threat that Covid-19 holds out for the old creates both a heightened awareness of your vintage and an ambivalent solidarity. When you mourn the dead, you note that you are among the living as you would in a normal year, but the relief at it not being you is more sharply felt. The sense that you’ve been spared is real, not the piety it might otherwise have been. Death on a large scale, however it happens, induces both relief and guilt in those who survive but there is something peculiarly impersonal and random about being mown down by a pandemic. The human choices that lead to the mass cull of a world war or cause millions to starve to death during a famine help us comprehend these catastrophes as human tragedies. It is why they are remembered and revisited in books and films and arguments. But posterity doesn’t remember pandemics or their dead. The tens of millions of people who died of influenza in 1918 might never have existed for all the space they got in public memory. More people died of the flu in that single year than in the whole of the Great War and yet not once did my friend or I or our classmates learn about it in school less than fifty years later. Historians are vulgarians; death, without people to blame for it, either individually or collectively, doesn’t make for a good story. It’s hard to pin pandemics on human perpetrators; the charge doesn’t stick. No one who counts in the Western world likes China and Xi Jinping is increasingly seen as Mao in a neck-tie, and yet Trump’s bid to brand Covid-19 as the ‘Wuhan Virus’ has found no takers. There’s something about being culled by a pandemic that is beyond the scope of historical narratives that deal in cause-and-effect. It is so hard to storify that death on a scale that dwarfs most genocides, shrinks into a factoid shorn of historical resonance, like a meteor sliding into the sea without a ripple. The problem with modern pandemics is that no one thinks of them as acts of god either. They are caused by evolving viruses that aren’t even alive. The people who die aren’t victims or martyrs or heroes: they’re just collateral damage caused by an undead speck looking for hosts. But Covid-19’s dead won’t disappear from the public imagination in the way that 1918’s flu casualties did. They will, thanks to the digital world, have their own memorials. I remember walking around the military cemeteries on Egypt’s Libyan border, built to remember the Allied casualties of the desert war. Those receding, perfectly parallel rows of stone tablets were a token of the massive effort made by the Commonwealth War Graves Commission to honour the dead. There will be no brick-and-mortar memorials for the victims of the novel coronavirus. Their lives will be commemorated online, on posthumous Facebook pages, stilled Twitter timelines, in the Google searches that dredge up their names and black-and-white class photos arranged in uniformed rows. Class 5E, 1967, with all of us arrayed around Mrs Furdoonji: that’s where I’ll find my friend; someone, somewhere is bound to have uploaded that picture. One of the tragedies of the pre-digital world was that as we left our youth behind, we mislaid, irrevocably, most of the people that we once knew. Unless we were freakishly diligent letter-writers, we shed memories, names, friends and faces as we grew older, and not always because we wanted to. It was a kind of autobiographical impoverishment that we accepted as inevitable. But thanks to the internet and information-hoovering sites like Facebook that have designs on us, we now seed ourselves online. We are linked by listservs and Twitter feeds and WhatsApp groups; we are Friends with perfect strangers, we are Followers with Followers. What this means is that in a haphazard way, we remain connected to people we haven’t spoken to in decades or even thought about. This was impossible even twenty years ago. I read of my friend’s death in a post by a friend of his who I didn’t know. It didn’t say why he had died. I visited his Facebook page and scrolled through his photographs, looking for the boy I could still conjure up in my mind. He was there; there was a wistful pleasure in mentally pruning this middle-aged stranger’s face back into the visage of my friend. I called a classmate we had in common who I hadn’t spoken to in forty-five years. I didn’t have his phone number but we are connected on Facebook, so I clicked on a phone icon and he answered the call as if we had met in class the day before. He knew why I was calling before I could say; he had read the same post and he had the same question. Ten minutes later, he messaged to say that another classmate had confirmed that Covid had killed him. So, inside a couple of hours he had been spoken of and remembered by half a dozen people who had been a part of his childhood. He wasn’t a famous poet like Yeats, so he didn’t, in Auden’s fine phrase, become his admirers. He did, however, become his Friends. mukulkesavan@hotmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-142
27-09-2020||Opinion||Importance of being fit||In 2014, months after the general election results, the new Prime Minister of India proposed to the United Nations General Assembly that June 21 be earmarked globally as International Day of Yoga. India’s fitness conversation had begun. On the appointed day in 2015 there was yoga aplenty. Around 35,000 people attended the 35-minute yoga session on Rajpath. There were visuals of yoga being performed on the Siachen glacier and the high seas. This was also the year of the Dadri lynching. 2016. Rohith Vemula suicide. JNU sedition row. Lynchings in the name of gau raksha. Demonetisation. On the occasion of the second International Yoga Day a grand event was organised in Chandigarh. There was special emphasis on participation of the handicapped. Reportedly, on this occasion, the government spent Rs 16.40 crore and Rs 18.10 crore in 2015 and 2016, respectively. 2017. The highest cow-related deaths were registered this year. According to Indiaspend, 28 died and 63 such incidents were recorded. Uttar Pradesh reported no deaths but had the highest number of cases. That year, the PM along with UP CM Yogi Adityanath led 51,000 assembled at Lucknow’s Ramabhai Ambedkar Sabha Sthal in asanas. Congress workers did the shavaasana to protest farmer killings in Mandsaur in Madhya Pradesh. The PM said, “Yoga not only enlightens the body but also the soul.” 2018 was the year of the agrarian crisis. In May, sports minister Rajyavardhan Singh Rathore launched the Hum Fit Toh India Fit campaign. Rathore lobbed a fitness challenge to cricketer Virat Kohli, who in turn challenged the PM who replied with a fitness video. On November 30, thousands of farmers marched towards the Parliament. That day the PM was addressing participants at the Yoga for Peace event in Buenos Aires, Argentina. 2019. Year of Pulwama and Balakot, general elections and abrogation of Articles 370 and 35A, and finally, the Citizenship Amendment Act. Assam burned. On the occasion of Yoga Day, the PM said, “Yoga is above religion, caste, colour, gender and region, it is above everything.” Two months later, he launched the Fit India Movement. This is the year of The Virus, and while we have had to make do with an indoor Yoga Day, the fitness conversation cannot be paused. Farm bills, labour bills, angsty health workers, Rajya Sabha in disarray, a roiling Bollywood --- but the fitness talk continues to flow. Last week, on the second anniversary of the Fit India Movement, the PM took time out to speak to “fitness influencers” and citizens.  Fit India protocols were unveiled. And the PM said, “Fitness ki dose, aadha ghanta roz.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-142
27-09-2020||Opinion||Dude, who’s the food pseud?||I don’t cook. Sometimes a truant wish to do as much gets away, floats up to the surface, but no sooner than the first tomato has dimpled under the blade, the wish evaporates. I do not know recipes. I do not ask for recipes. I do not take kindly to conversations involving recipes. I am happy to run to the grocer’s and the bajaar ad nauseam, but I am eternally grateful to have someone else plan my next meal. You will appreciate that I will never ask you if the rogan josh you planned to cook last night turned out fine or if the tilapia you had home-delivered was worth the price. I struggle to find emojis when locked-down friends routinely send me photographs of tawa naan, whole wheat bread, oats uttapam and suji ajwain puris. And unlike H, I never say, “Oh, you didn’t sweat the onion enough” or “I think you put that in the kadhai before the oil was hot enough.” But please note — all these things do not add up to disinterest in food. In the last few months, as Swiggy is my witness, I have sampled the spicy mahlak chicken served with sesame oil and mushroom, adrak halwa, aam phirni, khoya mewa kofta, a crispy duck and whatnot. But those are food philanderings and have nothing to do with the set menu in my head. There, like most philanderers, I maintain strict double standards with very definite notions of purity. Really small potato cubes with luchi. Semolina halwa always plain and always brown, never white, never garnished with anything. No skin on my chicken. No liver, no marrow, no globules — chana, chhola, matar — on my plate, ever. I cannot lie, I sneer at anyone who has a different set of rules from mine — but that is only in my head. If at all I want to call out anyone, out and loud, for breaking food protocol, it is when that ilish talk happens. No, I don’t enter any debate with those who toe the hilsa-is-so-overrated line. There are some things that don’t translate — Uttam Kumar’s sex appeal, Tagore’s compositions and ilish. I don’t feel very kindly towards those who brandish the I-am-a-Bengali-but-I-think-Rohu-trumps-Ilish number, but I have taught myself to back off. The Padma ilish vs Ganga ilish debate doesn’t move me either. But my nerves jangle every time someone yokes ilish and begun, the Bengali word for aubergine. There is a saying in these parts that goes, “Jar gun nei shei begun.” Gun means virtue and be- means to be bereft of. Basically, that which is bereft of any virtue is the aubergine. To my mind, there are three perfectly divine ways of cooking the very virtuous ilish and none involve the aubergine. Way 1. Fried and served with the oil on the side and crisp deem or roe. I like how the rice turns golden when I drizzle the oil onto it and the aroma of the fish mixed with the crushed kancha lonka (green chilli) on my plate. Way 2. As a follow-up dish, the ilish curry cooked with turmeric, kalo jeere (nigella seeds) and kancha lonka works just fine. It is light, allows the goodness of the fish to sing arias. Way 3. Bhapa or steamed ilish  smothered in shorshe or ground mustard. I prefer it when the mustard does not overpower the fish and is not too cheery a yellow. And yet anytime ilish talk happens, you can be sure there will be a heretic in the room who will bring up the ilish curry cooked with aubergine. Don’t be fooled if the discussion begins with just a listing of innocent pairings — ilish with khichuri, ilish with whiskey. Don’t let your guard down if they discuss abominations such as ilish tok cooked with tamarind paste or aamra (hog plum). When they bring up “ilish shukto with fenugreek” — I am catatonic. And then someone inevitably drops the B word. “Hmm. I understand your problem. The textures contradict,” said someone to me in a very patronising tone. It irritated me right and proper. It is not about texture. It is about character. It is about differences. In a film starring Uttam Kumar, would you need a second hero? Even if you did, would you cast Ranveer Singh? But what do the ilish-begun brigade know of such nuances. Someone will say, “Throw in potatoes with the aubergine.” They won’t even specify what cut. (Shudder, shudder.) Another will post a photograph and there’ll be potol or pointed gourd in it. Someone else will quote unverified in-laws and suggest adding pumpkin and cucumber. And before you know it, Uttam Kumar is in the middle of the floating vegetable mart of Patuli. What do I tell them? Nothing. I am a purist, not a TV square. But in my mind I am wailing, “Nahiiiiiiin.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-142
27-09-2020||Opinion||A BJP MP's 'urgent' pitch while Cong searches for a chief spokesperson||On the last day of Lok Sabha, the former Union minister, Rajiv Pratap Rudy, raised eyebrows after he spoke in the House. Rudy rose to speak during the time allotted for ‘matters of urgent importance’, but there was nothing urgent in what he said. The parliamentarian from Bihar started by showering praise on the Speaker, Om Birla, then on the prime minister, Narendra Modi, and finally on Bihar’s chief minister, Nitish Kumar. Rudy said he was sure that by the time the next session of the House would be held, “[their] government” would have been back in the state. According to Rudy, this would be the result of the Rs 1.70 lakh crore package allotted by the prime minister, out of which every penny, he claimed, had been spent on development, and the Bihar CM’s ‘untiring’ efforts to change the face of the state. This was clearly an election speech, and had even the members of the Bharatiya Janata Party guessing the motive behind this. Rudy had been a high-flying minister in the National Democratic Alliance government led by Atal Bihari Vajpayee as well as in the first term of the Modi government. He was, however, unceremoniously removed from the ministry in 2017. Since then, this politician-cum-commercial pilot, has been trying various methods to soar again. After his removal, he had said he lost because he failed to communicate his work. Now, Rudy seems to be trying alternative communication skills. By the way, he was the skill development minister in the first Modi government. The Congress is looking for a new media department head after Randeep Surjewala became general secretary in-charge of Karnataka. While there is no dearth of aspirants — even those who cannot do a decent job as spokesperson want to become the chairman — an interesting discourse is going on about the probable candidates. While the choice should have been limited to three obvious candidates who have been in the media department for long — Anand Sharma, Abhishek Singhvi and Manish Tewari — all of whom are competent and experienced, the leadership may be looking beyond them for extraneous reasons. While Sharma and Tewari might have earned themselves some negative points by signing the infamous letter to Sonia Gandhi on the drift in the party, Singhvi is too busy a lawyer to spare time for this taxing 24x7 assignment. Some younger spokespersons, considered bright, lack the stature and experience to take up this responsibility. Another major issue is fluency in both Hindi and English, a factor that eliminates many able communicators. One name that reportedly cropped up was that of Sachin Pilot, who doubtless has the ability to handle this job, but giving the role of party chief spokesperson to a leader who was perceived to have rebelled so recently could be a problem. Another name that is said to be doing the rounds is that of Jairam Ramesh — who has experience, knowledge, skills and also enjoys the trust of the top leadership. There are, however, powerful forces inimical to him within the high command structure. The easiest option may be to continue with Surjewala but he is said to be reluctant after doing this difficult job for years. “Wait for a surprise,” quipped an insider while admitting that the choice was extremely difficult because some other competent persons do not have those critical attributes like familiarity with national media, friendly behaviour and round-the-clock accessibility. The deputy CM of Delhi, Manish Sisodia — ailing with dengue and Covid-19 — has been shifted from the state-run Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan Hospital to Saket’s Max Super Speciality Hospital, which is part of a private chain of commercial hospitals. In June, Delhi’s health minister, Satyendar Jain, was also shifted there from a government hospital, when he was infected by the virus. The ruling Aam Aadmi Party wears its improvements in healthcare and education on its sleeves, and often makes a public spectacle of prosecuting private hospitals for fleecing patients. Last month, when the Union home minister, Amit Shah, was admitted to Gurgaon’s Medanta, some AAP activists flooded social media with memes on how much better Delhi’s government hospitals are than those in other states, alleging that Shah had no faith in his government’s hospitals. With two of their ministers eventually going for premium private healthcare, the AAP’s social media activists are now silent. Delhi’s government hospitals have seen remarkable improvement compared to those in neighbouring states since the AAP came to power in 2015. But despite vacant beds in these hospitals, Covid-19 patients have continued to flock to private hospitals, especially when their condition became critical. The prime minister’s statement of ‘no intrusion’ by the Chinese with respect to the ongoing Galwan stand-off was subsequently changed by the Prime Minister’s Office to “attempted transgression”. But Tapir Gao, the BJP parliamentarian from the frontier state of Arunachal Pradesh, has stuck to his Chinese intrusion-occupation line both within and outside Parliament for some time now. In the recently held Parliament session, Gao once again raised the Chinese intrusion-occupation in Arunachal, claiming the People’s Liberation Army had entered 50-60 kilometres within Indian territory and kidnapped five youths from Upper Subansiri district on September 3. The PLA had claimed the youths had strayed into Chinese territory. Gao also informed the sadan, the Centre and the media there is “no LAC on the Arunachal-Tibet-China border” but only the McMahon Line, decided as the border in 1914 between British India and Tibet. China came into the picture only in 1950 when it occupied Tibet, Gao said. China, however, does not accept the McMahon Line and considers Arunachal Pradesh to be part of South Tibet. Gao also requested the Speaker to constitute a team to find how many square kilometres of Indian territory China’s PLA has captured since the 1962 Indo-China War, hoping that the Centre will act in time to prevent a Galwan in Arunachal Pradesh. November 10, television channels are hoping, would improve their TRPs. That is because the final of the Indian Premier League and the Bihar election results are scheduled on this very day. The IPL final may grab its usual share of eyeballs but can the same be said about the Bihar polls? The Opposition is in tatters in the state and the word is Nitish Kumar is likely to be back on the kursi. The outcome of the political contest, unlike the cricketing one, is unlikely to raise eyebrows.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-142
27-09-2020||Opinion||Northern lights||There is something cheery about the little family of Moomins, trolls with rounded snouts, and their friends in Moominland. Whether on a picnic or in an adventure, they are curious, happy, and friendly beings; even Moominpappa with his hat and umbrella is not unbending. They never let their young readers — of the earlier comics — and viewers — of later animation — feel the cold of Finland, the home of Tove Jansson, the brilliant writer and artist who was their creator. And no wonder, because Finland is a happy country, ranked the happiest in the United Nations World Happiness Report 2020. Like all reports, it records the findings of the previous period, that is, 2018-19: the Covid-19 pandemic could have altered the happy mood. But pre-Covid, the Nordic countries have been at the top of the World Happiness Report ever since it began to be published in 2012. Like Finland, for which this is the third year at the top, Denmark, too, had that position for three years, although not consecutively. It is still in the top five. Perhaps it is always ‘happily ever after’ in Hans Christian Andersen’s land. Counting the bits that make up happiness may seem a slightly dodgy affair. Trust and generosity in society are two parameters, for example. But they are related to specific values of governance and social policies — an honest government, assurance that health and old age will be taken care of, shared institutions and so on. Finland, for example, does not have the highest gross domestic product, yet it has the happiest people. The wise old saying that the fount of happiness lies within — not in wealth — may be working here. But such a spiritual ideal cannot be captured in a report relying on measurable responses. There may not be a direct relationship between wealth and happiness: fairytales are a little more complicated than that. Wealth, the findings suggest, can matter when its unequal distribution becomes reason for status anxiety, for instance. But the weather, however cold, and the angled light of the northern sun, do not matter when social bonds are strong and there is trust in the government. So does the runaway success of Nordic noir genre of the thriller, with its criticism of social evils and governmental corruption, spring from its lack of connection to lived experience? And does SAD, the seasonal affective disorder that usually occurs when sunlight begins to dim in a particular season, spare the Nordic peoples? Cavils apart, the report is still an important indicator of certain aspects of social and economic life not usually observed in other surveys. Unsurprisingly, India is ranked 144th among 156 countries surveyed. It is painful that Indians do not show up positively in the world happiness parameters. Perhaps they would be happier if they decided to change this condition; the freedom to make choices, one of the parameters, can be fought for.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-142
27-09-2020||Opinion||Oh, but did you know this about him?||About me, rather. When they say about him, they are actually speaking for me and on my behalf, but they don’t want to embarrass me totally, you see, so they use the third person. That’s all right. That is only right. I am saying, rather asking, did you know this about me, and they are kind enough to put it another way so I don’t directly come in the way. They are devoted people, they don’t want me to be seen as a publicist of myself, that is why they do it. They are well paid and looked after, do not worry, that much I do for services rendered to me, I have commerce in my blood, as I once famously or infamously said, you know, so I pay. Dhandho chhe, it’s business, and there is honour to keep in business. The honour of business is, you know, money. Money, money, money. Maal Baalendra. Oh sorry, I got that wrong, when everyone’s shouting your name aloud as if it were some magic mantra, the echoes can sometimes confuse you. It’s Baal Maalendra. There, got it right this time. You’d notice Maal is common to the wrong one and the right one, so it does not really matter which is the wrong one and which is the right one, maal hona chahiye, bas! Those fellows had none, and so it was that I kept ripping them apart, I would take them by their jaws and split them all the way down into two. You know the story, don’t you? About the crocodiles? Useless fellows, snapping about and scaring folks, which is quite all right by me. But they brought no maal. That’s never okay with me. I routinely took them by their jaws. Until this one that said, stop! stop! spare me and I will deliver. This croc. So I spared this one. This croc. I still have him around. He was true to promise. He delivered. He is a full-grown beast now, this croc, and he does a great job snapping and scaring. I am so thankful I spared him. But then I had to go. Brave battalions were lined up, waiting for me to serve them the succour of tea along platforms. I can’t remember their names, there were far too many. The soldiers and the platforms. I had pictures somewhere but they are lying with my many degrees, god knows where they are, there’s just no time, you see, for indulging in personal memorabilia when you have to do the job that I do. I don’t know night from day, or one set of clothes from another. Please bear with me, this beard is beginning to get in the way of my words. How does it look, by the way? I mean folks were beginning to see through me, does this work as distraction enough? Never mind. And then I had to go away again. From everything. Family and such things, you know family and sundry, in-laws and our laws. I had to go away. I became a rishi in the Himalayas searching for who I am and why I had come here. Then I went here there and everywhere in search of who I am and why I am here. You will see some surviving pictures. Eiffel Tower. White House. Pussy Cat In London. Puppy giving jhappi. You know. That sort of thing, all part of my discovery of myself. Somewhere along the way I became a mechanical engineer. And then I pretended to people I had left formal education in school whereas I had acquired a big degree in all sorts of all things, science things and politics things. But as I said I don’t know where that degree is. I gave up everything, you see. One day I saw clouds and I said, Chalo, yeh mauka achchha hai, cloud hai, radar se bach sakte hain, nikal padte hain. And here I am. Ha, Haaah! Boom! Open your eyes and take a look. Here I am, fallen upon you like a cluster bomb that does not stop to explode. BooooomPataakaaBoom!! Kaisa lag raha hai?  They say this and then say that About me tales are slim and fat But never one that turns out flat So see you soon in another hat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-142
27-09-2020||Opinion||Foul ball||Sir — The ‘cricket legend’, Sunil Gavaskar, is facing flak for making sexist comments against the actress Anushka Sharma, who is married to the cricketer, Virat Kohli. Gavaskar has defended himself by saying that he merely mentioned Sharma and did not say anything about her. But the fact that he decided to name a cricketer’s wife while commenting on his performance is indicative of an everyday misogyny that few of us even notice. Could not Gavaskar have said that lack of practise owing to the lockdown had affected Kohli’s skills and left it at that? Why was it necessary to drag Sharma into the issue? Gavaskar should introspect on this. Kaveri Raj Ernakulam Sir — The report, “Pandemic lesson of self-reliance for marginalised women” (Sept 26), was heartening. It took a pandemic to drive home the fact that women can be equal financial contributors in a family. At a time when male members of the family lost their jobs or had their earnings reduced, women took up vocational courses so that they could help run the household. The trusts which are running vocational courses on tailoring, handicraft, cooking and so on must be lauded for their effort to make women from marginalized communities more self-reliant. Working will not only generate an income but also help women become more confident and contribute to their self-worth. Abhijit Chakraborty Howrah Sir — While it is encouraging that women from the marginalized community are getting a chance to break age-old barriers and step out to earn a living, there are some harsh questions that need to be asked in this context. First, are the women who are now stepping out of the house — or even working from home — being helped out in their traditional duties? The plight of millions of working women not just in India but also abroad is that they have to balance work and home at the cost of their own health and mental well-being. Are the men who lost their jobs lending a helping hand with household chores? This is unlikely. More important, do women have a say over how the money they are earning will be spent? Women having a say in household spending is shown to have a significant effect on an important factor like child malnutrition and stunting. Another issue that must be considered is whether the glass ceiling has been lifted only momentarily. During World War II, women and others from the minority communities suddenly found that the wall that kept them away from opportunities was lifted and they were allowed to work. But after the War, the wall came crashing down again. This is just one instance of how women’s labour — both inside and outside the house — is taken for granted. It is expected that they will do whatever it takes, be it slaving away in the kitchen or going out to earn the daily bread, to keep the house running. One hopes that history does not repeat itself with the women mentioned in the report. Aruna Patra Bhubaneswar Sir — The fifth edition of the United Nations' Global Biodiversity Outlook and the World Wildlife Fund’s Living Planet Report 2020 highlight the serious damage done to planet earth. The UN report has pointed out that the world has failed to achieve the targets set in the historic meet at Aichi, Japan in 2010. The Aichi targets included a number of specific measures, like safeguarding ecosystems, addressing the underlying causes of biodiversity loss and so on. No country can claim credit for satisfactory performance on any of these criteria. Instead, every day, more and more species of flora and fauna are disappearing from the earth. The UN had already warned that one million species might disappear within the next few decades. The planet has already seen five big extinctions, the sixth may be happening right now; this time, though, the extinction is driven by human greed. Population explosion, destruction of forests, intensive agriculture, unrestrained industrial activity, expansion of modern facilities and amenities for luxury and overconsumption are the main contributors to the loss of biodiversity; awareness about the seriousness of the situation is yet to sink in for humans. Shovanlal Chakraborty Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-142
27-09-2020||Jharkhand||Covid claims 9 more lives in Jharkhand||Covid-19 claimed nine more lives in Jharkhand on Sunday, taking the total number of casualties in the state to 679, figures released by the health department stated. Nearly 1,000 people across Jharkhand were found infected by the coronavirus on Sunday, taking the tally close to 80,000. As per a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM), at least 226 of the 974 cases that surfaced on Sunday were from East Singhbhum, while 214 were from Ranchi. The number of active cases, however, dropped in East Singhbhum as 303 patients recovered from the infection. Among the nine Covid patients who died on Sunday, at least four were from East Singhbhum, a district which accounts for 291 of the state’s 679 Covid-19 casualties, government data highlighted. As per government data, Bokaro reported two deaths while Ranchi, Khunti and Hazaribagh reported one death each. The number of active cases rose above 4,000 on Sunday with new patients outnumbering recoveries for the third consecutive day here. As per government data, as many as 4,016 people were battling the infection in Ranchi on Sunday after only 153 recoveries were reported against 214 new cases during the day. The government has so far collected the swab samples of 20.71 lakh people in Jharkhand and tested 20.59 lakh of them. Of those tested for the coronavirus, as many as 79,909 were found positive. On Sunday, health workers tested swab samples of 22,342 people and 21,368 of them came negative. As per government data, Jharkhand has one of the best recovery rates in India. Of the 80,000-odd people found infected in the state so far, at least 66,797 have recovered, taking the recovery rate in the state to 83.59 per cent. The national recovery rate, as per government figures, was 82.40 per cent on Sunday. Despite the nine casualties reported on Sunday, Jharkhand’s mortality rate was 0.84 per cent, which is lower than the national average of 1.60 per cent. As per government data, the time taken for the number of Covid-19 cases to double in Jharkhand was 42.8 days against the national rate of 47.25 days. In the past seven days, infection grew in Jharkhand at the rate of 1.63 per cent. As per data compiled by the NHM, at least 502 of the 679 victims in Jharkhand were older than 50 years. As many as 137 patients were in the age bracket of 31 to 50 years, while 31 others were below the age of 30 years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-286
27-09-2020||Jharkhand||Pujas to be live streamed on Facebook, Instagram this year||Puja rituals at all leading Durga Puja pandals across Ranchi will be live streamed on social media platforms such as Facebook and Instagram this year in a bid to allow devotees to worship deities from the comfort of their homes amid Covid-19 restrictions. “We have decided to livestream all puja rituals on social media platforms during the four days of Durga Puja. Dedicated pages for Durga Puja 2020 will be created on Facebook and Instagram, which devotees can follow to watch our live videos,” Ashok Purohit, the president of Ranchi District Durga Puja Committee (RDDPC), said on Sunday. While the government is yet to announce rules and regulations to be followed during the days of Puja, the committee, which is the umbrella body for over 500 puja organisers in Ranchi, has decided to install LED screens outside every pandal to live telecast the rituals to prevent crowding inside the pandal. “We have unanimously decided that only puja committee members will be allowed inside pandals as a preventive measure against coronavirus,” said Purohit. He, however, added that a limited number of devotees could be eventually allowed to enter the pandals if the government specified a number in its puja guidelines. Puja committees in Ranchi have also decided against organising Durga Puja fairs this year in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic. The committees have decided to erect small pandals and not make grand arrangements to attract pandal hoppers. “The idols will not be taller than 15 feet this year, and the pandals too will be ordinary. There won’t be any themes for puja this year,” said Ramesh Singh, a member of the Chandrashekhar Azad Puja Committee. The Pujas begin on October 22. Sources in the Ranchi district administration said that the government was likely to issue a notification on the dos and don’ts during Puja in the first week of October. Puja committee members said all precautionary measures would be followed at the pandals, and nobody will be allowed to enter without a face mask. It will also be made mandatory for all puja pandals to keep hand sanitisers at the gate and make announcements related to Covid-19 precautions on loudspeakers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-286
27-09-2020||Jharkhand||Former state Congress chief Ajoy Kumar back in party||Former Jharkhand Congress president Ajoy Kumar returned to the party with its chief Sonia Gandhi approving his re-joining on Sunday. "Congress president has approved the proposal for re-joining of Ajoy Kumar, ex-MP and former president of Jharkhand PCC, to the Congress party," said AICC general secretary K.C. Venugopal. Kumar announced on Twitter, "Driven by my conscience to speak up against injustice and institutional capture, I've been inspired by Shri Rahul Gandhi and decided to come back to Congress today." He also cited a quote of Mahatma Gandhi that "Silence becomes cowardice when occasion demands speaking out the whole truth and acting accordingly." “Amid a health, farmers, unemployment and economic crisis, it is Shri Rahul Gandhi & Smt. Sonia Gandhi who have been steadfast in their support for the people and idea of India. I really admire this tenacity and they have inspired me to come back to @INCIndia again,” he said in another tweet. Senior Congress leader Jairam Ramesh welcomed Kumar in the party through a tweet. “You had never actually left as far as I was concerned,” he said. Kumar, a former IPS officer and an MP from Jamshedpur in the 15th Lok Sabha, had quit the party ahead of the Jharkhand Assembly elections last year. He was appointed JPCC president in November 2017, but resigned in August 2019 and joined the Aam Aadmi Party the next month. He had then alleged that the local leadership in Jharkhand Congress was corrupt and had compared many of his colleagues as even worse than criminals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-286
27-09-2020||Jharkhand||Tata zoo gets ready for annual wildlife week from September 30||Wildlife conservation and protection will take centrestage in Jamshedpur with Tata Steel Zoological Park gearing up for the annual wildlife week celebrations beginning on September 30. The celebrations will start with an essay writing competition (1,000 words in English or Hindi) for students of classes IX to XII on the topic, Man-animal conflict: causes and remedy. The opening day event will also witness a painting competition for students of standard II to V (group of plants and animals), standard VI to VIII (forest ecosystem) and standard IX and X (a day in the wild). The best eco club teacher award for 2019-20 has also been lined up. Entries can be submitted online at tatazoo.nec@gmail.com. October 5 has been reserved for a prize distribution ceremony at the zoo education centre lawns. It will include the best eco club teacher award comprising a running trophy and Rs 3,000 cash prize for the winner and a trophy and Rs 2,000 cash for the runner-up. Prizes will also be given to toppers in the essay writing and painting competitions, as well as to the winners of the International Biodiversity Day 2020. The prize distribution will be followed (on October 6 and 7) by a talk on animal health during Covid-19 by Tata Zoo vet Manik Palit and on butterflies by zoo curator S.K. Mahato.  The event will also have a keeper talk (sloth bear, Hanuman languor and tiger). The concluding day on October 8 will also have a talk on nature by Tata Steel head (biodiversity) Hishmi Jamil Hussain and on elephants of Jharkhand (with special reference to Dalma wildlife sanctuary) by regional chief conservator of forest, Ranchi, A.T. Mishra. The talks will be streamed live on Facebook. “A formal physical inauguration on zoo campus will depend upon the Covid-19 guidelines issued by the state government at that point in time,” a zoo official clarified. Entries should be sent on or before September 30 with details (name, standard, school/organisations, contact number and e-mail ID). For more information one may call: 9297953437.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-286
27-09-2020||Jharkhand||Porters hit hard as only two trains have halt at Tatanagar||Porters at Tatanagar are sitting idle most of the day as only two trains have halts at the station these days. Only the 22823 Bhubaneswar-New Delhi Rajdhani Express and 12801 Puri-New Delhi Purshottam Express have stops in Jamshedpur. This has hit the porters hard with all of them struggling to make ends meet. Most of the 102 porters, who are primarily from Bihar, have left for their homes. Only 35 are in Jamshedpur. “Hamari stithi bahut hi kharab hain. Kamai nahin ho rahi. Parivar kaise chalayen (Our condition is extremely bad. There is no source of income. How can we sustain our families)?” said Vinod Kumar, a porter who lives at Gwala Bustee in nearby Kitadih. Porter Pramod Raut said they were dependent on social organisations who distributed groceries during the lockdown. But that too had stopped now. “The station manager had also arranged groceries through a social outfit once. But now the situation has changed, and we are finding it very hard to feed our families.” he added. The porters said they used to earn between Rs 7,000 to Rs 8,000 before the lockdown. But now that has come down drastically. “Kisi din kaam milta hain kisi din nahin. Bahut mushkil se 1,500-2,000 rupya kamate hain. (Sometimes we get work and sometime not. I earn Rs 1,500-2,000 a month with great difficulty),” added Kumar. Some of the porters are borrowing money at 10 per cent interest to get things going. “I had used up all my savings to sustain my family. The groceries I got from social outfits have also exhausted. Me and my wife eat once a day since I have to look after our two young children. Don’t know what to do,” said Jai Balak, a resident of Golpahari. Kumar said the then railway minister, Lalu Prasad, had in 2008 recruited porters across the country in the “group category”.  “However, only 85 per cent porters got inducted while the rest 20 per cent got omitted due to over-age and medical issues. The group D porters get salary and residential quarters from the railway. But we have been left out,” the 45-year-old rued. “We hear that the railways is going to be privatised. We are already facing huge problems. We don’t know what will happen to us when the railway is actually privatised. We all are praying to the almighty,” added Chandan Mukhi, a porter who lives at Golpahari too.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-286
27-09-2020||Jharkhand||Steel city wakes up to two mishaps; one dead, two injured||Two accidents in suburban Parsudih and Sundernagar thana areas in the wee hours of Sunday claimed the life of one person and led to traffic congestion for hours on the Station-Parsudih Road. The mishaps, occurring between 1am and 2.30am, involved a speeding car and a truck. The first accident at Sundernagar saw a car ramming a lamp-post killing the man at the wheel on the spot. The collision was so loud that local residents living near Maa Tara Sweet House rushed out to see what had happened. There were two others in the car, who were extricated from the mangled vehicle and sent to MGM Medical College Hospital for treatment. Police said they had serious injuries. OC of Sundernagar Jagdish Prasad said the youth who died had been identified as Dilip Singh (26), a resident of Narwa Colony in Sundernagar. The two others are his friends. "From statements of local residents we have concluded that the deceased may have lost control while driving. The car was speeding," Prasad told The Telegraph Online. The second mishap occurred when a truck carrying iron rods hit a tree in the middle of the Station-Parsudih Road near the Golpahadi turning at Parsudih at 2.30 am. Although the truck was also speeding, no one was injured. But since the heavy vehicle had stopped in the middle of the road, traffic was stalled for hours. OC of Parsudih Ajay Kumar confirmed that no one was injured in the mishap. "The driver of the truck was either drunk or had missed the tree which is in the middle of the road. We are probing the matter,” he said. Notably, the presence of the tree in the middle of the Parsudih-Station Road makes the busy thoroughfare mishap-prone. Many commuters in cars and on two-wheelers have missed it on a number of occasions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-286
27-09-2020||Jharkhand||Robbery at Dhanbad jewellery shop ||Armed assailants robbed jewellery worth over Rs 15 lakh from Jewar House in Dhanbad on Saturday. The owner Tripurari Barnwal and an employee were cleaning the shop in the morning after its opening when eight to ten assailants entered the shop, held the owner at gunpoint and robbed it. Before fleeing, the criminals took the CCTV footage tapes too. SSP, Asim Vikrant Minz said, "it is too early to say who were involved but some local criminals may be involved in the incident and we are in process of identifying those involved in the incident." A 17-year-old intermediate student of S.B. Patel inter college committed suicide by hanging herself from the ceiling fan of her room in Hazaribagh on Saturday. The body was sent for post mortem to Hazaribagh medical college and hospital. Police officials did not find any suicide note. Dhanbad Camera Club on Saturday conducted a webinar as part its fortnightly series during which legendary photographer from Ireland Brian Hopper presented his award winning photographs. Mukesh Srivastava, president of the club, interacted with Hopper and put forth a set of questionnaire. Mukesh said that the aim of organising the webinar is to make people aware about the nuances of photography. Over 100 photographers of Dhanbad and other parts of the country took part in webinar. Dhanbad faculty members of Art of Living, including Sonali Singh and Mayank Singh on Saturday conducted an online interactive session with Class IX and X students of De Nobili School, Sindri on dealing with Stress, how to set goals in life and work towards achieving them. The members asked the students to never get upset over failures as failures provide opportunities to learn. The disagreement between Bokaro BJP leader Biranchi Narayan and state education minister Jagarnath Mahto over delay in commencement of Phudnidih Power Sub-Station operations intensified on Saturday. JMM leaders of the district unit organised a press conference and  termed Narayan a ‘liar’ and also targeted BJP, MP of Dhanbad, P.N.Singh by calling him the most “helpless” leader. Mahto has ordered the electricity department to ensure the power sub-station is functional in the next 15. He stated that Hemant Soren had announced a sum of Rs 2 crores to DVC as security deposit to start Phudnidih power station. Narayan on Friday said, “If he manages to start the Phudnidih power sub-station within 15 days I will take retirement from politics.” Narayan said it was under the BJP government that four power sub-stations have been installed, but not yet started by the JMM government. An unemployed 24-year-old killed his father when he refused to give him money to start his own business on Saturday in Koderma. Rajkumar Singh, 46, was working as a private driver in Delhi. He had returned home 15 days back to meet his family. His son, Bablu Kumar Singh was pressuring him to give him a sum of Rs 2 lakh. A verbal altercation between the duo led to Bablu hitting his father with a wooden log on his head. Rajkumar died on the spot. Markachcho police have arrested Bablu.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-287
27-09-2020||Jharkhand||Jharkhand tribute to Iswar Chandra Vidyasagar||Over 100 people reached Karmatar in Jharkhand’s Jamtara district to pay tributes to Bengali polymath Iswar Chandra Vidyasagar on his 200th birth anniversary on Saturday, despite cancellation of a regular programme because of the Covid-19 pandemic. “Some of us represent Vidyasagar Smriti Raksha Samiti (VSRS), while others are members of Bharat Gyan Bigyan Samiti (BGBS), who reached Jamtara from seven districts and brought out a motorcycle rally to reach here on the occasion,” VSRS member Madan Sarkar said from Karmatar. He said many of the people belong to the Santhal tribe, a community which Vidyasagar served during his stay in Karmatar. The participants held a programme to reminisce about the life and work of Vidyasagar  and paid tributes to him. “We had to cancel our main programme in Karmatar due to the pandemic but organised some online competitions for students and also a memorial lecture series beginning today (Saturday),” VSRS general secretary Sunirmal Das said from Patna. Born as Ishwar Chandra Bandyopadhyay on September 26, 1820, Vidyasagar was an author, educator and social reformer who laid the foundation of modern Bengali prose, authored many books including the Bengali primer Bornoporichoy and also campaigned vigorously for Hindu widow remarriage. He lived over 17 of his sunset years in Karmatar, now named Vidyasagar after him.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-287
