28-09-2020||Calcutta||What the heart hears, the hand will tell||Women are still a rare sight in a few places. One such spot is the one behind the tabla. Women vocalists have earned their place on the classical music stage. But not so much as percussionists. Something about beating a surface with force strong enough to produce a sound, perhaps, is still considered an intrinsically male activity. (In older times, the beating of drums announced war, certainly a predominantly male activity.) Rimpa Siva, however, began to play the tabla when she was about four. “I just took to it,” she says. Now 34, the Beleghata resident is a star. She has performed in many places in India and abroad, solo, or with the biggest names in Indian classical music, and has received many awards. Numerous videos of her performances and interviews pop up on the Net, as do write-ups and at least two short films on her, one made by a French crew. If she is still described as a leading “woman tabla player”, and if this description sounds discriminatory, even anachronistic, Rimpa brushes it aside. To her the reference to her as a woman performer means quite the opposite. “I think it is an acknowledgment of the fact women are becoming visible as tabla players,” says Rimpa. She believes in this. But one suspects that how she is described does not really matter to her. Very early, she surrendered her life to the tabla. She grew up to the sound of music at her home, the top floor of the three-storey Beleghata house that belongs to her family, where she has been confined for the six months of the lockdown. Her father, Swapan Siva, a tabla player also well-known in the city as a tabla teacher. Their surname, unusual for a Bengali family, comes from the fact that a Shivalinga had been dug up on their property in Kumilla, in former East Bengal, where the family originally comes from. Swapan was a student of Keramatullah Khan, the doyen of the Farrukhabad gharana, who lived in Ripon Street. At the beginning Swapan had thought he would encourage his daughter towards singing. But Rimpa’s obvious talent on the tabla decided things easily. She was stunning from the start. Swapan took over her training and she became his most distinguished pupil. “My father has been my guru,” says Rimpa. She has a broad smile that lights up her face. Her journey began early. “I performed at the Salt Lake Music Festival held at Rabindra Sadan when I was around eight. When I was about 12, I went on the ITC tour of Mumbai, Delhi and Jaipur,” says Rimpa. Spotted by the best musicians in the country, including tabla maestro Zakir Hussain, she would soon embark on a life that would be a mad flurry of performances, travel and awards, not something every child experiences. The French film, made in 1999, and called ‘Rimpa Siva: Princess of Tabla’, was made when she was 13. The film shows her as a student of Beleghata Deshabandhu Giris’ High School. She goes through school as if in a haze; her fingers drum on the desktop as the class is in progress. School education took a backseat. “But my school was very supportive. It postponed the selections before the class X board examination for me.” In 1997, she had toured US and Europe. In 2004, she accompanied Pandit Hariprasad Chaurasia as the main tabla player on his US tour. In 2006, she accompanied Pandit Jasraj on another US tour. She won the President’s Award in 2007 and the Sangeet Natak Akademi award in 2017. The years in between are crowded with performances and cities, which can run into pages. “In 1997, in San Francisco, Ali Akbar Khan himself attended my performance at the Ali Akbar College of Music. He blessed me and said that I should keep a lemon and chilli in my pocket to ward off evil,” says Rimpa. She seems quite unfazed by her achievements, but also exudes a quiet confidence. She also holds an M.A. degree from Rabindra Bharati University in Instrumental Music. The specialities of her gharana include kaida, rela, tukra and gat, words that have entered the Bengali language from music to indicate style or attitude. She practises for three to four hours every day. Her solo performances can last up to two hours. The lockdown makes her feel claustrophobic. It has practically stopped performance art. “I haven’t performed in six months,” she says. “Of late, I would be even travelling every month within the country, and sometimes two times abroad in a year.” But nothing really comes between Rimpa and her music. “I live for the tabla. Everything in my life happens around the tabla. It does not matter where I am performing, with whom. When I am playing, I transcend everything,” she says. “At that moment, I only feel peace and joy. Those who feel music know that peace and joy.” On stage, she appears to go into a trance, lost in the music. She also looks dressed like a typical male tabla player, in a high-collar kurta, and together with her hair, she almost suggests Zakir Hussain. That is a coincidence, she says. “I can’t play the tabla in a woman’s clothes. They are not comfortable.” She adds that she always had short hair and never cared for anything “girlie”. She did not time for friendship either. Rimpa is also not sure about the role marriage can play in a woman’s life if she is a musician. She feels that a lot of young Indians are showing interest in classical music now. She mentions Aban Mistry and Anuradha Pal as her illustrious predecessors in tabla, as women, and also does not shy away from suggesting that she is a role model for girls who want to take up the tabla, whether they will still be called “woman musicians” or not. She seems to say gender is not an impediment, but you have to strike out on your own. “Remember, girls can play the tabla,” she says.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-289
28-09-2020||Calcutta||Dog lover alleges fund-raising fraud||A young woman who runs a shelter for stray dogs in the city has alleged that photographs and details of her centre have been stolen and used by others to raise funds online from abroad. Titas Mukherjee, 29, a resident of Thakurpukur who has been running an NGO since 2016, has been raising funds through social media for sustaining multiple projects of feeding strays and sheltering them. Apart from running the city unit, she is setting up a shelter in Burdwan. “A web portal provides a platform for raising donations for noble causes. Earlier, I had raised money through the platform. Recently, when I was browsing through the different fundraisers on the portal, I spotted someone had used my photographs to raise Rs 5 lakh,” Titas told The Telegraph on Sunday. She lodged a complaint with the cyber cell of Calcutta police on Friday. “Identity theft by creating fake profiles... has become a big problem. We keep advising people to make their accounts visible only to those who are on their contact list,” said an officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-290
28-09-2020||Calcutta||Green shoots of shopping ahead of Puja||Shoppers thronged malls in numbers on Sunday with just three weekends to go before Durga Puja. A steady stream of cars, two-wheelers and app cabs were seen entering City Centre in Salt Lake and South City Mall on Prince Anwar Shah Road since afternoon and crowds swelled further as evening set in. The managers of the malls and several stores said business was finally picking up after a long lull as many people have accepted that the coronavirus is here to stay and they have to live with it. The Telegraph visited the two malls and caught the pulse of the Sunday shopathon. For every six cars moving down Prince Anwar Shah Road, three were entering the mall. The mall’s parking lot, which can accommodate around 2,500 cars, was full by around 4.30pm. Deep Biswas, the general manager of South City Mall, said footfall was steadily increasing with every passing weekend and things have been looking up since last week. He put Sunday’s footfall in excess of 35,000. The Friday count had been 20,000 and on Saturday, it crossed 25,000. An employee of a denim outlet at the mall said there had been a marked increase in the number of buyers compared with the last month. “Sales are picking up. Last month, there were only a few people who bought garments but this weekend is promising,” he said. The manager at a footwear store echoed him. “Earlier people would hesitate to try out accessories before buying them. The trend is reversing,” he said. Priyanka Biswas said she and her daughter Sreeja needed to step out desperately and could not let Puja shopping take a backseat. “We decided to step out at any cost. We wore masks throughout, ate nothing, used a lot of hand sanitiser and shopped a few items. It felt heavenly,” said Biswas, a teacher at St Sebastian’s School. The Salt Lake mall had people dropping in since afternoon. People were leaving soon after making purchases. The footfall in the Kund area, where visitors would hang out in the pre-Covid times, has gone down. The restaurants at the mall, too, did brisk business. Metro spotted a young couple from Salt Lake, Aparajita and Srinjoy Roy Chakraborty, shopping for clothes and accessories. “We suddenly realised that Puja is round the corner and hopped into our car. It feels good,” said Srinjoy. Sukanta Mukherjee, the mall head, said the footfall had been rising over the last couple of weekends. “We are expecting the tempo to pick up further. People are realising that they have to live with the virus and life has to go on,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-290
28-09-2020||Calcutta||Festival to promote safe kite flying||A kite-flying festival was organised in New Town on Sunday to promote the use of cotton strings, which are considered safer for birds and two-wheeler-riders compared with nylon strings and ones laced with manja. The city has witnessed many accidents, including some fatal, after two-wheeler-riders got entangled with nylon strings of kites, known as Chinese manja, and also manja-laced cotton strings. Such strings have also claimed the lives of many birds. Manja, a mixture of glass and glue, helps kites soar but also adds to the string’s sharpness. The kite-flying festival was organised by the New Town Kolkata Development Authority and the New Town Forum and News. Debashis Sen, the chairman of the development authority, said the event had been organised because many had taken to kite-flying during the lockdown and to promote safe flying practices. “We want to ensure that those who are flying kites in New Town know the proper techniques and, most importantly, know that the only way to fly them is by using cotton strings. Nylon ones and manja are a strict no no,” said Sen. The high court had in July directed cops to strictly enforce the ban on Chinese manja. However, they are still freely available. Gora Uzir, the vice-president of the Kolkata Kite Association, said one of the reasons why Chinese manja had gained popularity was that it was available at a fraction of the cost of cotton threads. “A single reel of good quality cotton thread sells for around Rs 1,200. In comparison, one can easily get a reel of Chinese manja at Rs 400-500. None of the experienced flyers and those who compete use these strings,” said Uzir. According to him, flying kites with Chinese manja is akin to boxing with weighted gloves. The practice is unethical and dangerous. Ankur Roy Chaudhury, a resident of CE Block and a member of the New Town Forum and News, said they had organised the festival to spread awareness about kite-flying and highlight the fact that it is a fun activity. “We want to popularise flying kites with cotton strings,” said Roy Chaudhury.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-290
28-09-2020||Calcutta||IT employee and fiancee killed in accident||A youth and his fiancee were killed after their scooter was hit from behind by a truck near Kolkata Gate in New Town late on Saturday, police said. Both were wearing helmets. The scooterist was trying to steer past traffic guardrails placed at an intersection when it came in front of the truck, several witnesses have told police. Dipayan Mukherjee and Medha Paul, both employees of a multinational IT company, were headed towards the airport after dinner at a restaurant in New Town when the accident happened, said an officer of the traffic wing of Bidhannagar Police Commissionerate. A relative of Mukherjee said he had lost his father several years back and stayed with his mother at their Baranagar house. “Dipayan and Medha were to get married soon. They had postponed their wedding because of the lockdown,” said the relative, who did not want to be named. The officer of the commissionerate said Mukherjee had taken a left turn from Kolkata Gate and hit the airport-bound flank of Major Arterial Road when the truck, headed towards the airport from the Unitech intersection, rammed into the two-wheeler. A guard at the site where a pedestrian subway complex is being constructed, at the base of Kolkata Gate, said the scooterist was trying to weave through guardrails when the truck hit the vehicle from behind. The truck’s wheels went over Mukherjee and Paul. The guards at the construction site alerted police and the two were taken to Salt Lake Sub-divisional Hospital, where they were declared dead. “Both had suffered critical head injuries and lost a lot of blood. They also had multiple fractures. We failed to revive them,” said a doctor who examined them. Dhirtiman Sarkar, deputy commissioner, traffic, Bidhannagar commissionerate, said CCTV cameras at the crossing captured the accident. “We are trying to track down the truck,” Sarkar said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-290
28-09-2020||Calcutta||Tram lovers demand revival of clean transport||A group of tram conservationists on Sunday demanded that the state transport department formulate a policy to help trams emerge again as a popular transport option in the city, where the service made its India debut around 150 years ago. Members of the Calcutta Tram Users Association (CTUA) alleged that over the years there had been a concerted move to scrap tram routes even though trams remain the best environment-friendly option for mass transportation in a polluted city like Calcutta. “Some of the most popular routes have been either truncated or done away with. Trams tracks have been removed from bridges and flyovers citing the health of the structures and their inability to bear load. Why?” asked Debasish Bhattacharyya, of the CTUA. “Around the world when efforts are on to preserve and popularise trams, in Calcutta we are trying to ensure a sure death of this mode of transportation.” On Sunday, CTUA members turned up outside the Kalighat tram depot with posters demanding preservation of Calcutta’s tram heritage, which they said would make the city less polluted. Trams started their journey in Calcutta in 1873. The carriages were then drawn by horses. In 1902, the first electric tram car began its service between Esplanade and Kidderpore. The trams have taken a serious beating over the past few years. From 37 routes covering 70km in the 1960s, the city had only six routes spanning 20km till Cyclone Amphan struck on May 20. All six routes became defunct under the impact of the storm. Five of them have since been restored. “Tram services have been stopped on the Sealdah flyover and the Kalighat bridge. At the Belgachhia tram depot, crores of rupees were spent on relaying the tracks so that the service on the Belgachhia bridge could resume. There are 35 tramcars inside the depot and they have been rotting because the service on the Belgachhia bridge has been stopped,” Bhattacharyya said. “There is no policy towards restoring the tram service in Calcutta. Instead, efforts are on how to do away with it.” A West Bengal Transport Corporation official said they had been trying to preserve and showcase the heritage. “There is a small tram museum at Esplanade. We have started a library on an AC tram,” he said. Experts who have been advocating for a clean and green transportation system have often cited how governments around the world have been investing on streetcars, trams and light rails. Berlin, for instance, has improved its ageing tram systems. The city of Richmond in British Columbia, Canada, had a team of conservators, curators and volunteers working on restoring the Interurban Tram Car. Calcutta police have often objected to trams moving in a direction opposite to that of the city's traffic flow saying the slow-moving bogies remain the biggest hurdle for increasing the speed of vehicular movement. Monks and volunteers of Ramakrishna Math, Cossipore, joined hands to clean and sanitise the area surrounding the Math on Sunday and plant saplings as part of Rashtriya Poshan Maah 2020.  Poshan Maah is part of a national nutrition mission launched in 2018 to improve nutritional status of children up to six years, adolescent girls, pregnant women and lactating mothers.  “Nutritious food packets and clothes will be distributed to children in the area adjoining the Math on Monday,” said a senior monk.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-290
28-09-2020||Calcutta||Sikh solidarity with farmers||About 400 members of the Sikh community in Calcutta marched in protest on Sunday morning against the Centre’s farm bills, saying those would ruin the livelihoods of over eighty per cent farmers of the country. The bills received the President’s assent in the evening. The men and women, who walked from Gurdwara Sant Kutiya on Harish Mukherjee Road to the Gandhi statue on Mayo Road, said those who would be affected were small and medium farmers who owned small tracts of lands. The protestors, many of whom said they had farmland in Punjab and Haryana, demanded an undertaking from the Centre that the minimum support price would not be withdrawn after the bills were signed into law. Seven of the protesters later submitted a list of grievances at Raj Bhavan. If the bills become law in the current form, protesters said, the farmers will be at the mercy of big companies. “The biggest worry is that the minimum support prices (MSP), which have helped farmers survive for so many years, will be done away with. The Prime Minister has said that the MSP will not be removed, but that is only a verbal assurance,” said Avtar Singh, one of those who walked in the rally. “The farmers will feel assured only if there is something in writing from the Centre that the MSP will not be removed,” said Avtar, gene-ral secretary of Gurdwara Sant Kutiya. Gursharan Singh, a resident of Behala who runs a transport business, feared that the bills, once turned into law, would lead to a situation where farmers will be forced to sell their produce at a price lower than the cost of production. Gursharan, whose family owns farmland in Punjab’s Gurdaspur district, said crops for which MSP was not declared were often thrown away by farmers in protest. “Every year, we hear farmers throwing away crops because they get very low prices. But farmers who cultivate rice and wheat do not have to do this since they are guaranteed an MSP. If the security of MSP is taken away, we will start hearing about more such protests (involving throwing away of produce),” he said. A counter-argument is that once an MSP is set, no private player will pay more than that, and the MSP will become the unofficial “maximum” price, leaving farmers at a disadvantage. The Farmer’s Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, was passed by Parliament earlier this month. In Sunday’s rally, organised by the Calcutta Sikh Sangat, people walked with posters that read “I support farmers” and “Rollback anti-farmer bill”. “If farmers are devastated, all others will be affected. If two or three companies dominate the market and buy most of the produce directly from farmers, they will be in a position to control retail prices,” said a protester.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-290
28-09-2020||Calcutta||College session start earliest by December||Undergraduate classes in Bengal’s government-run colleges and government-aided universities are unlikely to start before the first week of December, education minister Partha Chatterjee said after a virtual meeting with the vice-chancellors on Sunday. Postgraduate classes, too, are unlikely to start before December, the minister said. All classes will be held on digital platforms since gatherings are banned on campuses because of Covid-19. “I held a meeting with the vice-chancellors. I will update chief minister Mamata Banerjee about the outcome of the meeting. But let me inform you about the possibilities of starting the session.  It will be difficult to start the academic session before the first week of December. This is subject to consideration,” Chatterjee said. Some universities over the past month or so have been holding classes on digital platforms for students in intermediate semesters. From the first week of December, students of all years will attend classes on the digital platform. Admission of first-year undergraduate students is on. “At the meeting, it was initially decided that undergraduate classes would start in November. But immediately after the talks were over, there was another round of discussion where it was decided not to do anything in haste and wait till December,” said an official in the education department. “The decision to start the session in December would only be applicable to the state-aided universities and the colleges affiliated to them. The private universities would be outside the purview of this decision,” he said. The government, the official said, is yet to decide on the start of the academic session in schools. A vice-chancellor present at the meeting said 80 per cent of the seats in postgraduate classes would be set-aside for students from the home university. Earlier, 60 per cent of the seats were reserved for such students. “The quota for home students has been increased because the pandemic will make it difficult for many students to travel to other cities or states,” the VC said. Endorsing the academic calendar drawn by the UGC, the ministry of education had on September 22 announced that it had taken into account the Covid-19 pandemic and decided that first-year undergraduate and postgraduate classes could start on November 1. “The minister raised the issue at today’s virtual meeting and it was decided that undergraduate classes would start on November 2. But later there was a rethink and the start of the session has been pushed back to December,” a VC said. Chatterjee said the academic session could not be started in November because a number of festive occasions are scheduled for the month. The education department will write to the UGC explaining why commencement of the session has to be deferred. “I cannot curtail the pujas. Then there are festive occasions. I will humbly tell the UGC about the difficulty coming in the way of starting the session in November,” said Chatterjee. The UGC had on September 22 said that universities might start the session on November 18 if there was any delay in the declaration of the results of the qualifying exams. “As we will not be complying with the rescheduled deadline as well, permission has to be sought from the UGC,” another official of the department said. Though Chatterjee did not say anything about when in-person classes would start, he asked the institutes to sanitise their campuses. “As far as holding classes through offline mode is concerned, I hope they will draw an action plan so that students are not harmed,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-290
28-09-2020||Calcutta||Cross-border medical lockdown||A Bangladesh hospital’s cardiology unit that functioned in collaboration with an Indian healthcare group has been shut since March because the doctors, nurses and paramedics from Calcutta who ran it returned home following the Covid-19 outbreak and are now unable to report back. Some 160 heart patients who were scheduled to undergo surgery or other procedures at the Imperial Hospital in Chittagong have been calling desperately to find out when the unit would resume functioning, hospital authorities said. The news is that the medical team from Calcutta is ready to go back but cannot because flights, trains and road transport have stopped between Calcutta and Dhaka. It was around the Durga Puja season last year that the 350-bed Imperial Hospital had tied up with the Narayana Health group to set up the cardiology unit, hospital officials said. The 65-bed unit began functioning from February 16 this year. Some 25 healthcare personnel joined Imperial’s cardiology section from Narayana Health’s Calcutta unit, of which the R.N. Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences is the flagship hospital. The team included cardiac surgeons, interventional cardiologists, critical-care experts, nurses trained in critical cardiac care, and paramedics. The Chittagong hospital provided another 25-odd personnel, mostly junior doctors and support staff. “The doctors saw 1,972 patients and selected 160 for cardiac bypass surgeries, stent implants and other surgeries and procedures,” Imperial Hospital chairman Rabiul Husain told The Telegraph from Chittagong. “But in the last week of March (before the surgeries and procedures could start), the team members left for India as Covid-19 had begun to spread.” Husain added: “We were all unsure about the situation at the time, and we too thought it would be best for them to return to their families for the time being. So we facilitated their return.” He said everyone had thought that the team would be able to come back within a couple of months. Husain said: “Now patients are calling us desperately to know when the doctors would be available again.” He said the callers included many patients who had undergone procedures and surgeries at Narayana Health’s Bangalore hospital and were waiting for follow-up treatment at Imperial. In the pre-Covid days, Husain said, many patients from Bangladesh went to Indian cities such as Bangalore, Chennai and Calcutta for treatment. With that option closed now, these patients are stuck. In Calcutta, Narayana Health authorities acknowledged that Imperial was asking them to send the doctors back. “We are receiving calls and mails. The doctors and other members of the team are ready to go but it’s not possible (for lack of transport),” said R. Venkatesh, regional director, eastern India, Narayana Health. “We are speaking to the Indian and Bangladeshi authorities about this, but as of now nothing is happening and we have to wait.” Flights between Calcutta and Dhaka have been stalled since the pandemic broke out, with the exception of a few Vande Bharat flights in May. Sources said that although these flights were meant to bring back stranded expats, the medical personnel would have been allowed to travel to Bangladesh on them but they had at the time been unwilling. The Bengal government later stopped evacuation flights from international destinations after many of the returning passengers went home from the airport instead of going to quarantine centres, as required. Bengal has, however, allowed international flights to resume from September under the air transport bubble programme — an arrangement between two countries to operate a specific number of commercial flights — provided all the passengers have medical certificates declaring them Covid-negative. “We are expecting flights under the air transport bubble programme to start soon between India and Bangladesh,” a civil aviation ministry official said. A Bangladesh deputy high commission official in Calcutta, however, said there was no clarity when visas would be issued again or passenger transport between the two countries would resume.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-290
28-09-2020||Business||SC gives government one more week on loan moratorium||The Supreme Court has given the government one more week to formulate a plan on loan moratorium. The apex court, which had asked the centre to submit its plan on September 28, deferred the hearing till October 5 after the latter asked for more time. The Centre informed the Supreme Court that a decision is likely in 2-3 days.  A bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan said that it would hear the batch of pleas filed by various industries, trade associations and individuals on October 5. Mr Tushar Mehta, learned Solicitor General, submits that the issues are under active consideration of the Government of India and only after decision is taken, an affidavit along with decision can be filed. "He further submits that the affidavit will be sent by October 1, through email to appearing counsel. List on October 5, 2020, said the bench also comprising Justices R Subhash Reddy and M R Shah. Mehta, appearing for the Centre said the government is looking into several economic issues. The bench asked Mehta if he will be able to circulate his affidavit in advance to the parties concerned to which he agreed. We will fix the matter for Monday (October 5). Whatever is your policy, whatever you have, you circulate it. We will take it up on Monday. We don't want any further adjournment, the bench said. It said that Mehta shall endeavour to circulate the affidavit among the parties by Thursday so that the matter is heard on October 5. The decision taken by the government should be brought on record along with an affidavit, the bench said. Senior advocate Rajiv Dutta, appearing for the main petitioner Gajendra Sharma, said this is a very important matter and banks are acting as if it is a very normal issue. Mehta requested him to wait for 2-3 days so that the government can take a final call. I assure you that it is under consideration and it is at a very advanced stage . On September 10, the top court had extended its interim order that no account is to be declared a non performing asset (NPA) or bad loan till further orders after the Centre said an expert panel has been set up to look into the issue of interest being charged by banks on instalments deferred during the moratorium period due to Covid-19 pandemic. The government at highest level is considering all the issues raised before the court in the petitions and a decision would be taken within two weeks, the Centre had informed the apex court. The top court had directed that decisions taken by the Centre, the RBI and different banks be placed on record for consideration. As noted above, on the next date of hearing, the specific instructions with regard to charging of compound interest and credit rating/downgrading during moratorium period shall be obtained, so that appropriate order be issued on the next date of hearing, the bench had said. The Centre had sought two weeks' time to file an appropriate affidavit bringing on record the relevant decisions and directions of the government as well as the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). It had said that everything has to be considered holistically and the government is considering all the sectors, for which an expert panel has been constituted. The top court had asked the Centre that concrete decisions should be taken with clarity. On September 3, in a relief to stressed borrowers who are facing hardship due to the impact of pandemic, the top court had said that accounts which were not declared as non-performing assets till August 31 this year, shall not be declared NPA till further orders. The pleas in the apex court have raised issues pertaining to validity of RBI's March 27 circular which allowed lending institutions to grant moratorium on payment of instalments of term loans falling due between March 1, 2020 and May 31 this year due to the pandemic. Later, the period of moratorium was extended till August 31. The Centre had recently told the court that waiver of interest on deferred EMIs during moratorium period would be against the basic canons of finance and unfair to those who repaid loans as per schedule. RBI has however come out with a scheme which provides for extension of moratorium for two years to certain stressed borrowers, the Centre had informed the top court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-277
28-09-2020||Business||Shareholders vote out Lakshmi Vilas Bank chief ||In a rare instance of corporate activism, the shareholders of Lakshmi Vilas Bank (LVB) have voted seven directors out from the bank’s board, including MD-cum-CEO S. Sundar and two others who belonged to the promoter group, reflecting their displeasure with the working of the bank, particularly its finances. Details of the voting results of the annual general meeting (AGM) held on September 25 were released late on Saturday night. On Sunday, LVB sought to assuage the concerns over the outcome of the AGM. The lender said in a statement that though the re-appointment of the seven directors was not approved, the bank continues to have a fully functional board of directors, including three independent directors. “Till a new managing director is appointed, the existing senior management team along with the board of directors will discharge the day-to-day affairs of the bank as usual,” it said. At the shareholders’ meet, 15 resolutions were put to vote. Of this, 11 pertained to the appointment of directors, which included that of Sundar. The rest related to the raising of capital, adoption of audited financial statements of the bank for the year ended March and the appointment of statutory auditors. The shareholders did not give their approval to a proposal to appoint P Chandrasekar LLP, chartered accountants, Bangalore, as the statutory central auditors of the bank. Shareholders also voted out the proposal to re-appoint S. Sundar, who took charge as the MD and CEO of the bank on January 1, 2020. While approving Sundar’s appointment, the RBI had fixed his term till November 30 or till a new MD and CEO took charge, whichever is earlier. Around 60.6 per cent of the votes polled came against this resolution. A similar result was also seen in the case of the two directors belonging to the promoter group — N. Saiprasad and K. R. Pradeep— who were the non-executive and non-independent directors of the bank. The proposals to appoint four other directors — Gorinka Jaganmohan Rao, Raghuraj Gujjar, B. K. Manjunath and Y. N. Lakshminarayana Murthy — were also rejected. However, the appointments of G. Sudhakara Gupta, Shakti Sinha, Satish Kumar Kalra and Meeta Makhan were passed with more than 99 per cent votes in their favour. Following the voting results, the bank at present has six directors on its board. The other two directors on its board are RBI nominees —  Rajnish Kumar and Sundaram Shankar. The development comes at a time the bank is close to a merger with Clix Capital. In June, the lender had announced that it has received a non-binding letter of intent from Clix Capital Services and Clix Finance India to pick up a stake. The bank on Sunday said it will continue the process of considering and evaluating the proposed amalgamation with the Clix Group. It disclosed that the mutual due diligence is substantially complete and additionally, to strengthen its capital, the shareholders have approved a resolution authorising the bank to undertake capital raising through a follow-on offer, rights issue, QIP or other available routes. Clix was founded by Pramod Bhasin and Anil Chawla (formerly  with GE Capital) and backed by private equity firm Aion Capital. In October last year, the RBI rejected the proposed merger of Indiabulls Housing Finance (IHFL) with LVB. LVB, which is under the prompt corrective action (PCA) of the RBI, posted a net loss of Rs 112.28 crore for the first quarter of the current fiscal compared with a loss of Rs 237.25 crore in the same period of the previous financial year. However, its gross non-performing assets (NPAs) rose to 25.40 per cent of the gross advances from 17.30 per cent in the earlier quarter. Its tier-I capital ratio turned negative at 1.83 per cent against the minimum requirement of 8.875 per cent. On Sunday, LVB said its liquidity position was comfortable, with the liquidity coverage ratio (LCR) in excess of 250 per cent, about 262 per cent against the minimum 100 per cent required by RBI. The bank continues to enforce cost reduction measures both of direct and indirect costs. Further, besides the existing business, the bank will continue its focus on capital-light loans. All eyes are now on the next step to be taken by the Reserve Bank of India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-277
28-09-2020||Business||Labour code eases compliance||Top industry voices cautiously welcomed the new labour regime, noting that the simplification of as many as 25 laws into three codes would reduce compliance burden, “remove pockets of inefficiencies” and offer employers “little more freedom than they had earlier”. While the codes can potentially curtail the rights and privileges of workers to a large extent, some in the industry say the culture of “hire and fire” would be a slow process. Harsh Goenka, chairman of RPG Enterprises, claimed that an atmosphere when labour needed to protest to establish his rights no longer exists. “Both industry and labour are on the same side of the business,” Goenka said. The Mumbai-based conglomerate employs close to 30,000 people. Tata Steel boss T.V. Narendran believed the new piece of legislation would allow more women to join the force. “An important change is that now women can work any number of hours with consent and necessary precautions as opposed to earlier laws that barred women from certain activities and night time work hours,” the managing director & CEO of Tata Steel Group said. “It (the code) will help balance the interests, rights and obligations of employees and employers by extending social security to temporary, migratory, contract and casual workers in the form of life and disability insurance, health and maternity benefits,” Narendran argued. Industry said the lower compliance burden was much needed. “We are already facing large scale unemployment due to the pandemic and if we have to avert further job losses, it is imperative that the economic cycle revives and business becomes viable. The proposed changes are meant to simplify compliance and remove pockets of inefficiencies in a speedy manner, before they render the entire business unviable,” Goenka contended. Narendran concurred. “It (new labour regime) will also enable employment generation by giving employers a little more freedom than they had earlier,” he said. Will the focus on “fixed-term employment” — a worker can be deployed for as short as 3-6 months  —  lower the threshold to hire and fire and usher a new industrial relation culture? Vijay Shankar Beriwal, national president of the Institute of Indian Foundrymen, argued it would be a slow process. “We have to see the ground reality today. A hire and fire framework will not work, as of now,” he said. Units deploying up to 300 workers can now fire people without seeking the government’s nod, raising the threshold from 100 workers earlier. The codes also allow states to suspend the freedom of workers going for strike in new units. Foundry sector is of the large employers in India in the medium and small sector typically deploying 100-300 people. “We have to see the ground reality today. A hire and fire framework will not work, as of now,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-277
28-09-2020||Business||Sri Lanka seeks fresh bilateral currency swap||Sri Lankan Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa sought an additional currency swap facility and deferment of debt payments from India during an online bilateral summit with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday, Indian officials said. Sri Lanka owes about $960 million to India and earlier this year India agreed to a $400-million currency swap facility for Sri Lanka until November 2022. “An additional request for a bilateral currency swap arrangement worth around $1 billion by the Sri Lankan side remains under discussion,” said the Indian foreign ministry in a statement. Modi told his Sri Lankan counterpart that under the country’s “Neighbourhood First” policy, India will continue to “give special priority to relations between the two countries”, said the officials. Sri Lanka, located off the southern tip of India, has become an arena of competing influence between India and China, which has built ports, power stations and highways as part of President Xi Jinping’s signature “Belt and Road Initiative”, designed to boost trade and transport links across Asia. But the terms of some of these projects have drawn domestic criticism in Sri Lanka and opened the way for countries such as India, the United States and Japan to rebuild ties in the Indian Ocean country that lies near key shipping lanes. Rajapaksa, who won a general election last year after promising to pull the country out of its deepest economic slump, has to service mounting external debt amid the coronavirus pandemic. He told Modi that the Sri Lankan government’s policies will facilitate deeper economic and strategic cooperation between the two countries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-277
28-09-2020||Business||Rs 600cr foundry gain for Bengal ||Changes in the global supply chain forced by the pandemic could bring Rs 600 crore worth of additional business opportunities to foundries based in Bengal, a section of the industry claimed. Units located in the state are large suppliers of sanitary casting, which primarily comprised manhole cover, to the United States and Europe. Industry representatives said the local units already received at least 1 lakh tonne of additional order this fiscal. They cite two primary reasons for the bounty. Dependence on China, which meets 35 per cent of global casting requirements, is gradually declining. India, which produces 12 per cent of the world production, stands to gain most from such disruption. “Foundries in the US depend a lot on Mexican migrant workers. Similarly, units located in the western Europe hire many people from the eastern Europe. Many of these units are not operating to the full strength as a part of the migrant workers have gone home. As a result, import orders to India has gone up,” Vijay Shankar Beriwal, national president of the Indian Institute of Foundrymen, said. Even as the jury is out whether the shift in procurement practice from China to India would be a temporary one, industry hoped it would be permanent. Ravi Sehgal, past president of the Engineering Export Promotion Council and an industry veteran, reminded Indian foundries must upgrade technologically to meet customer  satisfaction levels. If this plays out as it is happening this fiscal, Bengal would stand to gain. The  foundry park at Ranihati, Howrah, may be a reality after a decade of struggle. Even though only six units have started work, expectation is that at least 100 more will set up shop in the next 2-3 years. There are four major clusters in the country, each focusing on specific sectors of the industry. While Bengal has an edge in railways and sanitary castings, the northern cluster in and around Ludhiana has high dependency on the tractor industry. The Coimbatore belt in the south focuses on the two-wheeler and the commercial vehicle sector.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-277
28-09-2020||Business||Compact SUVs brave turmoil||Sales of compact SUVs have bucked the auto industry trend during the pandemic. The segment is the most populated in the market following back-to-back launches of the Kia Sonet and Toyota Urban Cruiser last week. With the SUV body style proving to be the most preferred among consumers, the entry-level segment is witnessing phenomenal growth even in a depressed market. “The compact SUV segment has grown from 3.5 per cent of the total automobile sales three years ago to 13 per cent now,” said an industry source. The segment that was made popular by Ford EcoSport has now several contenders starting with the Maruti Vitara Brezza, Tata Nexon, Hyundai Venue and now the Sonet and the Urban Cruiser. “With so many players in the segment, there is a good traction of demand,” said Shashank Srivastava, executive director, Maruti Suzuki India Limited (MSIL). While the Brezza was initially launched in 2016 with just a diesel powertrain, the company changed strategy at the last Auto Expo with a 1.5 litre petrol engine. “With the introduction of BS-VI, the demand for diesel in this entry SUV segment has fallen dramatically,” said Srivastava whose company has stopped its diesel programme post BS-VI. That the segment is the fastest growing apart from the entry hatch is borne out by the numbers. Brezza has sold 1,48,000 units in 2017-18, 1,57,00 units in 2018-19. It then fell to 1,11,000 units in 2019-20 and this year it is selling 7,500 units per month on average. Last week, Toyota launched the cross-badged Brezza as the Urban Cruiser with no changes apart from the grille. The company is pinning its hopes on the Urban Cruiser to improve its sales. “The market is recovering in the entry SUV segment and this product will help us to get the numbers,” said Naveen Soni, senior vice-president, sales and service, Toyota Kirloskar Motors. Hyundai is upbeat on the Venue, the top selling SUV in the country for more than a year. The Venue became the best selling SUV in August 2019 pushing the Brezza from the top spot and has sold a tad less in August 2020 at 8,267 units against 9,342 units a year ago. The Breza has sold 6,903 units last month followed by the Tata Nexon which has doubled its sales of 5,179 units last month against 2,275 units a year ago. The segment also has the Mahindra XUV 300, the Ford EcoSport with the Honda WRV bringing up the rear. However, it remains to be seen how the two entrants, Kia Sonet and Toyota Urban Cruiser throw a challenge to the established leaders. Already, Hyundai has pipped Kia Sonet to the post with its launch of Venue’s iMT version right before Sonet’s launch. While Maruti pins its hopes on its petrol powered Brezza, the company is thinking of a CNG powertrain.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-277
28-09-2020||Business||Passive investing seems to be set for an exponential growth||In investing, every little quirk can be explained with an analogy drawn from cricket. It would be perfectly normal, therefore, to brand passive investing as a leisurely test match spread over several days, and active investing as a high-energy T-20 match complete with sudden bursts of excitement every now and then. The former, typically discharged by mirroring an index, attempts not to beat the market, while the latter is all about outperforming it by as wide a margin as possible. That said, passive investing seems to be set for an exponential growth in India. Indexing has already drawn the attention of new investors and various market intermediaries are working out smarter ways to introduce index-based investing. Asset management companies, for instance, are really in a position to steer the trend — so much so that every fourth draft offer document for mutual funds, as released by Sebi these days, draws its core strength from one index or another. That brings a critical issue to the fore: the emerging diversity in the realm of index funds, aided by multiple indices, including new-generation ones, which blunts the edge of the traditionally popular benchmarks, the Sensex and the Nifty. Before we proceed, let’s assure ourselves that such diversity is quite healthy for the markets. Use of assorted indices is completely welcome as these help propagate brasher and smarter styles of asset allocation. No more mere plain-vanilla for newer sections of the investing populace; let the current generation know more about index-based strategies than the older lot. Incidentally, there is already far greater awareness of ETFs (exchange-traded funds) than before. The point, however, we wish to make is simple. Not every index is suitable for an investor. In a scenario marked by an ever-expanding range of indices, there would be a variety of choices on the table. The average investor, therefore, must choose carefully. His selection must be based on his needs. The match must be as perfect as possible — else, chances of under-performance would be higher and his ability to achieve his investment goals would be undermined. Asset allocation must be viewed as a function of risk appetite. A discerning investor would be aware of the realities he faces. There would be many opportunities, limitations, challenges for him; the investment products he selects would also be spurred by his risk profile. Products based on certain indices, therefore, would be more welcome than others. From a basket of nearly comparable index products, he would invariably choose a few, hesitate a bit about others and absolutely avoid some of them. In the early days, when the idea of index funds was still nascent in India, life was considerably simpler as the choice was essentially between the Nifty and the Sensex. That was then, and it just isn’t so right now. Indeed, there is a great diversity of options. Even thematic/sectoral indices are being taken up by fund houses. Gold ETFs have earned their reputation already. The pie is set to grow larger with the rollout of newer ETFs. The Indian index fund/ETF story is indeed being played out well and it can be argued that the domestic market is drawing lessons from the western world, including the US platform for indices. The latter has seen phenomenal growth in the last two decades, and players such as State Street, Vanguard and Fidelity are household names today. The popular S&P 500 is among the most well-known indices for the investing fraternity. Cut to India, investors must remember the following points: While indexing is a late starter in India, it is not for nothing that the concept has acquired its present day elevated status. An index fund, an extremely low-cost option, can capture the entire essence of the market (or its chosen universe) at one stroke. Diversification is instantly achieved if the preferred index is a broad-based one. A discerning investor would be able to appreciate the idea and use it to his/her advantage. The writer is director, Wishlist Capital Advisors||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-277
28-09-2020||Business||Health cover premium to rise from October ||Health insurance premium is set to increase from October as companies factor in the changes mandated by regulator IRDAI on standardisation and a clutch of related regulations. The regulator in a bid to cut down on the complexities of health insurance policy documents and make certain aspects of coverage more easier for the policyholder to understand has come out with a set of guidelines, and products not in conformity with the rules cannot be offered and promoted from October 1, 2020. As a part of the changes, insurers can introduce EMI payment options in their health insurance products on a certification basis. Additionally, in a bid to standardise exclusions across all health insurance products, the regulator has come up with codes for each exclusion and the definition or wordings for these exclusions. Earlier the exclusions and their wordings were different across insurers. From October, there will be parity in terms of exclusions under health insurance products. Apart from the exclusions, the IRDAI has also defined ailments or treatments which are to be mandatorily covered by the insurers. There is also the standardisation of definition for pre-existing diseases with an intent to simplify it for the customers. All of these will be factored into when a policy is purchased next month or when it comes up for renewal. The industry estimates at least a 5 per cent rise in premium as these changes are incorporated. “There will be some impact on the premium. The regulator has allowed insurers to increase their premium by up to 5 per cent and launch their health insurance products on certification basis by October 1. If the increase is beyond 5 per cent, the insurers will have to follow the path of file and use,” said Rashmi Nandargi, head — retail health underwriting, Bajaj Allianz General Insurance. She said the standardisation was a positive move for the industry as the underlying terms and conditions for the claims decisions would be similar across insurers. It will also benefit customers, as the standardisation of terms and conditions will remove any ambiguity and they can opt for an appropriate health insurance policy based on the services provided by the insurer. Sanjay Datta, chief of underwriting, claims and reinsurance at ICICI Lombard, said since this is a regulatory mandate the industry has already incorporated the necessary changes and is prepared with the updated products. According to some insurers, the standardisation of health insurance could act as a gateway for insurers and preferred network partners (hospitals) to work in sync. “It is going to be the gateway for insurers and hospitals to come in alignment,” said S. Prakash, MD, Star Health Insurance. Deductions One of the critical components of health insurance coverage is hospitalisation cost and proportionate deductions of the associated medical expenses. When a policyholder upgrades his room and the room rent is higher than the one prescribed in the policy, the claims are subject to proportionate deductions. Now the regulator has asked insurance companies to define proportionate deductions and said that certain expenses such as cost of pharmacy and consumables, cost of implants and medical devices and cost of diagnostics are not allowed to be part of associated medical expenses. “There are a chunk of regulations that are coming into effect from October and changes related to proportionate deductions are part of that,” said Amit Chhabra, health insurance business head, Policybazaar.com. This change is aimed at curbing out-of-pocket expenses for policyholders and is also set to come into effect from next month along with the standardisation. “There are a chunk of regulations that are coming into effect from October and changes related to proportionate deductions are part of that,” said Amit Chhabra, health insurance business head, Policybazaar.com The impact of this change will be more for group policyholders who negotiate with insurance companies on room rents to reach a mutually agreeable premium.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-277
28-09-2020||Business||Qatar Airways losses at $1.9bn||Long-haul carrier Qatar Airways on Sunday reported losses of $1.9 billion for the past year, blaming the coronavirus pandemic, its liquidation of shares in Air Italy and the ongoing boycott of Doha by four Arab nations for the drop. The energy-rich nation of Qatar itself needed to bail out the state-owned airline at the end of its financial year on March 31 with $2 billion to keep the airline operating, its annual report acknowledged. The carrier also blamed new accounting rules for further adding to losses for the past fiscal year. “If not for the exceptional circumstances of fiscal year 2020, our results would have been better than the year before,” Qatar Airways CEO Akbar al-Baker said in a statement. The airline carried 32.3 million passengers in the last financial year compared with  29.4 million the year before. But Qatar Airways finds itself in the same position of competing Gulf long-haul carriers Emirates and Etihad, slashing thousands of jobs while trying to expand its network as travel restrictions are lifted worldwide. The airline listed having over 50,000 employees on its payroll in the report. Qatar Airways, which operates some 250 aircraft out of Doha’s recently built Hamad International Airport, follows the model of other Gulf carriers by providing a link between the East and the West from its location on the Arabian Peninsula. But the lessened demand saw the carrier ground its double-decker Airbus A380s “as it is not commercially or environmentally justifiable to operate such a large aircraft in the current market”, the airline said in a statement. The coronavirus pandemic halted global aviation for months, which only has begun to pick back up. Qatar also has been targeted by Bahrain, Egypt, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates in a boycott since June 2017. That boycott continues today despite efforts by other Gulf Arab nations and the US to reconcile the countries involved in the political dispute. Al-Baker said since the pandemic, Qatar Airways has flown over 2 million passengers and carried over 250,000 tons of medicine and aid to areas impacted by the coronavirus. “I have every confidence that the Qatar Airways Group will emerge stronger from this difficult period and continue to innovate and set the standards that our competitors can only hope to emulate,” he said. Further hurting the airline was the February collapse of Air Italy, a regional carrier it held a 49% ownership stake in at its launch in 2018. Air Italy had been trying to rename and become a national carrier with flights across Europe. Qatar Airways in its financials said it likely would lose nearly $400 million alone on Air Italy. Qatar Airways also restated its losses for the previous year in the financial report Sunday, putting it at close to $1.3 billion as opposed to the $639 million it earlier reported. It lost $69 million in 2018.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-278
28-09-2020||India||Congress, Opposition parties step up the heat against govt on farm laws||Stepping up pressure, the Congress along with other Opposition parties held demonstrations against the new farm laws in several states on Monday with some protesters torching a tractor at the India Gate in the heart of Lutyens' Delhi. The Congress invoked Bhagat Singh, whose birth anniversary was being celebrated on Monday, during the protests and Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh took part in a sit-in at the ancestral village of the freedom fighter. The chief minister said his government would approach the Supreme Court over the farm laws and warned that Pakistan's ISI could exploit the anger over the new legislations to foment trouble in the border state. Protests were also held in Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Telangana, Gujarat, Goa, Odisha and Tamil Nadu, where the DMK and its allies, including the Congress, hit the streets. DMK chief M.K. Stalin said his party was ready to challenge the new laws in court. “Kerala was readying to approach the Supreme Court against the laws and the Tamil Nadu government should follow suit and if this does not happen, we (DMK) as an opposition party are ready to go to court on behalf of farmers and the people," Stalin said, while addressing protesters in Kancheepuram district. Congress MP from Thrissur (Kerala) T.N. Prathapan moved the Supreme Court on Monday challenging the constitutional validity of various provisions of the Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, one of the three contentious farm laws notified by the government. MDMK chief Vaiko, Tamil Nadu Congress committee president K. S. Alagiri, DMK leaders T. R. Baalu and Dayanidhi Maran were among those who took part in the protests held at separate locations. Demonstrations were held in Chennai, Coimbatore, Madurai, Tiruchirappalli and Tirunelveli among other places across the state. Early morning start Five persons claiming to be members of the Punjab Youth Congress were detained after they unloaded a tractor from a truck in the high-security area at Rajpath, a few hundred metres from the President House and the Parliament, in the national capital and set it on fire at around 7 AM.  "On #BhagatSingh's birth anniversary Youth Congress set ablaze a tractor in protest against the govt's anti farmer bills," the Indian Youth Congress tweeted.  The BJP lashed out at the Congress over the incident, saying it has "shamed" the country with its "drama" aimed at garnering publicity and "misleading" farmers. BJP general secretary Bhupender Yadav dubbed the Congress as "anti-farmer", saying farmers venerate their farm equipment and would not set tractors on fire. Nearly 100 Gujarat Congress workers, including state party president Amit Chavda and MLAs Baldevji Thakor and C. J. Chavda, were detained in Gandhinagar during protests. In Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee (UPCC) president Ajay Kumar Lallu and other party workers were held during the protest.  The arguments The Opposition led by the Congress has alleged that the laws will make the farmers vulnerable to exploitation and will lead to the scrapping of the Minimum Support Price (MSP) system. They are also critical of the manner in which these bills were passed in Parliament. The Centre has maintained that the laws would prove beneficial to farmers as they would have the freedom to choose buyers for their produce and get remunerative price. Also. it has stressed that the MSP system will stay. Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar said the Congress had been trying to do politics in the name of farmers, and it has been unmasked. ‘We will move SC’ Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh said he would fight the Centre's malicious new agriculture Acts constitutionally and legally, asserting that he will do whatever it takes to protect the farmers.  "I have said we will take this matter forward. The President has passed these bills and now we will take this matter to the Supreme Court," Singh said after paying tributes to Bhagat Singh on his 113th birth anniversary at his ancestral place Khatkar Kalan in SBS Nagar district.  "There has been peace in Punjab but when you try to take away someone's food, then won't he be angry. He becomes the target for ISI. That is why I am saying whatever they have done is anti-national, he later told reporters.  The AICC general secretary in charge of Punjab affairs, Harish Rawat, announced a signature campaign beginning October 2 to collect two crore signatures of farmers against the new farm laws and these will be submitted to the President of India on November 14.  In Lucknow, police stopped members of the Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party's students wing as they tried to march towards the chief minister's residence.  Selja leads delegation Haryana Congress held a protest outside the party's state headquarters in Chandigarh, alleging the laws will make farmers "dependent" and leave them at the mercy of big corporates.  A delegation comprising Haryana Congress chief Kumari Selja, former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda, party's state affairs in charge Vivek Bansal, other senior leaders submitted a memorandum to Governor Satyadeo Narain Arya which was addressed to the President.  Telangana Congress leaders and the new AICC in-charge for party affairs in Telangana Manickam Tagore were taken into custody when they tried to proceed to the Raj Bhavan from an adjacent government guest house. They were released by police later.  President Ram Nath Kovind has given assent to the three farm bills -- The Farmers'' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020. Karnataka protests Meanwhile, farmer organisations backed by a number of other social and political outfits on Monday staged protests across Karnataka against amendments to the Karnataka Land Reforms Act and the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee Act passed by the Karnataka Assembly.  The call for a bandh given by the Karnataka Raitha Sangha (Karnataka Farmers' Association) and other farmer organisations was supported by the Congress, JD(S), Karnataka Rakshana Vedike (KRV) and the Left parties.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-642
28-09-2020||India||No conclusion reached in Sushant's death, all angles being probed: CBI||The CBI has not reached any conclusion in the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput and all aspects are under investigation, the agency said on Monday. "The Central Bureau of Investigation is conducting professional investigation related to death of Shri Sushant Singh Rajput in which all aspects are being looked at and no aspect has been ruled out as of date," a CBI spokesperson said in statement. Rajput, 34, who made his silver screen debut in the critically acclaimed "Kai Po Che" seven years ago, was found dead in his apartment in suburban Bandra in Mumbai on June 14 this year. The CBI had taken over the probe from Bihar Police into the alleged abetment to suicide case filed by the actor's father K K Singh in Patna against Rajput's girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty and her family. Singh in his complaint to Bihar Police had alleged that Chakraborty along with her family members had misappropriated Rajput's wealth, which was denied by Chakraborty in TV interviews. Last week Singh's lawyer Vikas Singh had expressed "helplessness" over the slow pace of the CBI probe into Rajput's death. The pace of the CBI probe into Sushant Singh Rajput's death has suddenly slowed down and all attention is being diverted to drugs-related issues with the NCB conducting "fashion parade" of Bollywood stars, the late actor's family lawyer Vikas Singh had alleged on Friday. "Today, we are helpless as we don't know which direction the case is going in. Normally, a press briefing is done by CBI. But in this case, till today, CBI has not done a press briefing on what they have found out. This is a very serious issue," Singh had alleged at a press conference. The probe agency had earlier also issued a statement calling media reports attributed to it as speculative. "Certain media reports attributed to CBI investigation are speculative and not based on facts. It is reiterated that as a matter of policy, CBI does not share details of ongoing investigation," the agency had said on September 3. "CBI spokesperson or any team member has not shared any details of investigation with media. The details being reported and attributed to CBI are not credible," it had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-643
28-09-2020||India||DMK, allies to take the streets to protest farm laws||DMK and its allies hit the streets across Tamil Nadu on Monday, protesting the three farm sector legislations with its chief M. K. Stalin saying that his party was ready to challenge the Centre's contentious move in court. Addressing a demonstration at a village in neighbouring Kancheepuram district as part of the state-wide protest, he alleged the new laws would drive farmers away from their land. "Take back farm laws", "We will not rest until the farmers interests are protected", "Farmers betrayed," and "Farm laws lead to hoarding," were among the slogans raised during the demonstrations. The DMK-led alliance, which includes the Congress and Left parties among others, on last Monday decided to hold the state-wide agitation against the bills, passed in the recent Parliament session. Kerala was readying to approach the Supreme Court against the laws and Tamil Nadu government should follow suit and if this does not happen, "we (DMK) as an opposition party are ready to go to court on behalf of farmers and the people," he said. The DMK chief took a dig at Prime Minister Narendra Modi by saying "this son of a poor mother is now making a large number of Indians poor", referring to the PM's claim that he was the son of a poor mother. Attacking Chief Minister K Palaniswami, he said though the AIADMK leader took pride in calling himself a farmer, their lives have "taken a hit" only after he assumed power. Stalin, also the leader of Opposition in the Assembly, alleged farmers would be driven out of their own land and their lives would go backward. After consultations with allies, the next course of action, like further protests against the farm laws, would be decided, he said. MDMK chief Vaiko, Tamil Nadu Congress Committee president K S Alagiri, DMK leaders T R Baalu, Dayanidhi Maran were among those who took part in the protests held at separate locations. The protest demonstrations were held in Chennai, Coimbatore, Madurai, Tiruchirappalli and Tirunelveli among other places across the state. Similar protests against the farm bills are being witnessed in several other places in the country, especially in Punjab and Haryana, with Congress and other parties alleging it was against farmers. The Centre has maintained that the legislations, which have since received Presidential assent, would be beneficial to the farmers as they would have freedom to choose the buyers for their produce and get remunerative price.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-643
28-09-2020||India||Punjab government to move SC against farm laws||Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh said on Monday that his government would approach the Supreme Court over the issue of new farm laws, adding that the  BJP-led central government was out to snatch the rights of states. Amarinder Singh, along with AICC general secretary and Punjab affairs in-charge Harish Rawat, Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar and others, paid tributes to Shaheed Bhagat Singh on his 113th birth anniversary at Khatkar Kalan village. Amarinder Singh, Rawat and others held a sit-in protest against the new farm laws. Addressing the gathering, the Amarinder slammed the Centre for bringing the farm laws, saying they would "destroy" the farming community. "I have said we will take this matter forward. The President has passed these bills and now we will take this matter to the Supreme Court," Singh said. Stating that his government would take every possible step to protect the interest of the farming community, he said, two advocates from Delhi are coming here tomorrow (Tuesday) and we will discuss this matter with them. President Ram Nath Kovind on Sunday gave assent to three contentious farm bills that have triggered protests by farmers, especially in Punjab. According to a gazette notification, the President gave assent to three bills -- the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020. Defending farmers for holding protests over the farm laws, the chief minister said they had the right to do so as you are taking away their livelihood. He accused the central government of snatching the rights of states. "Now you have taken away (right over) the farm sector. Which thing will you leave with states? Will you leave it or not? You have taken away everything (from states). How will we run our states?" he added. Talking to the media later, Amarinder expressed hope that Congress leader Rahul Gandhi would join the protests against the new farm laws. "We are going to request him to join us. Daily he is tweeting and making statements, saying whatever they (government) have done with farmers is a fraud. He will certainly join us," he said. To another question, Amarinder stated that Pakistan's spy agency ISI always tried to foment trouble in the border state of Punjab."The ISI always looks to whom and where it can give guns, bombs and grenades. They have been following it since the beginning. During the last three and half years of our regime, we have arrested around 150 terrorists and seized around 700 weapons," he said. "There has been peace in Punjab but when you try to take away someone's food, then won't he be angry. He becomes the target for ISI. That is why I am saying whatever they have done is anti-national," he added. 'Akali Dal in lose-lose situation' Slamming the Shiromani Akali Dal, which has exited the NDA, the CM said, "Akali Dal is now in a total lose-lose situation. You will find they will lose all over. They will try to use some other tactic that is not going to work because once you have let people down, once you have told them what sort of people you are nobody will trust you again." Earlier addressing the gathering, former Uttarakhand chief minister Rawat said the Congress would fight farmers' battle. He accused the BJP-led central government of "demolishing" the minimum support price, mandi system and PDS (public distribution system) with these farm laws. "Their motive is to demolish everything which farmers have got after a long struggle. From the green and white revolution to till now, rights which farmers acquired, one by one all of them are being demolished with these farm laws," Singh said. "MSP and mandi system will be dismantled with these farm laws and their next target is FCI," he said, claiming that they also want to demolish the Public Distribution System.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-643
28-09-2020||India||Youth Congress activists set tractor ablaze at India Gate ||Youth Congress activists on Monday morning set a tractor on fire at India Gate in the heart of Lutyens Delhi to voice their protest against the contentious farm laws. Five people claiming to be members of the Punjab Youth Congress have been detained, police said. According to the police, around 15-20 people carried a tractor on a truck to Rajpath, Man Singh Crossing. They unloaded the tractor from the truck and set it on fire. Fire officials said they were informed about the incident at 7.42 am and two fire tenders were rushed to the spot. The blaze has been doused and the tractor was removed, police said. IYC media incharge Rao said activists of its Punjab unit demonstrated at the India Gate on the occasion of the birth anniversary of revolutionary freedom fighter Bhagat Singh. "Our country thrives on the blood and sweat of our farmers. From fighting the British to feeding the entire nation, our farmers are the nation's backbone," the IYC tweeted. "On #BhagatSingh's birth anniversary Youth Congress set ablaze a tractor in protest against the govt's anti farmer bills," it added. Deputy Commissioner of Police (New Delhi) Eish Singhal said five people had been detained and an Innova car that was used has also been taken into police custody. The detained persons have been identified as Manjot Singh (36), Ramandeep Singh Sindhu (28), Rahul (23), Sahib (28) and Sumit (28), all residents of Punjab, police said. They claimed to be members of Youth Congress Punjab. Their affiliation is being verified, according to the police. Reacting to the incident, Delhi BJP media relations head Neelkant Bakshi tweeted that he would file a case against the "dangerous conspiracy to foment violence by spreading rumours". The incident comes amid protests by farmers and the Opposition across the country over the three contentious farm legislations, which were passed by the Parliament last week and got presidential assent on Sunday. Farmers have expressed apprehension that the laws would pave a way for the dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big companies. Delhi Congress leaders and workers, including its president Anil Kumar, were detained by police on Monday during a protest against farm bills at Rajghat. Kumar said a protest march from Rajghat to Raj Niwas was also scheduled but police detained party leaders and workers before it could begin. "We wanted to submit a memorandum to the Lt governor against the farm bills passed by Parliament but we were detained by the police. The Congress will not rest till the Modi government withdraws its anti-farmer bills," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-643
28-09-2020||India||Unlock: Odisha to open all tourist sites||The Odisha government has decided to re-open all its tourist sites to the people in a phased manner from the first week of October. The closure of these destinations for tourists has not only meant loss of revenue for the government but also loss of livelihood for a large number of people dependent on the tourism industry. Chief minister Naveen Patnaik highlighted the state’s tourism potential in a tweet on the World Tourism Day: “Odiha’s treasure of timeless monuments, heritage, idyllic natural beauty, cultivating landscapes, diverse flora and fauna are a traveller’s delight. On World Tourism Day, reiterate commitment to unlock its vast potential in a post pandemic world.” Tourism minister Jyoti Prakash Panigrahy said: “We have decided to open the 358 tourist destinations in a phased manner from October.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-643
28-09-2020||India||Former Bihar DGP now in Nitish Kumar parlour||Before the ink on his VRS application and its approval had dried, Gupteshwar Pandey was chaperoned into the Janata Dal United by chief minister Nitish Kumar on Sunday. Till Tuesday night, Pandey was the director-general of police in Bihar, discharging his responsibilities with such zeal that he played a key role in transforming the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput into television opium that sought to distract attention from multiple national crises. Soon after Nitish ushered Pandey into the party, the Opposition alleged that the retired officer had been “rewarded” for aiding the politicisation of the Sushant tragedy. Pandey had taken voluntary retirement from the Indian Police Service on September 22. The mandatory notice period had been waived by the central and state governments amid suggestions that he would take the plunge into politics and could contest the Bihar Assembly elections in October-November. Pandey, who was to retire in February 2021, had aggressively pursued Sushant’s case and questioned the aukaat (a derogatory word for stature) of the actor’s girlfriend, Rhea Chakraborty, to comment on the Bihar chief minister. Pandey had also frequently appeared on TV to take pot shots at Mumbai police — a practice that undermined not only the division of powers under which police is a subject of each state but also the professionalism of the premier police service. While still in service, Pandey had featured in a music album titled Robin Hood Bihar Ke that eulogised him for his work as a police officer. He had shared the video on social media platforms on the day he took VRS. The Indian Police Foundation, a think tank, had said: “A state DGP circulating such a video is in poor taste, demeaning his office and uniform. It sets a bad example for his juniors. It is also a violation of the conduct rules.” On Sunday, Nitish himself welcomed Pandey into the JDU at the chief minister’s official residence — 1 Aney Marg — in Patna by making him a member and garlanding him with party signs. Legislative Assembly Speaker Vijay Kumar Choudhary, Lok Sabha member Rajiv Ranjan alias Lalan Singh and building construction department minister Ashok Choudhary, just appointed executive president of the state unit of the JDU, were present. Pandey later visited the JDU state headquarters in the Bihar capital to formally announce his entry into politics. “I was called by the chief minister and asked to join the party. I will abide by the order of my party and follow the directions of our leader (Nitish). The party will decide whether I have to contest the elections. I’m a simple person who doesn’t understand politics. I have spent my life working for the downtrodden,” Pandey said. A spokesperson for the Opposition RJD, Mritunjay Tiwary, said: “This is the reward for the way Pandey was involved in whipping up people’s sentiments in Sushant Singh Rajput’s death case. He looked less like a DGP and more like a JDU spokesperson while speaking aggressively about the case in public and on television channels.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-643
28-09-2020||India||PMO official behind fake ID tweets, says Subramanian Swamy||In the season of rewards, use-and-throw stories too pop up. Subramanian Swamy, who once specialised in tormenting the UPA and was nominated to the Rajya Sabha after Narendra Modi came to power, on Sunday accused an official in the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) of steering a Twitter campaign against him and suggested that he had furnished documentary proof to the Prime Minister. The timing of Swamy’s charge was not without significance — it came a day after the BJP ignored his ultimatum and retained Amit Malviya as the party’s social media chief. Swamy had initially levelled the charge against Malviya. On Sunday, Swamy tweeted: “Now that Malviya has been reappointed, I have this to say: My earlier tweet was to test whether Malviya financed fake ID tweets on his own or not. Now it is clear. PMO Haren Joshi was behind it. I have written to PM two weeks or so ago bringing this to his notice with documents.” One Hiren Joshi, not Haren, is officer on special duty, communications and information technology, in the PMO. Calls this newspaper made to Joshi’s number, listed on the PMO website, went unanswered. There was no reply, either, to an email seeking his response to Swamy’s allegation. The issue offered Swamy — who has been variously described as a maverick, loose cannon and self-propelled missile and whose nuisance value is well-known — a fresh chance to articulate his bitterness. Replying to a Twitter user’s question if “Modiji ever listens to you”, Swamy said: “If he (did), then he would not have been in a mess in the economy which is about to collapse after a long tailspin.” Swamy, an economist, had been extremely critical of the government’s handling of the economy and had said in January that the Prime Minister “has to make me finance minister because he (Modi) does not understand economics”. Sunday’s dust-up also occasioned a very public washing of saffron linen. Delhi BJP spokesperson Tejinder Pal Bagga suggested Swamy was bitter because he “didn’t get anything” and accused him of ditching the Atal Bihari Vajpayee government in favour of Sonia Gandhi in the late 1990s. “Is this true u met Women Journalist in Oct 2014 and told her I will start Exposing PM @naredramodi after 6 Months,” Bagga tweeted. “U didn’t get the time to implement ur agenda u r doing it now. We know ur History, u ditched Atal ji for Sonia, whn u didn’t get anything you become Virat Hindu,” Bagga tweeted. Swamy, who has a follower base of over 10 million on Twitter, responded by blocking Bagga. The BJP spokesperson hit back: “Dear @Swamy39, instead of accepting/denying the fact, you blocked me. Virat Swamy is running from truth, O My God.” Bagga soon faced the wrath of Swamy’s followers who chastised the spokesperson and appealed to Modi to look into the Rajya Sabha MP’s complaint. Early this month, Swamy had accused Malviya of masterminding a social media trolling campaign against him through fake IDs and warned the BJP of a Mahabharat-like situation if the party’s social media head was not sacked. “The BJP IT cell has gone rogue. Some of its members are putting out fake ID tweets to make personal attacks on me,” Swamy had tweeted. “By tomorrow if Malviya is not removed from BJP IT cell (which is my five villages compromise proposal to Nadda) it means the party doesn’t want to defend me,” he had tweeted a couple of days later. In the Mahabharat, Krishna had proposed that Duryodhan give five villages to the Pandavas as a compromise to avert a disastrous war. Swamy has been sniping at the Modi government. He had strongly opposed the government’s move to hold the JEE and NEET exams amid the pandemic. He had supported the students’ agitation against the exams, which had crystallised into an online campaign against the Prime Minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-643
28-09-2020||India||Winter beef-up on Ladakh frontline||India’s army is ramping up its military posts at 14,000ft and above in eastern Ladakh and has deployed T-90 and T-72 tanks along with infantry combat vehicles amid the border tensions with China. It is also setting up winter shelters for the nearly 40,000 troops near the Line of Actual Control. Defence ministry sources said the army was increasing its military readiness at high altitudes to deal with any provocation from the Chinese who are “adamant” about not pulling back from India-claimed territory. “The army is gearing for a harsh winter, mobilising resources and creating habitats on a war footing at the multiple friction points along the LAC to counter any further Chinese move to alter the status quo,” a ministry official said. He said the deployment of additional men and machines was being done after analysing the Chinese deployments. T-90 and T-72 tanks, he said, can operate below -40 degrees Celsius, which is how cold the mountains of Ladakh can become in winter. The army recently procured high-altitude gear at a huge expense and has been stocking up on food, fuel and ammunition to sustain the six-month winter deployment, the official added. Winter has already arrived at some high-altitude zones, with the onset of snowing. A security official said that such heavy deployment in high-altitude forward posts, often in isolated areas, was unusual in winter. “New posts and shelters are being set up to keep a close watch on Chinese troops,” he said. “The Indian side has put up barbed wires at some friction points, drawing a line and sending a message to the aggressive Chinese troops not to cross it. These areas can turn into flashpoints anytime considering the escalating build-up from both sides.” Security agencies estimate the Chinese have occupied close to 1,000sqkm of India-claimed territory in eastern Ladakh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-643
28-09-2020||India||Jaswant Singh: BJP founder member who was an outsider ||It’s often said about Atal Bihari Vajpayee that he was “the right man in the wrong party”. This would be equally, if not more, true of his trusted lieutenant and trouble-shooter — his own “Hanuman” —Jaswant Singh who, despite being a founder member of the BJP and holding several positions in the party and its government at the Centre in the Vajpayee era, always remained a bit of an outsider in the Right-wing camp. Never a card-carrying member of what he called the “Jai Shri Ram Brigade”, Singh — who died on Sunday after being in a coma for six years — forswore even some of the social mores of Indian politics. Few Indian politicians drink in public — and cover their glasses with napkins on the rare occasions they do — but Singh penned in his memoir, A Call to Honour, that he had a glass of champagne with the external affairs ministry team after returning from Kandahar with the passengers and crew of the hijacked IC-814. The day marked, by his own account, one of the most painful chapters of his life, bearing as he did the burden of escorting three terrorists to Kandahar to secure the release of the passengers. It was not his decision alone, but he became the face of that bargain. Singh, born into a “Mallani jagirdar” family in present-day Barmer nine years before the Partition, died unaffiliated much the same way his political career had begun — as an Independent in the 1967 elections. Offered an opportunity to join the Bharatiya Jana Sangh by his political mentor Bhairon Singh Shekhawat, he had steered clear of it owing to the outfit’s position on minorities. However, he seemed to make his peace with the Jana Sangh’s new incarnate, the BJP, when it was formed 13 years later — primarily under Vajpayee’s influence. That was a friendship that endured, so much so that, according to Singh’s son Manvendra who switched to the Congress from the BJP in October 2018, “father found a fit” in the six-decade-long bond that Vajpayee shared with L.K. Advani. Vajpayee was the only person Singh had called on after being expelled from the BJP for the first time in 2009 over his book Jinnah: India, Partition, Independence. The book had upended Right-wing wisdom with a favourable account of Pakistan’s Quaid-e-Azam, blaming not just Jawaharlal Nehru but also Sardar Patel — the Sangh’s most favoured freedom fighter — for the Partition. Singh was so devastated by the expulsion that he broke down in public when the axe fell, his Rajput genes and military training notwithstanding. What hurt most of all, he told some journalists then, was that Advani had not come to his defence, even for the sake of returning a favour. When Advani had been in a similar position in 2005 after praising Jinnah during a Karachi visit, Singh had stood up for him in the face of demands that Advani step down as BJP president. Some amends were made 10 months after Singh’s expulsion when Advani reached out to him and the party took him back. Singh was the NDA choice in 2012 for the vice-presidential election though defeat was a foregone conclusion. With some reluctance, Singh — often ridiculed for his gravelly voice, clipped accent and patrician demeanour — agreed since he was no stranger to new battlegrounds. He had earlier shifted Lok Sabha constituencies in Rajasthan and even gone eastwards to represent Darjeeling during his 34-year career as a parliamentarian, spanning both Houses of Parliament. But then he was from Barmer, known for its shifting sand dunes. Critics in the BJP, though, maintained that Singh had been forced to change constituencies because he would not nurse them as expected of a Lok Sabha member. Life came full circle for Singh when he decided to contest as an Independent from Barmer in 2014 after the BJP denied him a ticket and, worse, fielded a recent Congress import, resulting in his second expulsion and final break from the party. Even if he had not rebelled then, he would in all likelihood have done so eventually as the new BJP under the Modi-Shah duopoly would have had little patience with his ways. Singh, eminently capable of mocking himself, has in his memoir described Mayo College — his alma mater — as a school “to ‘civilise’, educate and transform the sons of rough nobility of the region into some kind of caricatures of ‘an English gentleman’”. That education, the very British military training and love of English literature contributed to his persona. But ironically, he found the “linguistic pirouettes” of external affairs ministry officials cumbersome when he was made foreign minister in the third Vajpayee administration. Those were challenging times. After the Kargil conflict, relations with Pakistan were particularly strained, and had been made worse by frequent terror attacks, including the attack on Parliament. Then there were the US sanctions triggered by Pokhran-II. If Vajpayee is credited with opening a new chapter in India-US relations after the sanctions, Singh did much of the heavy lifting, ironing out the rough spots through a series of meetings with President Bill Clinton’s deputy secretary of state, Strobe Talbott. During the Vajpayee years, Singh was often the Prime Minister’s go-to guy, not just in matters of governance but also in dealing with difficult political allies such as the mercurial Jayalalithaa and Mamata Banerjee. About his responsibilities in the NDA government, Singh had often said that it spanned the “D, E and F of the governance of India” — defence, external affairs and finance. In the Vajpayee era, he held all three portfolios — defence and external affairs simultaneously for a while. In 2002 he was moved back to finance — which had been his first ministerial assignment in the 13-day Vajpayee government of 1996 — to fight the criticism attracted by the RSS choice for the post, Yashwant Sinha, who had by then been nicknamed “rollback minister”. Sinha had pipped Singh to the post in 1998 in a crack-of-dawn move engineered by the RSS, which found the “Englishman in the BJP” too pro-reform, influenced as he was by the free market politics of C. Rajagopalachari’s Swatantra Party. But by the time Singh had returned to North Block in 2002 in a swap with Sinha, his heart was across the road in South Block. Luck — many economists said — favoured him at the finance ministry. Still, he can claim credit for rewriting India’s foreign exchange conservatism, a move triggered by the need to do “something different” and the “native wisdom” gathered from his “range-fed” desert upbringing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-643
28-09-2020||India||Ajay Lallu, Congress president in Uttar Pradesh, sees a revival||Ajay Kumar Lallu, the humble and proactive Uttar Pradesh Congress chief who has marked himself out as a leader who works among the people, believes his state is yearning for a radical change. Lallu, whose work on the ground has drawn attention on social media, spoke to The Telegraph about his vision for the Congress’s revival in a state that had once been the party’s stronghold but where it has been out of power for over three decades now. Assembly elections are due in Uttar Pradesh in 2022. Excerpts: Q: We have been hearing about a Congress revival in the key state of Uttar Pradesh for almost two decades now; every new state president claims the tide is turning. The same is being repeated in your tenure. How is it different now? Lallu: The difference this time is Priyanka Gandhi. She is totally committed and we are all working under her guidance. People are looking up to Priyankaji with hope. The organisation is being expanded with strong teams in every district. We intend to reach every village. There is constant monitoring. Our strategy is sampark-samvad-sangharsh (contact-communication-struggle). You can see the churning in the society. The Congress is visible everywhere in the state and it has already become the most talked about party. The reason is that Uttar Pradesh has been misled and fooled by politics of religion and caste. Both Mulayam Singh Yadav and Mayawati did caste politics. They were caste leaders. The BJP is purely a communal party; it won power by creating a religious divide in society. People have now realised that these parties did politics for grabbing power, not for giving good governance in the biggest state of the country (in terms of population). The Congress doesn’t do politics based on caste and religion. That’s not our DNA. While all the three parties — the SP, BSP and the BJP — are suffering an acute crisis of credibility, people want the Congress now in the hope of development and justice. Q: But the Congress has always talked about development and opposed politics based on caste and religion. And the people have rejected it. What’s new? You rely only on Priyanka? Lallu: The leadership of Priyankaji is definitely a factor. People know the Gandhi family has no lust for the trappings of power; they have seen it all for decades. People can trust them for their own welfare and safety. The critical difference this time is that people’s sufferings have reached an abnormal point. Pet khaali hai (stomachs are empty). Injustice and coercion have peaked. Industries are in ruin, farmers are distressed, youths have no jobs, women are insecure. Betrayal by these three parties, coupled with the fatigue factor, has compelled people to look at the Congress. And the Congress is everywhere — in their struggles, in their miseries… giving voice to their concerns. While the BJP is only creating problems and trying to suppress discontent by force, the SP and the BSP are nowhere to be seen. Congress workers were in the field during the lockdown and the migrant crisis, fought against the CAA-NRC and stood by farmers. Q: But the SP and the BSP have a much stronger organisational machinery. The Congress doesn’t have the muscle to beat them. Will Priyanka’s charisma alone suffice? Lallu: We have strengthened our organisation. Large numbers of people are joining daily. The Youth Congress brought out impressive rallies against unemployment in over 20 districts. The SP and the BSP are facing a severe image crisis. Everybody in the state knows they have been silenced by the CBI, ED and the income tax department. Only the Congress is not frightened by such coercive measures. The CBI-ED can fetter them, not us. Tota bana diya unko (the SP and the BSP have been reduced to parrots). Mulayam, Akhilesh (Yadav, SP leader and former chief minister) or Mayawati have abandoned the people. The Congress is the only party standing by the people in their miseries. Have the SP-BSP uttered a word on the Chinese intrusions and the shocking mismanagement of the corona (pandemic) and the lockdown? Only Rahul Gandhi is fighting Narendra Modi. People are watching everything. Q: Still, Akhilesh Yadav and Mayawati, or chief minister Yogi Adityanath, are state leaders. The Congress doesn’t have an effective local leader. Lallu: Which leader has greater credibility and appeal than Priyankaji? And leaders should be judged by action and outreach, not reputation. All our leaders are constantly among the people. Not only me, every leader is reaching out to the people. I come from a small family, I don’t have the reputation of Akhilesh Yadav or Mayawati but I am always amidst the people. I don’t have the financial clout of those leaders but I can share the pain and struggle of the people with greater intensity. I am a man of struggle; both my legs were broken — I stand up because there are iron rods in both my legs. There are even now 38 cases against me and all because of my struggle for the people. After becoming the UP Congress chief (in 2019), I have been arrested 21 times. I am telling you these things only to explain how the Congress is doing pro-people politics in the state. Q: So you will improve your tally or be in a position to win power? Lallu: I can’t say anything about it now. Everything is possible in politics. We are not done yet. But we are working hard. If we manage to convince the people that you have been cheated and fooled for three decades, there will be change. People have to be explained how they were denied development and prosperity in the name of caste and religion. The moment people realise this, the Congress will be back in power.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-643
28-09-2020||India||Nepal builds barracks near Kalapani in Uttarakhand||Nepal is building permanent quarters and barracks within its territory for soldiers deployed near Kalapani in Uttarakhand district in an unprecedented move after the Himalayan nation claimed the area as its own in a map. The constructions are being made at Changru, 13km from Kalapani. Earlier this year, soldiers were deployed at Changru after Nepal’s parliament ratified a map and coat of arms that included Kalapani, Lipulekh and Limpiyadhura within its territory. India says all three areas are part of Uttarakhand’s Pithoragarh district. Nepal home minister Ram Bahadur Thapa on Friday laid the foundation stone for the project at Changru. The barracks will house personnel of Nepal’s Armed Police Force (APF), which performs the dual role of military and law enforcement. “Thapa said during an interaction with villagers of Sitapul near Changru that it was a great opportunity for Nepali youths to join the APF, which has plans for expansion,” a source in the Uttarakhand government said. APF spokesperson Raju Aryal was quoted by the Nepali media as saying: “We are going to construct barracks in Changru to keep a watch on the India-Nepal border.” The Uttarakhand government source said: “There had never been any security personnel in this area to monitor civilian activities near the border. The people of the two countries used to freely cross the border. Now the APF doesn’t allow our citizens to enter their land. We too are preventing the entry of Nepali people.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-644
28-09-2020||India||Family suicide bid, finger at moneylender in Agra||A shoemaker-cum-cobbler attempted suicide with his wife and two children in an Agra village on Sunday morning after uploading a video accusing a moneylender of tormenting the family. Deepak Kumar, 30, who forwarded the video to friends and relatives before drinking insecticide with wife Anuradha and their children, aged 5 and 7, said he had failed to repay the loan because the lockdown had hit his business. All four were critically ill on Sunday evening at the S.N. Medical College, where relatives had taken them from their home in Gyaspur village. “I had borrowed Rs 1.5 lakh from a local moneylender last year at 10 per cent annual interest. But my work suffered because of the lockdown and I couldn’t repay him,” Deepak, who makes shoes and sells them from a pushcart, says in the video. “The moneylender and his henchmen began visiting my home and threatening me every day. The police didn’t accept my complaints.” Deepak, who has named the accused in the video, adds: “I sold my house for Rs 1.5 lakh to a local businessman on September 23 and told the moneylender to come and take the principal. I promised to repay the interest in a few months. “He called me to his bungalow. There, he locked me in, thrashed me and forced me to sign on a blank stamp paper. He then called and asked my wife to come over with a blank cheque if she wanted me alive. “They attacked her when she arrived and forced her to make a thumb impression on a blank cheque. They forced me to say I had borrowed Rs 3 lakh at 10 per cent interest and would repay it by October 28, and made a video of my statement. We have returned home but are distressed and are ending our lives.” Rajesh Kumar, a relative of Deepak, said: “All four are unconscious. The doctors are trying to save them.” Satyendra Singh, station house officer at the local Shahganj police station, said: “A case will be registered against the accused. We are waiting for Deepak and his wife to give their statements.” Referring to Deepak’s allegation that the local police had refused to accept his complaints, he promised to probe “any lapse on the part of the police”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-644
28-09-2020||India||Farm bills: Congress appeals to all parties ||The Congress on Sunday appealed to all the non-BJP parties to rise above partisan considerations and political alignments to protect the interest of farmers. Sunil Jakhar and Kumari Selja, Congress chiefs of Punjab and Haryana, the two most affected states, said at a news conference: “It is not the time for politics. Every political party must think about the future of farmers. They should decide whether they stand by the farmers or the corporates. “The bills brought by the Narendra Modi government will help the corporate and big traders while completely destroying the farmers.” “The Akali Dal which supported the bills finally bowed to the pressure mounted by the farmers. They walked out of the NDA as the farmers were not allowing their leaders to enter villages. The JJP of Dushyant Chautala which has propped up a minority BJP government in Haryana should also respond to the demands of the farmers and withdraw. They will not be forgiven otherwise,” they said. The Congress chiefs added: “Parties like Nitish Kumar’s JDU and Ram Vilas Paswan’s LJP also need to think. These allies should draw lessons from the treatment the BJP gave to the Akali Dal. “The Prime Minister not only refused to pay heed to their demands, they were not even called for a discussion. The arrogance of the Modi government will target others as well. The parties which extend support to the BJP indirectly — the BJD, AIADMK, TRS and the YSRCP should also think and stand honestly with the farmers.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-644
28-09-2020||India||Farm bill fire-fight: Facing protests, Modi sells stories||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday stressed the importance of storytelling and narrated success stories of farmers as he tried to fire-fight the farmers’ agitation and its initial political fallout. The stories he told during his monthly radio broadcast Mann Ki Baat were those of farmers led to prosperity by the freedom to sell their produce wherever and to whoever they wanted — a freedom he claimed his new farm laws guaranteed them. The farmers agitating in several states say the new laws, once notified, would end the government’s MSP (minimum support price) regime and leave them to be exploited by big companies. Modi’s efforts to counter the argument came a day after ally Shiromani Akali Dal decided to snap ties with the BJP, its hand forced by the farmers’ intensifying anger against the new laws. The Prime Minister cited examples from states that had allowed vegetables and fruits to be sold outside the regulated wholesale markets, or mandis, saying these anecdotes were based on feedback received through letters and his interactions. “One such farmer brother lives in Sonipat district of Haryana; his name is Kanwar Chauhan,” Modi said. “He told us how there was a time when he used to face great difficulties in marketing his fruits and vegetables outside the mandi, the marketplace. If he sold his fruits and vegetables outside the mandi, his produce and carts would often get confiscated.” Under the APMC Act, which the new farm laws will override, farmers could sell their produce only at the local mandis. However, over the years, many states had for practical purposes allowed farmers to sell their produce anywhere. “In 2014, fruits and vegetables were excluded from the APMC Act (in Haryana), which greatly benefited him (Chauhan) and fellow farmers in the neighbourhood. Four years ago, he, along with fellow farmers from his village, formed a ‘farmer producer’s organisation’,” the Prime Minister said. “Today, farmers in the village cultivate sweet corn and baby corn. Their produce is supplied directly to the Azadpur Mandi, Delhi, big retail chains and five-star hotels. Today, the farmers of the village are earning Rs 2.5 lakh to Rs 3 lakh per acre annually.” Modi added that more than 60 other farmers from the same village were growing “tomato, cucumber and capsicum” and “earning from 10 to 12 lakh per acre every year”. He narrated similar stories about the “Sri Swami Samarth Farm Producer Company” from Maharashtra, the “Tamil Nadu Banani farmer produce company”, “Iraada” (a farmer-producer company from Lucknow) and Ismail Bhai, a farmer from the Prime Minister’s home state of Gujarat. Ismail Bhai, Modi said, had resolved to dispel the notion that farming was unprofitable. “He started farming by using new methods and innovative techniques. Using drip irrigation he cultivated potatoes... and today his potatoes are his hallmark,” the Prime Minister said, according to an English translation of his speech by his office. He said Ismail Bhai was earning “handsome profits” by selling high-quality potatoes directly to “big companies”. Modi went on to hail the benefits of storytelling, regretting the decline of an art that was part of India’s rich heritage. In this context, he recalled an incident from his past life as a “parivrajak” (wandering ascetic). “I spent a major part of my life as a parivrajak, an ascetic. Wayfaring was my life. Every day it used to be a new place and people, new families,” he said. While meeting families he would speak to the children and ask them to tell stories. “No, uncle, not a story, we’ll tell you a joke,” the children would often say to him, he recalled. “They would ask me too to tell them a joke; evidently they had no clue (about) stories. It was jokes that had pervaded their lives, in a major way,” he said. Modi introduced a group of professionals from Bangalore who pursue storytelling in their spare time and lauded their efforts. He urged families to take some time out every week for storytelling, particularly in these pandemic-hit times. “You will see what a huge treasure gets accrued (for) the family, how great (the) research (will be) and how much delight it will bring to everyone!” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-644
28-09-2020||West Bengal||Alapan Bandopadhyay named new chief secretary of Bengal||Alapan Bandopadhyay was named as the new chief secretary of Bengal on Monday. Bandopadhyay, who is at present the state home secretary, will join his new posting on October 1, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said. He will take over the new role from Rajiva Sinha who retires on September 30. Bandopadhyay is a 1987-batch IAS officer of Bengal cadre. HK Dwivedi, who is at present the finance secretary of the state, will take over as the home secretary, the chief minister said. Manoj Pant will be the new finance secretary. He is at present the principal secretary of the Land and Land Reforms and Refugee Relief and Rehabilitation Department. Sinha was appointed the chairman of the West Bengal Industrial Development Corporation, Banerjee announced. He has been appointed to the post for a period of three years, she said. "I thank him for his tireless service to GoWB, Banerjee tweeted. "Best wishes to entire team," she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-359
28-09-2020||West Bengal||Signs of Bengal rift greet changes in BJP||BJP workers clashed at two places on Sunday in a manifestation of the intensifying power struggle in the state unit between old-timers and those who had joined the party recently. At Baruipur in South 24-Parganas, old-time BJP workers agitated in front of the car of Anupam Hazra — former Trinamul MP from Bolpur who had defected to the saffron camp last year and then contested from the seat unsuccessfully. The car was blocked when Hazra, who was made a national secretary of the BJP on Saturday, was leaving after attending a BJP meeting. He got off the car and sought to pacify the agitators. Hazra left the venue and soon after, old-time BJP workers and new comers fought with each other in the presence of the party’s Baruipur unit chief Harikrishna Datta. Sources said the old-timers’ lobby got infuriated at Hazra being invited. “The old-timers attacked while a meeting was being conducted. They beat up at least seven party workers and one of them had to be hospitalised,” said a district committee member. On Saturday, BJP veteran Rahul Sinha had publicly made his bitterness clear over his exclusion from the national leadership. On Sunday, a clash occurred at Basirhat in North 24-Parganas when a group of BJP activists led by its local youth wing secretary Mrityunjay Sinha and former organising committee chief Ganesh Ghosh barged into a community hall where a party meeting was about to begin.  Hundreds of chairs were smashed in the clash. State BJP general-secretary Sayantan Basu said such clashes were “not uncommon” when the party was expanding. Additional reporting by Arkamoy Datta Majumdar||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-359
28-09-2020||West Bengal||Bengal reports 3,185 new Covid cases, 60 deaths in a day||Bengal on Sunday reported 3,185 Covid-19 infections and 60 deaths, besides 2,946 recoveries, as the total number of patients went past 2.47 lakh, of whom nearly 2.17 lakh were cured and 4,781 succumbed to the disease. The recovery rate is now 87.67 — an improvement by over 7 per cent in a month — while the national rate is 82.35 per cent. The total of active cases rose for the 20th consecutive day to 25,723 on Sunday. Calcutta alone reported 615 new cases, while North 24-Parganas had 670. But Calcutta also logged 579 recoveries, while North 24-Parganas reported 534. Calcutta, which had reached a high of 7,041 active cases by August 9, had improved to 4,067 by September 8. However, with the return of the rise, the city reported 4,944 active cases on Sunday. “But we cannot yet say that the good work of a month, till the first week of September, has been undone. The reversal of the trend of improvement has set us back by a few weeks. That’s all,” said a Bengal minister. Of the total 4,781 deaths reported, the city alone accounted for 1,669, with 17 recorded on Sunday. North 24-Parganas reported a total of 1,069 deaths, five of them on Sunday. The state government reported 4,075 deaths (85.2 per cent) as those with comorbidity “present”. Bengal’s overall mortality rate remained 1.93, still behind the national rate of 1.57 per cent. Calcutta’s mortality rate is 3.06. “The mortality rate of infected males has improved to 2.15 from 2.17 per cent in a month. Infected females’ mortality rate is now 1.55, from 1.65 a month ago,” said the minister. With 43,618 tests, the total stopped just short of 30.99 lakh, at 34,430 tests per million people. “We were at 19,073 tests per million even a month ago. In September alone — with three days remaining — we have already conducted over 12.11 lakh tests,” said the minister. Steady rise in the tests, coupled with no major increase in the number of new cases, has improved the positive confirmation rate — the percentage of total cases found out of the total number of tests conducted — from 8.9 on August 23 to 7.98 per cent. A decreasing positive confirmation rate is indicative of reducing levels of Covid-19 spread. The state reported 36.09 per cent occupancy on 12,675 beds earmarked for Covid-19 at 92 dedicated hospitals. Over 2.62 lakh telemedicine consultations for the pandemic were provided, including 4,087 in the past 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-360
28-09-2020||West Bengal||Selfies with jumbo calf at expense of safety||A three-month-old elephant calf on Sunday morning was found to have strayed from its herd, spurring hundreds of people from Manabari tea garden, some 45km from Jalpaiguri town, to take selfies with the calf, photo-shoot the animal and touch it. This selfie act by the 400-odd crowd that paid scant respect to social distancing norms also permanently separated the calf from the herd as elephants are known not to accept calves touched by humans. Sukhdeb Oraon, a resident of the closed garden, said that a herd of 11 elephants had entered the tea garden from the adjoining Bhuttabari forest on Saturday night. “Early morning we found that the calf had failed to follow the herd and strayed into the plantation,” said Oraon. The forest guards from Targhera range in Malbazar subdivision were informed and they reached by 7.30am. Soon around 30 foresters from Gorumara, Baikunthapur and Kalimpong also reached the spot but by then a 400-strong crowd had already gathered. “People wanted to touch the calf and take selfies with it even as the calf started wandering directionless in the garden,” said Madan Chhetri, another resident. The foresters struggled for nearly four hours to manage the crowd and rescue the calf. Nisha Goswami, divisional forest officer, Gorumara, said: “Our staff went to the tea garden, where the three-month-old elephant calf had strayed from the nearby forest. The rescued animal will be kept at the Gorumara National Park.” Health officials expressed concern over the assembly of such a big crowd that ignored all Covid-19 safety norms. “When a large number of people gather at a point without maintaining physical distance or wearing protective gear, there are apprehensions of the virus spreading,” Susanta Roy, the officer on special duty (north Bengal) of the state health department, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-360
28-09-2020||West Bengal||Thapa to hills: Stop blaming Bengal always||Anit Thapa, who chairs the board of administrators of Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA), on Sunday said that the hills should stop always blaming Bengal or Centre and instead focus on administering the hills properly. Thapa while addressing a function to mark World Tourism Day at Gorkha Rangamanch Bhawan said that since taking charge of the GTA he had only come across problems because efforts have not been made to solve issues since 1986. The first Gorkhaland agitation was launched in 1986 by Gorkha National Liberation Front leader Subash Ghisingh. “There are great problems like unemployment and looking back since 1986, we have only lost (on many fronts)…..Our problem is that we only blame. Sometimes we blame Bengal, sometimes we blame Centre but we have not been able to administer what we have with us and none is pondering on this issue,” said Thapa. After the 1986 agitation, Darjeeling Gorkha Hill Council (DGHC) was formed two years later. Another round of Gorkhaland agitation started in 2007, following which DGHC was repealed and the GTA formed in 2012. Bimal Gurung resigned from the GTA in 2017, a little before its five-year tenure was to end, shortly after he launched another agitation. Taking a potshot at this, Thapa said: “Our leaders blame at the end (of the tenure).” Observers believe that Thapa, avowedly practising the “politics of reality”, is perhaps trying to showcase that earlier leaders were poor administrators. “Since 1986 our leaders have only believed in short-cuts and this is why we do not have a clear policy on many issues,” Thapa said. Thapa’s Gorkha Janmukti Morcha has been trying hard for the past three years to consolidate his support base. The party, however, lost two previous elections. The GTA said that it would form an apex body as requested by the stakeholders “to start solving issues one by one” and appointed S.N. Pradhan, Prashant Raj Pradhan and Sangay Tshering from the transport and hospitality industries as its conveners. “Thapa is probably trying to divert the narrative from political issues to matters of governance before the state assembly election,” said an observer. “Covid has united us and we have fought this pandemic together,” said Thapa who stressed that the hills should continue to remain together in days to come. The GTA head also brought out the reference of Gorkha Rangamanch Bhawan and said that it felt good to organise a function at the place after years. The language protest, which culminated into a statehood agitation, had started from the premises of this town hall. Kalimpong-II Integrated Tourism Awareness Society decided to sponsor the fees of two private tutors for 50 underprivileged students residing in remote villages of Pitamchen and Mulkarga to mark the tourism day. “These remote places lack good network for online classes,” said Samdu Bhutia, president, KITAS. Subarna Mazumdar, BDO Algarah, and Nurpundee Lepcha, WBCS (Exe) Joint BDO Algarah II, were also felicitated by KITAS for doing development work.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-360
28-09-2020||West Bengal||State focus on repair of 200 bridges||The public works department has identified 400-odd bridges in distress out of 1,800 maintained by the department across Bengal, with over 200 among them needing immediate repair and restoration to avert any major mishap in the near future. “Following a thorough inspection and health scan of all the bridges across the state, it has been found that over 400 bridges are in distress. Of them, 204 need urgent renovation and restoration work. The PWD is working to start this job at the earliest,” said a senior government official. According to sources, the department had issued an order to conduct the health audit of all the bridges it maintains across the state soon after the collapse of Majerhat Bridge in Calcutta in September 2018. It took almost two years to complete the job as the department wanted to carry out a thorough inspection and safety audit of all the bridges. Districts like South and North 24-Parganas, East Midnapore, Murshidabad and Malda have the majority of distressed bridges. “The districts that have more rivers and canals have more distressed bridges. Districts like South and North 24 Parganas and East Midnapore also witnessed the wrath of Amphan, which also damaged a few bridges,” said a source. The state government is now trying to restore all the severely damaged bridges at the earliest as it does not want any other bridge to collapse ahead of the polls. “The collapse of Vivekananda Road flyover and Majerhat bridge (2016 and 2018, both in Calcutta) has tarnished the image of the state government. The BJP was raising questions over the maintenance of bridges. The ruling establishment does not want to take any risk particularly a few months before the polls,” said a bureaucrat. Sources said that even if some bridges, particularly in districts like South and North 24-Parganas were proposed to be replaced in near future, the state government wanted to undertake restoration of the bridges for the time being as the state is facing a financial crisis amid the pandemic. According to sources, the PWD sought a clearance from the finance department to spend a sum of Rs 150 crore to restore 204 bridges immediately. “We cannot take up restoration work for all 400-odd bridges right at the moment due to financial constraints. The department has sent a proposal to take up restoration and maintenance work on 204 bridges, which need urgent restoration,” said a PWD official. Sources in the department said that the restoration work for the remaining bridges could be taken up next year as the survey mentioned that those bridges, though distressed, can serve for few more years. “Most of these bridges were constructed more than 30 years ago. With little restoration, these can serve for another 10-12 years. But some bridges, constructed about 35 to 40 years ago, need replacement,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-360
28-09-2020||North East||Assam police recruitment chief quits||Chairman of the State-Level Police Recruitment Board (SLPRB) Pradeep Kumar resigned from his post on Sunday owning moral responsibility for the leak of the question paper that led to the cancellation of the September 20 recruitment exam for 597 posts of police sub-inspectors. The SLPRB conducted the cancelled examination, which will now be held next month. Kumar is the first high profile casualty of the case. The number of arrested has gone up to 17 from 12 on Saturday, including four candidates who appeared in the mock test held at a city lodge a day before the examination. Another person was arrested from Tinsukia district. However, former DIG PK Dutta and BJP youth leader Diban Deka, allegedly the key suspects in the case, remain at large. Sunday also saw the Opposition Congress step up the ante, dragging the name of sitting BJP MLA Bimal Borah in the paper leak-cum-recruitment racket, asking chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal what action would be taken against the legislator who is said to be close to him. Sonowal, however, has asserted in the public that nobody will be spared, irrespective of his party affiliation or status. Though Kumar could not be contacted, he had told the media that he had taken Diban Deka and Gautam Mech, who had informed him about the paper leak, to the CID office to register the FIR.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-43
28-09-2020||Opinion||Untamed spirit||Yet another media trial, yet another television channel accusing Muslim citizens of jihad this year, and we are back to contemplating the perennial excesses of Indian news television amid fresh calls for institutional control. The list of institutions, which have tried to make the worst offenders of television news behave, is already long. Even before judges of the Bombay High Court and the Supreme Court expressed surprise and indignation this month, other high courts, the apex court itself, the Central government, state governments, individual chief ministers, state legislatures, Parliament, the Law Commission, the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India, and self-regulatory bodies have all attempted at some point to tame errant newscasters. Broadcast regulation in India has become everybody’s concern and yet they fail miserably to stop the excesses. We have also failed to pass an effective law. India has no statutory broadcast regulation today because the industry and the government could not agree, all these years, on what such a legislation should look like. The mention of regulation makes the media bristle and not entirely without reason. Any draft the government has come up with over the years has had draconian fall-back provisions. Draft broadcast regulation was introduced in 1997, 2001 and in 2007. The Broadcast Bill of 1997 and the Communications Convergence Bill of 2001 lapsed with the dissolution of the respective Lok Sabhas. The Broadcasting Services Regulation Bill of 2007 did not get very far either. In 2011, the second UPA government decided to set up a National Broadcasting Content Complaints Council instead that was meant to, at least, make private sector broadcasting more accountable. But that did not materialize. So it is perhaps entirely in the fitness of things that last week, a long-time practitioner of what we consider objectionable TV journalism was given a Zoom platform to explain why television news is the way it is. An anchor whose channel back in 2007 was one of the first to attract a 30-day ban from the ministry of information and broadcasting but who bounced back and has flourished since. He offered the following wisdom. “The line between entertainment and news has disappeared, there are new consumers of news to cater to. They want a news channel to be a one-stop shop for both information and entertainment, and they want it for free. So we have a ratings-based business model, and TRPs have nothing to do with discipline or responsibility. The more irresponsible you are, the higher your ratings will be. “Responsible conduct is irrelevant to the viewer. Just as people do not reject politicians who break rules, they do not reject news which breaks rules. “Viewer prefers gossip to news about farmers. My programme on Sushant Singh Rajput got 35 lakh views on Facebook, and the one on farmers got 7 lakh views. But how is the polity any different? Where is the CBI jaanch when a farmer commits suicide? Is anyone going to the Supreme Court for justice for the farmer? “Channel owners have been compelled to make their editors into film producers. They are expected to follow box office formulas, and show what their box office collections are like. Today if I have not screamed, or driven somebody out of my studio, I will fall behind in my box office performance.” The first takeaway from this box-office logic is that self-regulation will not make a dent in the practices of tabloid news TV. Why would they want to self-regulate when they have to compete to sell viewers to advertisers? Serious fines that hurt their revenues are more likely to dim their enthusiasm for re-enacting an actress’s death in a bathtub, or reconstructing an actor’s suicide or conducting a media trial of his girlfriend and her family. The Bombay High Court expressed surprise this month that the government had no control over the electronic media and wanted to know why television news should not be regulated by the State. But it is. The Cable Television Networks (Regulation) Act of 1995 has a programme code and an advertising code, which government personnel, including district magistrates, are empowered to implement. And the ministry of information and broadcasting is a de-facto regulator, imposing arbitrary TV bans on channels whenever an internal committee thinks it fit and  giving permission to telecast by controlling uplinking and downlinking of television through licences. But the government’s use of the Cable TV Act is arbitrary and, in the current instance, unapologetically partisan. Earlier this month, it let Sudarshan News broadcast the controversial show called ‘UPSC Jihad’. It asked the channel to ensure that the show does not violate any programme code prescribed in the Cable Television Networks Rules, 1994, knowing full well that it does. Newslaundry counted at least five violations of the programming code. It said the show caricatured Muslims as power-hungry brutes with terror links abroad who would hijack the country’s resources if they made it to the bureaucracy. The outraged judges of the Supreme Court then made scathing observations while restraining Sudarshan News from broadcasting the remaining episodes of its controversial series. When you don’t have effective regulation, the highest court of the land resorts to undesirable pre-censorship. Regulation governs television, radio and telecom licensing in other countries, sets technical standards, promulgates ethics codes, and receives and adjudicates complaints with fines, which can range from moderate to severe. In 1995, when a Supreme Court bench decreed that India should have an independent regulator to govern the airwaves, it should have become the impetus to recognize that given the media boom happening a wide-ranging regulatory institution needed to be put in place with different branches governing a range of needs. Today we have a government ministry licensing and regulating television, a separate regulator for telecom and broadband, a soft-touch regulator for the print media, and self-regulation for advertising and news TV, alongside the ministry. We don’t have the one institutional mechanism that might rein in outrageous violations by broadcasters — an independent, statutory complaints council empowered to levy substantial fines. Few will remember that the first Broadcasting Council mooted was in the Prasar Bharati Act passed by Parliament in 1990. This was meant to take complaints from the public regarding any broadcast by Prasar Bharati. By the time the Act came to be notified in 1997, the proposed Council had been dropped. But given the burgeoning media and viewers addicted to over-the-top programming, what the good judges should be asking for is not more regulators but an effective complaints redressal mechanism. The author is a media commentator and was the founder-editor of TheHoot.org||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-141
28-09-2020||Opinion||New avenues: Taiwan looking at partners||Even as China continues with its aggressive behaviour around its periphery, it has been particularly tough on Taiwan for allowing senior government officials from the United States of America to visit Taipei in recent weeks. Taiwan was forced to scramble its fighter jets for interception as Chinese aircrafts repeatedly buzzed the island the same day that the US under secretary for economic affairs, Keith Krach, began his engagements in Taipei. Krach is the most senior state department official to visit Taiwan in four decades, and Beijing decided to show its displeasure by seriously escalating tensions with Taiwan, even announcing military exercises near the Taiwan Strait. China’s air force also released a video showing nuclear-capable H-6 bombers carrying out a simulated attack on what appears to be Andersen Air Force Base on the US Pacific island of Guam. The Global Times, the unofficial mouth piece of the Chinese government, argued in its trademark style that “Taiwan leader Tsai Ing-wen, who pledged deeper ties with the US at a dinner for a visiting senior State Department official, is clearly playing with fire. If any act of her provocation violates the Anti-Secession Law of China, a war will be set off and Tsai will be wiped out”. However, it did not seem to have much of an effect on Taiwan, with President Tsai Ing-wen pledging deeper ties with the US with the “hope that Taiwan and the United States continue to work together to promote peace, stability, prosperity and development in the Indo-Pacific...” Taipei also warned Beijing that its armed forces have the right to self-defence and counter attack amid “harassment and threats” and that it followed the guideline of “no escalation of conflict and no triggering incidents.” China has never been shy of claiming democratically-governed Taiwan as its own territory, to be taken by force if needed, but in recent years its hold has become more tenuous. The plight of Hong Kongers seems to have reinforced in Taiwan the need to remain autonomous, and the Donald Trump-led US administration has scaled up its support for Taiwan. Before Krach’s visit, the US health secretary, Alex Azar, had visited amid reports of major new arms sales to Taiwan, including long-range missiles that would allow Taiwanese jets to hit distant Chinese targets in the event of a conflict. It was just last year that Washington announced the sale of 66 F-16 fighter jets worth $8 billion to Taiwan. The Taiwanese armed forces are keen to acquire weapon systems that would allow them asymmetric advantages vis-à-vis Beijing by enhancing deterrence. The Trump administration’s strong position on the issue of Taiwan dovetails well with its broader policy on China, which has become increasingly hardline. Trump is also campaigning in the US elections as a president who has been tough on China by tightening the screws on trade, technology and geopolitics. But the issue of Taiwan has bipartisan support in the US Congress as well. It is unlikely that a potential Joe Biden-led administration will scale back US commitments to Taipei. Taiwan’s handling of the Covid-19 pandemic, especially when juxtaposed with China’s initial mismanagement and lack of transparency, has resulted in worldwide appreciation. Taiwan’s global cache has risen at precisely the point when China’s global stock is falling rapidly. India, too, has started looking afresh at its engagement with China as Beijing-New Delhi ties have nosedived and new avenues of cooperation with Taiwan are opening up. Tsai has been keen to cultivate new partners and her New Southbound Policy has sought to enhance links with countries across south and southeast Asia. India is a natural partner in more ways than one. It has often purported to speak on behalf of the weakest members of the international community; it should now make Taiwan a priority. Not just because of China, but also because Taiwan is a nation worth investing in politically, economically and culturally.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-141
28-09-2020||Opinion||Unproductive: monsoon session sans debate||The productivity of India’s Parliament is, evidently, a matter of subjective interpretation. At the end of the monsoon session — it was truncated on account of the raging pandemic — the Speaker, Om Birla, congratulated members of the government as well as the Opposition for ensuring that the sittings did not go to waste. By productivity, Mr Birla may have alluded to the feverish pace of the passage of bills by the government. It has been reported, for instance, that last Wednesday, the Rajya Sabha, in an unprecedented show of speed, passed eight bills in a matter of four hours, taking the tally of legislations passed to 15 over two days. But the passage was a bit too smooth, a point that was raised by the chairman of the upper House, M. Venkaiah Naidu, in his valedictory address. It is possible that Mr Naidu views parliamentary productivity differently, underscoring the need for thorough examination of legislations by the Opposition and the government since clauses in bills affect the lives of the people that parliamentarians claim to represent. The uncontested passage of bills had been possible because of the Opposition’s decision to boycott Parliament as a gesture of protest against the Centre’s steamrolling of three contentious farm bills earlier. To be fair to the Opposition, the manner of the passage of the farm bills was anything but consultative. But conceding the space of deliberation in Parliament — the most august House in India’s democracy — to an authoritarian regime cannot be considered to be an act of political wisdom either. The Opposition, as is mandated in parliamentary democracy, should have been present in the House, going through bills with a fine-tooth comb, as it were, to ensure that the welfare of citizens would not be affected in any manner. The labour reform bills, which have had their share of deep concern, are a case in point. The real concern is not only about the absence of political clout and finesse of a fragment Opposition. Parliament, conceptually speaking, is the highest body of discussion, debate, dissent and scrutiny of issues of national importance. It appears that the scope of critical reflection in Parliament, much like the rest of New India, is being narrowed. A muscular regime viscerally opposed to questioning — Question Hour was dropped in the monsoon session — has now been complemented by an Opposition that lacks the energy to hold an elected government accountable. The prevailing state of affairs is far from productive for the cause of democracy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-141
28-09-2020||Opinion||Jurists' ire: amended FCRA poses extraordinary obstacles||While passing the amendments to the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act last week, the government said that the objective was transparency; the law was not against any non-governmental organization. Perhaps the assurance was necessary because there was not much discussion with stakeholders or even much time between tabling the bill and passing the legislation. This is a point made by the International Commission of Jurists in its statement against the FCRA 2020. The ICJ had requested the Indian president to withhold assent to allow the bill to become law as it violates international provisions: it fails to comply with the country’s international legal obligations and Constitutional provisions to protect the rights to freedom of association, expression, and of assembly. The ICJ has objected to the “arbitrary and extraordinary obstacles” being placed before rights defenders and civil society organizations. Among the problems are issues such as the reduced access to overseas funds for public servants and small NGOs, increased government oversight that NGOs fear might be arbitrary, multiplication of bureaucratic processes, the order to shift foreign accounts to a Delhi branch of the State Bank of India only, and the lowering of administrative expenses from overseas sources to 20 per cent from 50 per cent. That is an example of what the ICJ is talking about: why should the government interfere in a donor’s decision to give 50 per cent of administrative expenses to the recipient NGO? Accountability, the government’s concern, is important, and there are certainly cases of misuse of foreign funds. But such cases can be identified, since NGO regulations were always stringent. They have to provide four reports each year, to their donors, to the relevant ministry, file income tax returns and comply with registration laws, and inform the home ministry of details such as change of member or of bank account. No government has been fond of NGOs, but their history with the Narendra Modi government has been especially troubled. Foreign funding for NGOs dropped 40 per cent from 2014 to 2017-18, and 13,000 NGOs lost their licences. Even if fears of a political motive in disempowering the civil society sector are dismissed, it cannot be denied that education, health, nutrition, gender sensitivity, skills development, rights awareness and so on would be deeply harmed by the amended FCRA.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-141
28-09-2020||Opinion||Anxious situation||Sir — It was shocking to read about the harassment meted out to the actress, Deepika Padukone, when she appeared before the Narcotics Control Bureau. Reporters surrounded and chased her car. This can be extremely anxiety-inducing, especially for someone with a known history of mental illness. It must be considered that because Padukone is a celebrity, this issue has at least garnered some attention. Consider the plight of thousands of citizens with mental illness who have to face similar harassment in everyday interactions — be it facing raised voices or being stuck in crowded places. Rima Roy Calcutta Sir — The farmers’ produce trade and commerce (promotion and facilitation) bill, 2020, the farmers (empowerment and protection) agreement of price assurance and farm services bill, 2020 and the essential commodities (amendment) bill, 2020 were passed amid protests by the Opposition parties, without any form of democratic discussion in Parliament. Even the government’s allies have raised apprehensions about the fallouts of these legislations, lending their voice to the farmers’ demands; the Shiromani Akali Dal has already snapped ties with the National Democratic Alliance. The government has claimed that these reforms are revolutionary and will free the farmers from the clutches of the exploitative Agricultural Produce Market Committee. While most farmers would agree that the APMC and the functioning of the farmers’ mandis is inefficient, opaque, politicized and often controlled by cartels, almost all of them will also agree that the new bills only make matters worse. The bills give free rein to private capital to purchase agricultural produce at cheaper prices and without any regulation or oversight by the government. This will eventually lead to the shifting of trade from regulated APMC mandis to private markets without any commitment towards investment in infrastructure and regulation from the government. Essentially, what the government has done is shirked all responsibility and left the agricultural sector at the mercy of private players. With government investment in agriculture declining in real terms and rising input costs and declining subsidy, farmers fear that the withering away of the last remaining instrument of State support in the form of the minimum support price will spell doom in years when production suffers. Aviral Sahay Calcutta Sir — At a time when the pandemic exposed that India’s claims of being a food-secure nation are far from true — a number of people died of hunger because the government could not provide them with food — the farm bills raise more queries about the future of food security in India. Now that private players will be able to purchase and stockpile produce, one wonders how the state governments will be able to procure quality substances for the public distribution system. Corporatizing food procurement will have a serious impact on the price of food. If, for instance, state governments have to procure food from private players instead of farmers, not only are the latter cheated of fair prices that the government is bound to pay but the State will also be paying more money to corporates. In the long run, this will have a huge repercussion on the price of food and how much an average household spends on it. This is just scratching the surface. The minute food becomes more expensive and families — especially the poor — cannot afford to buy sufficient quantities of it, women and girl children will be the first ones to be deprived of adequate portions. This, in turn, will have an effect on maternal mortality, infant mortality and malnutrition. The impact of these sinister, unilaterally imposed bills will be more far-reaching than meets the eye at first. Yashodhara Sen Calcutta Sir — In the context of the farm bills, it is interesting to note that data collected by the National Crime Records Bureau suggest that there has been an unprecedented rise in farmers’ mobilization during the first two years of the Narendra Modi government. Between 2014 and 2016, the number of farmers’ protests rose from 628 to 4,837 — a whopping 700 per cent increase. Who can forget the kisan long marches that left an indelible imprint on our minds? As farmers across the country take to the streets in protest against the recent passage of three controversial farm bills, it must be asked why this sector — farmers make up a chunk of the vote bank of any party — has been overlooked and treated poorly by consecutive governments. Farmers have been ignored by previous dispensations as well — although no other government has blatantly shrugged off its responsibility towards those who put food on our plates as the current regime. One reason for this could be the fragmentation of the farming community and the insidious entry of politics into agriculture. Farmers are used as pawns in a political game because they lack cohesion among themselves. Hira Lal De Calcutta Sir — Given that the benefits of big-bang structural reforms such as demonetization and the goods and services tax are not within sight, it is difficult to judge the impact of the new farm bills on the lives of farmers. What is most important is the timing of these reforms. It is ironic that they come amidst a collapsed economy, devastated by the Covid-19 pandemic. At a time when the economy faces massive demand compression, people cannot accept the logic of such hasty moves. Structural reforms must come at an opportune time when the economic agents are prepared for it. They must not be thrust like the new farm laws and proposed labour legislations. Venu G.S. Kollam, Kerala||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-142
28-09-2020||Jharkhand||NCLAT holds virtual hearing on Incab liquidation||The New Delhi-based National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) conducted a virtual hearing on Incab Industries Limited on Monday. During the 20-minute hearing a two-member bench comprising Justice Bansilal Bhatt, chairperson of NCLAT, and Justice J.K. Jain heard the appeal of the workers who had challenged the liquidation order of the company earlier passed by the Calcutta bench of National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT). The appellate authority (NCLAT) asked advocates and counsels fighting the case on behalf of workers -- both from Jamshedpur and the company's head office in Calcutta _ to file notes on arguments which is a concise presentation of a claim on a problem. NCLAT fixed November 6 as the next date of hearing. In all 277 workers of the company from Jamshedpur led by Bhagwati Prasad Singh had appealed to the NCLAT on March 19 seeking rejection of the liquidation order passed by NCLT on February 7. The hearing was supposed to take place on March 24, but could not take place because of the Covid-induced nationwide lockdown. Later, on August 27 NCLAT conducted an online hearing and admitted the plea of the workers challenging the liquidation order. A similar plea challenging the liquidation order was also filed by Jayanta Banerjee, an official based at Incab's Calcutta head office. A Supreme Court lawyer, S.K. Mohanty and senior advocate Akhilesh Srivastava are fighting the case on behalf of the 277 workers in NCLAT. They  attended the virtual hearing. "The next hearing will take place on November 6. NCLAT would either uphold or set-aside the liquidation order passed by the Calcutta bench of NCLT," Mohanty told The Telegraph Online over phone from New Delhi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-285
28-09-2020||Jharkhand||Covid recovery rate of Ranchi district poorest in Jharkhand||Ranchi, the district with the highest number of Covid-19 cases in Jharkhand, also has the poorest Covid recovery rate among all 24 districts in the state, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) reveal. The capital district, as per figures with the health department, reported 17,985 Covid-19 cases by Monday afternoon, and 13,865 of these have patients recovered. Based on these numbers, the Covid recovery rate of Ranchi was 77.09 per cent on Monday against the state’s Covid recovery rate of 83.59 per cent. Ranchi also had the highest number of active cases of coronavirus infection among districts in Jharkhand. As per government data, as many as 4,016 people in the district were still battling the infection. Interestingly, East Singhbhum, the district with the second highest number of cases, had only 2,040 active cases, which was almost half of the figure in Ranchi. Jharkhand’s first Covid-19 case was reported from Ranchi’s Hindpiri locality on March 31. Since then, Ranchi has continued to report the lion’s share of Covid cases in the state. Ranchi has also reported 105 Covid casualties so far, which is the second highest among all districts in the state. Health experts are of the opinion that the virus could be spreading faster in Ranchi due to frequent visits by travelers from other states, and more people attending social gatherings in the urban clusters of the district. The Birsa Munda Airport in Ranchi is the only operational airport in Jharkhand, and around a dozen flights land here every day. “We all know that the virus spreads faster in urban areas. It is primarily due to urban lifestyle and population density that people are at a higher risk of infection in cities,” said state coordinator of Indian Medical Association Dr Ajay Kumar Singh. East Singhbhum, the district with second highest cases of infection in Jharkhand, registered a Covid recovery rate of 82.94 per cent. Despite reporting 291 Covid casualties, the rate of recovery in this district was better than that in Ranchi. The district reported 13,643 cases so far and 11,316 recoveries. Among other densely populated districts, Dhanbad reported a Covid recovery rate of 83.21 per cent, while Bokaro registered a recovery rate of 85.01 per cent. Giridih district, which saw a little more than 3,000 cases, had a recovery rate of 91.87 per cent. Ramgarh, too, had a Covid recovery rate of above 91 per cent. The government did not release the district-wise rate of recovery in its bulletin. The figures were calculated on the basis of the total number of cases and recoveries provided by the government. As per latest figures with the government, as many as 79,909 Covid-19 cases had surfaced in Jharkhand until Monday afternoon. Of these, 66,797 had been cured.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-285
28-09-2020||Jharkhand||Zomato joins JAWS to deliver food to strays of steel city||A food delivery start-up has tied up with Jharkhand Animal Welfare Society (JAWS) to ensure that steel city strays do not go hungry. The Food for Paws campaign will be shepherded by JAWS in collaboration with Zomato Feeding India, a leading online start-up that delivers food. As a part of its CSR activities, the India chapter of Zomato Feeding Foundation will henceforth channel leftovers for strays. The local unit of the outfit today provided 20kg raw food materials to JAWS. Another local outfit, Doggie Oye, which operates a pedigree store in Bistupur, also donated 20kg dog food. Later, members and volunteers joined the effort and distributed food across the steel city at Sakchi, Bistupur, Tatanagar Station area, Sonari and Kadma. JAWS members also appealed to residents to participate, volunteer and support the cause of animal welfare. "We have been taking care of homeless animals for over two decades now. We have limited resources and often have to choose between feeding stray animals or investing in their medical care. The partnership with Zomato Feeding India for the Food for Paws campaign will be of much help," said A.K. Jha, president of JAWS. As per rough estimates, he said, the steel city has over 5,000 stray animals that do not have access to food. "Through the campaign, our aim is to prioritise the health for these homeless strays," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-285
28-09-2020||Jharkhand||ICSE schools hold debate competition online||Students of various schools took to debating on Monday, the first time the annual inter-school competition organised by the Association of Schools for the Indian School Certificate (ASISC) was held online. Dayanand Public School hosted as many as 26 students from 13 CISCE schools who took part in the ASISC zonal level debate in the junior category. The topic was, “Honesty is a waste of time in the modern world”, and participants had to justify what they believed. Some argued that honesty was indeed a waste of time because playing smart was what was respected in the modern world. Others still wanted to hold on to the traditional belief of character building which, they felt, mattered in the long run while dishonesty was short lived. As schools were holding online classes because of the pandemic, no inter-school even was to be held. But ASISC decided to go ahead and organise the debating competition online. "Usually, we organise these events physically where there is a lot of interaction among students and judges. But though organising the event online was easy, it lacked the feel," said principal of Dayanand Public School Swarna Mishra. The judges were Khushwant Kaur, assistant professor of BEd at Jamshedpur Cooperative College and Dipika, head of mass communication and journalism at Netaji Subhash University. Convenor of ASISC, Jamshedpur chapter, Amy Billimoria said more online events would be organised and hosted by various schools. "May be students benefited today as far as content is concerned. Also, since they weren't speaking on stage it was easier for schools to host it online,” said Billimoria, who is also principal of Tarapore School, Agrico. A similar debating competition for senior students, from classes XI and XII, will be held on Tuesday. Billimoria said that an ASISC inter-school quiz and declamation competition would also be held online.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-285
28-09-2020||Jharkhand||Jagarnath Mahto tests positive, being treated at RIMS||State education minister Jagarnath Mahto tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday and was taken to Rajendera Institute of Medical Science (RIMS) in Ranchi after doctors treating him felt his blood saturation level was a concern. According to the medical officer of the Nawadih community health centre, Dr Kameshwar Mahto, a district health department team reached Mahto’s residence at Bhandaridah at Chandrapura Block after he complained of breathing problems accompanied by bouts of coughing and vomiting. “A rapid antigen test revealed he was Covid positive after which it was decided to shift him to RIMS for better treatment,” said civil surgeon Dr A.K Pathak. Dr Kameshwar Mahto said they found the minister’s sugar and BP levels to be normal. “But his saturation level had decreased because of which he was immediately shifted to RIMS," said the medical officer. The minister was taken to Ranchi in a government 108 ambulance, he added. Soon after testing positive, minister Jagarnath Mahto sent out a tweet from his official twitter handle. “Dear friends, my report came positive in the corona test, for which I am admitted to RIMS. Those who have come in contact with me in the past few days, this is my appeal that you all should go for the corona test”. In another tweet, he said, “friends, I have been feeling a little sick for the last few days and going to RIMS for treatment due to which all my programmes remain cancelled”. The district health department has started contact tracing to identify people who may have met or been with the minister in the past few days. The authorities have also asked members of the JMM district unit to undergo Covid-19 tests immediately.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-285
28-09-2020||Jharkhand||JFC players to stay and train near Panjim during ISL  ||Sources in the team management said the Tata Steel-owned club will be accommodated at a Taj facility and will train at a  ground located in Sangolda village in Bardez sub-district in North Goa, some 9 km from Panjim. A two-member team from JFC is in Goa for a recce of facilities with special focus on a training ground. “It’s raining heavily in Goa and the Sangolda ground needs to be prepared for training. However, that process has been hampered due to showers,” a source revealed. According to him, unlike Jamshedpur where Princess 77, a Bermuda grass variant, has been sown at  JRD Tata Sports Complex in Bistupur and the Flatlet greens in Kadma, the grass at Sangolda is not of very high quality. Moreover, the ground  in Goa is soil-based vis-à-vis sand-based in the steel city. We will have to go through the functioning of the drainage system,” he added. Imported ryegrass has also been sown to cover the barren patches at the JRD Tata Sports Complex. The ground in Sangolda will be decked up by Dehradun-based L.R. Brothers that also prepared the greens in Jamshedpur . The ISL management has roped in the agency for ground preparation at various match venues, including Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium in Fatorda, GMC Athletic Stadium in Bambolim and Tilak Nagar Stadium in Vasco da Gama. “You cannot compare the facility in Jamshedpur with the one in Sangolda. We have been training on feather-soft greens which is not available in Sangolda. But we have to make adjustments,” another JFC team management member said. The JFC contingent, which will be assembling in Goa in a day or two, will go into quarantine for two weeks. Players and the support staff will also undergo Covid-19 tests five times. Only negative players and support staff will be allowed to travel to the training venue. “Some of the players will reach Goa in a day or two but the entire squad, including head coach Owen Coyle, will drop anchor by October 5. The players will start training after the quarantine period and Covid tests are over,” a team management member informed. The team will stay in a secure bio-bubble throughout its stay in Panjim for ISL. “It ‘s a difficult situation and we have to be very cautious and cannot take unnecessary risks. We need to follow the prescribed protocols,” he added. JFC CEO Mukul Choudhari said the team was in high spirits and would perform well in the tournament. “We have formed a strong unit which is expected to deliver expected results. We are hoping for the best,” he added. Jamshedpur has never qualified for the play-offs. It made its debut in ISL three seasons back . The outfit finished fifth under Spanish coach Antonio Iriando in the last season.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-285
28-09-2020||Jharkhand||Home Guard constables launch indefinite stir in Dhanbad||Over 100 candidates selected for the post of Home Guard constable in 2017 launched an indefinite protest at Randhir Verma Chowk near the district headquarters on Monday to demand immediate appointment. Palak Rai (23), who was among those who took part, said, “We applied as per the recruitment notice of 2017 for 1,038 candidates. As many as 735 were selected following a physical test, written examination and medical examination held in 2018. But two years have gone by and we are yet to join work.” Rai, whose mother is a cancer patient and father suffers from heart ailments, said it was impossible to continue any further without a job. “My elder brother is unemployed. I also lost my job as a salesman in a garment shop during the lockdown. Our family of four persons is dependent on the income of my mother, who despite suffering from cancer, is compelled to work as a house maid,” he said. Rai, a resident of Baramsia, said they had opened bank accounts on the instruction of the authorities, but the process of their appointment was still not over. “Even basic training, a prerequisite for appointment in the Home Guard, is yet to be conducted,” he rued. Chhamori Hembrom (29), a resident of Kenduatand village of Naxal affected Purbi Tundi block of Dhanbad, said she had joined the protest after leaving her six-month-old daughter at home. “My husband, Mirinlal Marandi, is a daily wager at a construction site. My family, including my mother-in-law and father-in-law, are dependent on the little but uncertain income of my husband. That has also been affected because of the lockdown due to slow pace of construction work,” she said. Marandi said they have been approaching the authorities, including the DGP, DIG, DG of Home Guard and even the chief minister, since 2018, but nothing had happened. “Some of the candidates later got selected for other services, like Border Security Force, but they opted for Home Guard in the hope of remaining in their home districts. Who knew that they would end up like this?” she said. Dolly Kumari, another candidate protesting at the site, said they were fed up. “The assurances of authorities are yielding no results. We have come here to seek a date for our joining,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-286
28-09-2020||Jharkhand||Leopard death in Bokaro zoo||A 12-year-old leopard was found dead in its enclosure at Bokaro zoo on Sunday morning. The leopard’s death is the second in the zoo in the last four months. On June 3, the only lioness was also found dead in its enclosure. The zoo has been closed to visitors since March due to the Covid induced lockdown. Bokaro zoo also known as Jawaharlal Nehru Biological Park is owned and maintained by Bokaro Steel Plant. The leopard, Akshay, was brought in from Tata Zoo, Jamshedpur in July 2014. “It seems leopard died of internal haemorrhage. However we will submit a post mortem report on Monday defining the cause thoroughly”, said Dr Mukesh Kumar Sinha of the animal husbandry department. Zoo in-charge, Dr. Gautam Chakraborty said, Akshay was perfectly healthy till Satursday. He had his normal diet. Akshay’s death has shocked everyone at the zoo. The Jharkhand Jan Mukti Parishad and Teertiay Sammelan Prastuti Committee, two splinter groups of Maoists have started putting up handwritten posters on the walls houses and on trees in Palamau. SP Sanjeev Kumar said police have removed a few of these posters. Sources said following police action, posters remained out of the sight on Sunday. Kumar said the posters harp on the death threats to police informers and asks government to abstain from making special economic zone. A man shot and killed his friend in Ramgarh district on Saturday. Mohammad Imtiyaz (35) and Mohammad Muzafar Khan (40) were close friends but their relationship turned sour with money related issues. Muzafar shot Imtiyaz in front of a tea stall and escaped. DSP Prakash Soy said a police team is on the lookout to arrest Muzafar. A woman in Dhanbad was conned into transferring Rs 53,000 from her bank account. In her FIR lodged at cyber thana, Rajni Agarwal said an unidentified person posing as a mobile service provider asked for her UPI number and transferred the money without her knowledge.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-286
28-09-2020||Jharkhand||Illegal coal laden trucks caught by villagers in Maoist hotspot ||Police in Kothi village did not turn up when villagers caught five illegal coal laden trucks, Illegal coal mining is a source of revenue in the Maoist active area. The villagers tried in vain to inform local police and held up the trucks for seven hours when they had to finally let them go since their calls went unanswered by the police. The villagers are now scared of facing the wrath of the coal mafia, Maoists and police for their action. The incident occurred three days after deputy commissioner, Rajesh Singh ordered officials of police, forest and mining departments to ensure no illegal mining and transportation of minerals took place in Bokaro. The incident occurred within two kilometres of the Pek-Narayan police station. Superintendent of police (SP), Bokaro, Chandan Kumar Jha said, “Inquiry has been initiated. Sub-divisional police officer (SDPO) has been asked to inquire and submit a report in this connection. Based on the report, suitable action will be taken. Action will also be taken against police personnel if found involved.” Nawadih block has a hilly terrain covered with dense forests. Illegal coal trade operations are allegedly run by Maoists. The coal mafias smuggle the coal to Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal. These coal mafias also give levies to the banned CPI (Maoists). The villagers have lost their confidence in police and thus do not want to issue statement in fear of being identified by the police who are close to those involved in the illegal coal trade.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-286
28-09-2020||Jharkhand||Jharkhand rally on farm bills today||Some ministers and MLAs of the ruling UPA in Jharkhand will play the role of agitators when the Congress organises a protest march here on Monday. The party planned the march in the capital to protest against what it called “passing of three farm bills in violation of the parliamentary norms”. R.P.N. Singh, former Union minister and at present in charge of Jharkhand unit of the Congress, reached Ranchi on Sunday to lead the march. “They (the BJP) are trying to re-impose the zamindari system in the country that the Congress had abolished long ago,” Singh told reporters on his arrival at Ranchi’s Birsa Munda Airport on Sunday, adding those three farm bills would destroy the farmers. “All have been asked to gather near the Gandhi statue at Morabadi grounds at 10.30am on Monday,” said Congress spokesperson Alok Dubey.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-286
