29-09-2020||Calcutta||Saviour Nilanjana Chatterjee seeks ‘exemplary punishment’||Nilanjana Chatterjee, who suffered fractures in her left leg while trying to save a woman who was screaming in a car on the night of September 5, told a judicial magistrate on Monday that she wanted exemplary punishment for the accused. Accused Abhishek Kumar Pandey, who was at the wheel of a Honda City, allegedly knocked down Nilanjana with the car before speeding off. “I have pleaded with the learned judicial magistrate that the accused be given exemplary punishment so that someone else planning to commit a similar offence would think twice before doing so,” Nilanjana told The Telegraph, hours after she left the magistrate’s chamber at the Alipore court lying on a stretcher. “The intention was to kill me. I told the learned judicial magistrate that my right leg was folded after I fell. Else the car would have gone over both legs.” She was returning home with husband Deep Satpathi in their car when she heard screams of a woman from inside another car near the Ruby crossing. Deep stopped their car blocking the way of the other vehicle — a Honda City — and the woman who was screaming was allegedly thrown out. When Nilanjana tried to approach the woman, Pandey allegedly sped off and the car ran over her left leg. He was later arrested.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-289
29-09-2020||Calcutta||None to guide to gates, queues grow at airport||Long queues are forming at two entrances to the airport terminal as the departure passengers who need to get boarding passes from airline counters at Gate 3C are queueing up at the nearest gate and often there is  no one to guide them to other entrances. The airport authorities have since last week been following a tweaked entry process, allowing passengers to enter the terminal through both entrances of each gate. The integrated terminal of the airport has five gates, three for domestic and two for international passengers. Each gate has two entrances. Since flight operations resumed in May, following the suspension announced in March because of Covid-19, passengers taking flights from Calcutta were being allowed to enter the terminal through one of the two entrances of each gate. The lane of one entrance was being used by airport personnel to sanitise luggage and check body temperature of passengers. Fliers entered through the other lane, which had a security personnel’s counter where e-boarding passes and readings on the Arogya Setu app were being checked. But there were huge congestions because of the Covid-related safety procedures and many fliers did not have smartphones and needed assistance to get boarding passes. They were being redirected to Gate 3C, where the airlines have their counters. Since last week, following requests from the airlines, the airport authorities are allowing passengers to enter the terminal through both lanes of each gate. “Now, we are keeping the cubicles in between the two lanes to check the documents. So, the queues are divided into two at each gate,” said airport director Kaushik Bhattacharya. But, on Monday afternoon, Metro saw long queues at gate numbers 3A and 3B. But the queue at the other two gates for domestic passengers were smaller. “Most passengers who don’t have smartphones and e-boarding passes are going to their respective airline counters at Gate 3C. After collecting their boarding passes, they are queueing up at Gates 3A and B for entering the terminal. This is creating a congestion,” said Bhattacharya. Airport sources said although airport personnel are supposed to redirect passengers to other gates, often this was not being done. “We have requested the airport authorities to allow these passengers to get their boarding passes at the check-in counters like before. We have much space inside, compared to the small area at Gate 3C,” said an official of an airline. “But the authorities said civil aviation ministry guidelines do not allow it.” The airport authorities are also allowing domestic passengers to enter the terminal through Gates 4A and B, which are in the international section, during rush hours. “The step has been taken to ease the congestion,” the airport director said. Sources said the authorities had also made 500 trolleys available for passengers. The civil aviation ministry has said a few categories of passengers — such as elderly people, pregnant women and mothers travelling alone with infants — should be allowed to use trolleys. “But we were getting complaints from passengers about unavailability of trolleys and so we decided to have 500 trolleys for passengers to use,” said an official. The airport has about 3,000 trolleys.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-289
29-09-2020||Calcutta||Guardrails makes New Town artery dangerous||The stretch of the Major Arterial Road in New Town where a young man and a woman on a scooter were run over on Saturday night has a series of guardrails on the carriageway, which force vehicles to zigzag dangerously. The Telegraph visited the accident spot — near the Kolkata Gate intersection, where a pedestrian subway complex is being built — on Monday afternoon and found that guardrails painted in blue and white had swallowed a large part of the road space. The vehicles headed towards the airport from Sector V were not only having to take a sharp left turn at the intersection but also zigzag their way past the guardrails. The vehicles headed from the Unitech intersection towards the airport, too, had to zigzag through another set of guardrails. Both sets of vehicles were getting dangerously close to each other at the point where the two roads meet. Guardrails set up by police in the middle of roads in New Town to slow down vehicles and check accidents have become more of a traffic hazard as they are barely visible from a distance, said those who drive regularly through the township. Dipayan Mukherjee and Medha Paul, both employees of a multinational IT company, were headed towards the airport after dinner in New Town on a scooter on Saturday night when they were hit from behind by a truck near the intersection off Kolkata Gate. They were rushed to Bidhannagar Sub-divisional Hospital, where they were declared dead. A guard posted at the site where the pedestrian subway complex is being built said Mukherjee was trying to steer his two-wheeler past the guardrails when the truck hit them. Dhirtiman Sarkar, deputy commissioner, traffic, Bidhannagar commissionerate, said they were scanning footage of CCTV cameras placed at the next traffic crossing. “We have started a probe. A truck can be seen moving at a high speed at the next crossing. We are trying to track down the driver,” Sarkar said. Another officer of the commissionerate said guardrails often got covered in dust and grime of the road and that prevented drivers from identifying them from a distance. Most iron guardrails were coated in a thick layer of dust and some only had remnants of paint left, interspersed with large patches of rust. They easily blend into the backdrop of trees and shrubs planted along the median divider. “They are very difficult to spot from a distance. At night, they suddenly loom up right in front, forcing a motorist to either hit the brakes hard or swerve,” said Sukriti Bhattacharya, who lives in New Town.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-289
29-09-2020||Calcutta||Rain hope pinned on distant system||September 2020 looked set to become the driest September in the city in at least five years but a cyclonic circulation brewing thousands of miles away can change the course, the Met office has said. Between September 1 and 27, Calcutta has received just 162mm of rain, registering a 45 per cent deficit. The average volume of rain September brings in Calcutta is around 310mm, said a Met official. September 2017, which saw 182mm of rain in the city, is a close contender for the driest tag. The monsoon trough extended over Digha on Monday afternoon. The trough led to the formation of scattered clouds in and around the city. The Met office predicted a thunderstorm in Calcutta in the afternoon, but all the city got was drizzle. “The monsoon trough, by itself, is unlikely to trigger much rain. But a cyclonic circulation is located over the Gulf of Thailand…. It is expected to advance to the Bay of Bengal…. If it follows the expected trajectory, the system should reach the Bengal coast in 48 hours and trigger some rain,” said G.K. Das, the director of India Meteorological Department, Calcutta. September is normally drier than July and August in Calcutta. But the month usually sees some rain-bearing systems over the Bay of Bengal. The retreating monsoon winds — October 10 is the normal date of withdrawal of the monsoon from Calcutta — often triggers downpour in the city in September. Thanks to rain-bearing systems over the Bay, September 2019 saw nearly 390mm of rain in Calcutta, registering a 25 per cent surplus. A low-pressure system over the northeast Bay of Bengal was supposed to move towards Gangetic Bengal and trigger heavy rain in the city last Sunday (September 20). But the system took a northwest turn along the Odisha coast, triggering only light showers in Calcutta on Sunday night and Monday morning. The past few days were cloudy but not rainy. The minimum relative humidity — a measure of moisture content in the air in the driest part of the day — has been above 70 per cent for the three days before climbing down slightly to around 60 per cent on Monday and Sunday. On September 25, it was a staggering 81 per cent. The high humidity range meant the maximum temperature felt four or five times higher than it actually was.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-289
29-09-2020||Calcutta||Action on harassment sends a signal: Mimi ||Police on Monday submitted the chargesheet against a yellow taxi driver arrested earlier this month based on actor-turned-MP Mimi Chakraborty’s complaint that he had passed lewd remarks at her. Deba Yadav, 32, has been charged with outraging modesty, stalking, and causing outrage of modesty through words and gestures. The charges carry a maximum punishment of five years in jail. Cops submitted the chargesheet once Chakraborty recorded her statement before a magistrate in court and visited the jail for a test identification parade. “Some people might feel this whole thing happened so quickly because I am an MP. It is not like that. I went through all the procedures that one goes through. This episode sends out a signal… no one can get away by making lewd gestures or teasing women,” she said. The driver passed lewd remarks and made gestures at Chakraborty when her car pulled up next to his at a traffic signal near Ballygunge phari on September 13, she had alleged in her complaint with Gariahat police station the same day. She was headed home to Kasba when she stepped out of her car to confront Yadav but had to let him go as the two cars had blocked the road and triggered a snarl. Yadav was arrested in Panchanangram the next day. He is still to get bail. “Since we filed the chargesheet before he could secure bail, we will request custody trial to set an example,” an officer said. The court will go through the charges slapped by the police and the evidence submitted before framing charges — either by adding or reducing or maintaining the existing charges — based on which the trial will commence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-289
29-09-2020||Calcutta||At 74 %, CLAT  turnout clocks a dip||Close to 74 per cent of applicants took the Common Law Admission Test (CLAT) 2020 on Monday for entry to national law schools, N.K. Chakrabarti, the vice-chancellor of the National University of Juridical Sciences, said. The attendance was “less” than previous years because of the pandemic, Chakrabarti said. He is the CLAT nodal officer as well. Till last year, close to 90 per cent of applicants would take the test. The exam was held at nine centres in Bengal. The CLAT 2020 was initially scheduled for September 7. It was rescheduled for September 28 because of a complete lockdown in the state on September 7. Several applicants in Bengal had requested the Consortium of National Law Universities to reschedule the exam date saying they might find it difficult to reach the exam centres if it were to be held on a day of complete lockdown. Faizan Mustafa, the vice-chancellor of NALSAR University of Law, Hyderabad, and a member of the executive committee of the consortium, told Metro after the exam on Monday that at the national level 86.20 per cent of those who had downloaded the admit cards took the test. At least 688,833 candidates in the country had downloaded the admit cards. The number was 3,000 in Bengal. Close to 2,000 were supposed to take the test at the Calcutta centre at TCS Gitobitan in Salt Lake’s Sector V. At some centres in Howrah and Hooghly, the attendance was close to 80 per cent. The exam was conducted “successfully” at all the centres and no centre reported any technical glitch, Chakrabarti said. Candidates had to give a declaration at the time of entering the centre that they were not infected with Covid, Chakrabarti said. Every candidate had been asked to bring their own masks and sanitisers and they had to reach the venue an hour before the exam. The two-hour test started at 2pm.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-289
29-09-2020||Calcutta||IIEST board concerned over project delay||The board of governors at IIEST has expressed concern over the delay in the construction of a hostel and an academic complex six years after the Shibpur tech school was upgraded to its present status, said a member of the board. The board – the highest decision making body of the Indian Institute of Engineering Science and Technology – adopted a resolution at a recent meeting expressing its concern over the delay. “The two most important projects, the construction of hostel and academic complex, which were linked with the upgradation of this oldest engineering institute are still pending after the passing of six years of transformation,” the resolution reads. The chairperson of the board, Vasudev K. Aatre, requested the HRD ministry representatives on the panel to resolve all pending issues at the earliest so that the institute could concentrate “more on academics and research and fulfill the purpose for which this institute was converted to IIEST”. The Bengal Engineering and Science University was transformed to IIEST on March 4, 2014. The board had in a meeting in 2018 resolved that a lecture theatre complex and a hostel that could accommodate 1,000 boys would be constructed on the Shibpur campus at a cost of Rs 283.6 crore. “The proposals were vetted by the institute’s finance committee, following which the board had on July 19 last year decided to forward them to the HRD ministry for approval,” an IIEST official said. Prior to this, in June 2019, IIEST director Parthasarathi Chakrabarti had met HRD minister Ramesh Nishank Pokhriyal and asked for funds to build the hostel and the academic complex. "Funds have not yet come,” the official said. Director Chakarabarti told Metro that the chairperson would soon write to the ministry about the pending issues. “Once he writes, we hope the ministry will respond,” the director said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-289
29-09-2020||Calcutta||Tallah and Majerhat bridges get new life at 58||Two bridges coming up at two ends of Calcutta are set to ease traffic movement once they are commissioned. The bridges — both 58 years old — one in the north and one in the south had to be pulled down: the Majherhat bridge, after a portion of it collapsed in September 2018; and the Tallah bridge after cracks surfaced. The Telegraph gives the low-down on the bridges. The 750m-long bridge will connect BT Road with Shyambazar in the north over the rail tracks at Tallah. Current status The foundation work for building the bridge has begun. The old structure was demolished between March and April, ahead of the 75-day target set for the demolition. L&T engineers have started fixing piles nearly 80-90m into the ground to build the foundation of the structure. The depth of the foundation for this bridge is almost four times that of a house, according to civil engineers. Once the piles are concreted, each of the piles will be covered with a pile cap. This will complete the first phase of the construction. In the second phase, pillars will be built over the pile caps as part of a “sub-structure” of the bridge, which will be a bowstring arch steel structure. Challenges Eight pipes of various diametres, ranging between 30ft and 72ft, are located under the ground. These pipes bring water from Palta to the Tallah tank and from the tank carry potable water to the entire city. Any damage to any one of these pipes will spell disaster — either Tallah and adjoining Paikpara will be flooded or the city will go without water for days. “Prior to the demolition we had to fix the exact location of each of these underground pipes and create a tunnel to physically run a check on them. We repeated the same exercise all over again before the start of the piling work,” a PWD official said. There is a design challenge, too. The width of the main deck of the bridge will be a little more than double that of the old bridge, around 24m. But the width of the approach roads will be almost the same (11m) as it was earlier for want of space. “The gradients have to be carefully calculated so that there is no jerk when vehicles ascend or descend the bridge. It will be a gradual tapering on the sides,” the PWD official said. Design plan The new bridge will be a four-lane structure with a load-bearing capacity almost four times that of the old one (around 400 tonnes). There will be footpaths on either side, each measuring 1.5m. Expected date of completion: January 2022 Project cost: Rs 348 crore The 650m-long bridge over the tracks at Majherhat will connect New Alipore with Mominpore in south Calcutta. Current status The cable-stayed bridge will have the main deck held by 84 cables, which have been brought from Switzerland. The work of erecting these cables began on September 19 and is likely to be completed by October 10, about 12 days before Durga Puja. “Once the cables have been erected we will begin casting the concrete crash barriers of the bridge. The barriers will be allowed to rest for some time for strengthening. Then bitumen will be laid on the bridge,” a PWD official said. This is the most crucial part with a lot of calculations involved, according to engineers. “We will have to study how the cables function in bearing stress while holding the bare deck slab and compare it when bitumen has been laid on the deck,” the PWD official said. “The design has a theoretical aspect and a practical aspect… the two will have to match.” A team of experts from the railways and IIT Bombay will ascertain whether the two aspects are matching or there are discrepancies. Based on their observation, the stress-bearing capacity of the cables will be checked and fine-tuned, if needed. In between, the four service roads around the bridge will be readied and the entire structure will get a coat of paint after lights have been installed. Design plan The four-lane bridge will have a load-bearing capacity of 350 tonnes against the previous 150 tonnes. The bridge will be the first cable-stayed bridge built over rail tracks by the PWD in Bengal. Expected date of completion: Just ahead of Diwali Project cost: Rs 246 crore||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-289
29-09-2020||Business||Select items score high on exports in April-August period||Some industrial commodities such as copper, zinc, iron and steel showed signs of recovery even as the export of engineering goods declined over 18 per cent to $26 billion in the April-August period of the current financial year. The export of iron and steel  jumped 43.7 per cent to $5.3 billion during April-August from $3.7 billion in the corresponding five-month period of 2019-20, EEPC India chairman Mahesh Desai said in a statement. Shipment of copper and its products soared 60.3 per cent to $501.7 million from $313 million during the same period a year ago. Similarly, the export of zinc and its products rose 43.6 per cent to $320.7 million from $223.3 million . However, the shipment of the value-added products of iron and steel witnessed a sharp drop of 29.7 per cent to $2.04 billion from $2.9 billion. “No doubt, the overall export market remains very challenging. However, the early signals point towards a pick-up in industrial activity in select countries, mostly in north Asia,” Desai said. Exports of engineering goods declined to $26 billion in the April- August period of the current fiscal compared to the shipment of such goods was at $31.9 billion in the first five months of the previous fiscal. According to the council, 28 of 33 product categories showed a year-on-year fall in exports. However, he cautioned that overall the engineering exports continue to remain in the negative territory, except the critical basic metals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-276
29-09-2020||Business||Vodafone UK tax arbitration win augurs well for Cairn ||The favourable verdict telecom giant Vodafone got in its UK arbitration case against the Indian government over its retrospective demand of Rs 22,000 crore in taxes has raised the hopes of Cairn Energy, which is also locked in a dispute with the revenue authorities over a tax demand. The tax demand was made on Vodafone over its $11.7-billion takover of the Indian assets of Hutchison Whampoa in 2007. Analysts said India’s stand in the Vodafone case would be keenly watched by international investors as they weigh options to shift from China. The merit of the two cases could be different, but the verdict going in favour of Vodafone could certainly have implications for Cairn Energy. They said the Modi government could send a positive signal to investors by not going in an appeal against Vodafone judgment. In 2014, former finance minister Arun Jaitley said the government will not go in for more retrospective taxation, a move taken by the previous UPA regime. But, the Modi government never withdrew the cases against Vodafone, which has been a cause for concern of international investors. “The government will consider all options and take a decision on further course of action including legal remedies before appropriate fora,” India’s finance ministry said in a statement. “This is the opportune time to send the right signal…if they go on appeal, it would clearly send the message the Modi government is no different on the issue of retrospective tax as it is keen to pursue it,” the analysts said. The UPA government had said that the Hutchison-Vodafone deal was liable for tax deduction at source under the Income Tax Act. While the Supreme Court subsequently quashed the demand in January 2012, the government amended the IT act retrospectively in the Union budget, putting the liability back on Vodafone Group.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-276
29-09-2020||Business||Arcelor to sell US assets for $1.4bn||Cleveland-Cliffs Inc, the largest US producer of iron ore pellets, has agreed to buy the US assets of the world’s largest steel maker ArcelorMittal for about $1.4 billion in cash and shares. The deal, announced by the two companies on Monday, will make Cleveland-Cliffs the largest flat-rolled steel producer in North America and, for ArcelorMittal, give it up to a quarter share of Cleveland-Cliffs’ business and allow it to reward shareholders with a share buy-back. ArcelorMittal shares were up 8.3 per cent in early trading, although it had still not made up for losses last week, when markets tumbled over concerns that rising coronavirus cases would hinder the economic recovery. Reuters reported on Sunday, citing sources, that ArcelorMittal was in talks to merge its US operations with Cleveland-Cliffs, which bought US steel producer AK Steel for $3 billion in March. $505 million in cash ArcelorMittal will receive $505 million upfront in cash and the remaining roughly two-thirds in the form of equity. The equity arrangement will give ArcelorMittal an initial stake of 16 per cent in Cleveland-Cliffs, which could rise to 25.5 per cent. The deal will include $2 billion of liabilities, including linked to pensions, putting the overall deal value at $3.4 billion. ArcelorMittal said it had now passed its target of offloading $2 billion of assets to reduce its debt, allowing it to carry out a $500 million share buy-back. It has previously agreed to sell stakes in its shipping business and in Brazilian steelmaker Gerdau. Canada, Mexico units ArcelorMittal said it would continue to serve the North American market through operations in Canada and Mexico, which together made 9 million tonnes of steel last year, and its steel processing facility in Calvert, Alabama, a joint venture with Nippon Steel. ArcelorMittal’s US business has more than 18,000 employees and 25 facilities, including mines, steel-making facilities and finishing operations. They produced 12.9 million tonnes of steel in 2019.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-276
29-09-2020||Business||Coal India to set up coal-to-methanol unit in Bengal||Coal India has floated a global tender to set up a coal-to-methanol plant in Bengal. The project, with an estimated capital outlay of Rs 6,000 crore, will come up at the over three-decade-old coal carbonisation plant of Coal India at Dankuni in Hooghly district. The PSU plans to produce 6.76 lakh tonnes of methanol per annum that will be blended in the ratio of 15 per cent methanol and 85 per cent petrol. The plant will cater to the methanol requirement of four eastern states – Bengal, Odisha, Jharkhand and Bihar. Coal India  said that it is in talks with IOC and other state-owned oil companies for a long-term tie-up to sell methanol. Coal India subsidiary South Eastern Coalfields Ltd, which operates the Dankuni Coal Complex, said  the project site has been identified for the proposed plant. The plant will run on a built, own and operate (BOO) model where Coal India would not invest but would allocate land, power, water and also supply low-ash high-calorific coal from  its Raniganj fields. The PSU miner has estimated an annual coal supply of around 1.5 million tonnes for the plant. The tender would select the operator for the life span of the plant which is expected to be 25 years. Government-owned consultancy and engineering firm Project Development India Ltd is the consultant to select the operator. While the mechanical set-up of the plant is expected to be completed in 36 months, the actual commissioning is envisaged in 41 months, Coal India said. The last date of submission of the bids is December 17, 2020. “This proposed plant is part of implementing the methanol economy programme of the government and is aimed at reducing the country’s oil import bill. It would also reposition coal as a chemical feedstock from that of a conventional energy product resulting in considerable decrease in carbon footprint,” said a Coal India official. Around 80 per cent of the coal produced by Coal India is used to generate thermal power. However, with the government stressing on expanding the renewable energy capacity of the country, Coal India is looking to diversify and expand the end of use of coal resources.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-276
29-09-2020||Business||Harley Davidson dealers seek protection after its exit announcement||Harley Davidson’s exit from India — the fourth marquee brand to do so in three years — has brought into focus the plight of dealers who are left nursing huge finacial losses. Dealer associations feel the country needs legislation to protect dealers from financial losses as well as job cuts when original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) decide to shut shop in the country. Harley Davidson has said its 32 dealers across the country “will continue to serve customers through the contract term”. The company has annual contracts with its dealers that ends on December 31, 2020. “There is no law to protect the dealers from such completely one-sided, arbitrary act of OEMs. The contracts that are signed between the manufacturers and dealers are heavily tilted in favour of the manufacturer,” said Vinkesh Gulati, president of the Federation of Automobile Dealers Association (FADA). The association is going to represent Harley dealers in any discussions with the company and the government. “Dealers have started writing to us to take up their case,” said Gulati. “We are going to write to the Prime Minister and the minister for heavy industries and public enterprises,” said Gulati. Before Harley, OEMs such as General Motors, MAN Trucks and UM Lohia shut shop in India. “We have successfully represented dealers and got compensation from GM and MAN Trucks. But the need of the hour is to have legislation to protect the interest of the dealers as well as customers,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-276
29-09-2020||Business||Petrol sales cross pre-pandemic level in Bengal||Monthly sale of petrol in Bengal has shown growth for the first time after lockdown in September, industry leader Indian Oil Corporation has said, as more people are commuting on two-wheelers. The public sector oil marketing company, which has over 50 per cent share of the market in the state, sold 37,148 kilolitres (kl) of petrol as on Sunday (September 27) against 36,694kl in the same period last year, a growth of 1.2 per cent. “As far as petrol is concerned, we have surpassed the pre-pandemic level,” Pritish Bharat, executive director and state head of IOC in Bengal, said. Sales of diesel, used by commercial vehicles and public transport — a barometer of wider economic activity —  continue to remain subdued. Diesel sales are still down 20 per cent. Sales of aviation turbine fuel are  down because of the restrictions on domestic and international flights. IOC is selling just a quarter of what it used to in this year. Industry sources pointed out that retail outlets in the city are more affected than those on the outskirts and the highways. As many private buses remain off the road, taxis find it difficult to get passengers other than the rush hours in the morning and in the evening. Even the sale of auto LPG, used by auto rickshaws, are only 60-65 per cent of the pre-Covid level. It is a different story for the highway pumps, where sales of diesel have recovered better than the city outlets. “Petrol sales have gone up because many people are using two-wheelers to commute as local trains are not plying and there are not enough buses on the road either,” said a retail outlet owner. Bharat claimed that LPG sales have grown in the state mainly because it supplied three cylinders free of cost to beneficiaries of Pradhan Mantri Ujjala Yojna.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-276
29-09-2020||Business||Pressure for second round of stimulus mounts on Centre||Chief economic adviser Krishnamurthy Subramanian has indicated that the Union government is considering a second round of stimulus measures with the economy showing signs of exhaustion after initially rising with the lifting of lockdown. Experts have warned that the domestic economy will continue to perform poorly after contracting 23.9 per cent in the first quarter of this fiscal. However, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman told the Indian Express newspaper in an interview that she will “time the stimulus’’. In an interview with Moneycontrol, Subramanian said the government is aware that this is the right time to spend and come out with another set of stimulus measures, though it will be up to the finance minister to decide when such a package will be announced. Though he did not give a specific timeframe for such a move, he hinted that the Centre was working on fiscal measures to kickstart the economy. He said while several indicators showed a recovery, the pace had slowed down compared with the spike in June and July. According to Subramanian, while manufacturing has recovered, services continue to remain a source of worry. He added that economic activity will also depend on people getting back to normal life, which will happen only after the vaccine hits the market. Meanwhile, domestic rating agency Icra has further cut its GDP estimate for the country and now expects the economy to contract 11 per cent this fiscal. The agency, which had earlier estimated a contraction of 9.5 per cent, said the revision has been done as the rate of new Covid-19 infections remains elevated. Some analysts have even forecast that the economy will contract by up to 14 per cent after the release of the official GDP data for the first quarter. Icra added that if the number for the first quarter is revised down based on data for small businesses and less formal sectors, the overall GDP outcome for this fiscal “could be even worse” than the estimated 11 per cent contraction. For the second quarter, it kept its earlier estimate of a contraction of 12.4 per cent. “With the pandemic continuing in India for over six months, we sense that economic agents are now adapting to the crisis, resulting in a graduated recovery to a new post-Covid normal. “Nevertheless, with rampant Covid-19 infections, we expect behaviours to remain altered for longer than what we had earlier presumed,” Icra’s principal economist Aditi Nayar said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-276
29-09-2020||Business||RBI sets up panel for Lakshmi Vilas Bank ||Lakshmi Vilas Bank (LVB) on Monday said the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has approved the appointment of a three-member committee of directors (CoD) to run its daily affairs. The development comes after its shareholders voted out seven directors at the annual general meeting (AGM) held last Friday that included its MD and CEO and statutory auditors. LVB said that this committee will exercise the discretionary powers of the MD and CEO in the ad-interim. The banking regulator on September 27 appointed the three independent directors who will be part of the committee — Meeta Makhan, Shakti Sinha, and Satish Kumar Kalra. LVB added that the committee will be headed by Meeta Makhan. In a statement on Monday, LVB again sought to comfort investors, stating that the bank’s liquidity situation was comfortable and assured the depositors that their money was safe. “With a liquidity coverage ratio (LCR) of about 262 per cent as on September 27, against a minimum 100 per cent required by the RBI, the deposit holders, bond holders, account holders and creditors are well safe guarded,” the statement said. The bank further pointed out that it will continue to share information on the developments in public domain as and when they materialise and as required under the applicable law. The bank’s announcement on the appointment of the three-member committee led to its shares ending in the positive territory on the bourses on Monday. After opening lower at Rs 19, the LVB share ended at Rs 20.20, a gain of 5.21 per cent over its previous close. LVB  is close to a merger with Clix Capital. With the merger, the networth of the bank is expected to more than double to Rs 3,100 crore from the present Rs 1,200 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-276
29-09-2020||Business||SBI rolls out festive offer for retail borrowers||The country’s largest lender — State Bank of India — on Monday announced a slew of festive offers for its retail borrowers, including 100 per cent waiver of processing fee for all customers applying for car, gold, and personal loans through Yono. Yono (You Only Need One App) is the mobile banking app of the lender. The bank has also completely waived processing fees on home loans for homebuyers in approved projects. It is giving concessions up to 10 basis points (bps) on the interest rate for the customers based on their credit score and home loan amount, a release said. Additionally, homebuyers can avail 5 bps interest concession if they apply through Yono. For car loan borrowers, it is offering the lowest interest rate starting from 7.5 per cent. They will also get 100 per cent on-road finance on select models. The lender is providing gold loans at an interest rate of 7.5 per cent, with flexible repayment options for up to 36 months. Customers can take personal loans at a lending rate as low as 9.6 per cent, it said. “With the economy recovering gradually, we hope to see a boost in consumer spends and at the same time ensure SBI’s helping hand to all those in addressing their financial needs to have a pleasant festive season,” the bank’s managing director (retail and digital banking) C. S. Setty said in the release. The bank said Yono is offering customers in-principal approval on the car and gold loan applications. Customers can also avail a pre-approved paperless personal loan on Yono from the comfort of their homes. The number of SBI customers using internet banking facilities is about 76 million and mobile banking services stand a little more than 17 million. Yono, which has 26 million registered users, witnesses 5.5 million logins per day along with over 4,000 daily disbursals of personal loans and 16,000 Yono Krishi Agri Gold loans.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-276
29-09-2020||Business||Decision on interest waiver soon||The Centre informed the Supreme Court on Monday that a decision is likely in 2-3 days over the charging of interest on interest waivers by banks on instalments which were deferred during the moratorium period in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The top court asked the Centre to bring the decision on record and circulate the affidavit to the parties in a batch of pleas challenging the interest on deferred instalments. The Centre informed the top court that the matter has received very serious consideration and the decision making process is at an advanced stage. A bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan said that it would hear the batch of pleas filed by various industries, trade associations and individuals on October 5. The apex court, while conceding the Centre’s request, told Solicitor General Tushar Mehta appearing for the government that no further adjournment would be entertained in the case. The court was dealing with a PIL filed by a UP-based businessman Gajendra Sharma seeking a waiver of interests  and also the interest on interest being sought to be levied by the banks. A large number of interveners have also sought an extension of the moratorium on loans that ended on August 31 to a further six months or a one-year period. The bench, also comprising Justices R.Subhash Reddy and M.R.Shahd, however, refrained from passing any order on a plea by an advocate appearing for an intervener to restrain banks from making any threatening calls to the customers to pay the loan with interest. The RBI has decided to extend by six months the enhanced borrowing facility provided to banks to meet liquidity shortage till March 31, 2021. The RBI had increased the borrowing limit forbanks under the marginal standing facility (MSF) scheme from 2 per cent to 3 per cent of their Net Demand and Time Liabilities (NDTL) with effect from March 27, 2020. The facility, which was initially available up to June 30, 2020 was later extended up to September 30, 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-277
29-09-2020||Business||RBI defers meet amid curious government delay||The Reserve Bank of India on Monday postponed the three-day meeting of the monetary policy committee that was scheduled to begin on Tuesday but gave no reason for the unprecedented decision. One possible reason is that the committee lacked the quorum to meet after the government failed to name the replacements for the three independent members whose four-year term ended in August. The three independent members of the MPC — Chetan Ghate, Pami Dua and Ravindra Dholakia — had been appointed in 2016. Under the RBI Act, the independent members of the committee cannot be reappointed after their terms end. At the same time, the six-member MPC has to have a quorum of four with at least one of them being the RBI governor or the deputy governor. The three independent members of the MPC are appointed by the central government. It isn’t clear why the Narendra Modi government chose to drag its heels on the appointment of the new members. The failure to do so has turned the rump MPC of RBI governor Shaktikanta Das, deputy governor Michael Patra and executive director Mridul Saggar into a sort of lame-duck panel. The MPC principally sets the policy interest rates that determine the course of lending and deposit rates in the financial system. The MPC has a mandate to cap retail inflation within a tolerance band of 2 to 6 per cent. The inflation anchor for monetary policy has determined the trajectory of interest rates within the financial system. Retail inflation has been running far above the upper limit of 6 per cent since January, a key reason why the MPC decided at its meeting in early August to hit the pause button after cutting the policy interest rate — the repo — by 250 basis points since February 2019. If the rate stays above the 6 per cent level or below 2 per cent for three consecutive quarters, it will be deemed a failure on the MPC committee’s part to meet its mandate, making it obligatory to submit a report explaining the reasons for the failure and a remedial plan to bring it within the band. The committee has a small escape route to avoid such an ignominy: the pandemic forced the National Statistical Office to skip the number for April because of poor data collection during the lockdown. Banks have been tardy in passing on the rate cut benefit to their borrowers -- a situation that has boiled into a major concern for retail and corporate borrowers who have been struggling to deal with the crisis thrown up by the pandemic. The RBI was widely expected to skip a rate cut this time as well. At a recent videoconference, governor Das said he would not want to speculate how the new members of the MPC would vote. Each MPC has one vote on the panel. If there is a tie, the governor has a casting vote. The members representing the RBI have been fairly consistent in their stand and were widely expected to vote down a request from the government for a rate cut. The delay in appointment of the three independent members reflects an uncharacteristic lethargy within the Modi government in making the new appointments — an almost wilful indolence that contrasts sharply with the alacrity it has displayed in passing the contentious farm sector reform bills or disclaiming its responsibility to pay GST compensation to the states. Observers said the delay could have been easily averted since the government knew only too well that the three new members had to be appointed last month. The RBI waited till the last moment for a government announcement on the new members before announcing the decision to defer the MPC meeting. There is no word on when the MPC will be reconstituted or indeed when it will meet. “The meeting of the MPC during September 29, 20 and October 1, 2020 ...is being rescheduled. The dates of the MPC’s meeting will be announced shortly,” the RBI said in a terse media release on Monday morning. The RBI has been under pressure from the government to do the heavy lifting by deploying conventional and unconventional monetary policy tools to revive a floundering economy, which contracted by 23.9 per cent in the first quarter ended June 30 and is expected to shrink by anywhere between 12 and 14 per cent in the second quarter as well. All the well-known forecasters have reworked their projections and now expect the Indian economy to contract by at least 5 per cent this fiscal. With the Centre continuing to double speak on the prospects for a second stimulus package, there are worries that there isn’t enough demand in the economy to reignite the engines of growth. Several economists have advised the government to spend its way out of trouble but it chooses not to listen. “The economy is facing a serious challenge and the RBI has been leading from the front with quick responses through rate cuts, injecting liquidity through open market operations, long term repo operations (LTROs) and a variety of innovative tools to manage and ensure financial stability. In this hour of economic emergency, the MPC has to be in place to formulate its policy. This delay could have been avoided,” said V.K. Vijayakumar, chief investment strategist at Geojit Financial Services.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-277
29-09-2020||India||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu tests Covid-19 positive||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu has tested positive for Covid-19, during a routine test, his office said in a tweet this evening. He is asymptomatic and in good health. "The Vice President of India who underwent a routine Covid-19 test today morning has been tested positive. He is however, asymptomatic and in good health. He has been advised home quarantine. His wife Smt. Usha Naidu has been tested negative and is in self-isolation," the tweet read. Mr Naidu, who is also the Chairman of the Rajya Sabha, recently attended the monsoon session of parliament, which was cut short after more than 25 members tested positive for the virus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-641
29-09-2020||India||Gang-rape victim of UP dies in Delhi||A 19-year-old Dalit woman from Uttar Pradesh's Hathras died at Safdarjung hospital in Delhi on Tuesday morning, days after she was raped by four men here. The family of the woman said she died around 3 am, Hathras SP Vikrant Vir said. The woman was gang-raped on September 14 following which she was admitted to the Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College and Hospital in Aligarh. She was referred to the Delhi hospital on Monday after her condition showed no signs of improvement. The accused had also tried to strangulate her to death as she resisted their attempt and in the process, she had also ended up biting her tongue and suffering a severe cut on it. A spokesman of the Aligarh hospital had said that the woman's legs were completely paralysed and arms partially paralysed. The four accused who have already been arrested will now also face charges under Section 302 (murder) of the IPC, according to the Hathras SP. Opposition leaders Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, Mayawati and Akhilesh Yadav have condemned the incident and demanded strict punishment for the culprits of the heinous crime. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, in a tweet, said, "A Dalit girl who was victim of demoniac behavior in Hathras has passed away at Safdarjung Hospital. For two weeks she kept struggling between life and death in hospitals." She said incidents of rape one after another, in Hathras, Shahjahanpur and Gorakhpur have shaken the state. "Law and order in UP has deteriorated to a great extent. There is no semblance of safety for women. The criminals are committing crimes in the open," Priyanka Gandhi said. The killers of this girl should be punished severely, she demanded. BSP president Mayawati also demanded stringent punishment by prosecuting the accused in a fast track court. In a tweet in Hindi, she said, "The news of the death of Dalit victim after gangrape in Hathras, UP is very saddening. The government should provide all possible help to the victim's family and ensure fast punishment to the culprits by prosecuting them in a fast track court. This is the demand of the BSP."  Samajwadi Party supremo Akhilesh Yadav on Tuesday condoled the death of the Hathras gangrape victim, and said "no hope" is left from the "insensitive government". "A dalit daughter, who was victim of gangrape and brutality ultimately died. I condole her death. No hope is left with present insensitive government," Yadav said in a tweet in Hindi. On September 14, the woman had gone to the fields with her mother and had gone missing soon after. She was later found brutally injured, with her tongue having a serious cut as she bit it while the accused attempted to strangulate her, the SP had said while giving details of the incident. The Hathras SP said initially they came to know that Sandip, 20, had tried to kill her following which he was arrested the same day. Later in her statement to the magistrate, the woman had said that besides Sandip, Ramu, Lavkush and Ravi had raped her and when she resisted their attempts, they tried to strangulate her, leading to the cut in the tongue. The next day the woman was admitted to J N Medical College hospital in Aligarh where she was put on a ventilator, the Hathras SP had said. Members of the Delhi Mahila Congress staged a protest at Vijay Chowk in New Delhi on Tuesday demanding justice for the Hathras gang-rape victim, following which they were detained by police. Congress Rajya Sabha member P L Punia and former MP Udit Raj also joined the protest which was led by Delhi Mahila Congress president Amrita Dhawan. The protesters were taken to Mandir Marg police station, a senior police officer said. The Delhi Mahila Congress members demanded that the culprits in the Hathras gang rape case be hanged. Dhawan said the Mahila Congress members were trying to march towards the Rashtrapati Bhavan to demand justice for the victim when the police detained them. Punia and Raj were also detained by the police, she said. A total of 25 men and 11 women protesters were detained and taken to Mandir Marg police station, said Deepak Yadav, Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (New Delhi).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-641
29-09-2020||India||China opposed to development of Indian infrastructure at LAC||China on Tuesday voiced its opposition to India undertaking infrastructure development for military purposes in the border areas of Ladakh, and maintained that both countries should avoid any activities that might complicate the situation upsetting the consensus reached between them to ease the situation. China has not recognised Ladakh Union Territory illegally set up by the Indian side , Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Wang Wenbin told a press briefing here while replying to a question by a western media journalist that India was prioritising construction of high altitude road network on its border with China in the Ladakh region. It may be recalled that when China first expressed its opposition to India's move to create a separate Union Territory of Ladakh, a day after the state of Jammu and Kashmir was bifurcated into two union territories on August 5, 2019, the then External Affairs Ministry spokesperson had said India does not comment on the internal affairs of other countries and similarly expects other countries to do likewise. We are opposed to conducting infrastructure development for military purposes in the border area. Based on the two sides' consensus no side should engage in the border areas in any activities that might complicate the situation to avoid undermining efforts by the two sides to ease the situation , Wang said. To another question on reports that China has carried out massive development of border infrastructure, Wang said reports released by some institutions stating that China has built new military bases on its side is completely false . First some institutions once released the so-called information on new military bases or facilities China has built on its side. Such reports are completely false. They are driven by ulterior motives , he said. Second China consistently and strictly abides by the agreements signed with the Indian side. We are committed to maintaining peace and stability along the border with India and at the same time we firmly safeguard our sovereignty, territorial integrity and security , he added. Wang said that for a long time China has been conducting activities on its side of the Line of Actual Control(LAC) and they have always complied with relevant agreements. We hope the Indian side to work for the same purpose, together with China to achieve the cooling of temperature on the ground and to prevent adding complex factors to the concerted efforts by the two sides to ease the situation , he said. India and China are locked in a nearly five-month-long border standoff in eastern Ladakh. After marathon 14-hour talks between India and China at the Corps Commander level on September 21, both sides released a joint statement saying the two countries had decided to stop sending more troops to the frontline in eastern Ladakh. The joint statement had also stated that both sides will enhance communication to avoid misunderstandings and also implement the five-point consensus reached by their foreign ministers S Jaishankar and Wang Yi on the sidelines of the SCO meet in Moscow on September 10.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-641
29-09-2020||India||Farm laws must be opposed for country's future, says Rahul||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday said the new farm laws will have to be opposed not just for farmers but for the future of the country, as he alleged that they were like a "stab in the farmers' hearts". Interacting with a group of farmers from across the country, he said the GST and the noteban were also attacks on farmers, but these three laws will prove to be more detrimental. Gandhi also claimed that the new farm laws will foster an East India company-like culture and this time, a "West India company" has come in. "There is no difference between GST, noteban and these three laws. The only difference is that this is directly stabbing your heart with a knife," he said during the virtual meeting with the group of farmers. "But I have clarity that this has to be opposed. Not for farmers, but for the future of India," he told the farmers in a nearly 11-minute long video shared on social media. The Congress has opposed the new farm laws and party leaders and workers are protesting across the country, even as farmers' unions have launched a stir in Punjab and Haryana. "The voice of farmers has a lot of strength. It is with the help of this voice that India attained independence and once again India will become independent through the farmers' voice," Gandhi said. The former Congress chief said he had seen in Uttar Pradesh's Bhatta Parsaul village during his padyatra in 2011 that big businessmen wanted the farmers' land as well as their farm produce. "The first fight I fought was of land acquisition and the entire media attacked me," he said. "They said this is a fight against black money but it was not true. The purpose was to weaken our unorganised sector and the poor, farmers and labourers," Gandhi alleged. Talking to him, Dhirender Kumar, a farmer from Champaran in Bihar, said farmers are being exploited in the name of these laws and they will be forced to commit suicide due to hunger. He said the 2006 bill abolishing the APMC Act in Bihar should be brought back and be implemented in the state once again. Ashok Bootra from Yavatmal in Maharashtra feared that no one would buy the farm produce at minimum support price (MSP). "I feel any farmer who protests will be put in jail. In 1840, the East India company used to put out the price of cotton from England and the entire world would buy at that rate. But the businessmen would know of the price in advance," he said. "The way East India Company used to do business, I feel the same pattern is being followed again. Farmers and small businessmen will be looted. When farmers will not get the rates for their produce, suicide rate will increase," Bootra said. Replying to this, Gandhi said, "You want to say earlier it was East India Company, now a West India company has come in." The Congress leader alleged that during the Covid-19 pandemic, money is being given to big businessmen instead of the poor. A farmer from Jhajjar said the farmers would not get anything in any case and they were just being "harassed". "The government is trying to finish farmers, labourers and small businessmen," he claimed. When Gandhi asked them about their future plans, Om Parkash Dhankar said, "We will sell everything and handover the entire system to big businessmen like Adani and Ambani, and we will have to do labour." "They will bring back the British rule and will destroy the country as they are privatising everything," he alleged. A farmer from Vashim in Maharashtra told the Congress leader that today if Mahatma Gandhi was alive, he would have opposed these laws. On being asked by Rahul Gandhi about the government's claims that the MSP system will not be discontinued, Sunil Singh, a farmer from Pathankot in Punjab said, "This is all 'jumlebaazi' and they are doing fraud with farmers." "This party has been for the rich and it will never think about the poor or small farmers," he alleged.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-641
29-09-2020||India||Modi attacks Opposition for insulting farmers ||In a scathing attack on those opposing the new farm laws, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said they wanted only the middlemen to thrive and referred to the burning of a tractor in Delhi by Congress workers as an insult to farmers. "They are opposing the freedom of farmers and want their problems to continue forever. By torching farming equipment, which the agriculturists worship, these people are now insulting farmers," he said without naming the Congress. The Congress' youth wing activists on Monday morning set a tractor ablaze near India Gate, a few hundred metres from the Rashtrapati Bhavan and Parliament, to protest the contentious farm laws. Modi said the opposition has only one way of doing politics in the country and that is by opposing things. Terming it "opposition for the sake of opposition", the prime minister said that by opposing big reformative steps by the Centre such as the farm laws, these forces were making themselves irrelevant in the society and in the country. He accused the opposition of opposing everything from GST, One Rank One Pension, Rafale deal, Statue of Unity, 10 per cent reservation for the poor and celebration of November 26 as Samvidhan Diwas. He said that this politics of the opposition for opposition's sake was the root of the frustration of a party which had ruled for four generations. "Frustration of a party which has ended up riding the shoulders of others despite wielding power for four generations is behind this politics of the opposition for opposition's sake, Modi said. He said none of the leaders of the political party had till date visited the Statue of Unity, built to honour the memory of Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel whose contribution to unifying the country is well known. "Why? Because they had to oppose," he said. He said people had seen for themselves the role Jan Dhan accounts played in direct benefit transfer schemes during the coronavirus pandemic and they could also remember how it was opposed while being introduced by the Centre. He said after opposing the Ram Mandir in the Supreme Court for decades, they even began opposing its foundation stone laying in Ayodhya. Without naming the Congress, he accused it of being neither with the farmers nor with the youth nor the soldiers and recalled that the the party had demanded proof of surgical strikes instead of praising the bravehearts who carried out the exercise. He also recalled how it opposed the purchase of Rafale fighter jets. "They did not do anything for years to strengthen the Air Force, ignoring its pleas for being better equipped and modernised. I am pleased to see that Rafale fighter jets are strengthening our Air Force today. He said the farm laws were meant to set farmers free from restrictions which they had suffered for decades. "They will have both MSP and the freedom to sell their produce anywhere in the open market but there are people who are spreading lies about the bills. "They only want middlemen to thrive and want the problems of farmers to be perpetuated. The real reason behind the ongoing protests is that yet another source of black money has been closed for them," the prime minister said. Modi was inaugurating six ambitious sewage treatment plants in Haridwar, Rishikesh, Muni-ki-Reti town and Badrinath under Namami Gange through video conference. He said the process of empowering people, farmers and the youth, and making the country self-reliant through big reforms will continue relentlessly. Modi also attacked the previous governments for wasting too much money over Ganga rejuvenation, drinking water and irrigations schemes without any results, claiming there was no coordination between the government departments involved. "This led to further aggravation of the problems instead of resolving them. But today the work culture has changed and every penny is going into the implementation of the projects," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-641
29-09-2020||India||Present border situation at 'no war no peace', says IAF chief||The present security scenario along our northern frontiers is at an uneasy "no war no peace" status, Chief of Air Staff Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria said on Tuesday, referring to the prolonged border row with China in eastern Ladakh. In an address at a conference, Air Chief Marshal Bhadauria said the Indian Air Force has responded to the situation with rapidity and is fully resolved to counter any "misadventure" in the region. "The present security scenario along our northern frontiers is at an uneasy no war no peace status. Our defence forces are prepared for any eventuality as you are aware," the Chief of Air Staff said. Air Chief Marshal Bhadauria said the recent induction of Rafale jets along with previous acquisitions of C-17 Globemaster aircraft as well as Chinook and Apache helicopters have provided the IAF with substantial tactical and strategic capability enhancement. "Air power will be a crucial enabler in our victory in any future conflict. It is, therefore, imperative that IAF obtains and maintains technological edge over our adversaries," he said at the conference on energising the Indian aerospace industry. Five French-made multi-role Rafale fighter jets were inducted into the IAF on September 10. The fleet has been carrying out sorties in eastern Ladakh in the last couple of weeks. The IAF chief also said that the raising of two squadrons of light combat aircraft Tejas and integration of some indigenous weapons on Su-30 MKI combat jets in a very reduced time frame have been the "most promising" development, reflecting the country's capabilities to develop indigenous military hardware.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-641
29-09-2020||India||Defence ministry scraps offset clause for military equipment deals||The defence ministry has scrapped the offset clause in government-to-government deals and single-vendor contracts for military equipment, a senior official said on Monday, explaining that the provision had failed in its objective of bringing advanced technology to the country. Many in India had become familiar with the term “offset contract” because of the Rafale controversy. The existing offset policy requires foreign defence vendors to invest at least 30 per cent of the total contract in India to boost indigenous capabilities. From October 1, under a new Defence Acquisition Procedure (DAP), this will cease to apply to inter-government and single-vendor deals, director-general (acquisition) Apurva Chandra told reporters. Multi-vendor contracts will continue to have the offset clause, a ministry official later clarified. The defence ministry’s official statement on the DAP only said that “the offset guidelines have been revised”. A week ago, government auditor CAG had pulled up French firm Dassault Aviation for failing to meet its offset obligations in the Rs 59,000-crore Rafale aircraft deal that included the transfer of high-end technology to the Defence Research and Development Organisation. During the Rafale controversy ahead of the 2019 general election, the term “offset contract” had hogged headlines because of the one with Anil Ambani’s Reliance — a rookie in defence manufacture — at the cost of public-sector Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd. The Congress had accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of bypassing due process to strike a deal with France that involved fewer jets at a higher price per aircraft than the one negotiated by the previous UPA government, and a bonanza for Anil Ambani. Several military veterans expressed support for the abolition of the offset policy, introduced in 2005, saying it had never worked and that it paved the way for corruption. A veteran said: “It was introduced for the benefit of the domestic defence industry, but Indian manufacturers lacked the capability or technological prowess to gain from it.” Besides, he said, bureaucratic and operational delays in India were a “stumbling block”. A former lieutenant general said the removal of the offset clause could lead to savings, since foreign firms tended to jack up prices by about 10 per cent to cater to their offset commitments. “The offset business in government-to-government deals was also a big money racket. No foreign firms transfer technology, anyway, and so it never worked. We have seen this now in the Rafale deal as well,” he said. Chandra said the new DAP was cleared by defence minister Rajnath Singh on Monday. “No offset contract has led to transfer of technology into the country as pointed out by the CAG in a recent report. We have made changes in offset guidelines… There will be no offsets clause in inter-governmental agreements, government-to-government deals and single-vendor cases,” he said. Chandra said the offset guidelines had been revised to align defence procurement with the government’s vision of Atmanirbhar Bharat (Self-reliant India) and to empower domestic industry through the Make-in-India initiative, with the goal of turning the country into a global manufacturing hub. But a retired general said that at least in the defence sector, talk of Atmanirbhar Bharat and Make-in-India was a “sham”. “The government talks about turning India into a defence manufacturing hub – does India have enough indigenous capability?” he asked. “The answer is a big ‘no’. We haven’t got the capability to even manufacture artillery guns.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-641
29-09-2020||India||Sonia Gandhi asks Congress-ruled states to circumvent farm bills||Sonia Gandhi has asked states ruled by the Congress to explore the possibility of bringing in legislation to circumvent the contentious farm bills forced through Parliament by the Narendra Modi government, setting the stage for a confrontation on an issue that has brought farmers on the streets and forced the BJP’s oldest ally to snap ties with it. The party general secretary in charge of organisation, K.C. Venugopal, said in a statement: “Congress president has advised the Congress-ruled states to explore the possibilities to pass laws in their respective states under Article 254(2) of the Constitution which allows the state legislatures to pass a law to negate the anti-agriculture central laws encroaching upon state’s jurisdiction under the Constitution. “This would enable the states to bypass the unacceptable anti-farmers’ provisions in the three draconian agricultural laws, including the abolition of MSP (minimum support price) and disruption of APMCs in Congress-ruled states. This would also alleviate the farmers from the grave injustice done by the Modi government and BJP.” Congress chief ministers promptly declared they were ready to take up the challenge. Article 254(2) of the Constitution says: “Where a law made by the legislature of a state with respect to one of the matters enumerated in the concurrent list contains any provision repugnant to the provisions of an earlier law made by Parliament or an existing law with respect to that matter, then, the law so made by the legislature of such state shall, if it has been reserved for the consideration of the President and has received his assent, prevail in that state: provided that nothing in this clause shall prevent Parliament from enacting at any time any law with respect to the same matter including a law adding to, amending, varying or repealing the law so made by the legislature of the state.” The Centre clearly enjoys an upper hand, but laws made in Assemblies have been saved through presidential assent in several cases in the past. Because agriculture and trade are state subjects, the Congress hopes this could be a valid option. Even if it does not succeed, by making the attempt the Congress will have sent out a clear message of its intent, which would help it politically. Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh led a protest against the farm bills at Bhagat Singh’s village Khatkar Kalan — Monday was the birth anniversary of the freedom fighter hanged by the British — and described the Centre’s move as an attack on federal principles. States and farmers’ unions were not consulted, he said, and declared his willingness to take the path suggested by Sonia. “Our legal team is working on it. We will decide soon whether to move the Supreme Court or take some legislative measures in the Assembly. But we are not going to leave the farmers at the mercy of these draconian laws. We will fight this menace of the government of India,” he said. Protests against the farm bills have been the loudest in the agrarian states of Punjab and Haryana, but farmers are raising their voice on the streets across the country, prompting even parties friendly to the Modi government, such as the TRS in Telangana and the AIADMK in Tamil Nadu, to speak up for them. The Akali Dal, the BJP’s oldest ally, quit the ruling National Democratic Alliance over the issue. After the daylong dharna, Amarinder said at a news conference in Chandigarh: “This is not the time for politics. Every party should come together to save the farmers. We don’t want trouble; Punjab has seen enough bloodshed and conflicts. But we will fight this constitutionally and legally. This is not a fight for Punjab. This is a fight for the country’s farmers. India is made of small farmers. This government has no understanding of agriculture. Why are they doing this nonsense – only to make Adani happy?” He continued: “Farmers will be destroyed as the Centre wants to open the field for the corporate (sector). What will happen to the public distribution system? Grains purchased by Food Corporation of India are given to the poor at a subsidised rate. Will Adani subsidise? You are giving verbal assurances to farmers. Who will trust you when you don’t honour constitutional guarantees? You are not giving GST dues. And what will be left with the states? Where will the revenues come from? How do we run?” Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel too declared his intent to challenge the laws in the Supreme Court and to pass a resolution in the Assembly opposing the Centre’s move. Top lawyers of the Congress are working out the legal responses and will guide the states on future action. The Congress held protest marches in every state and submitted memorandums to the governors demanding scrapping of the new farm laws, which Rahul Gandhi had described as a “death warrant” on farmers. In Uttar Pradesh and Delhi, Congress workers were not allowed to organise rallies and hundreds were arrested. Youth Congress activists from Punjab created a ripple when they burnt a tractor near India Gate in Delhi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-641
29-09-2020||India||Supreme Court glare on land acquisition act ruling||The Supreme Court on Monday stressed the need for clarity on a question left unanswered by a five-judge constitution bench: whether land acquisition proceedings should lapse where possession has been taken but compensation left unpaid for a long time. While a 2013 law had said land acquisition proceedings would lapse if physical possession had not been taken or the compensation not been paid, the five-judge bench said the proceedings would lapse only if the authorities have neither taken possession nor paid the compensation. “The judgment had given the government certain laxity, which Parliament did not want to give the government,” Chief Justice S.A. Bobde, who headed a three-judge bench, observed orally on Monday while adjourning the matter by two weeks. The bench, which included Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian, said the March 6 verdict by the five-judge bench had not clarified what the fate of the acquisition proceedings would be if the government had taken possession but not paid the compensation for several years. It wondered whether those who gave up the land should wait indefinitely for compensation. “If possession is taken by the government but compensation is not paid, the acquisition does not lapse. But we need to know for how long... will it not lapse? Forever?” Justice Bobde asked solicitor-general Tushar Mehta during the hearing. His words suggested the apex court might revisit the March 6, 2020, judgment to clarify the matter. If so, the three-judge bench will have to refer the matter to a five-judge or seven-judge bench, since a smaller bench cannot overrule a larger bench. The five-judge bench that gave the Indore Development Authority vs Manoharlal and Others ruling was made up of Justices Arun Mishra (now retired), Indira Banerjee, Vineet Saran, M.R. Shah and Ravindra Bhat. It had passed the judgment while interpreting Section 24 of the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013, after two three-judge benches had delivered conflicting verdicts. Mehta, whose assistance was sought in the matter on Monday, said 600-odd cases relating to land acquisition proceedings were under adjudication in various high courts, hanging on the interpretation of Section 24.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-641
29-09-2020||India||Bhim Army enters Bihar Assembly election fray||The Bhim Army, an Uttar Pradesh-based Dalit rights organisation, is all set to enter the electoral fray in the Bihar Assembly polls after tying up with Rajesh Ranjan aka Pappu Yadav’s Jan Adhikar Party on Monday to form the Progressive Democratic Alliance. Social Democratic Front of India, the political outfit of Popular Front of India, and Bahujan Mukti Party are also part of the new alliance. Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad said the organisation will contest the polls through its political front Azad Samaj Party, which he heads. “We will go wherever there is a fight for justice and equality. This alliance has been formed to check communal forces and caste violence....They live in air-conditioned rooms, and fail to come out to agitate against atrocities,” he said. Pappu said: “Its time to end the sin of 30 years of the RJD and the NDA. They destroyed a progressive state like Bihar. Nitish did not help the migrant workers trapped in various parts of the country during the lockdown...”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-641
29-09-2020||India||Impossible to put off exams: Union Public Service Commission||The Union Public Service Commission on Monday said it would be “impossible” to postpone the preliminary civil service exam, scheduled on October 4, as sought by a group of petitioners who have cited the pandemic. The bench of Justices A.M. Khanwilkar, B.R. Gavai and Krishna Murari asked the UPSC counsel, Naresh Kaushik, to file an affidavit in support of his oral submission and posted the next hearing to October 1. Some 20-odd civil service aspirants have petitioned the court to postpone the exam – being held offline — by at least two to three months lest thousands of candidates get infected by the coronavirus. Kaushik told the court orally that the UPSC had already deferred the exam once, from September 30, and there could not be any further postponements. “My lords, it is impossible to agree to the petitioners’ plea — deferment will nullify the very objective…” he said. An estimated six lakh students have registered to take the exam at 70-odd centres across the country. The petitioners —Vasireddy Govardhana Sai Prakash and others — have described the authorities’ decision to proceed with the exams as “arbitrary” and “whimsical”, saying it reflects utter disregard for the safety of the candidates. They have said this is a violation of the examinees’ fundamental right to life and liberty under Article 21. Besides, they have argued that in many parts of the country, floods will make it difficult for the candidates to take the exams.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-642
29-09-2020||India||Kerala Cong MP urges SC to quash farm laws||A Congress MP from Kerala on Monday urged the Supreme Court to quash the Farmers’ (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and related notifications as “unconstitutional, illegal and thereby void”. T.N. Prathapan, whose petition is expected to be heard this week, said the law had been passed without adequate discussion, and would hurt farmers’ livelihood by leading to their exploitation by big companies. “This act is violative of Article 14 (equality), 15 (non-discrimination) and 21 (life and liberty) of the Constitution of India and accordingly, liable to be struck down as unconstitutional, illegal and void,” the petition, filed through advocate James P. Thomas, said. It said the act had put farmers in a position where, if any dispute arose, they would have to run to an already overburdened bureaucracy for a remedy instead of securing a permanent solution in a court of law. “The present act also fails to establish farmer-centric courts where the farmers can raise their grievances, similar to the ones created under the labour act, consumer act, family courts act, etc. Instead, the act gives the responsibility to sub-divisional magistrate who already has multiple other duties and functions to perform,” the petition said. “Implementation of the act in its current form will spell disaster for the farming community by opening a parallel market which is unregulated and gives enough room for exploitation of the farmers’ community by concentration of power in the hands of a few corporate/individuals, multinationals and moneylenders thus working against the very object it was seemingly created for.”The new law, passed by voice vote last week, overrides the Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) Act, which restricts farmers to selling their produce at regulated wholesale markets. While the government claims this will lead farmers to prosperity, protesting farmers are saying it will deprive them of a guaranteed minimum support price (MSP) and lead to their exploitation by big companies. Prathapan’s petition asserted that without the APMC acting as a protective shield around the farmers, they would fall prey to the greed of multinational companies. “The APMC deterred the exploitation of the farmers by providing minimum support price which would guarantee that the farmer who comes to the APMC would not leave empty-handed,” the petition said. It argued that the new law had violated the rights of the 14.5 crore citizens engaged in farming and sought its quashing “before serious financial damage is caused to them and the families of such persons”. “Unchecked hoarding will give exporters, processors and traders the power to regulate the prices of the produce as and when they need, creating artificial demand thus controlling price in the market at will,” the petition said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-642
29-09-2020||India||India’s Covid toll set to cross 1 lakh||India’s death toll from the new coronavirus disease is set to surpass 100,000 this week if daily mortality trends observed through September persist despite a 50 per cent fall in the country’s case fatality rate over the past three months. The number of Covid-19 deaths climbed to 95,542 on Monday with health authorities recording 1,039 deaths over the previous 24 hours. The daily nationwide mortality figure has always been greater than 1,000 through September after 819 deaths on August 31. The Union health ministry said on Monday that 10 states accounted for 84 per cent of the deaths recorded over the previous 24 hours with Maharashtra alone making up 360 (36 per cent) of the deaths. The others are Tamil Nadu (80), Karnataka (79), Uttar Pradesh (77), Bengal (60), Punjab (50), Andhra Pradesh (45), Delhi (42), Chhattisgarh (31), and Madhya Pradesh (26). Health experts expect the country’s Covid-19 deaths to exceed 100,000 by Friday this week if the September trend persists. Although the average numbers of daily new infections have shown a declining trend since mid-September, experts say any impact on daily deaths will show up after a lag period. The country’s Covid-19 case fatality rate — the proportion of deaths among Covid-19 patients — has dropped from around 3.3 per cent in mid-June to 1.57 per cent on Monday. The seven-day average of new cases has fallen from around 93,000 on September 16 to 83,000 on September 27. But public health specialists say they do not have adequate data to determine what factors might have contributed to this fall in new cases. “We still have a very large epidemic,” said Oommen John, a physician and senior researcher at The George Institute for Global Health, New Delhi. “The patterns of infections and deaths we’re seeing appear to reflect the local capacity of health systems to respond to the pandemic.” Health authorities recorded 82,170 new Covid-19 cases on Monday with the same 10 states accounting for 79 per cent of those cases — Maharashtra accounting for the largest addition (18,056 cases) followed by Karnataka (9,543), Kerala (7,445), Andhra Pradesh (6,923), Tamil Nadu (5,791), Uttar Pradesh (4,250), Odisha (3,922), Delhi (3,292), Bengal (3,185) and Madhya Pradesh (2,310). “It is surprising to see 7,445 cases in Kerala and less than 5,000 in Uttar Pradesh despite its much larger population,” said John. Although the two states might be in different states of the epidemic, John said, the differences in numbers are more likely the outcome of health-seeking behaviour and the capacity of local health systems to respond to demand for testing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-642
29-09-2020||India||Lookout alert for ex-DIG in Assam paper leak case ||Assam police have arrested 19 people till Monday in connection with the question paper leak case that led to the cancellation of the recruitment test for posts of 597 sub-inspectors on September 20. The leak of the question paper on WhatsApp just 12 minutes before the exam led to the cancellation of the statewide recruitment test, affecting over 66,000 candidates. Police have issued a lookout circular for former deputy inspector-general P.K. Dutta, suspected to be a key player in the case along with BJP youth leader Diban Deka, who are both at large. Deka is now holed up outside the state, according to a Facebook post, because he feared for his life since several influential people, including police officials, were involved in the paper leak case The investigation being carried out by the CID and Guwahati police’s crime branch has revealed that around 50 candidates were “coached” about various aspects of the test on the eve of the exam at a city lodge. A police statement on Monday evening said items recovered from a Guwahati hotel point towards the “involvement” of Dutta and his associates in “running” an office and conducting training, said to be a pretext for approaching candidates and demanding money for illegal appointment as sub-inspectors in Assam police. Apart from the lookout circular to ensure that Dutta cannot leave the country, the police brass have also decided to announce a cash award of Rs 1 lakh for any information regarding his whereabouts and register a case of disproportionate assets against the former cop. The Enforcement Directorate, income tax department and Directorate of Revenue Intelligence are likely to be involved in the probe at some stage since Dutta is said to own or is linked to four hotels in Guwahati besides residential premises here and in Mumbai and over 1,400-bighas plot in Cachar district and an upcoming residential complex in Dibrugarh. Raids at his residence have led to the recovery of over 1.5kg gold and a pistol, whose licence has expired. All these steps and seizures were announced at a press meet addressed jointly by Assam director-general of police Bhaskar Jyoti Mahanta, additional DGP G.P. Singh, inspector-general of police (CID), Surender Kumar, and Guwahati police commissioner M.P. Gupta. Chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal has asserted nobody will be spared, irrespective of party affiliation or status, referring to his government’s zero-tolerance attitude against corruption. On Sunday, Pradeep Kumar, chairman of the State Level Police Recruitment Board (SLPRB) that conducted the examination, resigned owning moral responsibility for the question paper leak. The cancelled exam will now be held on November 15, according to Sonowal. A statement from the chief minister’s office said the board has been reconstituted with the DGP as the new chairman, ADGP Harmeet Singh as member secretary and ADGP L.R. Bishnoi and IGP Hiren Nath as members. Sonowal also directed the board to complete the written examination within November 20. The case has given the Opposition Congress an issue to attack the ruling BJP-led government with Congress legislature party leader Debabrata Saikia on Monday saying the chief minister has “disheartened” the people of Assam, especially the youths, by his lame statements and insipid role in connection with the police recruitment scam. “The need of the hour is to institute an enquiry by a sitting judge of Hon’ble Gauhati High Court to get to the bottom of the matter, but one gets the impression that Mr Sonowal, who is charge of the home department, is influencing the police into diverting the investigation into a maze,” Saikia alleged. Saikia said that each and every recruitment test conducted by various departments during the tenure of the present government has been marred by severe irregularities and several deprived candidates have been forced to knock on the doors of the high court. “It has been already revealed that some police officials and BJP leaders were offering jobs to numerous candidates in lieu of cash. There may be another aspect to this issue, namely, that some jobs were earmarked for sale to anyone willing to pay hard cash while the remaining jobs were reserved for candidates who believe in a certain ideology,” Saikia alleged.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-642
29-09-2020||India||Akali Dal, Shiv Sena exit boost to Nitish Kumar||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar could emerge a coveted partner for the BJP after the exit of two oldest allies, Shiv Sena and Akali Dal, from the National Democratic Alliance, party insiders feel. The Nitish Kumar-led Janata Dal United now is the only credible BJP ally left in the NDA. The party is not part of the Narendra Modi government at the Centre but is the largest partner in the alliance after the BJP with 15 members in the Lok Sabha and five in the Rajya Sabha. The exit of the Akali Dal, after the Sena snapped ties with the BJP late last year, comes as Bihar is headed for polls and seat sharing with the JDU and the LJP (Lok Janshakti Party) is still to be ironed out. Party leaders said it is not that the BJP would get into surrender mode and let Nitish corner a large share of seats but it would certainly be more accommodative. “We would not like to annoy Nitish for some seats. But he too is aware that he needs the BJP and this will get things sorted out,” one BJP leader said. Although the exit of the two oldest and trusted allies is being seen as a big blow to the BJP, internally, the party feels the Akalis had turned into a baggage. “Alliances are formed on the basis of give and take. The Akali Dal had ceased to be of any benefit to the BJP, electorally,” a BJP leader said. This leader said the Akali Dal had turned unpopular and was not able to transfer its votes to the BJP. On this count, Nitish still continues to be a credible face and a vote catcher, despite 15 years of anti-incumbency, BJP managers feel. “The BJP still doesn’t have a leader in Bihar to match Nitish,” another BJP leader said. Despite acknowledging Nitish’s importance, most Bihar leaders of the party feel his popularity was on the wane and that comes as an opportunity for the BJP to dominate and spread wings in Bihar. “At a meeting almost all Bihar leaders advocated that the BJP and the JDU should contest an equal number of seats,” a BJP leader said. The BJP has always been a junior ally to Nitish in Bihar. After the exit of the Akali Dal and the intensifying farmers’ agitation, the central leadership may not take a rigid stand and allow Nitish to dominate, BJP insiders said. “We need to win handsomely in Bihar to shatter the negative perception due to the farmers’ protest and exit of the Akalis,” one BJP MP said, stressing the importance of Nitish. The JDU could also be invited to join the Modi government with some key portfolios, according to some BJP leaders. Nitish had earlier rebuffed the BJP’s offer of just one minister as a “symbolic” representation. BJP leaders said the growth of the party under the leadership of Narendra Modi had naturally made their allies jittery about their survival. “Why did the Shiv Sena leave? Because they saw that the BJP was usurping its vote base,” one leader said. The BJP, party leaders said, had emerged out of the dependence on allies phase under the leadership of Modi, particularly after the massive 2019 Lok Sabha mandate. “In state polls, however, we still need to tread carefully and wait for an opportune time,” a newly appointed BJP general secretary said, indicating a churn in Bihar politics post the October-November polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-642
29-09-2020||India||Mathura: Petition in court eyes removal of Shahi Idgah||Till last weekend, just about a half-dozen policemen idled around the gates of Mathura’s Sri Krishna Janmabhoomi temple. Now there are two dozen, many carrying sophisticated firearms. The change is the result of a petition moved on Friday in a Mathura civil court by Ranjana Agnihotri, a Lucknow lawyer close to the Vishwa Hindu Parishad, and six others. Calling themselves “friends of Sri Krishna Virajman”, the petitioners have sought — on the god’s behalf — ownership of the entire 13.37 acres where the temple and the Shahi Idgah mosque have stood side by side for centuries. The subtext: the mosque should be removed. It’s a template borrowed from the Ram Janmabhoomi movement in Ayodhya that resulted in the Babri Masjid being demolished by a mob in 1992 and the Supreme Court handing over the disputed plot to the Hindu side last November. However, there’s one difference. Unlike the custodians of the makeshift Ram temple in Ayodhya who were in the forefront of the movement, the trust that runs the Krishna temple in Mathura wants nothing to do with the call for the Shahi Idgah mosque’s removal. “It’s a BJP ploy to try and win the 2022 Assembly elections. The BJP governments in Uttar Pradesh and at the Centre want to create a stir around the subject in the state and the country,” said a member of the Sri Krishna Janmasthan Seva Sansthan, who didn’t want to be named. Sansthan secretary Kapil Sharma said: “Certain unscrupulous people are trying to create a controversy out of nothing. They will vitiate the atmosphere in the country. The Sansthan pays tax for the (part of the) land (on which the temple stands) and has no problem with the mosque.” In Ayodhya, the Hindu side had claimed the Babri Masjid was built after demolishing a temple that stood at the site of Ram’s birth. But both the Sansthan and the mosque trust in Mathura — respondents in the Krishna Janmabhoomi case — say the temple and the mosque have stood side by side for centuries. Both were built sometime in the “Mughal era”, they say, with no clarity on — or concern over — which was built first. They agree they each own a part of the land — the part on which their place of worship stands. “We have enjoyed cordial relations with the Sansthan for decades,” said Tanveer Ahmad, secretary of the Committee of Management Trust of Shahi Idgah Masjid. “Those who have petitioned the court haven’t done anything for the temple ever. Devotees of Lord Krishna visit the temple and Muslims offer namaz in the mosque every day.” There was never any issue except a minor one that was sorted out easily over a half-century ago. “We entered into an agreement with the temple trust in the 1960s that none of the nullahs (drains) originating from the mosque would open towards the temple,” Ahmad said. He added: “As for ownership of the land on which the mosque stands, we are ready with documents to submit in the court after the hearing starts on September 30.” Agnihotri had told reporters after filing the petition that the mosque stood on the exact site where Krishna was born. “It (the birthplace) was forcibly encroached upon during the Mughal period.” The Krishna Janmabhoomi demand was voiced in the 1980s when the BJP-VHP stepped up the Ayodhya movement. It never gained much momentum, with the handful of guards posted outside the complex its only visible effect. But some Hindutva groups began making a noise about Krishna Janmabhoomi after last November’s Ayodhya verdict. Twenty-two members of the little-known Hindu Army were arrested this month after plastering Mathura with posters announcing a temple movement. On Sunday, former BJP national vice-president Vinay Katiyar, a key accused in the Babri demolition case whose verdict is expected this week, said: “We have won the Ayodhya case; now it’s the turn of Mathura.” Narendra Giri, president of the Akhara Parishad — a union of all 13 akharas in the country — has suggested that “Muslims should by themselves leave the site where the mosque is standing in Mathura”. “Otherwise, we’ll take it from them with the help of the court,” he said in Allahabad on Monday. While Sharma is unhappy with the turn of events, he sounded a little amused as he said the filing of the petition had raised the footfall at the temple threefold. “The daily count of devotees has increased in the last three days from 5,000 to 15,000,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-642
29-09-2020||India||‘Neutral’ Naveen Patnaik tries to reassure farmers||Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Monday spoke on the new farm laws for the first time, expressing neither support nor opposition but assuring farmers that their interests were paramount to his party. He mentioned how, in Parliament, the BJD had wanted two bills to go to a standing committee but added that the party would support any initiative that brought prosperity to farmers. “We will continue our fight for implementation of the M.S. Swaminathan recommendation for formulating the minimum support price (MSP),” Naveen said, addressing the BJD legislature party ahead of the Assembly’s monsoon session, which begins on Tuesday. Adopting the Swaminathan formula would raise the MSP, a longstanding demand of the farmers who fear that the new farm laws would end the MSP regime altogether and put them at the mercy of big companies. Naveen’s comments came four days after Congress politician Digvijay Singh had, during an Odisha visit, accused the BJD of supporting the BJP which, he said, was working against farmers’ interests. “The BJD opposed the farm bills but continues to support most of the BJP-led Centre’s decisions. There seems to be some kind of understanding between the two parties. They have joined hands to finish the farmers,” Singh had said. Naveen, also the BJD president, said: “In both Houses of Parliament, the BJD had raised its concerns about protection of farmers’ interest in the farmers’ bill and suggested close scrutiny by a parliamentary committee. The party will form a committee of MLAs, MPs and leading farmer leaders to study the provisions. I assure the farmers that their welfare would be paramount to us.” Naveen also highlighted Odisha’s battle against Covid-19, stressing the state’s high recovery rate and low fatality rate. “We are the only state providing... universal free coverage of all Covid-related expenses,” he said. Odisha has arranged for free Covid-19 testing and treatment at government hospitals and designated private hospitals for people who contact the official helpline.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-642
29-09-2020||India||MLAs’ absence to hit Odisha session ||The monsoon session of Odisha Assembly that kicks off on Tuesday is likely to be affected by the absence of a large number of MLAs who have tested positive for coronavirus. Apart from Covid-19 management, issues like hike in power tariff and the controversial farm bills recently passed by Parliament are likely to be discussed during the session. More than 50 MLAs, more than one-third of the total strength of the House comprising 145 members, have been found Covid-19 positive. Around six ministers and even deputy Speaker Rajanikant Singh have been diagnosed with Covid-19 during the tests conducted ahead of the commencement of the session. The members who have tested positive will not be allowed to enter the Assembly premises. So far 2.12 lakh people in the state have been infected with Covid-19, while 813 have succumbed to the disease. There will be no Question Hour in the Assembly because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Seating arrangements have been made in the House in tune with social distancing norms. The distance between two MLAs will be at least 4 feet with a 2ft-high glass ceiling separating them. While the ruling BJD has made it clear that it is ready to face any issues raised by the Congress and the BJP, the two Opposition parties have decided to corner the government on issues such as alleged poor pandemic management, hike in power tariff at the time of coronavirus crisis and the controversial farm laws brought by the Centre. Senior Congress leader and former law minister Narasingha Mishra said, “The state government has completely failed in Covid-19 management. Complaints are pouring in from different parts of the state. We will also expose the government on the issue of neglecting the cause of farmers.” On Monday, a delegation of Congress leaders met governor Ganeshi Lal and handed over a memorandum against the farm bills describing them as anti-farmer and pro-rich. Leader of the Opposition and senior BJP legislator Pradipta Nayak said, “We will highlight Covid-19 mismanagement of the government, which has been admitted by even ruling party MLAs. Besides when the state is passing through a tough time, the decision to hike power tariff has left the common man fuming. We will protest against it on the floor of the House.” Senior BJD lawmaker and former minister Pratap Keshari Deb said, “The ruling party will discuss all the issues raised by the Opposition. We will also inform the members in the Assembly about our opposition to the Centre’s new farm bills.” Meanwhile, director-general of police Abhay visited the state Assembly on Monday to review the security measures taken by the Directorate of Intelligence and the commissionerate of police for the monsoon session. The session will conclude on October 7.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-642
29-09-2020||India||Bullet-hit elephant dies in Odisha ||A female elephant succumbed to a bullet injury at Dalijoda forest range near Choudwar in Cuttack district on Monday, about 65km from here. Forest official sources revealed the pachyderm was shot on the right leg by a poacher four days ago in the forest. Getting a tip off about the injured elephant, the forest officials reached the spot and began the treatment of the elephant with support of veterinary doctors. However, the elephant passed away on Monday morning while undergoing treatment. On Sunday, the forest officials had found a carcass of an elephant on the outskirts of Ratakhandi village under Sadar block in Bolangir district, about 340km from here.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-642
29-09-2020||West Bengal||Piyush Goyal writes to MP Raju Bista on Nepal tea imports||The Union ministry of commerce and industry and the Tea Board of India have taken a number of initiatives to stop the unbridled import of tea from Nepal and its sale as Darjeeling Tea in India. Piyush Goyal, the Union minister of railways, commerce and industry, wrote to Darjeeling BJP MP Raju Bista recently, saying the Centre was taking necessary steps to ensure that tea from Nepal was imported only if the product complied with all regulations of the FSSAI (Food Safety & Standards Authority of India). Bista had written to the minister in June, expressing concern over the dumping of tea from Nepal in India and pointing out that the product was being sold as Darjeeling Tea. “I had mentioned that it was also causing widespread losses for our tea industry and harming the Darjeeling brand. It is good that the Tea Board is taking initiatives to check the dumping of tea and has made it mandatory that tea imported from other countries will have to get a clearance from FSSAI. This would address certain areas of concern like health safety of tea drinkers and adulteration of Darjeeling Tea and would promote a healthy competition among tea producers in the neighbouring country,” said Bista. In the past few years, members of the Indian tea industry, particularly those associated with the Darjeeling tea industry, time and again flagged the issue and sought the intervention of the Centre and the Tea Board. Along with his letter, Goyal also appended a note mentioning the initiatives taken by the Tea Board — the apex government agency that looks after the tea sector in the country. It has been mentioned in the note that Nepal tea can be sold in India only in packaged form. Added to this is the compulsory clearance from the FSSAI and appropriate authorities of Nepal for each batch of tea imported from Nepal. The FSSAI has also been advised to allow the import of tea only through a single land customs station on the India-Nepal border. “In the note, it has also been mentioned that to protect the Darjeeling name and the logo under the Geographical Indication of Goods (Registration & Protection) Act, 1999, it has been made mandatory to specify the country of origin by the wholesalers, packers and retailers while selling imported tea,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-358
29-09-2020||West Bengal||Bengal Covid count crosses  2.5 lakh||Bengal went past the 2.5 lakh mark in the total number of Covid-19 cases with 3,155 infections being recorded in 24 hours till 9am on Monday. The state had recorded the first novel coronavirus patient on March 17. The state also reported 56 deaths and 2,923 recoveries in the 24-hour window. Of the 2.5 lakh cases, nearly 2.2 lakh are recoveries and 4,837 are deaths. Bengal had logged the first 5,000 Covid cases on May 30, 10,000 on June 12, 25,000 on July 9, 50,000 on July 23, 1 lakh on August 11, 1.5 lakh on August 27 and 2 lakh on September 13. “We have not been doing badly given the stage of the pandemic and the situation in the rest of the country. We are seventh on the list of states with most total cases and 12th on the list of states with the most active cases (25,899 on Monday). Given the size and density of our population, it is acceptable,” said a minister. The state’s recovery rate now is 87.73, still ahead of the national rate of 82.75 per cent. As the statewide total of active patients rose for the 21st consecutive day, Calcutta alone reported 618 new cases, while North 24-Parganas had 658. On the other hand, the city logged 472 recoveries, while North 24-Parganas reported 385. Calcutta, which had reached a high of 7,041 active cases by August 9, had improved to 4,067 by September 8. However, with the return of the rise, the city reported 5,075 active cases on Monday. Of the total 4,837 deaths reported, the city alone accounted for 1,684, with 15 till 9am. North 24-Parganas reported a total of 1,077 deaths, eight of them on Monday. The state government reported 4,120 deaths (85.2 per cent) as those with comorbidity “present”. Bengal’s overall mortality rate remained 1.93, still behind the national rate of 1.57 per cent. With 41,281 tests, the total tests went past 31 lakh, to stop just short of 31.4 lakh on Monday. The state now has 34,888 tests per million people. “We have already conducted over 12.52 lakh tests in September and will end the month with around 13.4 lakh tests. That is just about 60,000 short of the ambitious 14 lakh target we began with,” said the minister. Steady rise in the tests, coupled with no major increase in the number of new cases, has improved the positive confirmation rate — the percentage of total cases found out of the total number of tests conducted — from 8.9 on August 23 to 7.98 per cent. The state reported 35.94 per cent occupancy on 12,675 beds earmarked for Covid-19 at 92 dedicated hospitals. Nearly 2.67 lakh telemedicine consultations for the pandemic were provided, including 4,261 in the past 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-358
29-09-2020||West Bengal||Locals rescue kidnapped TMC leader after a chase||A drama unfolded at Harishchandrapur in Malda district on Monday as a group of criminals tried to abduct a Trinamul leader in broad daylight. Local people, though initially baffled by the kidnap bid by the miscreants who also fired gunshots, managed to save Jahurul Islam, a vice-president of Trinamul’s minority cell in the district. Islam, who is a quack, was abducted around 1pm when he was in his chamber at Koriali in Bhaluka. Locals said a gang of 10 to 12 miscreants reached near his chamber in four SUVs. “They got off the vehicles and fired in air to scare us. At least six rounds were fired. They then entered the quack’s chamber and soon, we found that he was being dragged by his collar by some of them. They were taking him near one of the vehicles,” said a witness. Some residents shot the video of the incident on their cellphones, while others informed police. As the four vehicles started moving out of Bhaluka, some residents in nearby areas tried to stop them on the way. The kidnappers then fired a few more rounds but suddenly, one of the vehicles lost balance and fell into a roadside ditch. The local people could find three abductors in the SUV and rescued Islam who was in the same vehicle. A police team reached the spot and arrested the trio. “We have arrested three persons and searches are on for others. Our officers are investigating the case,” said Sanjay Das, the inspector-in-charge of Harishchandrapur police station. Later on Monday, the residents demonstrated in front of Bhaluka police outpost to protest against the abduction attempt. The kidnappers, police sources said, were from Kaliachak in the district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-358
29-09-2020||West Bengal||CM in Siliguri for review meets||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee reached Siliguri on Monday on a four-day official visit during which she would hold administrative review meetings of five north Bengal districts. The visit is significant as Assembly elections will be held in less than seven months. A number of demands have gained ground both in the hills and the plains of north Bengal in the past few months and leaders of parties like the Binay Tamang faction of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha — an ally of the Trinamul Congress — are harping on them. According to sources, Mamata will stay at Uttarkanya, the branch secretariat of the state in Siliguri. She is expected to launch a number of new projects and make new announcements for the region. On Tuesday, Mamata will hold meetings with officials of Jalpaiguri and Alipurduar districts. She will conduct another round of meeting to review the progress of development works and social welfare schemes in Darjeeling, Kalimpong and Cooch Behar districts on Wednesday. The chief minister is scheduled to leave for Calcutta the following day, that is, on October 1. Political observers have said it is important for Mamata to regain the support of voters in north Bengal, the region that has 54 Assembly constituencies. In the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, Trinamul had managed to secure lead only in 12 Assembly segments, while the BJP was ahead in 38 seats. The Congress had secured the highest number of votes in the remaining four Assembly segments. “A considerable section of residents in the region wants the chief minister to make some announcements on their demands. Among the demands are land rights in the hills and tea gardens and permanency of jobs of ad hoc employees in the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration and the Darjeeling municipality. In recent times, the hill parties have been raising these issues. It would be interesting to see how the chief minister manages to address these issues,” said Soumen Nag, a social researcher. The observers also mentioned some other demands which had been raised by the Rajbanshi-dominated belts of north Bengal. On one hand, the demand for creating an autonomous council for the Rajbanshi community has been raised, particularly after a similar set-up was announced in the neighbouring state of Assam. On the other hand, former KLO militants and linkmen are asking for government jobs. Asok Bhattacharya, the CPM MLA of Siliguri, has been invited to the Darjeeling district review meeting as he is the chairperson of the board of administrators at the Siliguri Municipal Corporation. This is the first time that Bhattacharya, who is also the immediate past mayor of the city, has been invited to such a review meeting. On Monday, he received a letter from the district magistrate’s office, said sources. A CPM leader, when mentioned about the invitation, said polls to the Siliguri Municipal Corporation and the Siliguri Mahakuma Parishad are due this year. “In the Siliguri subdivision, Trinamul has never secured a majority at the SMC or the SMP. The BJP managed to establish itself as a formidable force in the subdivision and in the district as a whole. This is why it seems Trinamul is taking a softer stand at the Left as there is a notion that if the Left’s vote share goes up, BJP’s vote share will decline and can help Trinamul tide over the situation,” he said. Asked if he would attend the review meeting, Bhattacharya said: “I will discuss the matter with my colleagues at the civic body and take a decision.” Mamata might lay the foundation stone of the medical college that would come up in Jalpaiguri, said sources.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-358
29-09-2020||West Bengal||Cash crunch delays sewerage treatment system in Barrackpore||Uncertainty looms large over the commissioning of an underground sewerage system in Barrackpore of North 24-Parganas on account of a cash crunch despite the completion of two sewerage treatment plants (STPs) earlier this year. During an administrative review meeting in August, chief minister Mamata Banerjee had instructed the district administration and the municipal authorities to make the plants operational for the 32,000 households in the 24 wards of the civic area by December. However, individual domestic units are yet to be linked with the main disposal pipeline because of the paucity of funds. “Meeting the target set by the chief minister has become a big challenge to us now,” said a senior official of the North 24-Parganas administration. Barrackpore, one of the oldest urban centres of the state, has no underground domestic sewerage system. The domestic waste usually gets disposed in the septic tanks, which often creates problems. To overcome the problem, the Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA) had in 2017 taken up a project for developing an underground sewerage system for Barrackpore. The Rs 220 crore CMDA project was funded jointly by the Centre and the state government in a 70:30 ratio. It includes the two STPs constructed in the Latbagan area and on a plot of land adjacent to the Kalyani Expressway. CMDA sources said despite the financial problems, the work on the junction points of the underground disposal pipes was being carried out so that the domestic links could be provided whenever funds were made available. The CMDA has also appealed to the state government for funds to complete the project. But the state government is yet to come up with a reassurance, said a CMDA official. “At least Rs 50 crore is immediately needed to make the STPs and the entire system operational by connecting the domestic units with the underground disposal lines,” he said. An official of the Barrackpore municipality said: “If the commissioning is delayed, the STPs with their modern systems could get damaged, simply for remaining unused for long.” Since railway tracks divide Barrackpore into two, separate plants with underground disposal pipelines have been constructed for either side. On the western side, a 42km underground pipeline has been laid to link to the STP constructed in the Latbagan area. The waste from the plant would be finally disposed of in the Hooghly, after necessary treatment. On the eastern side, a 98km underground disposal pipeline has been laid for connection with the STP adjacent to the Kalyani Expressway. The waste from that end would be finally disposed of in the Ruhia canal after treatment. The chief of the board of administrators at the Barrackpore municipality, Uttam Das, has said the STPs have no utility till the domestic units are linked with the main underground disposal pipeline. “We have been persuading the state government to release funds for completing the project. But the Covid-19 pandemic came as an unforeseen obstacle for all of us,” he said. “I will speak to municipal affairs minister Firhad Hakim personally so that the uncertainty is overcome,” added Das. At the July August administrative meeting, sources in the district administration said, Mamata had come to know of the delay in the execution of the project. “At the meeting, she instructed the district magistrate, civic chief and the sub-divisional officer of Barrackpore to expedite the work so that the project could be commissioned by December. But the cash crunch has put a spanner in the works making the target difficult to meet,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-359
29-09-2020||West Bengal||Work to fence Pous Mela ground resumes||Visva-Bharati on Monday resumed work to fence the Pous Mela ground following a decision taken at a meeting on Sunday that was attended by members of a committee formed by Calcutta High Court and officials of the varsity and district administration. Sources said the four-member committee headed by Justice Sanjib Banerjee had verbally asked the Visva-Bharati to modify its earlier design of the wall by scaling down the height to 2.5ft from the earlier 4ft. The boundary will now rise to a height of 6ft with iron grill covering the area beyond the 2.5ft-high concrete structure. The work to fence the Pous Mela ground was stopped after it ran into violent opposition on August 17 with a 5,000-strong mob vandalising a gate of the varsity and a makeshift pandal. A Calcutta High Court division bench headed by Chief Justice T.B.N. Radhakrishnan had set up the four-member committee on September 18 to look into aspects of the ongoing impasse at Visva-Bharati over the construction of a wall on the Pous Mela ground and to find a solution by involving all stakeholders. The committee was formed following a public interest litigation filed by advocate Ramaprasad Sarkar in the high court seeking a CBI probe into the incident of vandalism. The bench felt that there was no necessity to take the assistance of the petitioner in the matter and issued the suo motu order. “The HC appointed committee on Sunday asked Visva-Bharati to build a 2.5ft concrete base and then fix a 3.5ft iron grill on it. The entire fencing would be 6ft high. As per the direction of the committee, work resumed on Monday. However, the actual height of the boundary will be known once the varsity issues a written order,” said a senior varsity official. However, the officiating public relations officer of Visva-Bharati Anirban Sircar did not respond to the text message The Telegraph had sent him on the issue. Birbhum district magistrate Moumita Godara Basu, who was present at Sunday’s meeting, said: “The (high court) committee has asked the varsity to start work.” The committee members have held three meetings since September 20 and the decision was taken after they spoke with local residents, Ashramiks (old timers) and traders on Saturday. Old timers of Santiniketan have welcomed the modified boundary wall plan suggested by the committee. “We have no objection with the modified height of the fencing. We were against building a high boundary wall,” said Supriya Tagore, a descendant of Rabindranath Tagore family. Supriya Tagore, along with other Santiniketan residents, had raised their voices against a wall that has been built in front of the house of Rabindra Sangeet maestro Santideb Ghosh. “The committee members assured us that they would also look into the boundary walls that we had objected to,” he said. On Monday, around 40 workers started work to build the concrete base of the boundary wall. At least 50 varsity security persons and a group of police personnel had been deployed at the site to avoid any untoward incident. Local traders and a section of residents of Bolpur have formed the Melar Math Banchao Committee to oppose building fences on Pous Mela ground. They have decided to move court and from Tuesday they launch a campaign against building of the wall. “We will fight the committee’s direction legally and on the streets under the banner of the Melar Math Banchao committee,” said Subrata Bhakat, treasurer of Bolpur Traders’ Association. Apprehending trouble, the Visva-Bharati on Monday evening wrote to the district magistrate, superintendent of police and sub-divisional officer seeking imposition of Section 144 of the CrPc in the mela ground area. Basu, however, said she was yet to receive any such letter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-359
29-09-2020||West Bengal||Sulking Rahul Sinha cold to  BJP peacemakers’ calls||The central leadership of the BJP has made the first move to pacify former Bengal party president Rahul Sinha who went public to express his anger at being removed as a national secretary. “Rahulda’s video message expressing discontent over his removal has prompted senior leaders to get in touch with him,” a BJP source said. The source added that Kailash Vijayvargiya, Arvind Menon and a person from Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan’s office had made calls to Sinha. “However, Rahulda did not show interest in speaking to any of them,” the source said. According to sources, Sinha’s discontent has prompted him to hold meetings with many of his supporters and leaders loyal to him to discuss his next course of action. On Sunday, a person from Pradhan’s office had tried to contact Sinha but he remained out of reach. On Monday, Vijayvargiya tried to get in touch with Sinha but sources said the call got disconnected. Sinha, however, took Menon’s call but showed little interest in speaking to him. “Menonji wanted to come to Rahulda’s place and meet him. But Rahulda said he would be busy,” the source said. A section of BJP leaders feels Sinha doesn’t have the clout to harm the party in a big way. They believe that though Sinha is upset, he doesn’t have much choice and will remain loyal to the BJP. In his video message, Sinha had said he would divulge his next course of action within 10-12 days. “Why do you think he is waiting for 10 days? He is just testing waters and trying to raise his value,” said a source close to state president Dilip Ghosh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-359
29-09-2020||West Bengal||Modi govt wants to chain us to big money: Bengal farmers||After three farm bills had been passed in Parliament, Krishak Sabha gave a call to block national highways at 92 places and state highways at 86 points across Bengal on  September 25. On that day, lakhs of people protested the legislations enacted by the Narendra Modi government, said Amal Halder, the secretary of the Bengal unit of the All India Krishak Sabha, the peasant wing of the CPM.“The spontaneous participation of people in the protests had come as a surprise for us,” said Halder while adding that the movement would continue in the form of conventions and regular meetings in the rural areas of the state. Similarly, the ruling Trinamul Congress had also last week organised several protest programmes across the state, which drew participation of farmers. As the non-BJP parties draw up their future course of action with a pledge to carry on with their movements, The Telegraph spoke to some of the farmers, who had taken part in the protests. Dalim Munshi, 45 Place: Supur near Bolpur in Birbhum district Land: Two acres Cultivates: Paddy, mustard and potato Annual income: Rs 2 lakh Why he opposes the farm bills: The new farm laws remind us of our history book lessons on how the British had made farmers cultivate indigo. Like what the British did, the Narendra Modi government wants to do the same through the contract farming provision in one of the bills. A trap has been laid to drag farmers to contract farming. I responded to the call of the Krishak Sabha to protest against the bills that seek to turn farmers into slaves. Pratap Das, 72 Place: Kamarda near Khejuri in East Midnapore district Land: 1.4 acres Cultivates: Paddy, potato, vegetables, flowers and betel leaves Annual income: Rs 1.5 lakh Why he opposes the farm bills: Once the big players jump in, they will drive away our independence to sell our produce. The Modi government is claiming that the bills seek to free farmers but the fact is that the Centre wants to chain our independence to big money. Private players will employ strategies to force us to sell our produce to them at a price decided by them and not by us. We need to join hands to fight the bill and chose to participate in the anti-farm bill rally called by the CPM. Nimai Roy, 55 Place: Khandoghosh in East Burdwan district Land: 1.5 acres Cultivates: Paddy and potato Annual income: Rs 70,000 Why he opposes the farm bills: The Centre is mum on reining in the rising price of fertilisers. We don't want big private business to dominate the lives of farmers but we need infrastructure to reap a good harvest. The farm bills among other things talk about privatising mandi trade, but we know how to sell our produce. We need easy and cheap access to farm equipment and fertiliser. The bills are silent on the real problems of farmers and this made me join the protest rally of the  Krishak Sabha. Aziz Mandal, 47 Place: Dharampur near Bongaon in North 24-Parganas district Land: One acre Cultivates:  Rice, jute and vegetables Annual income: Rs 2 lakh Why he opposes the farm bills: The Centre has been giving us a lot of assurances of protecting the interest of farmers but the BJP’s track record on agriculture gives us no reason to trust them. The entry of big companies has never been helpful for small farmers. The farm bills are trying to legitimise the monopoly of big companies in the farm sector and rob farmers of their rights. As I think Trinamul has the power to take on the might of the BJP, I joined the protest called by the party to resist the farm bills Manindra Nath Burman, 60 Place: Borosakdol in the Dinhata 2 block of Cooch Behar district Land: 7 acres Cultivates: Paddy, jute and vegetables Annual income: Rs 8 lakh Why he opposes the farm bills: The arrival of big players will create shortage of agricultural produce at local markets. The provision of contract farming will change a region’s crop pattern and that will be detrimental to the cause of farmers. The bill is also mum on minimum support prices. The Krishak Sabha has raised these issues of the farmers and I joined their protest call. Mihir Sarkar, 51 Place: Chapduar, Subhashganj, North Dinajpur Land: 1.5 acres Cultivates: Paddy and vegetables Annual income: Rs 2 lakh Why he opposes the farm bills: There is a huge uncertainty as to whether the farmers will get appropriate prices for their produce. A cartel of agents and private players will be unleashed in the farm sector. This will harm the stakeholders involved in the farming community. There is no way but to protest the anti-farmer measures of the government and I have joined the Krishak Sabha in the fight for our rights.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-359
29-09-2020||West Bengal||Four from Bangladesh held over plan to kill TMC leader||An alleged plan to gun down a Trinamul leader in Birbhum was nixed with the arrest of six persons, including four contract killers from Bangladesh, and seizure of firearms and explosives from a house in Santiniketan on Sunday night. Police sources said during interrogation, the six had disclosed that they had been hired to kill Sheikh Kajal, who is the working block president of Nanoor. “They were given a contract of Rs 5 lakh to kill the Trinamul leader,” said a police source. The six were produced in the subdivisional court in Bolpur and sent in 14 days’ police remand. A police officer said Birbhum district police and Special Task Force were jointly looking into the case to find if there was any other connection, including terror links, with those arrested. “We have arrested six persons, including four Bangladesh nationals with arms and explosives. We have taken them in police custody to find out their assignments and motives,” said Shyam Singh, Birbhum police chief. Police sources said the four Bangladesh nationals were identified as Rafique Fakir, Mohammed Bilal Hossain, Delwar Mia and Mohammed Murad Murshid. All are residents and known criminals of Bangladesh’s Dhaka and adjoining areas. They had sneaked into India through the border in North 24-Parganas and had been sheltered by Syed Anwar Ali and Kajal Sheikh at a rented house in Santiniketan. Both Ali and Kajal Sheikh have been arrested. The police said five firearms, including two 7mm and one 9mm pistols, and 5.6kg of explosives had been seized from the arrested men. The arrested six have been charged under various sections of the Arms Act, Explosive Substances Act, 1908, And Foreigners’ Act, 1946. “The four Bangladesh nationals are intruders and do not possess valid visas to enter India. Their plan was to kill the Trinamul leader and escape into Bangladesh,” said a police officer. Police officers said they were looking out for four others who were involved in the conspiracy of murder. The police sources, however, said they were trying to find out the reason behind the plan to kill the Trinamul leader and whether it was a fallout of political rivalry. “The two local men who were arrested with the four Bangladesh nationals had past connections with Nanoor and had to leave the area because of rivalry with Kajal. We need time to find out the actual motive behind their plan to kill the Trinamul leader,” said a police officer. Sheikh Kajal, brother of Trinamul MLA from Ketugram Sheikh Shahnawaz, is a known face in the ruling party who had running rivalry with district Trinamul president Anubrata Mondal. “Now Kajal has no rivals in the party and is looking after the party’s organisation in Nanoor,” said a Trinamul leader. Sheikh Kajal when contacted said: “I know about the arrest. They had planned to kill me to ruin the party’s organisation in Nanoor.” Abhijit Sinha, the Trinamul vice-president in Birbhum, said: “It was a conspiracy to kill our leader ahead of the Assembly elections. We suspect there could be more party leaders on the hit list.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-359
29-09-2020||West Bengal||Malda ire over Bengal omission||Thousands of Congress supporters and all six MLAs of the party in Malda district participated in a sit-in demonstration in front of the district magistrate’s office, demanding inclusion of Malda district in Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana. The inclusion in the scheme, the Congress claimed, would help thousands of migrant workers in the district. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had launched the Garib Kalyan Rojgar Abhiyaan on June 20 to boost employment and livelihood opportunities for migrant workers, millions of whom had returned to their native places in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak and the resultant lockdown. As a part of the scheme, skill mapping of the migrant workers would be done to help them work near their homes, Modi had announced then. However, no district in Bengal was brought under the scheme although thousands of migrant workers from the state, including from districts like Malda, work in different states. So far, 116 districts from states like Bihar, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Odisha were brought under the project that is supposed to be in force for 125 days. “The central government is spending people’s money on the scheme and it has no right to discriminate against the migrant workers of Bengal. All those who are from the district should get monetary benefits of the scheme and food grains as was announced by the PM,” said Mostaq Alam, a Congress MLA and the district president of the party. Other Congress MLAs of the district — Arjun Haldar, Isha Khan Choudhury, Asif Mehbub, Mottakin Alam and Al Birun Zulkarnine — said the state government did not take necessary initiative to ensure that the Centre included districts like Malda in the scheme. “The provision was to include a district having 25,000 or more migrant workers in the scheme. Malda has at least 50,000 migrant workers and they are yet to get the benefits of the scheme,” Alam said. The Congress also claimed that the party had filed an RTI with the district administration to know the exact number of migrant workers in Malda. “Although delayed, the district administration has finally informed us that it has a list of around 48,000 migrant workers, who returned home from different states during the lockdown,” said a senior Congress leader. According to Congress leaders, Adhir Chowdhury, party’s leader in the Lok Sabha, would visit the Union labour and employment ministry in New Delhi with a plea to extend the scheme to the migrant workers from Bengal. Rajarshi Mitra, the district magistrate of Malda, however, claimed that he had not received any official communication about the scheme so far. “I do not have details of how a migrant worker would benefit from the scheme. But once I receive an official communication, we can act on it,” Mitra said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-359
29-09-2020||West Bengal||Governor Dhankar says will be forced to look into Article 154||Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Monday said he would be “forced to look at Article 154”, if the Constitution was not protected in the state. Article 154 (executive power of state) says: “The executive power of the state shall be vested in the governor and shall be exercised by him either directly or through officers subordinate to him in accordance with this Constitution.” “If the Constitution is not protected, I will have to act. The office of the governor has been ignored here for long. I will be forced to look at Article 154 of the Constitution,” the governor told a media conference. Dhankhar’s statement came two days after chief minister Mamata Banerjee sent him a letter urging him to act “within the mandates” of the Constitution. The state government had also refused to sanction around Rs 50 lakh additional funds to run the Raj Bhavan. Sources in Nabanna said the government was not taking the governor’s  threat seriously. For exercising executive power “directly”, the imposition of the President’s rule through Article 356 is a must…. There is no deeper significance to this, nor a cause for worry,” said a senior state government official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-359
29-09-2020||West Bengal||Alapan Bandyopadhyay named new Bengal chief secretary||Alapan Bandyopadhyay, a 1987-batch IAS officer and currently the home secretary and the information and cultural affairs secretary, has been appointed as the new chief secretary of the state. He will replace Rajiva Sinha, who is set to retire on September 30. Sinha would take over as the chairman of the WBIDC for a period of three years. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee, who left the city for Siliguri on Monday morning to hold review meetings of five north Bengal districts, took to twitter to announce the appointment of Bandyopadhyay. “I am pleased to announce that Alapan Bandyopadhyay, now Addnl Chief Secy (Home & information) is appointed as the new Chief Secretry of WB,” she tweeted. A chain of changes in the bureaucracy followed Bandyopadhyay’s elevation as the chief secretary. The state government appointed H.K. Dwivedi, a 1988-batch IAS officer and the state finance secretary for the past nine years, as the new home secretary. Manoj Pant, a 1991 batch IAS officer, currently holding the dual charges of land and land reforms department and the PHE department, will be the new finance secretary. Pant would continue to hold the land and land reforms department as an additional charge. The appointment of Bandyopadhyay was expected, said sources at Nabanna, as he is the senior-most IAS officer and has vast experience of discharging duties in various important positions. “He is perhaps the only IAS officer who worked as the district magistrate in North 24-Parganas and South 24-Parganas, which are considered to be most critical districts in the state. Besides, he has experience of discharging duties as the commissioner of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation,” said an official. Besides, he had also worked as secretary in departments like municipal affairs, information and cultural affairs, industries and MSME, in addition to the home department. “In brief, he has vast experience of handling all important affairs in the state. In a critical juncture when the state is battling the spread of Covid-19, Bandyopadhyay can lead the state in the right direction,” said an official. Bandyopadhyay recently monitored the state’s battle against the spread of Covid in Calcutta as a nodal officer. Besides, he had camped for few days in North 24-Parganas to help the district administration restore normalcy in the post-Cyclone Amphan period. The government posted Santanu Basu, a 2000-batch IAS officer, as the secretary of information and cultural affairs department. “This appointment is important as the chief minister decided to bring in a young and efficient officer in the department that works to help several people, including rural artisans and handles the government’s public relations exercise. Ahead of the 2021 Assembly polls, the role of I&CA secretary will be important,” said an official. Basu will retain the additional charge of the state power distribution and transmission companies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-359
29-09-2020||North East||Amit Shah hardsells North East as tourist destination||Union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday made a strong pitch for northeast as a must-see tourist destination while inaugurating the “Destination North East-2020”, an annual event of the Ministry of Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER) to bring the rest of India “closer” to the region. Inaugurating the four-day event, organised on the theme “Emerging Delightful Destinations” through a videoconference, Shah described the region as the “jewel of Indian culture” and had all the attributes to emerge as a sought-after tourist destination in the world. The programme focussed mostly on tourism and coincided with ‘World Tourism Day’ on September 27. “I have been to many places, tourist destinations but northeast is unparalled — its natural beauty, its diverse culture, language and its people. They have struggled hard to retain their culture and identity. India is incomplete and unimaginable without the vibrant and diverse culture of our Northeast region. Northeast is the jewel of Indian culture... I am of  the firm belief that the region will become the tourist destination for the world,” Shah said. He also took the opportunity to convey the Centre’s commitment to develop the region, the massive jump in allocating development jump and efforts to ensure peace. He said most pending issues have been resolved by the Narendra Modi government and efforts are on to resolve the remaining by 2024. The Centre wants to see the region as a hub of IT, tourism, organic farming and education by working together with states and its people. Shah further urged DoNER minister Jitendra Singh to host the next edition in his Lok Sabha constituency Gandhinagar so that people of the northeast and his state Gujarat becomes familiar with each other. This fest will play a pivotal role in promoting tourism and culture of the northeast all over the nation, he said. Besides Shah, the inaugural event was also attended by the chief ministers and senior bureaucrats of the region, Dr Inderjit Singh, secretary DoNER and members of the Northeastern Council, among others. Jitendra Singh, like Shah, was also betting big on the tourism potential of the Northeast. With its rich handloom and handicraft traditions, cultural heritage and high literacy rate, the region has much to offer, Singh said. He was optimistic that, when the Corona pandemic subsides, tourists who were earlier holidaying in Europe would flock to the Northeast, bring prosperity, thereby unlocking the potential of the region so that it becomes the New Engine of growth for the country, as envisaged by Modi. On September 26 while unveiling the logo and song for the event, Singh had said the region will be one of the favourite tourist and business destinations of India post Covid-19 and will be an important engine for Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s clarion call of Atmanirbhar Bharat by focussing on “Vocal for Local”. He said the event is also an effort to make everyone explore the Local Destinations rather than going anywhere abroad. Singh said that people should take a pledge to Visit Local, Travel Local and Explore Local thus giving a boost to the local tourism and hospitality industry. Arunachal Pradesh chief minister Pema Khandu on Monday hinted at re-opening the doors of the frontier state for tourists after October while following laid down Covid-19 guidelines issued by the Center from time to time.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-42
29-09-2020||Opinion||Novel ways: Sniffer dogs to detect Covid||Sir — The Helsinki airport has begun a pilot scheme with sniffer dogs who can apparently detect the presence of the coronavirus, thus providing another way of testing. So far the dogs have been able to identify the virus with nearly 100 per cent accuracy, much before a patient develops symptoms. Would this process be found to be medically viable? Could it lead to greater chances of recovery?Anamika Sharma,New Delhi Crucial lesson Sir — An episode of the controversial Danish television show, Ultra Strips Down, which showed adults disrobe in front of a room full of school-aged children has rightly caused outrage (“Perfectly unacceptable”, Sept 26). The show aims to promote body positivity and debunk the myth of the ‘perfect’ body by allowing kids to see a range of shapes and sizes and encouraging them to ask questions of the nude adults. However, educating one’s child about bodies should be age appropriate. While the show can be educative about different body types, it could also make kids, especially adolescents, feel uncomfortable. Moreover, the sight of adult genitalia could be distressing for those who have experienced sexual abuse. Although the show has proven to be very popular with Danish audiences — in 2019 it won an award for best children’s programme of the year at the Danish TV festival — it has also been accused of choosing a “vulgar way” to educate children about body positivity. No matter the criticism levelled against the show, it draws attention to a matter of importance. Bullying and body shaming in any form must be equally condemned for its harmful impact on the mind of the individual. S.S. Paul, Nadia Sir — One of the most important lessons that parents should impart to their children is self acceptance, including a positive outlook regarding their own bodies. Yet, as more and more children access social media, they begin to develop their own, warped notion of a ‘perfect body’ that is often heavily edited and airbrushed. Research suggests that children as young as three — this is alarming — struggle with body image issues. It is high time we had an open conversation about body positivity with children.Rohini Basu,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-141
29-09-2020||Opinion||Reform code: The NDA's labour laws||As part of its economic reforms programme, the Union government passed three codes on labour laws recently. These, along with the Code on Wages enacted in 2019, complete the labour market reforms agenda of the National Democratic Alliance government. The reforms aim to achieve two main objectives. The first is to rationalize the existing bits and pieces of legislations pertaining to labour markets into four simplified codes covering wages, workers’ rights, industrial relations, occupational safety and social security. The second objective is to energize economic activities by making it easier for employers to hire and fire workers without creating additional uncertainty for the latter. Indian industry has long been constrained by archaic labour laws that had the aim of protecting workers from arbitrary exploitation in a labour-surplus economy. Although the aim was certainly laudable, it made it extremely difficult for employers to be flexible in disengaging workers. Indeed, labour began to be treated as a fixed cost by employers and they began to find ways and means, through suitable choice of technology, to minimize employment. The paradoxical outcome was high unemployment with labour-saving technologies being preferred by even small and micro enterprises. In the informal sector, which employs the largest segment of the nation’s labour force, workers had hardly any rights worth mentioning. In the organized sector, on realizing that it was difficult for the employers to retrench them, militant workers often went on strike and disrupted production on flimsy grounds. The new codes aim to correct many of these anomalies. For instance, the right to strike remains but the notice period has been increased. Similarly, employers will find it easier to offer employment to workers on a contractual basis provided they are treated on a par with regular workers in terms of working hours, pay and benefits like gratuity. Finally, economies with easy flexibility enable employers to hire and fire. But they also have a wide social security network, which provides safety to individual workers when they are not employed. This task of protection is taken up by the State and not left as the private liability of an employer. The new codes aim to provide additional and wider cover for India’s embryonic social security apparatus. These changes are certainly going to benefit employers. The rules that protect workers must be followed strictly. Only then would Indian industry become mature and more efficient.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-141
29-09-2020||Opinion||Taking aim: Bihar Assembly Elections 2020||Bihar will be the first state to hold assembly elections during the Covid-19 pandemic. Elaborate arrangements are being made for protection, and three days of voting instead of the expected five constitute one broad safety measure. Mismanagement of the infection had been one of the charges against the Nitish Kumar-led National Democratic Alliance government, already weighted by the 15-year incumbency of the chief minister — with a break — and his Janata Dal (United). But recent changes appear to have improved infection control, although the Opposition doubts that. The impact of the new agricultural reforms will be tested too, especially since Mr Kumar feels that repealing the state Agricultural Produce Market Committee Act in 2006 and dissolving all marketing committees have had positive results. Unemployment is now common to all states — Bihar’s rose to 46 per cent in April — although returning migrant workers are being given some attention. The Bharatiya Janata Party is also courting rural voters; they had been unimpressed in 2015 when the BJP lost Bihar. The prime minister has announced development projects worth around Rs 16,000 crore for the state while the BJP hopes that mobilizing households that have benefited from Central schemes will help. The Opposition seems to feel that unity may defeat the ruling coalition. The Rashtriya Janata Dal-Congress alliance with the Left parties is not an inconsiderable force. It cannot match the JD(U)-BJP’s resources though, especially now that digital campaigning and technological tools are indispensable. But seat-sharing has not been settled yet, and the Congress has remained non-committal so far about the RJD’s Tejashwi Yadav as the chief ministerial face. It is not just a question of how many seats, but also who gets which. Maybe seat-sharing is stickier for the ruling alliance. With the exit of the Shiromani Akali Dal and the Shiv Sena, the JD(U) is now the BJP’s biggest ally. Equal shares — the BJP state committee’s wish — may be difficult. The Lok Janshakti Party has not agreed about seats, while seven RJD members, who had won against the NDA coalition in 2015, have joined the JD(U). The Hindustani Awam Morcha of Jitan Ram Manjhi has crossed over to the BJP, and the Rashtriya Lok Samata Party may do the same. Too many goodies. But solutions must be reached: Bihar would be a prize for both the ruling coalition and the Opposition alliance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-141
29-09-2020||Opinion||The Covid kids: Pandemic and birthrates||Contrary to the speculation that the pandemic will result in a ‘baby boom’, historical evidence of short-term fertility consequences of natural disasters and epidemics are mostly a ‘baby bust’. In seminal studies on the impact of the 1889 influenza outbreak on the population of France, the statistician and demographer, Jacques Bertillon, observed a nine-month lagged depression in births owing to influenza deaths. The Spanish flu (1918-19) resulted in a 13 per cent drop in birth rates from 1918 to 1919 in the United States of America. In countries such as Sweden, Norway, Taiwan, Japan and India, birth rates fell just after the Spanish flu, only to rebound in the subsequent 1-5 years. The recession of 2008 also led to a 9 per cent decline in birth rates in the US from 2007 to 2012. In the Journal of Public Economics, Lisa J. Dettling and Melissa S. Kearney have shown that with all else equal, a 1 per cent increase in the unemployment rate is associated with a 1.4 per cent decrease in birth rates. There are opposite effects in the context of disasters. The tsunami in 2004 resulted in a sharp rise in fertility among women in communities that experienced deaths. The Cuban missile crisis of 1962 and the Oklahoma City bombing in 1995 had similar impacts. Interestingly, even 9/11 resulted in an increase in births, particularly in New York state. In the US, even mild storm advisories have been shown to cause an increase in birth rates while serious storms tend to reduce birth rates — economic damages play an important role in this case. Silver lining To study the impact of Covid-19 on birth rates, we must understand its dissimilarities with the earlier pandemics. Unlike the Spanish flu, Covid-19 affects older people more than other age groups. It doesn’t have a large impact on the mortality of people of childbearing age. However, people are choosing to delay, defer or not have a child at this time. A group of Italian scientists have shown that fertility plans among the young population (18-34) have been negatively revised in Italy, Germany, France, Spain and the United Kingdom during the Covid-19 crisis. The Brookings Institution, a Washington DC-based think tank, forecast that there could be 5,00,000 fewer babies born in the US as a result of the pandemic. An article in Science, while discussing the Covid-19 pandemic and human fertility, observed that “given the irreversible nature of childbearing and the substantial costs associated with child-rearing, unemployment and lost income will necessarily reduce fertility.” A study by the London School of Economics also indicates that a baby bust is far more likely. Reduction in birth rate might have some interesting consequences. For example, on account of the Spanish flu, the reduced population led to greater agricultural land for each family in India. The Great Depression lasted for 10 years. The decade of the 1930s is called a “demographic trough”: economic hardship resulted in a severe baby bust. There were 29.5 births per 1,000 Americans in 1915. The figures were 27.7 and 25.1 in 1920 and 1925, respectively. However, the birth rate reduced to 18.7 per 1,000 in 1935. Interestingly, the Canadian economist, H. Scott Gordon, termed someone “who is born in [a] sheltered [low birth rate] trough”, preceded and followed by longer periods of high birth rates, “truly demographically lucky”. He explained that such a generation would enjoy greater social benefits as well as leverage in the job market. Assuming Covid-19-related recession would not last for more than a few years, the fewer children born in early 2020s might turn out to be ‘demographically lucky’ too.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-141
29-09-2020||Opinion||Trinbago-India: A deep bond forged by cricket||“Ms Carolyn Gupte is requesting a meeting with you.” My secretary waited for my response after throwing a googly. “Who is she?” My standard query to know some necessary information before meeting somebody. “She is the daughter of an Indian cricketer who lived in Trinidad.” “What is her father’s name?” “Mr Subhash Gupte, that’s what she said.” The name seemed familiar, although I could not place him immediately. ‘He is the one who got married in Trinidad, the spinner, right?’ I was trying to link the name with my brain cells. Subhash Gupte’s was one of the very first Indo-Trini love stories that I heard after reaching Port of Spain last year. That was the Caribbean Premier League season, and I was invited to the Queen’s Park Oval to witness a match where a Trinidadian cricket journalist told me the story of Subhash and Carol Gupte. It was the very first tour of the Indian cricket team under the legendary Vijay Hazare that had visited the West Indies in 1953, and Subhash Gupte was the star spinner in the group, with 27 wickets in five Tests. Like millions of Indians, I love cricket; but over the years, work pressure and working in some non-cricket-playing nations have rusted my knowledge of cricket history. Carolyn was the daughter of Subhash Gupte and Carol Goberdhan of Trinidad. Carol was from San Fernando, now a prominent business district of Trinidad. When we met, Carolyn presented me with the book, Love Without Boundaries, published in 2018, which she wrote to tell the love story of her parents to her daughter. According to the book, the pick-up line that Subhash Gupte chose to draw the attention of Carol at a reception in Queen’s Oval club was, “Yours is the kind of face that I would like to see every morning at my breakfast table.” One of the very first programmes that I could steer after my arrival in Trinidad and Tobago was to send three under-16 cricketers, one boy and two girls, to our national cricket academy in Bangalore to train for a month at the expense of the Government of India. For the young cricketers, it was a life-changing experience. After their return from India, all three of them have been selected for the under-19 national teams. Any cricketing event that I attend, I hear light-hearted comments like the West Indian team needs somebody like Mahendra Singh Dhoni or Virat Kohli or Rohit Sharma. “High Commissioner, can you loan them to us for a few months?” Remarks like this will invariably be followed by loud laughter. India’s 1983 World Cup win, Kapil Dev, Sunil Gavaskar, Sourav Ganguly and Rahul Dravid are frequently mentioned in the cricket circle. The Tendulkar-Lara comparison is bound to creep in if I am talking cricket with any Trinidadian cricket enthusiast. Ambassadors of the cricket-playing countries enjoy a special status in cricket clubs in Trinidad and Tobago. Cricket is in Trinbago’s air. One cannot miss signages, billboards, posters and statues of the living legend, Brian Lara, on streets, stadia and squares. The Brian Lara stadium proudly flashes his cricketing milestones. During this year’s CPL, the Trinidad and Tobago Film Festival opened with a feature-length documentary, 501 Not Out, charting his career at its 15th edition on September 9. The CPL ended on September 10 and the Trinbago Knight Riders won it for the fourth time. Both the finalists of this year’s CPL, the TKR and St. Lucia Zouks, have India connections. TKR is owned by the Kolkata Knight Riders consortium while St. Lucia Zouks is owned by the Kings XI Punjab. Usually, the CPL matches spread across six Caribbean islands, such as Trinidad and Tobago, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Guyana, Barbados, Jamaica and Saint Lucia. However, this year, it has been restricted to Trinidad and Tobago due to the coronavirus pandemic and has been played in a bubble in only two stadia: the Queen’s Park Oval and the Brian Lara stadium. International cricketers, such as Colin Munro of New Zealand, Chris Lynn of Australia, Imran Tahir of South Africa, Mohammad Nabi of Afghanistan, Sandeep Lamichhane of Nepal and Pravin Tambe of India, have played for various teams in the CPL. Many Caribbean players, including Kieron Pollard, Dwayne Bravo and Darren Bravo of Trinidad and Tobago, are valuable assets in the Indian Premier League. Since the 1950s, cricketers of Indian descent from Trinidad and Tobago have made an immense contribution to West Indian cricket. Some of them are Sonny Ramadhin — one of the five Wisden Cricketers of the Year in 1951 — Inshan Ali, Dinanath Ramnarine, Daren Ganga, Sherwin Ganga, Ravi Rampaul, Denesh Ramdin, Sunil Narine, Samuel Badree and Robin Singh. A few of them have also founded cricket academies to train youngsters to be professional cricketers and represent the West Indian cricket team. Cricket is one of the strongest bonds between India and Trinidad and Tobago and has strengthened people-to-people contacts. Many young cricketers dream of visiting India and playing in the IPL. For many players of Indian descent, a trip to India is not only an opportunity to be part of the biggest sporting event in India but also to discover and experience the strength and richness of their ancestral roots. The author is High Commissioner of India to Trinidad & Tobago||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-141
29-09-2020||Opinion||Violent trap||A gang rape took place earlier this month on the Lahore-Sialkot Motorway. A woman was driving to Gujranwala from Lahore around 1 am when her car’s fuel ran out. She called the Motorway helpline but was told that the Motorway Police had not taken over it so far. For almost two hours, the woman waited for help, but it didn’t come. And while she was waiting for help, two ‘robbers’ came, broke her car’s windows, took out her children and started beating them up. When she ran after the children, they raped her in front of her children. The police arrived at the scene after the two vultures had fled. As if it were not terrifying enough that a woman with her children was stranded on the Motorway for two hours without any help reaching her, after which she was raped in front of her children, to add insult to injury, the Capital City Police Officer Lahore, Umer Shaikh, resorted to victim-blaming. When the CCPO was asked about the incident on a private television channel, he said that the woman should not have left to travel after midnight, and if she had, she should have taken a busier road (G.T. Road) instead of the Motorway, and that she should have checked her car’s fuel tank. This statement sparked outrage across the country. The hashtag, #RemoveCCPOLahore, trended on Twitter. Rallies were taken out in some cities asking for the CCPO’s removal. The latter was least bothered. Ministers in the government came to his defence and said he gave a ‘bad statement’ but that does not qualify for him to be removed. The CCPO apologized for his statement a few days later in a non-apology. And that too because of media and social media pressure. One of the two alleged rapists was caught while the other one is still at large. Convictions in rape and sexual assault cases are less than three percent according to a report by the Karachi-based War Against Rape. Reporting rapes and sexual assault is also low because of the attitude of our investigative officers, the culture at police stations and later in the courts. The statement of the CCPO Lahore is not out of the ordinary because that is the sort of mindset that women fight every day in this part of the region. When Pervez Musharraf was president, he said in an interview that “if you want to go abroad and get a visa for Canada or citizenship and be a millionaire, get yourself raped”. This is the mindset that is prevalent across society. From ‘she was not dressed right’ to ‘she was alone’ to ‘why was she out at night’ to many other such accusations, a rape survivor has to face much more. Rape is a crime that scars a survivor’s entire life. In 2005, when I did a report on rape survivors, a survey said that 82 per cent of them revealed that the experience had permanently changed them. The real numbers may be even higher. We cannot even comprehend what they face. Families in this part of the world usually tend to hide the incident. A police official told me how, in a small town, they initially heard of a gang rape but when the family filed a report, it was of a robbery. They later found out that three women of the same family were raped in front of their male family members, but the family did not want to make this crime public due to the social stigma attached to it. This is the unfortunate truth: survivors and their families are not willing to come forward because they do not want to relive the trauma and they also do not want to be ostracized from society as a result of reporting a violent crime. It just shows how helpless a rape survivor is when the law and society are not on her side. A poll conducted by Amnesty International back in 2005 revealed that more than a third of Britons blame flirting on the part of women for them being raped. A quarter of the population thinks that a woman wearing revealing clothing is completely or partially responsible when she is sexually assaulted. About one in 12 believe that a promiscuous woman is wholly responsible for being raped. This was in a western country, a sexually liberal country, 15 years ago. Imagine then the kind of views in a patriarchal society like ours where domestic abuse victims are usually told to go home and settle this ‘family matter’ instead of bringing their assaulters to the police. Our media have behaved responsibly in the recent gang rape incident. In the past, we have seen the survivor’s name, picture or her address flashed across newspapers and some television screens. This time, it was ensured that nobody finds out about her identity because the survivor had requested complete privacy. Hopefully, this practice will continue in the future for other survivors as well. Our society’s apathy and victim-blaming culture also needs to end. Crimes against women — be it domestic violence, sexual harassment, sexual assaults, rapes, ‘honour’ killings — are treated as if they are a norm. It is not just sad but reflective of how we see women. In the words of Shirley Chisholm, the first woman African-American Congress member, “The emotional, sexual, and psychological stereotyping of females begins when the doctor says, ‘It’s a girl’.” This is the stark reality of women in our parts of the world. In South Asia, crimes against women are quite high but the treatment meted out to women is appalling. From casual sexism to downright harassment to not letting women exercise their right to choose, we live in a world where many women are now coming forth asking for their rights in the face of extreme patriarchy. When a police chief of a large city tells women not to step out of their houses after a certain hour, it gives a message that women are on their own if a crime is committed against them at odd hours. What if the survivor’s fuel tank was full but her car had another technical fault, what about rapes that take place inside houses in broad daylight, what about the so-called honour killings that take place at the hands of family members because the women chose to marry of their own will? Who will the CCPO blame then? It is a shame that we have people with these mindsets policing our cities. Let’s hope that some day soon this culture of rape apologists ends and women are treated as equal citizens. The author is a journalist based in Lahore; mehmal.s@gmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-141
29-09-2020||Jharkhand||New BSL boss puts stress on  health and safety, quality & cost reduction||Bokaro Steel Plant’s newly appointed director in charge Amarendu Prakash on Tuesday held a Facebook Live session to speak to the company’s 11,000 employees and officials, where he underscored the importance of focusing on three areas: health and safety, quality and cost reduction. Several residents, union leaders, politicians and others also watched Prakash speak during the session which was his first interaction as the director in charge of the company. “I need 100 per cent (focus on) health and safety, 100 per cent (effort put into) quality and 100 per cent (attention on) cost reduction,” said Prakash, underscoring the fact that he was relying on his experience of 24 years of working at the company while giving the advice. In a speech that lasted 40 minutes, he spoke about the problems he had faced on the floor, which may be similar to those being faced by current employees. “If each one of us, whether we are deployed in a plant or outside, makes a vow to ourselves that we will not compromise with quality and follow it sincerely, we will achieve the maximum output. This will also bring you appreciation,” said Prakash. He said that while it was important to focus on quality, health and safety should be prioritised. Prakash stressed that health and safety of the employees were important and he wanted everyone to achieve 100 per cent in the area. As an officer who worked for several years in the hot strip mill (HSM) of the plant, Prakash stressed on improving the quality of the product as the second important task. Last year, SAIL achieved the distinction of being the largest steel producer in the country, ahead of Tata Steel and JSW. But SAIL’s production was only 80 per cent of its capacity. “SAIL, which has a capacity to produce 20 MTPA crude steel, produced only 16 MTPA. What if it could have achieved 100 per cent production?” he asked. BSL has a production capacity of 4.8 MTPA, Prakash said. He pointed out that BSL’s production currently remains the same as it was 10 years ago. He asked employees to think about why despite investments, the company was failing to increase the production. Prakash added that cost reduction could be achieved by proper utilisation of resources and preventing wastage.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-283
29-09-2020||Jharkhand||Prolonged power cuts crippling Dhanbad industries||Industries in Dhanbad, already impacted by a sluggish economy that has taken a further downturn because of the lockdown, are facing yet another crippling blow: inadequate power supply. In Baliapur block, with 12 hard coke factories, over 50 stones crusher units and around half a dozen oil mills, there is no power for more than six hours a day. This has been happening for the last six months. President of Industries and Commerce Association B.N. Singh handed over a petition to Paritosh Kumar, the GM of Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam’s (JBVNL) Dhanbad supply area, demanding his immediate intervention. Ratan Lal Agarwal, owner of two hard coke factories in Baliapur, said, “The 5 to 6 hours of electricity in a 24-hour day is no use for industries as it is supplied during the evening or night when our factories do not operate. Also, diesel consumption is so high with generators running all the time that we are finding it difficult to bear this cost in the time of such financial crisis.” Agarwal said they had complained to the local JBVNL authorities on several occasions. “They always cite a breakdown in the feeder or cable theft or wire snapping or transformer malfunction as reason. There has been no improvement is in last four months as promised,” he added. Singh has pointed out in his petition that production at industrial units had dropped significantly due to poor power supply. “Less than 30 per cent industries have resumed operation following relaxation in the norms, that too with less than 25 per cent efficiency. Now, if they continue to incur losses due to high diesel charges, none of the units will be able to sustain for long,” he said. JBVNL GM of Dhanbad supply area Paritosh Kumar claimed the overall power situation in Dhanbad was good and that he was unaware of any specific problem in Baliapur. “I will certainly look into it and try to resolve the matter at the earliest,” he said, adding that JBVNL was planning to integrate one more circuit with the newly established Kandra grid substation of Dhanbad to improve supply.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-283
29-09-2020||Jharkhand||Mega fortnight-long blood donation drive planned||A mega blood donation camp will be held across the state from October 1 to 15 with the aim of making Jharkhand self-sufficient in the availability of blood, Jharkhand Aids Control Society (JACS), an arm of the state health department, announced on Tuesday. Talking to reporters, JACS project director Rajiv Ranjan said the special drive would be held at blood banks across all districts following directives of the state government. The society has prepared a special annual calendar based on which blood donation camps will be held in all departments, organisations and institutions on a weekly and monthly basis round-the-year. “Jharkhand is now planning to become self-sufficient in the field of blood by equipping all blood banks to full capacity through voluntary donations. The maiden fortnight-long drive will begin from October 1. We appeal to all eligible donors to turn up in large numbers. We have set a collection target of 50,000 units,” he said. Ranjan said that from March 23 when the lockdown was clamped till September 23, they had collected about 97,612 units of blood through donations with the help of several organisations. “It has benefitted over a lakh people so far. We aim to keep all our blood banks full now,” he said. He said that eight new blood banks had become functional. “these blodd banks are in Godda, Jamtara, Seraikela-Khersawan, Ramgarh, Khunti, Jamshedpur Sadar, Ranchi Sadar and Bokaro. This apart, blood banks at RIMS in Ranchi, MGM in Jamshedpur and PMCH in Dhanbad have already been designated transfusion centres,” he informed. On the status of plasma donation, which Jharkhand introduced at the end of June in the fight against Covid-19, Ranjan said so far, 210 units of plasma had been collected. Of these, 200 units had been used for treating Covid-19 patients. “Many have recovered successfully,” he noted, adding that JACS had also introduced the “e-rakt” portal through which public can find availability of blood in the banks as per their requirement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-284
29-09-2020||Jharkhand||Rapid test not enough to rule out infection in asymptomatic patients  ||Symptomatic Covid-19 patients testing negative in a Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) will have to undergo Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT PCR) test in order to qualify as non-carrier of the virus, the state health department has mandated. Health officials said on Tuesday that directions have been given to civil surgeons of all 24 districts in Jharkhand to ensure that all symptomatic Covid patients undergo RT PCR tests before qualifying as Covid negative. Asymptomatic patients, however, may be treated as Covid negative if RAT test concludes the same, officials added. The decision of making RT PCR tests mandatory for symptomatic Covid-19 patients, officials said, was taken in accordance with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines. “The decision has been taken in accordance with the ICMR guidelines. Researchers at ICMR may have found that RT PCR tests were more reliable than rapid tests in detecting whether an infected person has recovered or not,” said State National Health Mission (NHM) director Ravi Shankar Shukla. Rapid Antigen Tests are also conducted through nasal and throat swabs like RT PCR tests. However, the result of the test is out within an hour. Doctors say that RAT is a low sensitivity test compared to RT PCR, and may not be as accurate as the latter. The RT PCR test, on the other hand, takes around 48 hours, but the results are more accurate, doctors from the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) said. However, patients testing Covid-19 positive in RAT test will not have to subsequently get tested through RT PCR in order to confirm that they were infected, health officials said. The health department on Monday capped the charges for RAT at Rs 550, and said that private laboratories found guilty of charging exorbitantly will be booked under relevant sections of the State Epidemic Disease (Covid-19) Regulation, 2020. A person volunteering to undergo Covid test will have the option to get tested through RAT as well as RT PCR. The government in Jharkhand has been running extensive Covid testing drives through RAT across the state. Health officials said that positive results in RAT are as accurate as the lengthier RT PCR test, but the latter was more accurate in testing if a patient has recovered from the infection.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-284
29-09-2020||Jharkhand||CII holds Green Conclave on virtual platform||Buoyed by the success of earlier editions, Confederation of Indian Industry's (CII) Jharkhand State Council organised the fourth edition of its annual flagship event, Green Conclave, on a virtual platform on Tuesday. The theme of the conclave, organised in association with UN Global Compact Network India and Citizens Foundation, was “realising sustainable development goals”. Over 150 delegates took part. The fourth Green Conclave deliberated on some important environment sustainability issues in India. The forum highlighted and tried to address some immediate gaps where policy intervention could help accelerate implementation of a circular economy, promote resource efficiency and help create a climate resilient Indian industry. Addressing the conclave, Sandeep Shrivastava, senior vice-president (Corporate Environment and Sustainability) Aditya Birla Group, pointed out that industrialisation is inevitable for the development of a nation. He affirmed that industry should focus on using the waste generated by itself as inputs for production. He said that waste management was not only essential from a public welfare perspective but could contribute to economic growth if the recycling industry was promoted alongside eco-industrial production. Sanjay Sabherwal, chairman, CII Jharkhand State Council, and managing director, Metaldyne Industries, said industry should see undertaking green initiatives as an opportunity rather than additional cost. "Green industrialisation offers huge opportunities for entrepreneurship development. Creating green industries that provide different types of environmental goods and services and contribute towards reducing negative environmental impacts is crucial at this juncture of globalisation," he explained. K.S. Venkatagiri, executive director, CII-Sohrabji Godrej Green Business Centre. said that CII was continuously working in the areas of environment sustainability. CII-Sohrabji Godrej Green Business Centre (CII-Godrej GBC) was established in 2004 to promote green practices and businesses. Among the other speakers were Ganesh Reddy, secretary-cum-chief executive officer, Citizens Foundation, and Kamal Singh, executive director, UN Global Compact Network India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-284
29-09-2020||Jharkhand||Assembly bypolls in Dumka, Bermo on November 3||By-elections in Dumka and Bermo will be held on November 3, Election Commission of India (ECI) announced on Tuesday. As per the schedule, an official gazette notification will be issued on October 9 and the last date for nominations will be October 17. The last date for withdrawal of names is October 19. Counting will be held on November 10. The Dumka Assembly seat fell vacant after chief minister Hemant Soren vacated it to retain Barhait. On the other hand, bypoll is necessary in Bermo because of the demise of sitting Congress MLA Rajendra Prasad Singh in May. For the ruling grand alliance of the JMM, Congress and RJD, the bypolls will also be litmus test of its popularity since the formation of the Hemant Soren-led government in January. On the other hand, Opposition BJP will go all out to queer the pitch of the alliance, hoping to corner it on the issue of job losses because of the pandemic. While the JMM will contest Dumka, considered a traditional bastion of the party, ally Congress will put up a candidate in Bermo. Currently, the ruling coalition has 47 MLAs in the 81-member Assembly with an effective strength of 79. JMM has 29 MLAs, Congress 17 and RJD 1. This apart, two former JVM-P MLAs—Bandhu Tirkey (Mandar) and Pradeep Yadav _ (Poriyahat) joined the Congress after the Assembly polls of December 2019, taking the total count of MLAs of the ruling dispensation to 49. The BJP on the other hand has 26 MLAs after Babulal Marandi merged his party with the saffron camp, while AJSU-P has two seats, taking the NDA’s count to 28. Both the camps are upbeat. JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya said, “We shall win Dumka with a record margin like we did in 2019, running on the government’s good work despite all-round challenges and non-cooperation from the Centre in timely issuance of funds to tackle Covid-19.” He said the JMM had already begun preparations, mobilising foot soldiers and finalising strategies to take on the Opposition. The Congress, too, has focussed all its energies in Bermo. Last month, state party president Rameshwar Oraon and other senior leaders undertook several field visits there. BJP will continue to bank on “Modi magic” in the upcoming bypolls. “In the last eight months, the Hemant Soren government has thrown the state into lawlessness because of lack of governance. There is all-round unemployment. Also, the state has failed to effectively handle Covid-19. We will approach voters with these issues. We will also talk about Narendra Modi’s historic achievements for all sections of society,” said BJP spokesperson Pratul Shahdeo.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-284
29-09-2020||Jharkhand||Special athletes mentored on mini javelin in Jamshedpur ||Intellectually-impaired athletes of the state on Tuesday took part in the maiden training session of mini-javelin throw at Joggers’ Park in Sonari, maintaining all social distancing norms. Training for this sport has been introduced in Jharkhand for the first time, though it is also underway in a few other affiliated states of Special Olympics Bharat. Avtar Singh, a former university champion in javelin throw and founder of Jeevika, a Jamshedpur-based organisation, has taken the onus to train the specials. “I have taken pains to procure plastic mini javelins as per prescribed weight and size. Each javelin weighs between 300 gram to 600 gram and length is between 27 inches to 44 inches. Hard rubbers have been inserted on the rear for making javelin travel like an arrow,” Singh, who is an NIS (National Institute of Sports, Patiala)-accredited coach said. The Jeevika students who underwent training included N. Sai Krishna, Pankaj Kumar, Ankit Mukherjee, Ashish Kumar and Ryan Francis. “It was a new and exciting experience for me,” said Krishna, who won two medals (in athletics) in the Special Olympics International World Summer Games held in Abu Dhabi last year. Singh had been to Washington in 2007-08 on his own expenses to gain knowledge under experts involved in introducing mini javelin among special athletes globally. “It was a learning experience for me as I picked up some vital lessons. I was very keen to train my wards in mini javelin. It has materialised now,” he added. He explained that since the event is new from the Special Olympics point of view, it would take time for his wards to get adjusted. “I had started the training process a week back by experimenting with wood used for floor hockey . The effort was just to make the wards have a feel about the upcoming training process. The actual training only started on Tuesday,” Singh, a resident of Sonari said. He also informed that the training will be conducted twice a week. “It would not be wise to put too much load on our students. Let the students enjoy the new event,” he added Thomas Alan Petranof of the US is the founder of throwing zone athletics and inventor of Turbojav. He represented the US in three Olympic Games and is among the top 5 javelin throwers in the world. He is currently working on grassroots track and field development in Los Angeles. The Special Olympics Bharat (SOB) is conducting training webinars on mini javelin across its state chapters, including Jharkhand. Ten candidates from the state were part of the online training held recently. The SOB will start onfield training once the Covid-related situation improves. Singh, who has produced 10 medal-winning special athletes in Special Olympics International competitions, said he was looking forward to adding more to the numbers. “I have the required experience in mini javelin training and am optimistic of preparing more medal-winning special athletes,” he added. The training programme was inaugurated by Sonari police station OC Renu Gupta in presence of State Disability Commission advisor Arun Singh .||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-284
29-09-2020||Jharkhand||Jewellery store robbers nabbed in Palamau||A special investigation team (SIT) has cracked the robbery case that took place in a jeweller’s shop in Jharkhand's Palamau district on September 20. The Murari Jewellers was robbed by a gang of five criminals who stole 5 kilograms of silver, 100 grams of gold and cash. The daylight robbery had caused enormous embarrassment to the police as the town’s jewellers launched a silent agitation in the street demanding arrest and recovery of the stolen materials. SP Palamau Sanjeev Kumar set up a SIT led by the SDPO Sandip Kumar Gupta and his team of dedicated police officers namely Sunit Kumar, Arun Kr Mahatha and R K Ravi and set them with the task of nabbing the criminals as this robbery took place just days after Sanjeev Kumar’s joining here as SP. “It was a challenging case for us. The jeweller’s shop was open on September 20 and this robbery took place around 3 pm. The robbers decamped with silver and cash on two bikes.”  said Sandip Kumar Gupta. Gupta said the agitation by the town’s jewellers put the police in a great tight spot. He further informed that the case now stands cracked with the arrest of 4 robbers and recovery of one kilogram of silver, cash worth 2.87 lakh, the bike used in the robbery and cell phone. Kumar said the kingpin of this robbery, Ramesh Ram of Palamau’s Panki, is still at large but the other four accused, namely Anil Ram ( ( Garhwa), Monu Soni, Rajinder Soni ( Palamau) and Golu Soni ( Bihar), were arrested on Monday and remanded in judicial custody on Tuesday. He further added that the whole gang consists of 9 members . SP said they are still hunting for the remaining 5 members including the mastermind Ramesh Ram, who is underground at the moment but they hope that with the names being made public, the pressure to come to law will now be more on the criminals at large.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-284
29-09-2020||Jharkhand||Agriculture university professor to address NITI Aayog on natural farming||Siddharth Jaiswal, the CEO of the business promotion development society (BPDS) at Birsa Agriculture University (BAU), has been invited for a national consultation meet of NITI Aayog on “Principles and Practices of Bhartiya Prakrishik Krishi Paddhati (Natural farming)” to be held on Wednesday through video conference, BAU announced on Tuesday. According to BAU, Jaiswal would present his views on the impact evaluation of natural farming and its potential at the technical session to be chaired by Prof Ramesh Chand, member (agriculture), NITI Aayog. Kailash Chowdhary, Union minister of state for agriculture & farmers welfare Dr Vallabhbhai Kathiria, chairman of Rashtriya Kamdhenu Aayog, Dr Rajiv Kumar, vice chairman of NITI Aayog, and Dr Rakesh Sarwal, additional secretary of NITI Aayog will be part of inaugural session of the two-day event. Jaiswal, who holds a master’s degree in science from Delhi University and is an MBA from IIM-Ahmedabad, has been engaged in promoting cow-based organic farming (Amrit Krishi) in Jharkhand, Bihar, MP, Gujarat for over a decade. Through BAU’s BPD Society, hundreds of farmers are practising Amrit Krishi in Ranchi, Bokaro, Hazaribagh, East Singhbhum and Khunti districts. “The society has developed natural farming based organic kitchen gardens in 10 Kasturba Gandhi residential girls schools in Ranchi and 10 government high schools in Dumka. Lohardaga district administration has sanctioned a project to BAU for developing such kitchen gardens in government high schools of the district,” said Jaiswal. With the objective of increasing the availability of organic farm produce to the general public, the society has also promoted several start-ups as marketing channels. Paddy produced using indigenous seed and amrit krishi techniques is being sold at Rs 40-50 per kg under the supervision of the BAU-BPD Society. According to Jaiswal, nutritional content in farm produce is decreasing day by day due to increasing application of chemical fertilisers and pesticides in soils. “Produce of natural farming not only contains higher nutritional content but also fetches higher prices in the market. Water is always a limiting factor for agriculture in the undulating topography of Jharkhand. Chemical based farming requires a higher amount of water while the trend is reversed in natural farming,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-284
29-09-2020||Jharkhand||Over 1,500 cases a day, state Covid tally crosses 80,000 ||The Covid-19 tally in Jharkhand crossed the 80,000 mark on Monday after over 1500 people were found to be infected across the state, figures released by the health department stated. Despite the spike in cases, Ranchi’s recovery rate improved significantly on Monday after at least 696 patients recovered from the infection here against 286 fresh cases of infection. As per government data, Jharkhand reported 1806 recoveries on the day, and Ranchi accounted for nearly 40 per cent of the recoveries. The number of active cases, however, shot up in East Singhbhum, which reported 301 cases of infection on Monday against only 157 recoveries. After Monday’s findings, the number of active cases in Ranchi stood at 3,605. As many as 2,180 patients were battling the infection in East Singhbhum. There were 12,126 active cases of infection in Jharkhand by Monday night. Meanwhile, the Covid toll in East Singhbhum drew close to 300 on Monday after the district reported four of the nine Covid casualties occurring in Jharkhand. This district alone accounts for 295 of the 688 Covid fatalities reported in Jharkhand till now. Jharkhand’s Covid mortality rate, as per government figures, was 0.84 per cent against the national average of 1.60 per cent. The government in Jharkhand has so far collected swab samples of 21.63 lakh people and tested 21.53 lakh of them. On Monday, health workers tested swab samples of 82,743 people and 1508 of them came positive for Covid-19, stated a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) on Monday night. As per government data, as many as 68,603 of the 81,417 people infected by Covid-19 virus in Jharkhand have recovered, taking the Covid recovery rate in the state to 84.26 per cent. Jharkhand’s Covid recovery rate is better than the national average of 82.60 per cent. Special Covid testing drive in Ranchi The Ranchi district administration conducted a special Covid testing drive at 25 locations across the district on Monday and collected swab samples of 3,381 people from the various locations. As many as 3306 of the samples were tested on Monday and 76 of them came positive. A majority of the samples were collected from rural areas such as Angada, Kanke, Bero and Namkum. Rs.550 for Rapid Antigen Test The state health department on Monday put a cap of Rs.550 on Rapid Antigen Tests conducted by private laboratories and diagnostic centres across Jharkhand for detecting Covid-19 infection. A notification from the health department on Monday stated that private labs found guilty of charging exorbitant price for RAT tests will be booked under the provisions of the State Epidemic Disease (Covid-19) regulation, 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-284
29-09-2020||Jharkhand||Inauguration of Dhanbad plasma therapy centre ||The Plasma therapy centre and component separator facility was inaugurated on Monday at Dhanbad’s PMCH by the Deputy Commissioner and Senior Superintendent of Police. Police constable Arun Kumar Sao was the first to donate plasma. DC Uma Shankar Singh said that the centre came up after a month-long hectic preparation, including procurement of necessary instruments, training of technicians and doctors besides obtaining license from  Central Drugs Standards Control Organization and also from  state drugs control directorate of Jharkhand. SSP Aseem Vikrant Minz said that it was a matter of pride for the police department as the first person to donate plasma in the district was a Covid recovery police jawan. A delegation of traders led by the president of Federation of Dhanbad Zila Chamber of Commerce and Industry on Monday met Senior Superintendent of Police, Aseem Vikrant Minz  requested him to solve the September 26 jewellery robbery case at the earliest . Jewellery worth over Rs 15 lakh was robbed by armed assailants during broad daylight. Minz said that Dhanbad police have taken the incident as a challenge and all efforts are on to arrest those behind the incident. Chairman of the Dhanbad district board has expressed concern at the functioning of the robbed jewellery store from the premises of a sealed market. Rajkamal Mansion owned by the district board was sealed two years ago according to a Supreme Court order. "Operating shop from a sealed market is illegal and also contempt of court and we have apprised the Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner, Uma Shankar Singh about the illegal operation of shop from the market," said Robin Gorai, chairman of the board. The final semester exams for undergraduate courses at Binod Bihari Mahto Koylanchal University started from Monday at 33 centres across Dhanbad and Bokaro. More than 20,000 students appeared for their exams adhering to all the Covid norms including wearing masks and maintaining a six meter distance while writing. “Though the total duration of examination was of two hours instead of previous examinations of three hours duration but the questions required lengthy answers and thus the allotted time of two hours was not commensurate to answer them in the right perspective and thus we raised the issue with the Centre superintendent and later wrote a complaint to the controller of examination,” said one of the students at SSLNT Women’s College. The post graduate final semester exams are scheduled to begin from October 10 and will conclude along with the undergraduate examination on October 21. The exams for professional courses like B Ed, M Ed, MBBS and LLB commenced from September 25. The driver of a container truck was electrocuted to death by a live overhead wire on Monday. The truck containing almost 50 bikes also caught fire from the wire damaging most of the vehicles. The incident took place on GT road in Kesath. The identity of the driver is yet to be ascertained. The body was sent for post mortem to Hazaribagh medical college and hospital. A cyber criminal running a cyber gang in Ramgarh was arrested by police from Chatti Bazar main market. Ishaan Kumar Giri conned shopkeepers by buying products, conducting faulty app based transactions and making them believe that money was being credited to their bank accounts. Raids are being conducted to arrest other gang members.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-284
29-09-2020||Jharkhand||Two robberies at residences of steel city businessmen||Two separate incidents of robbery at the residences of two businessmen at Sitaramdera and Kadma thana area took place on Monday afternoon. The first incident took place at the residence of Ashok Sharma, owner of Packers and Movers, a packaging-cum-transport company, at Line No 5 in Bhalubalsa under Sitaramdera thana at about 12.30 pm. According to members of Sharma’s family, two young men carrying haversacks came and introduced themselves as surveyors.  As his wife let them in, the duo entered and bolted the door.  Subsequently, one of them took out something which looked like a bomb and threatened them not to shout. Sharma's wife and children were forced into a room, while the men started searching for valuables and cash. In the meantime, the Sharmas’ domestic help arrived and pressed the doorbell. She found two strangers inside after the door was answered, and heard cries from inside. She immediately screamed for help. Following this, some neighbours rushed to the fifth floor where the Sharmas live, As they arrived, the men started to flee. One of them managed to escape, but the other was caught. He was handed over to the police and was taken under custody. The police seized a bag from the youth, who revealed his name as Sonu Kumar, a resident of Jehanabad district of Bihar. On searching the bag, the police found 10 bomb-like objects. "We are verifying the name and addresses of the criminals, including the one who is now under our custody.  We are also trying to detect whether the things that we recovered from the bag were bombs," Anjani Kumar, OC, Sitaramdera thana, told The Telegraph Online. In the other incident, four young men arrived at the house of BC Das on Swarna Path at Uliyan, under Kadma thana, at about 2 pm.  As his brother Manik Das runs a ration shop at Kadma market, one of the men said they wanted to buy rice. As Manik opened the door, the four barged into the house and took out a pistol each. They made the entire family go into a room on gunpoint and took the keys to their cupboard .  They gathered cash and gold ornaments worth over Rs five lakh and fled the scene. The family then informed police about the incident. Police have sealed all exit points of the city and are trying to nab the criminals. "Four armed men robbed a house at Uliyan in Kadma.  We are trying to follow through and are hopeful that the criminals will be nabbed soon," city SP Subhash Chandra Jat told The Telegraph Online.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-284
29-09-2020||Jharkhand||Jharkhand to relax norms for ration cards||The Jharkhand government is likely to modify the online application facility as the rural poor are finding it difficult to apply for new “green” ration cards for availing benefits under the public distribution system (PDS). “We met food secretary Arun Kumar Singh today and he assured to help,” economist Jean Dreze told The Telegraph on Monday afternoon. He said they would again have a detailed discussion with the food secretary on Wednesday. The state government recently announced expansion of PDS coverage by giving green cards to another 15 lakh eligible people from among those who would apply by September 30. But a delegation of the state unit of Right to Food campaign had met food minister Rameshwar Oraon on September 23 and requested him to activate the application link that had not been working till the previous day and also to extend the last date of application. The minister assured the delegation those would be done. “But when we were trying to help rural people in Latehar district fill the application form online, many of them could not provide enough information to ensure that the online facility accepted their applications,” Dreze said. He said they have written another letter to Oraon on behalf of the NREGA Sahayata Kendra, Manika (Latehar), requesting him to make the online application facility user-friendly. The system demands an applicant to furnish his/her Aadhaar, bank account and mobile numbers, Dreze said. Asked to specify the problems, he said they found many poor households did not have at least one of those numbers. “However, the food secretary assured these details would not be made mandatory anymore,” Dreze said. He said they were also given to understand that the last date for filing online applications would be extended. Besides extending the deadline, making the online system user-friendly and making Aadhaar, bank account and mobile numbers optional, they also requested Oraon to consider the cases of newly-married women for enrolling as beneficiaries. It may happen that such women were included as ration card-holders at their parents’ homes, they said. The delegation suggesting that the names of such women should be included at their in-laws’ places and deleted from cards at their paternal places. The delegation also urged to remove the cap of 15 lakh beneficiaries and to include all applicants who met the priority criteria. As Oraon suggested during their meeting on September 23, the proposed meeting with the food secretary on Wednesday is likely to discuss in details how to act upon their suggestions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-285
29-09-2020||Jharkhand||Congress Ranchi rally against farm laws||Jharkhand Congress ministers and MLAs, along with about 500 members and supporters of the party, marched to Ranchi’s Raj Bhavan on Monday to lodge their protest against the recently passed three farm bills. Later, a delegation met governor Droupadi Murmu at Raj Bhavan and handed her over a letter expressing their grievances that was addressed to the President. They assembled near the Gandhi statue at Bapu Batika at Morabadi grounds where they garlanded the statue of Mahatma Gandhi and held a meeting before beginning their march towards Raj Bhavan, about 2km away. “The Congress will continue to protest till the bills that were passed in the Parliament are withdrawn,” former Union minister and in-charge of the party’s state unit R. P. N. Singh told the gathering, adding those involved about 62 crore farmers of the country and contract farming would affect their interests as well as those of the consumers. “The Congress always supported the cause of the farmers,” said state’s food minister and party’s state unit president Rameshwar Oraon, reminding that Gandhiji had launch Champaran Satyagraha in support of the farmers in 1917. “The Union government ignored constitutional norms while passing the bills,” alleged state’s parliamentary affairs minister Alamgir Alam , adding that was done without allowing discussions and division of votes. “The farmers are the country’s annadata (food providers) but the Union government has surrendered their interests in hands of capitalists,” health minister Banna Gupta told reporters before the march began, adding that it was an attack against the spirit of the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-285
29-09-2020||Jharkhand||BJP cry against Lalu Prasad’s ‘guest’ status||The BJP has started sharpening its claws against Rashtriya Janata Dal chief and former Bihar chief minister Lalu Prasad Yadav, a convict in the fodder scam, for getting “state guest” stature in Jharkhand, with political attention riveted on the Assembly polls in the neighbouring state in October. BJP state spokesperson Pratul Shah Deo in a series of tweets on Monday criticised the Jharkhand government for according special privileges to Lalu, who is undergoing treatment under custody. “There is blatant violation of jail manual in the case of Lalu Yadav who is a convict in a case. Unfortunately, jail IG stated that RIMS director’s bungalow is not a part of jail whereas Ranchi High Court had ruled that treatment of Lalu Yadavji should be done in custody. The jail manual clearly states that any meeting with a convict undergoing treatment should be held in the presence of an official not below the rank of an assistant jailer and with the written permission of the jail superintendent. However, we have seen that people are meeting Lalu Yadavji without any permission. The jail manual further states that if there is violation of special privileges given to a convict then the facilities should be withdrawn. But it seems Jharkhand government has accorded him state guest status,” said Shah Deo. Significantly, Lalu was shifted from the paying ward of the Ranchi-based Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) to the institute director’s bungalow in August this year to protect him from exposure to Covid-19 infection after a few security guards posted at the paying wards tested positive for coronavirus. There have been reports of RJD leaders from Bihar trying to meet Lalu even at night to discuss political strategies for the Assembly polls. Jharkhand inspector-general of police (prison) Virendra Bhusan claimed that the jail manual does not apply to the RIMS director’s bungalow. “The RIMS director’s bungalow is not a part of the jail and the manual does not apply there. However, we are looking into the allegation labelled against Lalu Prasad,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-285
29-09-2020||Jharkhand||Jharkhand pact to protect migrant workers||The Jharkhand government has inked an agreement with a social enterprise having pan-India presence to ensure the rights of underprivileged workmen migrating to other states for employment are protected and monitored, in arguably the first of its kind step in the eastern region of the country. “We have inked an agreement with LabourNet Services India Private Limited on Thursday to weed out the role of middlemen in taking gullible workmen from remote areas of the state to be exploited at firms in big cities under poor conditions and to facilitate an institutionally effective coordination framework for livelihood and job creation ensuring the welfare of migrant workers as per labour laws,” said Jharkhand labour commissioner R.N. Yadav. Nearly 10 lakh migrants had returned to the state after May amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Yadav added: “It has been made mandatory that more than five workmen leaving the state for jobs in a particular company would have to get registered on the Shramadhan portal (www.shramadhan.jharkhand.gov.in). The workers can leave the state after getting either a green (under a firm or company registered as principal employer) or a red card (on their own) which they should carry with them as then only they would be entitled to get the benefits of state government schemes. The registration would be complete only after LabourNet Services is satisfied with the private company’s assurance of providing all facilities as per the Inter-state Migrant Workmen (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Service) Act, 1979, to the workers. The company would also have to register on the same portal as the principal employer.” Sources said that according to the memorandum of agreement, LabourNet Services, a social enterprise headquartered in Bangalore that enables sustainable livelihoods for men, women and youth in urban and rural areas, would look into all aspects of human resources on behalf of the labour department. “They would deal with the private companies both in the organised and unorganised sector to ensure that all facilities in wages, healthcare, accommodation for the workers and all precautions to be adopted in view of the Covid-19 crisis are implemented. It would also ensure that the workmen are provided security, cleanliness and drinking water facilities at the worksite and also provide the facility of Anganwadis for children of women workers during the working period. They would also help the government in arranging jobs for the workmen based on the skill mapping in other parts of the country and Jharkhand,” said Yadav. LabourNet is India’s leading social enterprise committed to enable sustainable livelihood for the disadvantaged population through its workforce transformation model, which uses government funds, CSR funds and corporate business revenues to bring multiple stakeholders together and create interventions related to education, employment and entrepreneurship. “The selection of workers as per skill category will be suitably assisted by the Responsible Migration Centre (RMC) led by Phia Foundation in partnership with Change Alliance Private Limited and Policy and Development Advisory Group for strategic guidance and support,” said Phia Foundation state manager Johnson Topno, who also supervises the state migrant control room set up to facilitate return of workers during the coronavirus crisis.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-285
