30-09-2020||Calcutta||From most used Emojis 😷 in Bios to most Right Swiped Neighborhoods: Kolkata, this is how you Tinder ||There’s a large, important, cultural shift happening - one we’ve seen for a while in Gen Z, but it’s now expanding because of COVID-19. The pandemic has accelerated a generational shift in the way we date and meet new people, and we’ve learned that connection is enduring, and despite social distancing, Gen-Z will find a way to sustain it. While dating and socializing out of quarantine looks different around the country right now, hanging out on Tinder is showing no signs of letting up, and members are letting their profiles do the talking. Here’s everything that has been happening on Tinder in Kolkata. 2020 Made me Realise: Top 5 most adopted Prompts in Kolkata To help members better introduce themselves to potential matches, Tinder recently released Prompts, a new in-app feature that lets members respond to questions or finish a sentence to display on their profile. Of all available Prompts, ‘2020 MADE ME REALISE’ had the highest adoption, signaling how much our daily lives have changed from every perspective--including how we gauge compatibility with potential matches on Tinder. Most Right Swiped Neighborhoods in Kolkata Tinder analyzed data Kolkata to find out where members were getting the most Right Swipes. Don’t forget to increase your distance, since what even is physical proximity anymore? Most Right Swiped Emojis 🔥 Emojis help members visually express themselves, especially in a time where social distancing has us online longer and finding creative ways to stay connected. Tinder pulled the top 10 emojis used in bios by members in Kolkata, and yes the Face Mask Emoji has made the list! Welcome to 2020. Most Right Swiped Cities in India In this 2020 reality, where are Tinder members Swiping Right the most? Kolkata slides in at number 2 of the top 5 most Right Swiped cities in India.  Top 5 Passport Destinations in India Tinder Passport is typically a paid feature for Tinder Plus & Gold subscribers. Members can search by city or drop a pin on the map and you can begin liking, matching, and chatting with Tinder members in a destination of their choice. They can navigate between their current location and new destinations. This was made free for all Tinder members at the beginning of lockdown.) Tinder made its Passport™ feature free through the early months of lockdown. By allowing members to temporarily change their location, Tinder Passport lets them connect with matches all over the country. Because social distancing doesn’t mean you can’t still connect with people virtually. The majority of Tinder members are using Passport to change location within the country, with Kolkata coming in at the 4th most frequent location members Passport into. Most Right-Swiped Jobs in Kolkata Tinder’s resident Psychologist, Sonali Gupta says, “The career choice can say a lot about a person's aspirations, their lifestyle and it also offers a glimpse into some of the qualities that a person may have, that led them to choose a particular profession. That's why career choice becomes a possible filter when it comes to choosing who you may want to connect with virtually.” Methodology The information included in this campaign represents overall Tinder trends, not the personal information of any specific, identified individual or member.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-288
30-09-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta High Court inaugurates a virtual training programme||Calcutta High Court Chief Justice T.B.N. Radhakrishnan inaugurates a virtual training programme for members of West Bengal Judicial Academy in New Town on Monday. In-person training is not possible because of the Covid pandemic. So the academy initiated the online programme, said Chief Justice Radhakrishnan. Justice Sanjib Banerjee, the academy’s chairman, Justice I.P. Mukerji and several other judges of the high court were present on the occasion. The judicial academy, controlled and managed by the Calcutta High Court administration, holds training courses for officials of the law department, subordinate court judges, registrars, court officers and government-panelled lawyers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-288
30-09-2020||Calcutta||Calcutta metro disrupted for hours after snag ||Metro services were disrupted for nearly six hours from afternoon till the end of the day's operations on Tuesday after an air-conditioned rake got stuck at Netaji (Kudghat) station. Snags often tripped Metro before the service was suspended in March because of Covid-19. The service resumed two weeks ago. On Tuesday, the Dum Dum-bound train was at Kudghat station around 2pm when the snag occurred, said a Metro official. The train had to be vacated as the snag could not be fixed immediately. But little did officials anticipate that the train would remain stuck beyond the end of the day’s operations, after which it was taken to the Noapara car shed. Initially, Metro ran a truncated service between Noapara and Maidan, where there is a provision for trains to take a U-turn. Later, the truncated service was extended till Tollygunge. Trains did not run between Tollygunge and New Garia for the rest of the day. The snag was traced to a third rail current collector — an equipment attached to the undercarriage of the train that collects power from the third rail of a Metro track. Each compartment in a rake typically has four such current collectors on either side. “The pad of a current collector was damaged. It was dragged for around 300m and further damaged the other three collectors of the rake on the same side. The power supply from the third rail was disrupted,” said a Metro official. Before the pandemic, Metro used to run 288 trains every weekday and the average daily passenger load was well above 600,000. Back then, most glitches were attributed to an ageing and overstretched fleet. But since the service resumed on September 14, Metro had been running 110 trains every day. It was increased to 116 on Monday. The average passenger count started from 20,000 and is yet to reach one-tenth of what it was. “Today’s glitch cannot be linked to the number of trips made by the train. There is a possibility that the current collector came in contact with a foreign object,” said the Metro official. The train that got stranded on Tuesday is one of the ne-wer lots built at the Integral Coach Factory in Perambore, Chennai. “There were some issues with the new rakes. But when the services were suspended (because of Covid), most issues were addressed. Tuesday’s problem is a new one. We will conduct a detailed examination to ascertain the cause,” Metro general manager Manoj Joshi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-288
30-09-2020||Calcutta||Reimbursement shock for coronavirus insured||A medical insurance policy launched for Covid-19 has found many takers but hospitals say the expectation that is driving the sale — that the policy will cover the entire treatment cost — is often proving to be misplaced. The brisk sale of Corona Kavach stands in contrast to a drop in the renewal of regular health insurance policies of some companies, which are getting requests from policy-holders to defer the deadline for payment of their annual premiums. Corona Kavach was launched on July 10 by the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority. Till September 28, National Insurance Company Ltd sold around 60,000 policies across India, of which 22,000 were sold in Calcutta, said officials. The company earned approximately Rs 31 crore from premiums paid for the product by insurers. Around Rs 14 crore came from those who took out the policy in Calcutta, the officials said. In comparison, Arogya Sanjeevani, a general health insurance policy launched by the company on April 1, has found as few as 331 takers till date across India. “We have not seen this kind of response for any other health policy. As against this, there is a 10 per cent drop in renewal of some other health policies. Some of the customers have shifted to other companies because of lower premiums, while others are yet to make their annual payments because of finan-cial distress caused by the Covid-19 pandemic,” said Saurav Kariwala, assistant manager (medical), National Insurance Company Ltd, Calcutta. Other insurance companies, too, said they were doing brisk business with Corona Kavach. Gariahat resident Debshankar Sinha said he had several health insurance policies for him and his wife and son. The insured amount for each is Rs 5 lakh. “I bought the Corona Kavach policy of Rs 5 lakh each for a duration of nine-and-a-half months. The terms of the policy say there are no cappings. In other health insurance policies, there are cappings on bed charges and other expenditures,” said Sinha. “I opted for this policy because there are no such cappings. Besides, it also provides coverage for getting treated for Covid at home.” Insurance company officials said that unlike other health insurance policies, most people were making their own decisions to buy Corona Kavach and not taking advice from their agents. “We are observing that most people are buying the policy online after reading about its benefit. They are not depending on agents, unlike for other policies,” said Prabir Mukherjee, general manager, medical, eastern region, Star Health and Allied Insurance. The company, he said, has so far processed 42 Corona Kavach claims in Calcutta. An official of another private insurance company said the denial of claims by insurance companies for Covid patients had made many people apprehensive about whether they would get enough reimbursements for Covid treatment. “Normal health insurance policies are now covering Covid treatment as well. Inadmissible amounts in a bill of a Covid patient vary between 10 and 15 per cent, which include some consumables. The concern expressed by Covid patients and their families is about the long hospital stay, which raises the bill,” said R. Venkatesh, regional director, eastern region, Narayana Health. “Earlier, the inadmissible amount was much more but now some consumables are covered,” he said. According to Venkatesh, in normal policies a patient can get reimbursement of up to one per cent of the sum insured as bed charge per day for non-ICU treatment and up to two per cent for ICU treatment. “But for Corona Kavach there are no such cappings,” he said. Many hospitals like AMRI and ones run by Narayana Health are yet to get any patient with Corona Kavach but those who have said in-surance companies were denying payment under the policy. “We had two patients whose claims under Corona Kavach policy were rejected,” said Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospi-tal. One of the patients was admitted on September 15 and discharged on Tuesday. He suffers from chronic renal disease and undergoes dialysis. “The private insurance company denied the claim under Corona Kavach because they said the patient did not disclose his renal ailment. The patient then filed his claim under a general health insurance policy of the same company and got the reimbursement,” said Mitra. “As for the other patient, the insurance company approved reimbursement after a rejection.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-288
30-09-2020||Calcutta||Presidency to start classes on October 1||Regular classes for the students of Presidency University in the intermediate semesters will start on October 1 and “the mode of teaching-learning process may be designed by the departments in an efficient and innovative manner in order to maintain ‘social distancing’, safety and health of students,” says a notice. A notice issued by the registrar said one of such effective modes may be distant-digital mode, which Jadavpur University is following. Classes for the incoming first-year students both in undergraduate and postgraduate level are unlikely to start before the first week of December, as was discussed in Sunday’s virtual meeting education minister Partha Chatterjee had with the vice-chancellors. As in-person classes cannot be held because of Covid-19, the Presidency authorities have advised the departments to adopt alternative modes and methods in compliance with the requirements of the choice-based credit system, said an official of the university. Presidency vice-chancellor Anuradha Lohia said the teachers could take live online classes so long as the students did not encounter any connectivity issues and had adequate access to the devices. “We have left it to the teachers to devise the method. It could be live online classes or the distant digital mode, dealing with a particular real-time situation,” Lohia told Metro. Distant digital model will entail uploading the lectures and other classroom demonstrations on the university’s central repository, which the students will download according to their convenience. Lohia said that if required, lectures could be uploaded on YouTube and links shared with students. Classes of the previous semesters could not be completed at Presidency as the Covid outbreak forced the authorities to shut down the campus on March 16. “The syllabus has been structured in a way that the unfinished modules of the previous semesters will be taken care of once classes start on October 1,” a teacher said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-288
30-09-2020||Calcutta||Raze Vivekananda Road flyover: Panel||A committee appointed to decide the fate of the Vivekananda Road flyover has recommended its demolition, government officials said on Tuesday. V.K. Raina, a bridge engineer and the external expert on the committee, made a presentation at Nabanna on Saturday in the presence of some senior officials. A 41m-long deck slab of the flyover under construction had collapsed on March 31, 2016, killing 26 people. The structure has since remained untouched as the government could not decide whether to build the rest of the flyover or pull down the entire structure. Poor materials used in the construction, faulty design and some “very sharp” bends were among the factors cited while recommending the flyover’s demolition, an official who was at Saturday’s meeting said. The government had consulted Raina for the Tallah bridge and followed his recommendation and pulled it down. He was appointed to the committee earlier this month to look into the Vivekananda Road flyover. “The committee has submitted its report. While giving the presentation, Raina said retrofitting was not possible. The flyover has to be pulled down… there has to be a new design and a new flyover if the government wants a flyover there,” a government official said. Besides Raina, engineers from the public works department and the Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority are part of the committee. “It is a difficult situation. It will be unsafe to keep the flyover. At the same time, its demolition will be very difficult… the job has to be executed with extreme care,” a committee member said. A portion of Vivekananda Road, Kali Krishna Tagore Street and Strand Road, all of which are under the flyover, criss-cross the wholesale markets of Posta where loading and unloading of goods from trucks continue throughout the day. A bridge engineer working for a private infrastructure company said the design meant the size and thickness of steel plates being used, the nature and position of welding two plates, and the strength of the bolts used in joining the plates among others. All of these are decided based on rigorous mathematics, which was not followed in case of this flyover, the engineer, who was part of a team inspecting the flyover, said. “I have done my job and submitted the report. Now it is up to the government to take the final call. The committee members have signed the report and it has been handed over to senior government officials,” Raina told Metro on Tuesday. “It is a short report of 15-20 pages but it has an attachment of 200 pages where I have done mathematical analysis in support of my recommendation.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-288
30-09-2020||Calcutta||Iskcon Calcutta temple to reopen ||Iskcon is set to reopen its Calcutta temple from October 1 with precautionary measures against Covid-19 in place. Visitors will be allowed from 5pm to 8pm and wearing  masks is mandatory. Prasad, flowers and tulsi will not be distributed and only eight people will be allowed at a time. “We were getting requests to reopen the temple but we could not do so,” said Iskcon Calcutta spokesperson Radharaman Das. Iskcon’s Chandradaya temple in Mayapur reopened on September 9.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-288
30-09-2020||Calcutta||App-based cycles back in New Town||App-based bicycles made a comeback in New Town on Tuesday. A cycle-sharing system had become popular in the township but the aggregator had to stop the service a year back because many users were not returning the cycles or dumping them in canals. The new cycles, of which 100 have landed in New Town, can be picked up by commuters from as many as 21 docking stations, an official of the New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) said. On Tuesday, urban development and municipal affairs minister Firhad Hakim inaugurated a docking station near the base of Kolkata Gate. It is one of the five stations operational — in front of the New Town bus stand, near the Reliance Fresh outlet, outside Axis Mall, near Novotel and off Kolkata Gate. Hakim, taking a cue from the earlier misuse of bikes, urged residents to protest if they saw the cycles being dumped or taken away. “Cycling is the greenest form of transport. And unlike in Calcutta, where we could not find space for cycling bays, New Town has existing infrastructure (for cyclists) and we want to promote it,” the minister said. The NKDA has partnered with Chartered Bike, an Ahmedabad-based company, to launch the service. The business model, as well as the philosophy behind the bicycle renting scheme, is modelled on the ones followed by app-based bicycle sharing services in pedal-friendly cities like Paris, Copenhagen and Amsterdam. A user in New Town has to download the “Chartered Bike” mobile app on a smartphone. A one-time registration fee of Rs 100 is charged and it is redeemable, said a spokesperson for the company. To unlock a cycle one needs to scan the QR code on the fender. In case someone wants to stop somewhere - for example to buy groceries or vegetables - he/she has to click on the “parking” option on the app. At the end of the ride, the rider needs to choose the “end ride” option, after which the payment can be made through mobile wallets as well as the debit or credit cards. The cycle has to be returned to any of the docking stations after the ride. As an introductory offer, the first half hour of the ride will be free. From the 31st to the 60th minute, the rider will be charged Rs 5.90. For the next 30 minutes, one has to shell out Rs 11.80 and thereafter, Rs 17.70 every hour. NKDA chairman Debashis Sen said 400 battery-powered cycles were on their way. Bidhannagar police commissioner Mukesh said: “We will not allow bicycles on flyovers.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-288
30-09-2020||Calcutta||Family loses Rs 6 lakh to job cheats, three held in Calcutta||A man spent more than Rs 6 lakh to get his son a government clerical job but realised he had been cheated when he landed up at what he thought would be his son’s office — Khadya Bhavan. Three people have been arrested in this connection. Police said they took the money from the Murshidabad-based family by promising to get a family member a job in the state government’s food department, which has its headquarters at Khadya Bhavan in the New Market area. The fraud came to the fore when Mohammad Nuruddin Sheikh and his son Abdul Hadi Sheikh reached Khadya Bhavan on Mirza Galib Street on Monday and realised they had been cheated when the documents they showed at the office were not recognised. The two reported the matter to New Market police station. Officers tracked down the men with the help of the mobile numbers they had used to contact Sheikh, the police said. Ramprasad Ghosh, 29, a resident of Krishnanagar, Ajit Kumar Majhi, 34, and Prabir Kumar Das, both Dum Dum residents, have been booked for cheating, criminal breach of trust and criminal conspiracy. “People should understand that it is better to encourage their children to study and secure a government job on merit instead of bribing someone,” an officer in Lalbazar said. “Hundreds of people fall prey to such frauds by touts.” Despite running awareness campaigns against such cheats, people still get cheated and they end up paying money to those making false promises of a government job, the police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-288
30-09-2020||Calcutta||SOP ahead for hand sanitiser near Durga Puja pandal ||Hand sanitisers are highly inflammable because of the high alcohol content and can be a direct fire hazard when kept near puja pandals. The matter was discussed during the Durga Puja coordination meeting between utility service providers at Lalbazar on Tuesday and it was decided that a handling protocol was necessary for sanitisers. The state fire and emergency services department has decided to issue a detailed advisory on storing and handling hand sanitisers near puja pandals this year. Representatives of the city police, the Calcutta Municipal Corporation, the PWD, the Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority, the state fire and emergency services department and of the CESC were present at the meeting. The most significant topic of discussion turned out to be storing and using hand sanitisers without causing any fire hazard to the pandal. Jagmohan, the director-general (fire and emergency services), told Metro that the department had been instructed to prepare a standard operating procedure regarding the use and storage of hand sanitisers at puja pandals. “We will include these points in the leaflets and advisories that are issued every year from the fire department,” he said. During the Durga Puja coordination meeting at Netaji Indoor Stadium last week, chief minister Mamata Banerjee had asked all puja organisers to stock hand sanitisers and to give them to visitors to the pandals, at least half a kilometre away. Several puja organisers said they were making arrangements for close to 50 litres of hand sanitisers a day during Durga Puja. “According to the chief minister’s instructions, we will keep enough stock of hand sanitisers to offer to everyone who visits our pandal and masks to those without one. We will keep a separate booth for this around 300m from our pandal,” Manoj Shaw, a member of Mudiali Club, said. Puja organisers should ensure the sanitiser stock is not kept in the vicinity of the pandal where lamps are lighted or where electrical circuits are aplenty, a fire department official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-288
30-09-2020||Calcutta||Partha Chatterjee asks power firms to ensure exam supply||Education minister Partha Chatterjee has asked CESC and the state power utility to ensure uninterrupted power supply when college and university students write their final exams between October1 and 18. “Advisory issued to CESC and WBSEDCL to provide uninterrupted power during examinations from 1st October to 18th,” Chatterjee said in a tweet on Tuesday. More than 1.1 million undergraduate and postgraduate students will take the final-year exams across the state. The exams will not be held on campus because of the pandemic. Questions will be uploaded on the websites of colleges and students will have to mail back scanned copies of answer scripts within half an hour of writing the test in keeping with an UGC advisory. “A student will not be able to access the questions and upload the answers in the absence of uninterrupted power supply. This prompted the minister to intervene,” an education department official said. CESC supplies power in Calcutta and neighbouring areas. The state power utility, WBSEDCL, supplies power to the rest of Bengal. The UGC had in a letter to Calcutta University on September 16 specified that the duration of the final exams can be reduced to two hours from three hours and that the university “may consider to give half an hour or so for downloading the question paper and uploading the answer sheets”, another official said. “Now it is a time-bound process. Earlier, in the event of power failure, a student would have abundant time 9 24hours) to complete the process. Now he has only half an hour. Therefore the issue of uninterrupted power supply has become crucial,” the official said. Avijit Ghosh, the CESC vice-president (distribution services), said the company would take adequate steps in terms of generation and distribution of power so that students don’t face any inconvenience. Bengal power minister Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay said he would tell the chairman of the state power utility to ensure that steps are taken in the interest of students. “CESC always provides uninterrupted power. We have gone through the tweets of the education minister and we will take all possible steps to provide uninterrupted power during this phase as well,” CESC vice-president Ghosh said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-289
30-09-2020||Business||Centre exploring possibility of reducing crude oil cess by half ||The Centre is exploring the possibility of reducing crude oil cess by half to 10 per cent in an effort to encourage investment and production in the sector Senior oil ministry officials said they were considering the industry’s demand to reduce the cess on domestic crude oil.  The industry has demanded the cess be reduced to 5- 8 per cent. The oil ministry is looking to take up the matter with the finance ministry. “We do not expect any immediate reduction in cess at this juncture, given the economic reality of the country. But, investment in the exploration is a long-term investment and a right signal needs to be sent to boost that,” the officials said. The reduction in the levy has huge revenue implications as ONGC alone pays cess in excess of Rs 10,000 crore annually. The changes would also provide a level playing field to domestic companies as imported crude does not attract the levy, industry sources said. In the 2016-17 budget, the then finance minister Arun Jaitley had changed the cess to 20 per cent ad valorem rate from the fixed rate of Rs 4,500 per tonne. The Association of Oil and Gas Operators (AOGO), an industry body representing nearly two dozen members, in a recent communication to the petroleum secretary sought the reduction in the cess to 5-8 per cent. Cess is a production tax which is not a pass-through and has to be borne by the oil producers. In ad valorem rate, the duty is linked to prices, meaning when prices rise tax collections are higher and lower when prices fall. The government is looking to reduce the tax burden on oil companies to push up domestic production that has stagnated for the past several years at around 30-34 million tonnes. The reduction would benefit upstream companies such as ONGC and Cairn India whose production is subject to an oil industry development cess levied on an ad valorem basis. State-owned ONGC and OIL pay a cess on the crude oil they produce from their allotted fields on a nomination basis. Cairn India has to pay the same cess for oil from the Rajasthan block. The government had levied a cess of Rs 2,500 a tonne in 2005-06 when crude was hovering around $60/barrel. The duty was hiked to Rs 4,500 a tonne in 2012 when crude oil prices skyrocketed to touch $100/barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-275
30-09-2020||Business||Williamson Magor duo revival bid on track||The debt restructuring proposals of two of the listed companies of Williamson Magor Group are at an advanced stage with their bankers, the shareholders of Eveready Industries Ltd (EIL) were told on Tuesday. Speaking at the annual general meeting of EIL, chairman and promoter Aditya Khaitan said despite the pandemic delaying the process, “investors’ interest continues and possible opportunities for investment and restructuring are being examined and explored as we speak”. EIL itself is not being restructured: the storage cell battery maker has reduced its debt by the sale of land and generation of more cash from a higher operating margin. But the company will immensely benefit from a group-level restructuring as the funds it lent to the group entities would come back. The Khaitans have been in a dialogue with the banks to restructure the debts of bulk tea producer McLeod Russel India Ltd and McNally Bharat Engineering Co Ltd. “The group has assets of sizeable and marketable value, monetisation of which could not be crystallised due to the Covid disruptions and the lack of liquidity in the market. “I reassure that steps have been initiated to resolve the issue but due to the unforeseen circumstances related to Covid there has been a delay,” Khaitan informed the handful of shareholders who could participate in the virtual AGM. Eveready had given inter-corporate deposits and corporate guarantees to group entities and holding companies. Principal and interest on some of those ICDs have fallen due. With resolutions coming into effect at the operating company, their cash flows are expected to increase. When these operating companies pay back to the holding company, it will in turn be able to repay the dues to Eveready. The board has written to all entities to which it had lent asking for a repayment plan. Such a letter has been issued on September 24 and replies are expected in two weeks . Amritanshu Khaitan, managing director of EIL, said the company would expand capacity of AAA batteries by 50 per cent by adding a new line to the Tamilnadu plant. “There is strong demand for batteries and flashlights. Our factories are running full out,” he informed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-275
30-09-2020||Business||Debt-GDP ratio forecast at 90% ||The debt to gross domestic product ratio could widen to around 85-90 per cent for India in a post Covid-19 period from around 70 per cent in the pre-Covid period. According to Sajjid Z. Chinoy, chief Indian economist of JP Morgan and member of the advisory council to the 15th Finance Commission, the central government must do the heavy lifting in terms of fiscal spending. “The approach I would prefer is to have a large infrastructure stimulus over the next 12-18 months. This will boost aggregate demand, crowd in private investment, create jobs and help medium term growth,” said Chinoy at an event organised by the Bengal Chamber or Commerce and Industry. He added that the stimulus could be financed through aggressive asset sale over the next two to three years so that it is fiscally neutral. Chinoy said the challenge for the government would be to maintain fiscal sustainability after the Covid-19 pandemic. “We expect debt to GDP ratio to go up to 85-90 per cent after the crisis and that will not be easy to control. The key point to realise is that medium term debt dynamics depend crucially on medium term growth. If India gets stuck in a 5 per cent growth trajectory, even if we are fiscally cautious, the debt to GDP ratio will keep rising,” he said, adding that a 7-10 per cent growth rate can stabilise the debt to GDP ratio. Motilal Oswal in a report had estimated that India’s general government (Centre + states) debt rose to 75 per cent of GDP in 2019-20 from 70 per cent in 2017-18. It is likely to reach 91 per cent of GDP in 2020-21 and stay at over 90 per cent of GDP up to 2022-23.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-275
30-09-2020||Business||Lufthansa threatens to stop flights||Lufthansa on Tuesday said it would have to  cancel all flights  between September 30 and October 20, with  India and Germany failing to agree on the number of flights between them under the special air bubble arrangement. “Lufthansa had applied for the continuation of special flights it was granted to operate until the end of September. This application process is necessary since India has so far not accepted the invitation by the German government to discuss details regarding a temporary travel agreement between both countries,” the airline said in a statement. “Due to the Indian government’s rejection, Lufthansa will now have to cancel all planned flights between Germany and India between 30 September and 20 October,” it added. Aviation regulator DGCA said India formalised an air bubble with Germany in July this year. “However, there are restrictions in place for Indian nationals desiring to travel to Germany which was putting Indian carriers at a significant disadvantage resulting in inequitable distribution of traffic in favour of Lufthansa,” the DGCA stated. “As against Indian carriers operating 3-4 flights a week, Lufthansa operated 20 flights a week. In spite of this disparity we offered to clear 7 flights a week for Lufthansa which was not accepted by them. Negotiations continue,” it noted. Scheduled international passenger flights have been suspended in India since March 23.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-275
30-09-2020||Business||Mukesh Ambani tops India rich list||Mukesh Ambani, chairman of Reliance Industries, continues to be the richest Indian for the ninth consecutive year on the IIFL Wealth Hurun India Rich List for 2020. Ambani has a total wealth of Rs 6,58,400 crore — there was a surge of 73 per cent in the last 12 months, propelling him to the rank of the richest individual in Asia. The London-based Hinduja brothers (SP Hinduja, along with his three brothers) with a joint wealth of Rs 1,43,700 crore bagged the second position. HCL founder Shiv Nadar with a wealth of Rs 1,41,700 crore ranked third, followed by Gautam Adani & family at fourth spot and Wipro’s Azim Premji at fifth spot. Radhakishan Damani, founder of Avenue Supermarts, debuted in the top 10 wealthiest individuals ranking for 2020. The list for 2020 identified a total of 828 individuals, including 40 women, with a wealth of at least Rs 1,000 crore, spread across 111 cities. The combined wealth of India’s richest is a staggering $823bn, equating to 1/3rd of India’s GDP. “A 28 per cent of the upswing in wealth on the list has been bestowed by Mukesh Ambani, speaking of Ambani’s meteoric success post diversifying from oil to telecom and retail. Ambani’s wealth is now bigger than the combined wealth of the next five in the list,” said Anas Rahman Junaid, MD and chief researcher, Hurun India. Other names in the top 10 were Cyrus S Poonawalla of Serum Institute of India, Uday Kotak of Kotak Mahindra Bank, Dilip Shanghvi of Sun Pharma and Cyrus Pallonji Mistry and Shapoorji Pallonji Mistry of Shapoorji Pallonji Group. Smitha V Crishna of the Godrej empire ranks as the richest woman in the list with a wealth of Rs 32,400 crore, followed by Biocon founder Kiran Mazumdar- Shaw at Rs 31,600 crore. Nearly 5 per cent of the list (40 individuals) are women; and 10 of them are self-made. The three founders of Indian unicorn Udaan became the highest gainers in terms of wealth since the 2019 edition — an increase of 274 per cent in wealth for each one. Founders of 11 unicorns made it to the rich list. With a wealth of Rs 4,500 crore, Ritesh Agarwal (26) of Oyo Rooms is the youngest person on the list while with Rs 5,400 crore wealth, Dharam Pal Gulati (96) of MDH is the oldest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-275
30-09-2020||Business||Nobel Laureate Abhijit Banerjee critical of policies||Nobel Laureate Abhijit Banerjee on Tuesday said India is among the worst performing economies in the world and the government’s economic stimulus was inadequate to tackle the problem. He, however, said that the country will see a revival in growth in the July-September quarter of the current fiscal. Speaking at a virtual event, Banerjee said the country’s economic growth was slowing down even before the Covid-19 pandemic hit as real GDP growth had moderated from 7 per cent in 2017-18 to 6.1 per cent in 2018-19 and 4.2 per cent in 2019-20. “Indian economy is among the worst performing in the world. The country’s economy will see revival in the current quarter (July-September),” the  Nobel winner said. Banerjee, a professor at Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), said he does not think that India’s economic stimulus was adequate. “India’s economic stimulus was limited. It was a bank bailout. I think we could have done more,” he said. The stimulus measures “did not increase consumption spending of lower income people as the government was not willing to put money in the hands of the low income population”, he explained. Talking about inflation, Banerjee said India’s growth strategy was a closed economy with the government creating lots of demand, which resulted in high growth and inflation. “India had 20 years of high inflation and high growth. The country benefited a lot from stable high inflation in the last 20 years,” he observed. Replying to a query on monetisation of deficit by the RBI, the eminent economist said “deficit financing is a good idea”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-275
30-09-2020||Business||Kesoram Industries seeks new debt partner ||Kesoram Industries is likely to get a new debt partner soon with the aim to inject fresh liquidity in the company. Industry sources say the company has received term sheets from at least two potential partners and a deal may be inked as early as in October. Names of US-based financial behemoth Goldman Sachs and India’s Edelweiss Group are doing the rounds. The potential partner may also pick token equity — 2-3 per cent — in Kesoram. In the past, it held discussions with US-based fund Farallon Capital as well. The Manjushree Khaitan-led company, which earns almost the entire revenue from cement, has an outstanding debt of Rs 2,100 crore. The plan is to replace the existing legacy debt with the new debt, hoping that it would bring more flexibility to the management. “The first priority for the management is to run the plant efficiently, for which we need liquidity. With a new debt partner, this will be a reality and Kesoram can perform much better profitably,” P. Radhakrishnan, CEO of Kesoram, said. Going forward, the company plans to retire some of the debt by injecting fresh cash by way of equity and internal generation. “The debt level of Kesoram should be 4-4.5 times of EBIDTA,” Radhakrishnan added. The company also informed the bourses that subsidiary Cygnet Industries has entered into an agreement with Futamura Chemical of Japan, a global leader in the manufacturing of cellulose films. Kesoram has a unit which makes transparent paper products. The Japanese firm is expected to market Kesoram’s products. Birla Tyre may spin off its under-construction passenger car tyre business into a separate entity in its efforts to induct a strategic partner. The company, which was carved out of Kesoram last year, makes trucks and bus tyres. However, it is unable to perform well because of lack of liquidity. Also on the cards is contract manufacturing of OTR and other tyres in order to leverage the 25-year old Birla Tyre brand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-276
30-09-2020||India||Babri: How Supreme Court set wheels of justice moving again||The Babri Masjid case against 32 senior politicians and Ram Janmabhoomi movement leaders might never have come to a conclusion had it not been for a Supreme Court bench led by Justice Rohinton Nariman which ordered that the case should be revived and heard within a fixed time-frame. The court stepped in twice to speed up the wheels of justice which had ground to a halt back in 2001 after the Uttar Pradesh government declined to cure a technical defect in the charge-sheet and the CBI pushed it onto the backburner. The Supreme Court bench in 2017 transferred the case against the 32 senior leaders from Rae Bareli to the Lucknow CBI Special Court and ordered that it should be heard along with the second case against “lakhs of unknown kar sevaks” who were accused of bringing down the masjid. The case before the Supreme Court had been filed by a person who lived in Ayodhya but was not otherwise connected with the case. More crucially, the Supreme Court also laid down tough conditions including daily hearings to prevent delays and ensure that the two cases which together had a total of around 900 witnesses were concluded as promptly as possible. Besides that, it gave the lower court two years to complete the hearings and ordered that the judge should not, under any circumstances, be transferred till he had finished the case and also laid down that no adjournments should be allowed except under extraordinary circumstances. Any other major issues should be referred to it, the judges laid down. On July 19, 2019 the court stepped in once again and gave the CBI judge nine months to conclude the case. Since he was scheduled to retire last year, he was also given an extension till he delivered the judgement. Today (Wednesday) was the CBI Special Court judge S. K. Yadav’s last day in office. The court passed its orders invoking Article 142 of the Constitution which gives it extraordinary powers and says that, “in the exercise of its jurisdiction may pass such decree or make such order as is necessary for doing complete justice in any cause or matter pending before it”. The judges justified using Article 142 on the grounds of the seriousness of the crime. Said the judges: “In the present case, crimes which shake the secular fabric of the Constitution of India have allegedly been committed almost 25 years ago (this was in 2017).” The court also sternly ticked off senior leaders like L. K. Advani who argued that their fundamental rights would be impacted by the court using Article 142. Besides that, the court also threw in the charge of criminal conspiracy against several of the 32 leaders who had not been indicted under the section earlier and which can be punished with a five to six-year jail sentence||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-638
30-09-2020||India||India successfully test fires cruise missile from Odisha||India on Wednesday successfully test-fired BrahMos supersonic cruise missile with several indigenous features from a test range in Odisha, in a major step towards achieving "Atmanirbhar Bharat" pledge, defence sources said. The surface-to-surface cruise missile, featuring indigenous booster and airframe section along with other Made in India sub-systems, blasted off from the launching complex-III of the Integrated Test Range (ITR) near here, a defence statement said. Describing the trial conducted at 10.30 am as "successful", Defence Research and Development (DRDO) officials said, all parameters were met during the flight test of the missile which has a strike range of more than 400 km. The BrahMos Land-Attack Cruise Missile (LACM) was cruising at a top speed of Mach 2.8. The successful trial of the state-of-the-art cruise missile is one more major step in enhancing the indigenous content, the statement said. "Todays successful launch has paved the way for the serial production of the indigenous booster and other indigenous components of the powerful BrahMos Weapon System realising Atma Nirbhar Bharat pledge," it said. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and DRDO chairman congratulated DRDO personnel, team BrahMos and the industry for the spectacular mission. The BrahMos missile can be launched from land, sea platforms as well as fighter jets, defence sources said. Jointly developed by the DRDO and NPOM, a leading aerospace enterprise of Russia, the BrahMos missile is a medium-range ramjet supersonic cruise missile capable of being launched from submarines, warships, fighter jets or land. The first extended version of the missile, which had a strike range of 450 km, was successfully tested on March 11, 2017. On September 30, 2019 a shorter range land version of BrahMos was successfully test fired from Chandipur ITR. The sophisticated missile, already operational with the Army, Navy and Air Force, is regarded as the fastest supersonic cruise missile in the world, the sources said. PTI COR SKN MM||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-639
30-09-2020||India||Hathras rape victim cremated at 2.30am, family kept out   ||The 19-year-old Dalit woman, who died in a Delhi hospital a fortnight after she was gang-raped in Uttar Pradesh's Hathras, was cremated here in the early hours of Wednesday, with her family alleging the local police forced them to conduct the last rites in the dead of the night. Local police officers, however, said the cremation was carried out "as per the wishes of the family", even as the incident triggered protests in Hathras with several people coming out on roads. Leaders of Opposition parties hit out at the BJP government in the state over the manner in which the cremation was conducted, with the Congress demanding Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath's resignation. As criticism mounted, Adityanath constituted a three-member SIT to probe the gang-rape and ordered a fast-tracked trial. A senior government official said the SIT, to be headed by UP home secretary Bhagwan Swarup with DIG Chandraprakash and commandant PAC Agra Poonam as members, would have to submit its report in a week.The Dalit woman was raped in a village in Hathras by four men on September 14. After her condition deteriorated, she was referred to Delhi's Safdarjung hospital where she breathed her last on Tuesday. As news of her death spread, protests broke out in Delhi as well as in Hathras with all sections of society, including politicians, sports and cine stars and activists, expressing their anguish and demanding justice for her. The family left Safdarjung hospital in Delhi on Tuesday night amid heavy police deployment. The body was taken by the Uttar Pradesh police, which reached Hathras earlier than the family members, claimed a kin of the victim. "The cremation was done around 2.30am-3am," the father of the deceased woman told PTI on Wednesday morning. In the moments preceding the cremation, a brother of the woman told PTI: "Police have forcibly taken the body, and my father along with them for cremation. When my father reached Hathras, he was immediately taken (to the crematorium) by the police." Another kin said the woman's father was accompanied by 30 to 40 people, mainly relatives and others from their neighbourhood, to the crematorium near Bool Garhi village, under Chandpa police station limits, in the district of western Uttar Pradesh. Senior police and administration officials were also present at the crematorium in the middle of the night, an official said. According to purported visuals from the site that surfaced on social media some of the policemen were in anti-riot gear donning body vests and helmets. "We are unable to understand what they want... What kind of politics is this? They are giving random statements like the woman has not been raped! We don't know what they want," said the relative who was at home with the grieving family. "They are doing all this to hush up the case," he alleged. When contacted, Hathras SP Vikrant Vir told PTI in a text message: "All procedures as per wish of family (sic)." Later in the day, the Hathras Police issued a statement, refuting the reports that the body was cremated without the permission of the family. "Hathras Police denies these reports. The truth is that family members carried out the last rites of the body as per their rituals in presence of police and administration officials," it stated. Around 12 pm, locals from Bool Garhi village came out on roads to protest the developments, while many demonstrated near the local Chandpa Police station and some in Hathras city. The manner in which the last rites of the gang-rape victim was carried out led to Opposition parties hitting out at the state government. Bahujan Samaj Party chief Mayawati, in a tweet, said, "The cremation of Hathras gang-rape victim by the Uttar Pradesh Police without handing over the body to the family or without their consent and in their absence in the dead of the night is raising doubts and resentment. The BSP strongly condemns such a wrong attitude of the police." It would be better if the Supreme Court takes cognizance of the serious case on its own and initiates appropriate action, otherwise from the attitude of the UP government and the police it does not seem that even after the death the gang-rape victim and her family will get justice, she said in another tweet. Congress General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi said, "I was on the phone with the Hathras victim's father when he was informed that his daughter had passed away. I heard him cry out in despair." "He had just been telling me that all he wanted was justice for his child. Last night the victim's father was robbed of the chance to take his daughter home for the last time and perform her last rites," she said in a series of tweets. Tagging Adityanath in a tweet, Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi said, "RESIGN. Instead of protecting the victim and her family, your government became complicit in depriving her of every single human right, even in death. You have no moral right to continue as chief minister." Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav tweeted: "In the rape-murder of Hathras daughter, conducting her last rites by police in the middle of the night without the consent of the family is against the rituals. It is the most condemnable act to erase evidence. The BJP government has committed a sin and crime by doing so."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-639
30-09-2020||India||Babri mosque verdict runs counter to constitutional spirit:Congress||The Congress on Wednesday said a special CBI court's decision to acquit all the accused in the Babri Masjid case runs counter to constitutional spirit and the 2019 Supreme Court judgement that described the demolition of the structure as an "egregious violation of the rule of law". Congress' chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said every Indian who has innate faith in the Constitution and in the spirit of communal amity and brotherhood expects and urges the Central and state governments to file an appeal against the verdict delivered Wednesday. The governments must follow the letter of the law and the Constitution without any "partiality and pre-meditated prejudice" Surjewala said, adding this is the true calling of rule of law and Constitution. "The decision of the Special Court to acquit all the accused in Babri Masjid demolition case runs counter to Supreme Court judgement as also the constitutional spirit," he said. The Supreme Court in its judgement on November 9 last year, pronounced by five judges, had clearly held that the demolition of Babri Masjid was a clear illegality and an "egregious violation of the rule of law", Surjewala told reporters. "But the Special Court exonerated all the accused. It is clear that the decision of the Special Court runs counter to the decision of the Supreme Court of India," he said. "The entire country witnessed a deep-rooted political conspiracy by BJP-RSS and its leaders to destroy the country's communal amity and brotherhood for usurping power at any cost," he alleged. The then BJP government of Uttar Pradesh was a "co-conspirator in the designed attack" on India's Constitutional ethos, Surjewala claimed. "So much so that the Supreme Court was misled by filing a wrong affidavit on oath. It is only after detailed examination of all these aspects, facts and evidence that the Supreme Court held the demolition of Masjid to be an egregious violation of the rule of law," he said. Reacting to the judgement by the special court, senior Congress leader Ahmed Patel tweeted, "The Babri verdict is shocking, it goes contrary to principles of natural justice and even the SC's observation" All the 32 accused in the Babri mosque demolition case, including BJP veterans L K Advani and MM Joshi, were on Wednesday acquitted by the special CBI court in Lucknow which said there was no conclusive proof against them. Delivering the much-awaited verdict in the 28-year-old case, CBI judge S K Yadav did not accept newspapers and video cassettes as evidence. The case relates to the razing of the disputed structure in Ayodhya on December 6, 1992, which triggered riots for several months leaving nearly 2,000 people dead across the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-639
30-09-2020||India||Advani welcomes Babri verdict with 'Jai Shri Ram' ||Veteran BJP leader LK Advani, who was acquitted by a special CBI court on Wednesday in the Babri mosque demolition case, welcomed the court verdict by chanting 'Jai Shri Ram', and said it vindicates his personal and BJP's belief and commitment towards the 'Ram Janmabhoomi Movement'. Advani, who was the face of the Ram Janambhoomi Movement in 1992, was acquitted along with all other 31 accused in the case. "It is a very important decision and a matter of happiness for us. When we heard the news of the court's order, we welcomed it by chanting Jai Shri Ram, Advani said in a video message. Later in a statement, he said, "the judgement vindicates my personal and the Bharatiya Janata Party's belief and commitment towards the Ram Janmabhoomi Movement. "I also feel blessed that this judgement has come in the footsteps of another landmark verdict of the Supreme Court given in November 2019,which paved the way for my long cherished dream of seeing a grand Shri Ram Mandir at Ayodhya, the foundation laying ceremony of which was held on 5th August, 2020." After the court verdict, the 92-year-old BJP leader came out and greeted the media, gathered outside his house here, by chanting the slogan of Jai Shri Ram . He was seen watching the news in his residence while sitting with his family members and his daughter Pratibha Advani, who was holding his hands. Former Shiv Sena MP Satish Pradhan, who was an accused in the Babri Masjid demolition case, on Wednesday welcomed a CBI special court's verdict acquitting all the 32 accused in the case. "Truth has prevailed," the 80-year-old former mayor of Thane told news agency PTI, after attending the hearing through video conference. The court said there is no conclusive proof against the accused. Pradhan had earlier been granted bail in the case. The first mayor of Thane near Mumbai while he was with the Sena, Pradhan is now with the BJP. "Truth always prevails. We have full faith in the judiciary," he said. Pradhan was once a trusted associate of Shiv Sena supremo late Bal Thackeray and helped the party grow in the Konkan region and Maharashtra. Local BJP leader Om Prakash Sharma, who was among the 'karsevaks' from Thane to Ayodhya in December 1992, also welcomed the court verdict, adding he was happy that all the accused have been acquitted. The RSS on Wednesday expressed joy over the special CBI court's verdict.  "Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh welcomes the special CBI court's decision to acquit all the accused in the demolition of the controversial structure. "After this decision, all sections of the society should come together in unity and harmony and work successfully to face the challenges before the country, and work towards the progress of this country," RSS general secretary Suresh 'Bhaiyyaji' Joshi tweeted. The court in Lucknow said there was no conclusive proof against the accused. The other accused include Uma Bharti and former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Kalyan Singh, during whose tenure the structure was pulled down, besides Vinay Katiyar and Sadhvi Rithambara.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-639
30-09-2020||India||Babri Masjid demolition: all, including Advani, acquitted ||All the 32 accused in the Babri mosque demolition case, including BJP veterans L K Advani and MM Joshi, were on Wednesday acquitted by a special CBI court here which said there was no conclusive proof against them. Delivering the much-awaited verdict in the 28-year-old case, CBI judge S K Yadav did not accept newspapers and video cassettes as evidence. The court also observed that late Vishwa Hindu Parishad leader Ashok Singhal wanted to save the structure because Ram idols were inside. The case relates to the razing of the disputed structure in Ayodhya on December 6, 1992, which triggered riots for several months leaving nearly 2,000 people dead across the country. The structure was demolished by 'kar sevaks' who claimed that the mosque in Ayodhya was built on the site of an ancient Ram temple. The 32 accused, include former deputy prime minister Advani, former Union minister Joshi and Uma Bharti, former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Kalyan Singh, during whose tenure the structure was pulled down, besides Vinay Katiyar and Sadhvi Rithambara. Champat Rai, the general secretary of the trust in charge of constructing the temple, was among the accused. Yadav had on September 16 directed all the 32 surviving accused to remain present in the court on the day of the judgment. Today was the last working day of Yadav. However, Bharti (61) and Singh (88) are convalescing in separate hospitals after coronavirus infection and were not present in the court at the time of pronouncement of order. Advani (92), Joshi (86), Nritya Gopal Das and Satish Pradhan were also not present in court. Singh, during whose tenure as chief minister of Uttar Pradesh the disputed structure was demolished, was put on trial in September last year after his tenure as governor (of Rajasthan) came to an end. With the Supreme Court setting August 31 as the deadline and later extending it by a month for the CBI court to give its verdict, the trial court started day-to-day hearing to complete the task on time. The central agency produced 351 witnesses and 600 documents as evidence before the court. Charges were framed against 48 people, but 16 have died during the course of trial. The trial under the serious criminal conspiracy charges commenced against them after having been dropped by the trial court in 2001. The verdict was upheld by the Allahabad High Court in 2010, but the apex court ordered restoration of the conspiracy charge against them on April 19, 2017. The top court ordered daily hearing in the high profile case and directed the special judge to conclude it in two years. The charge of conspiracy was in addition to the existing charges against them for promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion. The accused were also facing charges of having made assertions "prejudicial to national integration and injuring or defiling a place of worship". The other charges against them included indulging in "deliberate and malicious" acts intended to outrage religious feelings, uttering statements leading to public mischief, rioting and unlawful assembly. The CBI had argued that the accused conspired and instigated 'kar sevaks' to demolish the 16th century mosque. However, the accused had pleaded innocence maintaining that there is no evidence to prove their guilt and claimed they were implicated by the then Congress government at the Centre as a political vendetta. In a significant judgment last year, the Supreme Court allotted the disputed site in Ayodhya for construction of a Ram temple, while calling the demolition of the mosque a violation of the rule of law. An alternative five-acre site was marked in the city for building a mosque. Before the 2017 verdict of the apex court, two sets of cases were being heard in Lucknow and Raebareli. The trial of the first case involving unnamed 'kar sevaks' was going on in a Lucknow court, while the second set of cases relating to the eight VVIPs, including Advani, Joshi, Vishnu Hari Dalmiya, Singhal, Katiyar, Bharti, Giriraj Kishore and Sadhvi Ritambhara, were going on in a Raebareli court. The apex court, had while restoring the charge of criminal conspiracy, directed clubbing of two cases relating to the demolition and had also ordered that the trial be concluded in two years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-639
30-09-2020||India||SIT to probe Hathras gang-rape case ||Amidst call from the Congress to resign, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday constituted a three-member SIT to probe the Hathras gang-rape incident which has sparked outrage. A senior government official said the chief minister has also asked for conducting the trial of the case in a fast track court. A 19-year-old woman was brutally gang-raped in a village in Hathras district two weeks ago. She died of her grievous injuries at a Delhi hospital on Tuesday, prompting outrage, protests and calls for justice. The Congress has been holding protests in the national capital and various parts of Uttar Pradesh demanding justice for the gang-rape victim. Party leader Rahul Gandhi, in a tweet, said, "A daughter of India is raped-murdered, facts are suppressed and in the end, the right to perform the last rites is also taken away from the victim's family." "It is insulting and unjust," he said in the tweet in Hindi using the hashtag 'Hathras Horror Shocks India'. Along with the tweet, Rahul Gandhi also tagged a video purportedly of the cremation site showing a police officer not answering to queries as to whether the body of the victim was being cremated there. Congress General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi said, "I was on the phone with the Hathras victim's father when he was informed that his daughter had passed away. I heard him cry out in despair." "He had just been telling me that all he wanted was justice for his child. Last night the victim's father was robbed of the chance to take his daughter home for the last time and perform her last rites," she said in a series of tweets. Tagging Adityanath, Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi said, "RESIGN. Instead of protecting the victim and her family, your government became complicit in depriving her of every single human right, even in death. You have no moral right to continue as chief minister." The official said Secretary home, Bhagwan Swarup, will lead the SIT and DIG, Chandraprakash, and commandant PAC Agra, Poonam, will be its members. The SIT has been asked to submit its report in seven days time, the official said. The woman was gang-raped on September 14 following which she was admitted to the J N Medical College Hospital in Aligarh with serious injuries. She was referred to Delhi's Safdarjung Hospital on Monday after her condition showed no signs of improvement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-639
30-09-2020||India||Rape victim cremated, family kept out||Some family members of a 19-year-old Dalit woman, who died in a Delhi hospital a fortnight after she was gang-raped here, alleged on Wednesday that police had confined them to their home while they cremated her body late last night. Local police officers, however, told PTI that the cremation was carried out as per the wishes of the family. The woman was raped in a village in Hathras by four men on September 14. After her condition deteriorated, she was referred to Delhi's Safdarjung hospital where she breathed her last on Tuesday. As news of her death spread, protests broke out in Delhi as well as in Hathras with all sections of society, including politicians, sports and cine stars and activists, expressing their anguish and demanding justice for her. The family left from Safdarjung Hospital in Delhi on Tuesday night amid heavy police deployment. The body was taken by the Uttar Pradesh police, which reached Hathras earlier than the family members, claimed a kin of the victim. According to ndtv.com, the woman's body was taken to her village in Hathras, about 200 km from Delhi, after midnight. As her family and villagers suspected the UP police wanted to complete the last rites right then, in the middle of the night, they insisted that it was "against their tradition"; the woman's father pleaded with the police to be allowed to take her home and cremate her in the morning. At the village, female relatives tried to block the vehicle by hugging the bonnet. A woman, believed to be the mother of the 20-year-old, sat on the road sobbing and beating her chest. The police vehicle was stopped at multiple points before the cops allegedly pushed the protesters away and drove towards the funeral ground. Appeals were also made to District Magistrate Praveen Kumar Laxkar to take her body to her home for last rites after daybreak. At 2:30 AM, while most of her family was home, the police cremated the body. “Humein ye samajh nahi aa raha kyun, kya chahiye... kaisi rajneeti kar rahe hain ye log, saare ulte seedhe bayaan de rahe hain ke ladki ka rape nahi hua hai... pata nahi kya chahiye inko (We are unable to understand, what they want... what kind of politics is this, they are giving random statements like the woman has not been raped! We don't know what they want),” said a relative who was home with the grieving family, PTI reported. “Ye sab is maamle ko thanda karne ke liye bol rahe hain... (They are doing all this to hush up the case),” he alleged. When contacted, Hathras SP Vikrant Vir told PTI in a text message: All procedures as per wish of family .. (sic). All four attackers, upper caste men from the woman's village, are in jail. They will now also be charged with murder.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-639
30-09-2020||India||Felicitation for Shaheen Bagh protester||Several women’s and human rights groups felicitated Bilkis, 82-year old protester from Shaheen Bagh who is among Time’s 100 most influential people in the world. At the event in the Press Club of India on Tuesday, Bilkis, who was among the “dabanng dadis”, expressed solidarity with farmers protesting against the new farm laws, and also demanded the release of students, currently in jail. Bilkis said: “All the children must be released. If they don’t study, how will they progress. Can they make any progress in jail?” “First we will fight against corona, then we will take forward the debate on the CAA and NRC. The government should listen to farmers as well as us. Farmers are facing many atrocities....Give them some respite… We will raise our voice until the government withdraws the laws. If we don’t raise our voice, don’t leave our homes, then what do you expect the government to do?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-639
30-09-2020||India||Amnesty International announces closure of its India offices||Amnesty International, the Nobel Peace Prize-winning human rights organisation, on Tuesday announced the closure of its offices in India after all its accounts here were frozen — a step the non-profit has described as “the latest in the incessant witch-hunt” by the Narendra Modi government — but vowed not to be silenced. The freezing of Amnesty’s accounts on September 10 by the Enforcement Directorate had brought all its work across the country to a halt, forcing the organisation to let go of staff and press the pause button on ongoing campaign and research work. A month before the accounts were frozen, Amnesty had come out with two reports — one to mark the first anniversary of the change in status of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir and another coinciding with six months of the Delhi riots. Both were critical of the Modi government, with the report on the riots also alleging human rights violations by Delhi police that report to the Union home ministry. “The continuing crackdown on Amnesty International India over the last two years and the complete freezing of bank accounts is not accidental. The constant harassment by government agencies including ED is a result of our unequivocal calls for transparency in the government, more recently for accountability of the Delhi police and the Government of India regarding the grave human rights violations in Delhi riots and Jammu & Kashmir. For a movement that has done nothing but raise its voice against injustice, this latest attack is akin to freezing dissent,” Amnesty International India’s executive director, Avinash Kumar, said in the statement announcing the closure. The Union home ministry, in a statement, dismissed the allegation of witch-hunt and said that successive governments had rejected Amnesty’s repeated applications for permission to receive foreign funds. “This bipartisan and purely legal approach towards Amnesty, under different governments, makes it clear that the entire fault lies in the dubious processes adopted by Amnesty to secure funds for its operations,’’ the ministry said. The organisation is free to continue humanitarian work in India provided it does not interfere in domestic political debates “by entities funded by foreign donations”, it added. The Amnesty statement said the closure of its offices was “not the end of Amnesty India’s commitment to human rights, we will not be silenced by the attacks of the government”. Expressing solidarity, Greenpeace India — another NGO that came under fire from the Modi government — said: “Disagreement and criticism of the policies of the state are the basic ethos of a functioning democracy. We won’t be better off by shutting individuals and organisations that differ with the government views. It is unfortunate to learn that Amnesty has to halt its India operations and let go of all their staff.’’ The home ministry statement said Amnesty International had received permission under the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act (FCRA) only once, in 2000. The home ministry statement said: “Since then Amnesty International, despite its repeated applications, has been denied FCRA approval by successive governments since as per law it is not eligible to get such an approval. However, in order to circumvent the FCRA regulations, Amnesty UK remitted large amounts of money to four entities registered in India, by classifying it as Foreign Direct Investment (FDI). A significant amount of foreign money was also remitted to Amnesty (India) without MHA’s approval under FCRA. “This mala fide rerouting of money was in contravention of extant legal provisions. Owing to these illegal practices of Amnesty, the previous government had also rejected the repeated applications of Amnesty to receive funds from overseas.” In November last year, the CBI had registered a case on a home ministry complaint against Amnesty International India Pvt Ltd (AIIPL), Indians For Amnesty International Trust, Amnesty International India Foundation Trust, the Amnesty International South Asia Foundation and unknown others. The CBI had alleged that these entities had violated the FCRA and the Indian Penal Code by receiving foreign contributions from Amnesty International UK through AIIPL even though prior registration or permissions were denied to Amnesty International India Foundation Trust and other trusts under the FCRA. Amnesty said it was in full compliance with all applicable Indian and international laws, insisting that for human rights work in India it operated through a distinct model of raising funds domestically. More than four million Indians have supported Amnesty International India’s work in the last eight years and around 100,000 Indians have made financial contributions. “These contributions evidently cannot have any relation with the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act, 2010. The fact that the government is now portraying this lawful fundraising model as money-laundering is evidence that the overbroad legal framework is maliciously activated when human rights activists and groups challenge the government’s grave inactions and excesses,’’ Amnesty said in its statement. The donation link on Amnesty International India states: “We only depend on supporters like you — powered 100% by Indians! We don’t accept money from corporate, governments, or political organisations to ensure we can fight for the rights of all — freely and fairly.” According to Amnesty, it has been in the line of fire since 2018 when it was first raided by the ED, following which the income tax department began sending “investigative letters” to its small regular donors, creating a chilling effect and affecting funding campaigns. It described the freezing of accounts as “the latest in the incessant witch-hunt of human rights organisations by the Government of India over unfounded and motivated allegations”. The Modi government has been cracking down on NGOs from its first year in office. Among the earliest prominent organisations to feel the heat was the Ford Foundation, which subsequently had to register its India office under the FEMA Act. Greenpeace also had its accounts frozen for alleged violation of the FCRA following which it shut down two of its offices in India and laid off staff.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-639
30-09-2020||India||Tractor, not China, can move Modi to anger||What makes Prime Minister Narendra Modi angry? Not China, at least not in public, which rubbed another fistful of salt into the wound by saying on Tuesday that it does not “recognise the so-called Ladakh Union Territory illegally set up by India”. Not the Babri Masjid demolition, but a chance to display his feelings might come up on Wednesday when a special court delivers the verdict 28 years after the destruction took place. Not the Gujarat riots, although the massacre made him sad just as he would have been had “a puppy come under the wheel of a car” in which he was sitting. Not the economic crisis that has made India the second-worst performer among the major economies in the first quarter. Now, the question has been answered: the sight of a burning tractor does leave Modi gutted. “Jin saamaano ki, upkarano ki kisan puja karta hai, unhe aag lagakar ye log ab kisano ko apmanit kar rahe hain (The things, the equipment that the farmer worships, by setting them on fire, these people are insulting the farmers),” the Prime Minister said on Tuesday. Modi was referring to an incident at India Gate on Monday during a protest against the new farm laws. He was speaking after inaugurating through videoconference development projects for Uttarakhand, a hill state that has also witnessed farm protests. There was another way to look at the tractor burning. “If it’s my tractor and I want to burn it, what is your problem?” Punjab chief minister and veteran Congress leader Amarinder Singh had said on Monday while making it clear he does not support such forms of protest. “It shows what people are feeling... their anger. Farmers don’t know who is going to buy (their produce) from them,” the chief minister had added. Modi signalled on Tuesday that there would be no rethink on the decisions although his repeated references to the farm protests are being read as a sign that the government is no longer viewing them as a reaction limited to a few states. Modi appeared to hold the Gandhi family responsible for the farmers’ agitation, claiming that their “despondency” was at the root of the politics of “opposing for the sake of opposing”. The Prime Minister struck a defiant note by asserting that despite the opposition for “selfish reasons”, the government would continue to bring in “big reforms” in “national interest”. Without taking any names, Modi targeted “ek aisa dal jiski ek parivar ki chaar-chaar pidhiyan jisne desh par raaj kiya (a particular party where four generations of one family have lorded over the country)”. “Virodh ke liye virodh karne wale yeh log desh ke liye, samaj ke liye aprasangik hote jaa rahe hain (These people who oppose for the sake of opposing are becoming irrelevant for the country and the society),” the Prime Minister said. He diagnosed this “irrelevance” as the cause of the “chhatpatahat (restlessness)”, “bechaini (anxiety)” and “nirasha (despondency)”, himself appearing angry at the intensifying protests that his and his government’s assurances have failed to mollify. “A particular party where four generations of one family have lorded over the country, they are riding on the shoulders of others to get them to oppose every work done in national interest, to fulfill their own selfish interests,” Modi said, without naming the Nehru-Gandhis or the Congress, which has been intensely opposing the farm decisions and has lent its full support to the farmers’ agitation. Modi suggested that the Congress could not bear being in the Opposition although the party had been out of power for only a few years. He added that there were many smaller parties that had never got the opportunity to rule but had always remained loyal to national interest. Modi, however, didn’t name these parties. The Prime Minister listed his government’s major projects — the Jan Dhan bank accounts, GST rollout, one-rank-one-pension, purchase of Rafale jets, 10 per cent reservation for the economically weak among the upper castes, surgical strikes on Pakistan, construction of the Sardar Patel statue and the “bhoomi pujan” for the Ram temple in Ayodhya. Modi stressed that all these decisions were in national interest but pointed out that “in logon ne (these people)” had opposed the steps. “The continuous efforts for big reforms for Aatmanirbhar Bharat are in national interest to make the country strong, and these will be sustained,” the Prime Minister said. Since the farm bills were steamrollered through Parliament, disregarding objections raised by the Opposition and protests by farmers, Modi has in almost every public appearance slammed his rivals for “misleading” the farmers. Initially, the government had hoped that the farm protests would be confined to Punjab and Haryana, the two states where fears of being deprived of the minimum support price are more due to big land holdings, but they have now spread to several states. The Prime Minister said the new laws would “liberate” the farmers from middlemen. “These people (political opponents) are unable to tolerate this freedom. One more source of earning black money is gone,” he said, adding that the farm laws would give cultivators the liberty to sell their produce in the open market. Referring to the Congress’s opposition to other steps of the government, Modi said: “They objected when Sardar Patel’s statue was being inaugurated. None of their leaders has so far visited the Statue of Unity.” “They even opposed the bhoomi pujan of the Ram temple,” Modi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-639
30-09-2020||India||Economic crisis tells on universities||The economic crisis has compelled the government to ask central universities and IITs to refrain from creating teaching posts and filling posts put in place after July this year. The directive is expected to deepen the problems plaguing higher education and research after institutions were asked to enrol more students to implement the 10 per cent quota for the economically weaker sections. Such institutions were already struggling to cope with 30 to 40 per cent vacancies. Last week, following instructions from the finance ministry and the higher education department under the education ministry earlier this month, the University Grants Commission (UGC) issued the advisory to all central universities. The UGC has attached the copy of a letter issued by T.V. Somanathan, secretary of the expenditure department under the finance ministry. In the letter, Somanathan has prescribed a set of guidelines to be followed. “There will be a ban on creation of new posts, except with approval of the department of expenditure, in ministries/departments, attached offices, subordinate offices, statutory bodies and autonomous bodies,” said the letter from Somanathan. If any organisation feels filling a newly created post is absolutely essential, they will have to seek the advice of the expenditure department. “In the context of the present fiscal situation, and the consequent pressure on government resources, there is a need for further economy and rationalisation of non-priority expenditure while protecting and preserving the priority expenditure,” the letter added. Sources said the IITs had also been sent similar letters by the respective authorities. In January 2019, the education ministry had directed higher education institutions to increase their intake capacity by 25 per cent, staggered over 2019-20 and 2020-21. The order followed the passage of a constitutional amendment providing for 10 per cent economic quotas. However, no new posts have been sanctioned in spite of universities placing such a demand. Delhi University executive council member Rajesh Jha cited the example of DU, which has increased its intake capacity at the undergraduate level from 54,000 in 2018 to around 66,000 this year because of the economic quota. But there has been no commensurate enhancement in the sanctioned strength of teachers. “The government is increasing the number of students without commensurate teaching posts. This is already affecting the quality of teaching. In my class of undergraduate students, there are 80 students. It is difficult to conduct academic activities,” Jha, who teaches at Rajdhani College, said. The finance ministry has also asked the institutions not to print any document or books on imported paper. Expenditure on events such as foundation day should be discouraged or curtailed. Travel for such functions, and provision of bags and mementos should be avoided, the letter by Somanathan said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-640
30-09-2020||India||Blood of troops on faulty ammunition||Purported shoddy implementation of what has now come to be known as Atmanirbhar defence production has killed Indian soldiers. The Indian Army has said in an internal report to the defence ministry that Rs 960 crore was spent on “poor quality” ammunition and mines manufactured by the State-owned Ordnance Factory Board (OFB) in the past six years. This resulted in over 400 accidents in which 27 troopers were killed between 2014 and 2019. As many as 159 were grievously injured and some suffered permanent disabilities and loss of limbs. A fire in an ammo depot in 2016 appears to be the driving factor behind the rise in casualties. Citing the deficiencies, the army has thrown its weight behind the government’s plan to corporatise the OFB to “wake it up from its slumber” and make it more efficient. Contacted, OFB public relations officer Uddipan Mukherjee said on Tuesday night: “We are not aware of any such report by the army.” The army’s internal report said while calculating the “loss to exchequer due to poor quality production”: “Rs 960 crore loss roughly means 100 155mm medium artillery guns could have been bought for this amount.” It added: “Rs 658.58 crore worth of disposed of within shelf life between April 2014 and April 2019. Rs 303.23 crore worth of mines disposed of within shelf life post-Pulgaon accident in May 2016.” As many as 16 persons, including two army officers, were killed in the fire at the Central Ammunition Depot at Pulgaon in Maharashtra while disposing of explosives. The depot houses the largest weapons stockpile in the country. All the ordnance produced in different factories arrives at this facility before being sent to the forward bases. The faulty ammunition mentioned in the army’s report includes 23-mm air defence shells, artillery shells, 125-mm tank rounds and different calibres of bullets used in assault rifles. The OFB functions under the defence ministry’s department of defence production and is one of the oldest State-owned production entities. “Lack of accountability and poor quality of production result in frequent accidents. This results in injuries and deaths of soldiers. On an average, one accident takes place per week,” said the report. The report said the OFB “is expected to be a national strategic asset”. “The sub-optimal efficiency of this potential strategic asset is one of the major contributing factors to the hollowness threatening the ammunition and armament holdings of the Indian Army,” the report said. It expressed concern that certain countries have refused to accept ammunition and equipment made by the ordnance factory. “Corporatisation of OFB is likely to wake it from its slumber and transform ordnance factories into a modernised, state-of-the-art facility with flexible and better decision-making in its functioning…,” the report added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-640
30-09-2020||India||Paralysed Dalit rape victim dies||A 19-year-old girl who had been gang-raped and assaulted so brutally that she had got paralysed waist down due to injuries to her spinal cord and her tormentors had chopped off her tongue, died at a Delhi hospital on Tuesday after battling for life for 14 days. The brutalisation of the Dalit girl, who had been gang-raped in an agriculture field in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras district on September 14 by four men from an upper caste, had initially been dismissed as “fake news” by sections of the BJP and chief minister Adityanath’s media adviser. Her death at Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital at 3am triggered protests in the capital and in Hathras, 180km away, and an outpouring of outrage on social media by politicians, film stars and cricketers, among others. Her torment, compared with the 2012 Delhi bus gang rape and murder, had largely gone unreported. A spokesperson at Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College and Hospital in Aligarh where she had first been admitted said her legs had got completely paralysed and arms partially paralysed. The Hathras girl’s mother told local reporters on Tuesday: “We had gone to our agricultural field. My daughter and I were working on two edges of the field. After around half an hour, I heard my daughter crying out in pain. I saw that four persons from our village had overpowered her. They were sexually assaulting her and battering her with stones. They also had knives pointed at her. They ran away when I cried out for help.” The accused — Sandeep Singh, Lavkush Kumar, Ramu Singh and Ravi Kumar — were arrested over the next five days but booked only for attempt to murder. They were charged with gang rape only on Sunday after local media highlighted the issue. Vikrant Vir, the superintendent of police of Hathras, said the department had withdrawn the local station house officer from active duty after an inquiry pointed to lapses. “All the accused are behind bars. They will be tried in court for murder and gang rape. We have deployed a force in front of the victim’s house as her family members fear that the criminals would harm them,” the SP said. Leading a protest outside Safdarjung Hospital, Bhim Army chief and Dalit leader Chandrashekhar Azad appealed to community members to take to the streets and demand the death penalty for the guilty. “The government should not test our patience. We won’t rest until the culprits are hanged,” he said. Azad, a lawyer, said he would personally fight the case. Manoj Singh Kaka, a Samajwadi Party leader, said: “The Adityanath government is pampering a particular caste. The same caste men are responsible for the incident in Hathras.” The Congress said the unspeakable torture had exposed the insensitivity of the Adityanath regime. Delhi police foiled an attempt by the Youth Congress to hold a flash demonstration at India Gate. Congress workers later took out a candle march near Safdarjung Hospital. The Congress also staged protests in several parts of Uttar Pradesh. A large number of party workers were taken into custody as gatherings are not allowed due to the pandemic. Congress MP Rahul Gandhi tweeted: “The jungle raj of Uttar Pradesh has killed another girl. The government said it was fake news and left the victim to die. Neither was this unfortunate incident fake, nor were the death of the victim and the cruelty of the government.” Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, the Congress general secretary in charge of Uttar Pradesh, tweeted: “…Rape incidents, one after another — in Hathras, Shahjahanpur, Gorakhpur — have shaken the state. The law and order situation in Uttar Pradesh has worsened beyond comprehension. There is nothing left of women’s safety. Criminals are running amok. The killers of this child must be given the strictest punishment.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-640
30-09-2020||India||Rahul draws DeMo, farm law parallel||Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday compared the disastrous demonetisation with the new farm laws, arguing that their purpose is the same — to help big corporates capture India’s wealth. The former Congress chief said in a video message, “Demonetisation was not a fight against black money. The purpose was to weaken the informal sector. Kisan-Mazdoor (farmers and labourers) are the backbone of India. They want to break India’s backbone. The intention is to capture India’s wealth. These three laws aren’t delinked — demonetisation, GST and farm laws — the purpose is the same.” Conversing with a group of farmers through videoconferencing, he said, “They hit your feet with axe thrice. Now they have stabbed you in the heart. Media won’t tell you this. But I have clarity in my mind. We have to oppose it. They haven’t built this nation. They were standing with the British. They have no understanding. And this is not about farmers. Farmers’ strength is not limited to farming. They send their sons to army, police… their strength gave India freedom.” While he listed notebandi (demonetisation) and GST as two axe-attacks, he had earlier said lockdown too was a planned attack on the informal sector to facilitate the big corporates to capture that wealth. He repeated on Tuesday that the Narendra Modi government chose help the corporates during the coronavirus-induced lockdown when the need was to help the poor. He said, “The wealth of a few industrialists grew during the lockdown but your incomes dipped.” The Congress leader who has ruthlessly attacked the Modi government since the very beginning for pursuing pro-rich policies and working to help crony capitalists, saw a pattern in their policies — from the brazen attempts to dilute the Land Acquisition Act to the introduction of farm bills without consulting the stakeholders. He even complained that the media started attacking him only after he adopted an uncompromising position on the Land Acquisition Act. Some farmers he talked to also described this government as pro-rich and even pointed to the labour code that diluted the rights of the workers. Arguing that it had become difficult to trust the Prime Minister, they rejected his assurances on the new farm bills. They said the corporates will capture the farming sector and the farmers will be reduced to daily-wage earners. One even hailed Rahul’s role in saving the Land Acquisition Act and entreated him to fight again. While the farmers across the country haven’t paid any heed to the Prime Minister’s argument that the Congress was misleading them while the farm laws were going to be extremely beneficial to them, the Congress too reacted angrily to Modi’s charge that they were opposing because another source of black money had dried up. The Prime Minister had strongly rejected the perception that demonetisation would harm the economy and repeatedly claimed that only the corrupt and black-money holders were opposing the great decision. He doesn’t debate those issues after the consequences became clear over the last few years, the Congress said. Reacting to the Prime Minister’s charge, many Congress leaders wondered if the 250 farmers’ associations and agriculture workers were also agitating because their source of black money was being closed. Punjab chief minister Amrinder Singh on Tuesday held an exhaustive discussion with farmer groups who unanimously said the laws were destructive and pro-corporate. He again vowed to fight with them and protect the farmers from these laws come what may. Former Union minister Jairam Ramesh reacted to the Prime Minister’s barb with a series of tweets. “The new farm laws will in effect move agricultural trade from APMCs to markets controlled by private companies. Minimum Support Price will not be applicable when private companies buy farm produce as there’s no such provision in the two laws. The Prime Minister is being true to himself and lying. Jagadguru of Jhoot!” Ramesh added, “Demonetisation was sold by Jagadguru of Jhoot (JoJ) as a way of recovering black money. That turned out to be wholly bogus. Now JoJ is proclaiming farm laws are an attack on black money! This is BIZARRE by even his standards. He will say anything to sell himself.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-640
30-09-2020||India||Infections jump, but herd immunity far away||The share of adults in India infected by the new coronavirus has ballooned nearly 10-fold over the past three months, the country’s second nationwide survey has revealed, also estimating over 90 million infections among those aged 10 years or older. The second survey has found an infection prevalence rate of 7.1 per cent in people aged 18 years or older in August-September compared with 0.73 per cent during the first survey in May, the Indian Council of Medical Research said on Tuesday. The August-September exercise has also revealed prevalence differences across urban and rural areas — 15.6 per cent sampled populations infected in urban slum areas, 8.2 per cent in urban non-slum areas and 4.4 per cent in rural areas. Both surveys had covered 700 sites in the same 70 districts. Medical experts say the findings point to a growing number of infections and the majority of the population still susceptible, implying that more people could get infected in the coming months whenever the virus gets opportunities to spread. “Seven per cent infections mean 93 per cent still susceptible — what this means is that we cannot wish away the virus over the next month or two,” said D.C.S. Reddy, a senior community medicine specialist and member of an ICMR research group on surveillance for the coronavirus disease. Infectious disease specialists expect that when a large enough proportion of a population is infected — estimated at around 60 per cent for the coronavirus — each infected person becomes a barrier to more transmission and the epidemic nearly vanishes through a phenomenon called “herd immunity”. “The second survey tells us we are still a great distance from herd immunity,” Reddy said. Senior health officials said the findings underscore the need for health authorities to continue testing, tracing and treating and for people to continue adopting personal protection measures such as face masks, hand and respiratory hygiene and physical distancing. “Since a large proportion of the population is yet susceptible, prevention fatigue has to be avoided,” Balram Bhargava, ICMR’s director-general said. “We have to adhere to our strategy of test, track, trace, and treat. Non-pharmaceutical interventions such as masks, hand hygiene, and cough etiquette will continue to be essential.” The survey coordinated by researchers at the ICMR’s National Institute of Epidemiology, Chennai, sampled populations in the same 70 districts as the first survey in May to determine how infection prevalence levels changed over three months. The results, Bhargava said, indicate that a combination of the lockdown, containment efforts, and behaviour change has checked the spread of the infection. Without such measures, experts believe, India’s coronavirus counts — and deaths — would have been higher than their current counts. “Such measures help slow down the speed of spread of the virus — a slower spread means fewer daily cases. Uncontrolled spread would overwhelm hospitals,” said Oomen John, a physician and senior research fellow at The George Institute for Global Health, New Delhi. But health officials and physicians guiding the government’s response to the Covid-19 epidemic are concerned at how the upcoming festival season and winter might influence its trajectory. The seven-day average number of daily Covid-19 cases detected has fallen since mid-September — from around an average 93,000 daily cases on September 16 to 83,000 cases on Tuesday. Some experts view this as a positive sign, but also caution that the epidemic could yet flare up.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-640
30-09-2020||India||SC asks of Mehbooba detention: How long?  ||The Supreme Court told the government on Tuesday that a person could not be kept in preventive detention “forever” and asked the Centre and Jammu and Kashmir administration how much longer would former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti be confined. Hearing a challenge to Mehbooba’s detention from her daughter Iltija, Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul on Tuesday told solicitor-general Tushar Mehta: “Find some via media out. Detention can’t be forever…. Detention for how long and under what order? You’ll have to address us on the ground of detention and what is the maximum period and whether you can extend it beyond it one year?” Mehbooba was detained under the stringent Public Safety Act on August 4 last year as part of the unprecedented clampdown that accompanied the cancellation of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status. As the PSA allows for detention without trial for up to three months, the government has kept her confined by extending the imposition of the law on the People’s Democratic Party leader thrice now — on February 5, May 5 and July 31. Mehbooba had first been held in a government guesthouse and later shifted to her home in Srinagar that has been converted into a sub-jail. Thousands of Valley politicians had been detained during the clampdown but most have since been released. Iltija has also sought permission for the family and others to meet Mehbooba, besides permission to the jailed leader to hold party meetings. “We also want to know the proposal of the government and how long do you propose to extend it (detention)?” the bench, also having Justice Hrishikesh Roy, asked Mehta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-640
30-09-2020||India||SC: Give ration to sex workers ||The Supreme Court on Tuesday directed states and Union Territories to provide dry ration to all sex workers on the basis of the data available with the National AIDS Control Organisation (Naco) and district legal authorities, without insisting on ration card or any other identity proof in view of the unprecedented pandemic situation. A bench of Justices L. Nageswara Rao and Ajay Rastogi passed the directions after an NGO, Durbar Mahila Samanwaya Committee, brought to the court’s notice the hardship faced by sex workers rendered almost destitute because of no work during pandemic and sought monetary assistance and dry rations for them without insistence on identity proof. The bench also asked the states and Union Territories to file an affidavit in four weeks detailing the modalities worked out to provide succour to sex workers during the present crisis.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-640
30-09-2020||India||Artistes starving, finger at govt||A panel comprising some of India’s best known names from the performing arts on Tuesday addressed a virtual meeting where they discussed the devastating effect the pandemic has had on the lives of artistes and the government’s purported indifference to the art and cultural sector. Performances have come to a standstill, artistes are starving and no one is concerned, least of all the government, they pointed out. The meet was attended by violin player L. Subramaniam, playback singer Kavita Krishnamurthy, theatre actor Lillete Dubey, Kathak artiste Aditi Mangaldas, composer Shekhar Ravjiani, William Richmond from the multi-genre vocal ensemble Shillong Chamber Choir, Ficci secretary-general Dilip Chenoy and the COO (live entertainment) at BookMyShow, Albert Almeida. Sanjoy K. Roy, managing director, Teamwork Arts, who is also the moving force behind the Jaipur Literature Festival, spoke about “I Believe #ArtMatters”, a fundraising concert that will be held to help  artistes and artisans affected by the pandemic. To be held on October 4 and broadcast online, it will feature about 70 performances by over 450 artistes, including most of the names on Tuesday’s panel and also composer A.R. Rahman. The concert will be broadcast on Teamwork Arts’ Facebook and YouTube pages and BookMyShow. The panel spoke sharply about the predicament of the artiste community in India. Does the community even exist, asked Mangaldas. The government does not even recognise the community, she said, adding: “It is only artistes who help each other.” The Covid crisis has created an unprecedented situation. Income has evaporated, but the disease is still rampant. “If the classical arts are not supported, what chance is there for theatre?” asked Dubey. “It’s at the bottom of the rung.” The artistes go on only because of their own passion, in the face of great indifference, especially from the authorities. She said she was on a government committee once and at the end of its term, crores of rupees were just disbursed in the most callous manner. Subramaniam, too, brought attention to the fact that the matter of money is just wished away in the context of the arts. “There is no concept of royalty,” he stressed again and again, adding that artistes should get paid according to their contribution. “Artistes should pay their accompanists,” he said. There is no system in place, he pointed out, in the art and performance world that ensures fair payment. Ravjiani, one half of the composer duo Vishal-Shekhar, agreed strongly on the absence of government initiatives to help artistes and mentioned efforts to which he contributed that would contribute to artistes. Chenoy pointed at Ficci’s effort to help art. He said that one positive outcome of the Covid crisis could be the enormous output of Indians on social media. This could be used to nudge India towards turning into a “creative economy” from an economy of consumption, Chenoy suggested. Almeida felt that after the pandemic, a platform like BookMyShow could help to give birth to a kind of “hybrid model” for an event, combining auditorium and digital experience. Krishnamurthy spoke in an emotional tone. “The artistes’ community doesn’t ask if it isn’t desperate,” she said. But no one thinks that artistes need money either, the veteran singer added. Dubey, with others, pointed at an irony during the pandemic. “We have all turned to art” — literature, cinema, music. She hailed private initiatives to help artistes. “But what is the government doing?” she asked again. The panel also appealed for donation for artistes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-640
30-09-2020||India||No Durga Puja in UP, Ram Leela to be held||The Yogi Adityanath government has decided not to permit public celebration of Durga Puja this year in view of the pandemic but allowed Ram Leela shows to go ahead with restrictions. Allahabad High Court on Tuesday rejected a local Bengali welfare association’s plea against the government’s order to ban public celebration of Durga Puja. Chief minister Adityanath was quoted as saying during a meeting with officials on Monday night where the decisions were taken: “There will not be any public celebration of Durga Puja in the wake of Covid-19. No pandals will be installed. People can celebrate Durga Puja privately in their homes. Ram Leela shows will, however, happen because it is an ancient tradition of India.” Bengali community members later pointed out that publicly celebrating Durga Puja in pandals was also a centuries-old tradition. Lord Ram is an emotive issue for the BJP, especially in the heartland state. This has also been the launch pad for the party’s rise, with the Ram temple movement that began in the early 90s culminating in the Supreme Court last year handing over the disputed land in Ayodhya for the construction of a Ram temple and the BJP, led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Adityanath, laying the foundation for a grand shrine in a ceremony held amid the pandemic on August 5. Durga Puja will be celebrated from October 23 to 26. Shows of Ram Leela, the traditional dramatic reenactment of the life of Lord Ram, are staged over several days during the same time on Dussehra, which falls on October 25. According to an estimate, over 15,000 big and small Durga Pujas are organised in Uttar Pradesh. Around 80 per cent of the big pujas are organised by Bengalis. Over one lakh families in the state are involved in making idols, and they run their families the whole year with their earnings during the festive season. Bhojpuri actors turned BJP parliamentarians Manoj Tiwari and Ravi Kishan have already announced that they will organise and participate in Ram Leela this year too. The government has said that not more than 100 people will be allowed at each Ram Leela show to ensure physical distancing. These shows are usually attended by over 1,000 people. Those attending will have to wear masks and sit 2 metres apart. Shows will be live-streamed online, too. The government’s decision has dismayed the Bengali community in Uttar Pradesh. P.K. Roy, the secretary of the Bengali Welfare Association in Allahabad who had moved the high court against the decision of the Adityanath government, said: “The people of Uttar Pradesh, particularly the Bengali community, who organise the Puja are disillusioned. We are educated people and know how to follow physical distancing rules and other Covid protocol. Whatever the state government has done is unfortunate.” “Governments went ahead with entrance exams for medical and engineering courses. Many public celebrations have been held in the state, but the many centuries-old tradition of setting up pandals to celebrate Durga Puja has been banned. The state government has disrespected our devotion for Goddess Dugra, who is our mother,” Roy added. Vijay Chandra Srivastava, counsel for the association, said: “The division bench of Allahabad High Court where the case was heard has refused to interfere and suggested that the association discuss the issue with the state government. We will move the Supreme Court seeking permission to organise Durga Puja in pandals at public places as usual.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-640
30-09-2020||India||Tourist ban widens in Sikkim||The proposed reopening of tourism in Sikkim from October 10 increasingly appears to being a non-starter with more and more tourist hotspots unilaterally deciding against allowing visitors to their areas in view of the raging Covid-19 pandemic. Following the recent decision of the Lachung dzomsa in North Sikkim to extend the bar on the entry of tourists till November 31, the panchayats of Yuksum-Dubdi and Ribdi-Bhareng in West Sikkim and Assam-Lingzey in East Sikkim, too, followed suit and extended the ban on visitors for various lengths of time. “All tourism stakeholders of Yuksom-Dubdi have unanimously decided against allowing the entry of tourists till October 30 because of the pandemic. We are aware that the government has come out with a notification to reopen tourism from October 10, but all stakeholders of Yuksom-Dubdi were of the view since we managed to survive without any tourism for six months, we should be able to bear the loss for some more days to ensure the safety of our people,” said Buddhhang Subba, a member of Yuksom-Dubdi Panchayat. Yuksom is the first capital of Sikkim established in 1642. It has numerous places of tourist interest, including the Dubdi monastery, Khecheopalri Lake, Kanchenjungha Falls and Norbugang coronation throne. It is also the base camp for trekking expeditions to the Kanchenjungha mountain range. The Ribdi-Bhareng and Assam-Lingzey have also cited the fear of the pandemic to extend the bar. While Ribdi-Bhareng has banned the entry of tourists till November 30, Assam-Linzey has extended the bar till December 31. “We request our people to cooperate with us as it has been done to protect our people from the spreading disease,” said a notice issued by the Ribdi-Bhareng panchayat. Some of the tourist hotspots in Ribdi-Bhareng are the scenic villages of Hilley and Pattharey and Barsey Rhododendron Sanctuary, which is located at an altitude of about 10,000ft and is sandwiched between the Singalila National Park in the south and Khangchendzonga Biosphere Reserve in the north.Assam-Lingzey, on the other hand, is a picturesque village located at an altitude of a little over 4,500ft and tourists in their thousands throng the place which is dotted with a number of homestays. Sources in the government said they would try and convince those opposing the reopening of tourism from October 10, failing which, the possibility of postponing the date could be thought of. “As things stand today, we are gearing up for the reopening on October 10. There is little possibility of a rethink on reopening per se, but yes the reopening date could be postponed,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-640
30-09-2020||West Bengal||Rapid Covid tests a must for SARI patients||The Mamata Banerjee government has asked hospitals with special wards for SARI (severe acute respiratory illness) to conduct rapid antigen tests on patients as soon as they get admitted to identify and isolate Covid-19 positive patients at the earliest. “This will help prevent spread of the disease and bring down the number of deaths in the state,” a senior government official said. Sources said majority of the state-run hospitals in the districts and in the city have special SARI wards as part of the state government’s plans to deal with the spread of Covid-19. The state has already identified more than 8,000 SARI patients through a statewide survey conducted by ASHA workers. “They are being tracked continuously... But patients with respiratory complaints outside those who are being monitored are coming to the hospitals. As one of the major symptoms of Covid-19 is respiratory distress, we want to make sure that no Covid positive patient is kept at the SARI wards,” an official said. Another official said that if a Covid positive patient admitted to the SARI ward was not identified at the earliest, it could trigger a spread of the disease. “Those suffering from respiratory distress are most vulnerable to the virus. So isolating Covid positive patients from other patients suffering from respiratory distress is a must,” said a source. While the RT-PCR test gives 100 per cent confirmation in identifying the status of a suspect, the rapid antigen test often gives 40 per cent false negative reports, a senior official said. “Still, the rapid antigen test is recommended to identify positive patients in a short period. In case a suspect tests negative in the rapid antigen test, it is advised that he undergoes the RT-PCR test,” the official said. The health department has also stated that once someone tests positive, he or she could be transferred to Covid hospitals from SARI wards. But no patient should be shifted in an unstable condition to prevent death during transit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-357
30-09-2020||West Bengal||BJP pradhan held for marrying underage girl||Police on Tuesday arrested the head of a BJP-ruled gram panchayat in Nadia’s Bhimpur for allegedly marrying a 16-year-old schoolgirl. Adyanath Sarkar, 38, a prominent face of BJP’s youth wing in Nadia, was arrested from his home in Bhimpur’s Kulgachi on the outskirts of Krishnagar, 10 hours after the district child marriage prohibition officer of Nadia lodged  complaint against him with Bhimpur police for marrying the Class X student from Memari, East Burdwan. The pradhan or head of a gram panchayat is by default the chairman of the local child protection committee. An official of the state social welfare officer said: “This  is a bizarre act by a man who by the virtue of his position is assigned to protect minors.” Adyanath, head of Poragacha gram panchayat, was charged under Section 9 of the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006, and produced before an additional district and sessions judge’s court in Krishnagar that remanded him to 14 days’ judicial custody. The police recovered the girl from the BJP leader’s home and produced her before a court through the child welfare committee. She was later handed over to her parents. The police also charged the priest of the temple under Section 10 of the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006, for solemnising the marriage of the minor girl. The priest is absconding. If found guilty, both the accused are liable to rigorous imprisonment extending up to two years and pay a fine up to Rs 1 lakh, a lawyer said. A defiant Adyanath said on phone: “I found nothing wrong in marrying a teenager. Girls in rural areas are often married at that age.” The incident has left Nadia BJP embarrassed.“The party never supports child marriage,” said BJP’s Nadia North organising district committee president Ashutosh Pal. Local sources said Adyanath allegedly married the Class X student on September 9 at a temple in Nadia. Adyanath planned to throw a reception on September 25, said sources, and posted many pictures of his bride on his Facebook wall, prompting many to question the age of the girl. Alerted, a Childline team, along with the police, recently visited the BJP leader's home and asked him to show his wife’s proof of age. An infuriated Adyanath abused the Childline officials and drove them out, said a member of the team. Childline India Foundation is the nodal agency of the Union ministry of women and child development that manages and monitors the Childline 1098 service all over the country. The team informed the district administration. SDO, Krishnagar (Sadar) Manish Verma said: “We received a complaint from Childline and began an inquiry. We checked the Kanyashree database that corroborated her (the bride’s) age as 16. Eventually a police complaint was lodged.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-357
30-09-2020||West Bengal||Yogi Puja effect on Bengal BJP||Swapan Dasgupta, a Rajya Sabha member who echoes the BJP’s priorities, has termed as “discriminatory” the decision of the Yogi Adityanath government in Uttar Pradesh not to permit the public celebration of Durga Puja this year while allowing Ram Leela shows to go ahead. Adityanath was quoted as saying during a meeting with officials on Monday night: “There will not be any public celebration of Durga Puja in the wake of Covid-19. No pandals will be installed. People can celebrate Durga Puja privately in their homes. Ram Leela shows will, however, happen (with restrictions) because it is an ancient tradition of India.” Dasgupta tweeted on Tuesday: “UP Govt’s order that Durga Puja should be done at home is unfair & even absurd. Like the allowances for Ram Lila, Durga Puja should be permitted with harsh but sensible restrictions. Otherwise it is discriminatory.” Dasgupta’s tweet comes at a time Trinamul has been underscoring the BJP’s “anti-Bengali” image. However, Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh supported the Uttar Pradesh order, citing the need to keep “people safe”. Dasgupta told The Telegraph he was echoing the concerns of several Bengali organisations in Uttar Pradesh. Asked if he had received any communication from the Adityanath government, Dasgupta said: “I don’t want communication, I want action.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-358
30-09-2020||West Bengal||3,188 new cases and 62 deaths||Bengal on Tuesday logged 3,188 Covid-19 cases, 62 deaths and 2,961 recoveries as the total number of patients went past 2.53 lakh, of whom nearly 2.23 lakh were cured and 4,899 died. The recovery rate inched closer to 88, reaching 87.8, ahead of the national rate of 83.01 per cent, despite a relative slowdown in recent weeks. With more new cases found than recoveries in the 24-hour period till 9am on Tuesday, the total number of active cases rose for the 22nd consecutive day to 26,064. Calcutta alone reported 691 new cases, while North 24-Parganas had 634. On the other hand, Calcutta logged 608 recoveries and North 24-Parganas 304. “After quite a remarkable turnaround till the first week of this month, we have been undergoing a bit of a dampener. But despite the negatives, our recovery rate has been relentlessly rising. We are trying to find a way to stem the tide of daily number of new cases and deaths,” said a minister. Of the total 4,899 deaths reported till date, Calcutta alone accounted for 1,699, with 15 reported on Tuesday. North 24-Parganas reported a total of 1,088 deaths, 11 of them on Tuesday. The state government reported 4,169 deaths (85.1) as those with comorbidity “present”. Bengal’s overall mortality rate remains 1.93, still substantially behind the national rate of 1.56 per cent. “We began the month with a mortality rate of 1.98 and had the chief minister’s specific instructions to ensure that it falls to less than 1. But that turned out to be a tall ask, as we kept having 50-60 deaths daily,” said the minister. “Just two districts (Calcutta and North 24-Parganas) keep reporting 30-odd deaths daily, which makes it very difficult to lower the state-wide toll,” he added. On the plus side, having already conducted nearly 13 lakh tests in September, the total test count is over 31.83 lakh now. The state reported 43,759 tests on Tuesday. The tests per million count is now 35,374, which was 20,974 even at the beginning of September. Steady rise in the tests, coupled with a plateauing out of the number of new cases being found, improved the positive confirmation rate from 8.9 on August 23 to 7.97 per cent. The state reported 35.77 per cent occupancy on 12,675 beds earmarked for Covid-19 at 92 hospitals. Over 2.71 lakh telemedicine consultations for the pandemic were provided, including 4,139 in the past 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-358
30-09-2020||West Bengal||State seeks stay on Pous Mela wall||A division bench of Calcutta High Court on Tuesday admitted a state government plea seeking a stay on the ongoing construction of a wall around Pous Mela ground on Visva-Bharati campus in Santiniketan. The bench comprising Chief Justice T.B.N. Radhakrishnan and Justice Shampa Sarkar kept the matter pending for hearing on Wednesday. Moving the petition for the state, advocate-general Kishore Datta said that after the wall’s construction  started on Monday, many residents of Bolpur and Santiniketan started an agitation. Datta said police could control the mob on Tuesday but anything might happen on Wednesday. “The state is not in a position to control the mob,” the advocate-general has submitted. The Chief Justice said if the police failed to control the people, the court would have to control it. “The court will have to face the situation. How can the people go against the court order?” the Chief Justice said. Visva-Bharati authorities had to stall the construction of the wall on Pous Mela ground after protesters turned violent on August 17. A Calcutta High Court division bench headed by the Chief Justice had set up a four-member committee on September 18 to look into aspects of the ongoing impasse at Visva-Bharati over the wall on the Pous Mela ground and find a solution involving all stakeholders. The committee was formed following a public interest litigation filed by advocate Ramaprasad Sarkar in the high court seeking a CBI probe into the vandalism. The bench felt that there was no necessity to take the assistance of the petitioner in the matter and issued the suo motu order. Work to build the wall resumed on Monday following a decision taken at a meeting on Sunday by members of the committee formed by Calcutta High Court, varsity and district administration officials. The four-member committee included the advocate-general who pleaded with the division bench on Tuesday to allow him to quit the panel. The bench recorded it but is yet to consider the issue. In Bolpur on Tuesday, traders under the Pous Melar Math Banchao Committee staged a protest against the decision of Visva-Bharati to go ahead with the wall. The district administration deployed 200 armed police personnel and a water cannon at the Pous Mela ground to prevent any untoward incident. Aminul Huda, a trader in Bolpur, said: “We do not want any barricade around Pous Mela ground. We held a peaceful movement on Tuesday and will continue with our protest.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-358
30-09-2020||West Bengal||Mamata: Did a lot  but result different||Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday rued that although her government had executed a lot of development projects in north Bengal, “the eventual fallout was different” — an oblique reference to the Trinamul Congress’s drubbing in the 2019 general election in the region. Chairing a review meeting here, the chief minister instructed home secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay to intensify the publicity campaign of the government’s development works.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-358
30-09-2020||West Bengal||Homes for tea garden workers||Mamata Banerjee has announced that homes will be built for over 3,500 workers of various tea gardens in the first phase of the Bengal government’s Cha Sundari project and jobs will be provided to more than 300 former militants and linkmen of the Kamtapur Liberation Organisation. The chief minister made the two announcements while holding a meeting in Siliguri on Tuesday to review different development projects in Alipurduar and Jalpaiguri districts. State finance minister Amit Mitra had announced Cha Sundari, a scheme to build homes for tea garden workers, in the budget for the 2020-2021 fiscal earlier this year. A sum of Rs 500 crore was allotted for the project in the budget. Speaking at the review meeting at Uttarkanya, the north Bengal branch secretariat, Mamata said: “We will initiate the project shortly and 3,694 tea garden workers’ families will be provided with homes in the first phase. Of these houses, 2,641 will come up in Alipurduar, while 1,053 will be built in Jalpaiguri. We want to ensure that all homeless tea garden workers have their own houses. The plan is to finish the project within three years.” In the second major announcement, Mamata announced jobs for former KLO militants and linkmen. “In total, around 300 such people who have returned to the mainstream would be provided with jobs. They are from different districts of north Bengal. Today (Tuesday), we are providing jobs to 130 ex-KLO activists. Another 161 would be provided with jobs tomorrow (Wednesday),” the chief minister said. Mamata also announced Rs 5 crore for the Kamtapuri Bhasa Academy constituted by the state government for conservation of Kamtapuri (a variant of the Rajbanshi language). She set aside another Rs 5 crore for the renovation of the Buxa Fort in Alipurduar district. “The chief minister made a meticulous move to win back the support of the tea garden population and the Rajbanshi community through her new announcements. There are 12 Assembly constituencies in Jalpaiguri and Alipurduar districts and a party that has the support of tea garden residents and Rajbanshis can win most of these seats,” said a political observer. In the course of the review meeting, Mamata also laid emphasis on the distribution of land rights, yet another prominent issue in the Dooars. “All those residing in refugee colonies will be provided with land rights. Work has already started and people would be provided with secured land tenures,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-358
30-09-2020||West Bengal||Bengal bypoll deferred ||Byelections to 56 Assembly seats in several states and one parliamentary constituency in Bihar will be held along with the Bihar polls in November. However, the Election Commission on Tuesday indefinitely deferred bypolls to seven Assembly constituencies in four states, including Bengal, which had cited difficulties in conducting the elections, especially due to rising Covid-19 cases. Of the 56 Assembly seats going to the polls, 28 are in Madhya Pradesh, where several Congress MLAs defected to the BJP and resigned to bring down the earlier Kamal Nath-led government. The rest are eight in Gujarat, seven in Uttar Pradesh, two each in Manipur, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Nagaland and Odisha, and one each in Chhattisgarh, Haryana and Telangana. Manipur has 11 more vacant seats for which election petitions are pending in court. In a statement, the commission said that it “has decided not to announce the conduct of elections at this stage” in two seats each in Assam, Kerala and Tamil Nadu, as well as Bengal’s Falakata Assembly seat. These states had given detailed requests that they are facing “difficulties in conduct of elections”. The term of the Assemblies of these states expire in May and June next year, and they are unlikely to have bypolls. A source said that rising coronavirus cases were one of the reasons cited by all these states. Bihar’s Valmiki Nagar parliamentary seat, which fell vacant due to the death of Janata Dal United MP Baidyanath Mahato in February, will also go to the polls on November 7, along with its Assembly segments. Both Manipur seats will vote on the same day. The rest of the bypolls will take place on November 3. Polls to four Karnataka legislative council seats were also announced which will be held on October 28.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-358
30-09-2020||North East||Himanta ‘role’ in Naga talks||Senior Assam minister and North East Democratic Alliance (Neda) convener Himanta Biswa Sarma is playing an “active” part in the peace talks to resolve the Naga political issue, according to a statement by Naga People’s Front, the principal Opposition party in Nagaland. NPF legislature party leader and former chief minister T.R. Zeliang had “valuable discussion” in Guwahati on Monday on the Naga political issue and “appreciated” the central government’s “idea for roping” in Sarma to usher in peace in the region. “Sarma’s involvement in the peace process is a big boon to the Naga people and the Northeast region in general as he is someone who understands and knows the sentiments of the people in the region. A permanent peace is what the Naga people desire...,” the statement said. Zeliang is also the convener of the NPF Political Affairs Mission that is facilitating the peace process and apprised Sarma on its activities like the meetings with NSCN (I-M) and Naga National Political Groups and various apex civil organisations of Nagaland. An eight-member NPF team left for Delhi on Tuesday morning to meet central leaders in connection with the ongoing talks with NSCN (I-M), party sources said. The delegation will also meet the collective leadership of NSCN (I-M) to discuss the competency clauses of the Framework Agreement, the NPF said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-42
30-09-2020||Opinion||Team trouble: Rift in Bengal BJP||Teamwork is crucial for electoral success. But the recent organizational changes within Team Bharatiya Janata Party, so to speak, shows that the BJP may have its task cut out, at least in Bengal. The elevation of Mukul Roy, once perched high on the pecking order of the Trinamul Congress — the BJP’s principal rival in poll-bound Bengal — to national vice-president has ruffled the feathers of the old guard. Mr Roy’s promotion, along with that of Anupam Hazra, another turncoat from the TMC, came about even as Rahul Sinha, a two-time state president of the party, found himself out in the cold. News of the reshuffle was greeted by unrest in the party rank and file in at least two places. This simmering anger within the Bengal BJP demolishes some carefully nurtured myths. Even though it is a regimented, disciplined and dominant political force, the BJP, just like any other party, is not free from schisms. The rivalry between old members and new entrants to the parivar in Bengal has been exacerbated by the central leadership’s inclination to reward former TMC leaders with influential posts. This, in turn, is revealing. The BJP has always projected itself as a party with a difference. But its embrace of allegedly tainted leaders — there are serious allegations of financial irregularities against Mr Roy — threatens to dent this claim. One probable consequence of this churn would be the ceding of the moral high ground on the part of the party. This only goes to show that the BJP remains eager to barter morality for political imperatives. Mr Roy’s new-found prominence indicates another — deeper — problem. In spite of tall claims, the BJP remains vulnerable in terms of its organizational apparatus in many parts of Bengal. That explains its willingness to court Mr Roy whose expertise reportedly lies in organizational matters. Internal strife as well as patchy organization could pose significant hurdles even as the BJP prepares to wrest Bengal from Mamata Banerjee next year. But Mission Bengal, as is evident from the dissonance within the state unit as well as divergences in priorities between state and central leadership, may not run smoothly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-140
30-09-2020||Opinion||Learn the lesson: Indian examination system||Sir — The article, “Hollow test” (Sept 25), by Samantak Das was a pleasure to read. This could soothe the nerves of tense examinees across the country in the future. Learning by rote is no way to actually learn lessons, because there is a high chance that the student would forget them soon after the tests are over. Yet, while it is true that an overhaul in the entire system of education is required — conducting regular tests, based on critical thinking, could be one way — students cannot afford to take examinations lightly at the moment. Unfortunate as it is, marks scored in board exams, especially, decide the future of the student to a great extent. Shailaja Sen,Calcutta Sir — In his article, Samantak Das has revealed a bitter truth about the examination system in India and elsewhere. He has rightly analysed that examinations are but tools of ideological control. Ideally, examinations should judge students on their intelligence, creativity, ability to comprehend and use acquired knowledge. However, most examination systems do not help achieve any such goals. It is true that thinking differently and answering questions according to their understanding and analytical capacity would fetch students lower marks. In comparison, students who learn by rote and write prepared answers score better marks. This problem has been raised earlier by educationists, but no fruitful measures have been adopted to eradicate them. Another important issue raised by Das is the coercive decision of the current political dispensation to hold examinations, knowing full well that for students across the country the learning process has been severely disrupted on account of Covid-19 — the lack of proper internet connectivity and their inability to access books and other learning materials pose a grave problem. Political regimes should be more concerned about improving and facilitating the teaching and learning processes. Examinations can wait. Yousuf Iqbal,Calcutta Goosebumps Sir — Baby bumps are, evidently, cool. Social media platforms and traditional media cannot have enough of would-be moms — mostly celebrities — posing with their imminent bundle of joy. But why are the media or, for that matter, the public imagination, not enthused by the male paunch — the bhnuuri — a protrusion that can, on some occasions, be formidably generous? A paunch, after all, is the symbol of the labour and love of women, given that even in this day and age, most Indian men would not be able to cook a morsel to save their lives. Are the editors listening? Buddhadeb Mukherjee,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-140
30-09-2020||Opinion||Booked: An imminent battle over GST dues||The Narendra Modi government and the states will be squaring off for a tense battle when the Goods and Services Tax Council meets on October 5 to debate the alleged perfidy of the Centre in quietly siphoning off a sum of Rs 472.72 billion from the compensation cess fund during the two years since the tax reform was introduced, and then waving an empty box in the faces of state governments to back its claim that it did not have the means to make up even a part of the projected shortfall of Rs 2.35 trillion this year. In late August, the Centre had said that the gap in GST collections this year would be around Rs 3 trillion. A part of that — a sum of Rs 650 billion — could be set off against the compensation cess collections this year. The Centre went on to claim that the entire shortfall could not be blamed on the infirmities in the GST implementation. It arbitrarily determined that a sum of Rs 1.38 trillion could be ascribed to the slowdown in the economy induced by the coronavirus pandemic — a force majeure-like situation that was not covered by the GST legislation and was, therefore, ineligible for the compensation protection mechanism. It said that the states could borrow the remaining Rs 970 billion from a specially created cheap loan window that the Reserve Bank of India would create to help them tide over the crisis. Alternatively, they could raise market loans to cover the entire shortfall. Cash-strapped states have been peeved with the Centre for reneging on its promise to compensate them for loss of revenue during a five-year transition phase that runs till 2022. The real shock is the impunity with which the Centre diverted GST compensation funds to the Consolidated Fund of India instead of depositing it in a non-lapsable fund that forms part of the Public Account, a corpus of all the money that does not belong to the Centre but which it holds in trust on behalf of other authorities and entities. The Comptroller and Auditor General’s report said the way the money was transferred to the Consolidated Fund amounted to a gross violation of the GST Compensation Cess Act, 2017. The report said the short crediting of the cess led to an overstatement of the Centre’s revenue receipts and understatement of the fiscal deficit. The Centre claims that it has already paid back the short credited sum to the states in 2019-20. Officials state that in 2019-20, the Centre released Rs 1.65 trillion as GST compensation against a cess collection of Rs 954.44 billion which would not have been possible without crediting the unutilized cess of Rs 472.72 billion. The accounting sleight of hand over the GST compensation cess stokes deep distrust of the Centre’s management of funds. Such chicanery can break the spirit of cooperative federalism and permanently damage Centre-state relations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-140
30-09-2020||Opinion||The path to resurrection: Credible plebeian politics||August 5, on two consecutive years, brought a deep sense of disappointment to large sections of politically conscious people in India. In 2019, this was the day when the Bharatiya Janata Party-led government at the Centre, in a unilateral decision, struck down Article 370 from the Constitution. That the Narendra Modi government could get it done despite not having an absolute majority in the Rajya Sabha was one of the main points of dejection. In a stunning turn of event, members of the Bahujan Samaj Party, Aam Aadmi Party, YSR Congress, Biju Janata Dal, Telugu Desam Party, All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam and Asom Gana Parishad extended support to the Centre’s move. Earlier, these parties had pledged to uphold secularism and regional autonomy. Now, they are willing to endorse the idea of Hindutva hegemony. A year later, in 2020, the BJP moved ahead with its plan to consolidate its Hindutva politics with bhoomi pujan celebrations in Ayodhya. It was striking to see many leaders of the Congress attempting to assimilate themselves into the Hindutva brand of politics. Some of them organized Hanuman chalisa recitals; Priyanka Gandhi Vadra hailed the construction of the Ram temple where the Babri mosque had stood. Even in its controversial judgment on the Ayodhya issue, the Supreme Court had called the destruction of the mosque a criminal act. A few days later, when some Muslim activists, who had been associated with the Shaheen Bagh  protest, joined the BJP, the AAP launched a ridiculous political attack, claiming that the Shaheen Bagh episode had been planned and executed by the BJP. What is the significance of these three examples? Most of the non-BJP parties (with the singular exception of the Left) have lost their ideological plane on which they stood. The economic content of their ideology had been diluted long back. Since the dawn of neo-liberalism, the raison d’être of their opposition to the BJP had been limited to their claim of being the protector of constitutional values. But the three examples show that they have discarded that pretence and are now in the race of proving themselves to be even more ‘Hindu’ than the BJP. A distinct politics cannot be imagined without a distinct ideology, viable strategy and effective tactics. If a political formation’s commitment to its ideology becomes hazy, it loses the ability of presenting a narrative that could enthuse its supporters and attract the masses. Post 2019, non-BJP parties seem to be suffering from this affliction and this road will lead them towards their irrelevance. However, such a narrative cannot be developed without having a clear understanding of contemporary politics the world over. A cursory look at trends in the democratic world will show that this is an age of insurgency — be it of the right-wing or left-wing kind. Narendra Modi, Donald Trump, Boris Johnson epitomize right-wing insurgencies; Bernie Sanders, Jeremy Corbyn or Pablo Iglesias (Spain) represent a kind of left-wing insurgency.  The days of centrist politics are over, at least for now. In India, the right-wing space is occupied by the Modi-led BJP. The only space where possibilities remain is the left flank. If non-BJP parties want to make a new beginning, they must remember what the iconic leader of the British Labour Party, Nye Bevan, had said of the Left in the 1950s: “We have never suffered from too much audacity; we have suffered from too little.” In this age of insurgency, ideological audacity may be a pre-condition for success. Re-asserting the principles of secularism and social justice in unambiguous terms would be an integral part of this effort. But it may not be enough. Without presenting a new economic agenda that is different from Modi’s welfarism, no leader or party can hope for definitive electoral success. It seems that the Congress and other non-BJP parties are least interested in presenting a narrative that can generate hope among the masses disillusioned with their earlier neo-liberal agenda. A beginning in the direction of a credible plebeian politics could only be made with the declaration of a policy programme that must include the following: a commitment to bring back planned development; giving public sector a central place in the economy; imposing a new progressive tax regime that comprises wealth and inheritance taxes; bringing health and education under public control and planning and, of course, a programme of green industrial and energy revolution. The recent upheavals in the Congress show that when a party loses its ideological steam, it also loses organizational coherence. The other non-BJP parties are not immune to this situation. Endeavouring for a new ideological resurrection has thus become an existential question for them. They have to choose between remaining a relevant political force with constitutional obligations and becoming willing partners in the Hindutva project.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-140
30-09-2020||Opinion||Life is out there: Sense of being Indian||Kamala Harris, an American politician and lawyer who is partly Indian in origin, is the Democratic Party’s vice-presidential nominee for the 2020 presidential elections in the United States of America. In the wake of her nomination, there was also focus — briefly — on Nikki Haley, a Republican politician and former US ambassador to the United Nations who has Indian roots. Harris and her social media team made it a point to remind us of her continued affection for South Indian food. Donald Trump, rival to her and Joe Biden in the election, needs no such promotion. He has warm ties with the current Indian leadership and has supporters here with temples bearing his idol. Around the time Harris was giving speeches in English, India was grappling with another side of the homogenous nation-building conservatism that has become Indian governance. Two days before Harris’s nomination, a member of parliament from Tamil Nadu, the state Harris’s mother hails from, complained of language discrimination at the Chennai airport. She wanted to be spoken to in Tamil or in English. The security official wished for Hindi. On August 22, reports appeared of a bureaucrat of the Central government suggesting at a video conference that those who don’t understand Hindi better leave the discussion. Given how fashionable ‘majority’ is these days, there is friction over what language we should speak in — whether it should be the mother tongue, Hindi or English. The fact is that both Hindi and India’s vernacular languages have been weaponized for political mileage even though English links better worldwide and takes you far. The best proof of this is Harris and others like her, with roots traceable to India and education and life in the US.Heavy burden Amidst Harris’s nomination in the world’s most powerful democracy and her remembering South Indian food and link to the subcontinent, there is, however, still no replacing India’s conservative environment with a paradigm that is more practical, inclusive, relaxed and youthful. That last attribute — youthful (often mistaken for digital) — would even seem misplaced in India currently for although we are the country with the highest share of youth in its population, a strong dose of family ensures that old views — even ancient ones — get insisted upon. The world has changed massively since the old order. But our quest is to restore a glory reminiscent of the empires gone by and the durbars they cultivated. Find status, the ingredients of happiness follow — that’s the long-standing rule. Don’t believe me? Look around. In every youngster’s heavy backpack, there is no abandoning the memory of Indian context: personal, familial, communal, national. You represent generations. You fail; they fail. If life were an aircraft, this would seem too much payload for take-off. Yet it is this never ending feudalism and the inability to question it that fuel Indians to fly to distant lands for self-improvement, first as compliance with general expectations and, then, for good. Many flourish because the foreign ambience liberates them. Attitudes are different there. Indians may go there with their focus on degrees and career. But the lustre of those places and the universities and careers therein provide a larger identity for all those who make it there. They become coveted back at home. It keeps the oldies proud and happy. Our political leadership would agree. Notwithstanding its origin in the same conservatism that stifles life here, it craves adulation in a Super Bowl or a rock concert setting. The US was where that dream came true. Like Harris remembering South Indian food, they remember White House hugs, packed stadiums and visits to social media companies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-140
30-09-2020||Opinion||Crushed spirits||The Keynesian notion of animal spirits conjures up the image of a dog sinking into a stupor of sorts when its master returns home unusually late. The ring of a doorbell is all that is needed to infuse mirth into the animal, which it expresses by rushing towards the front door. Animals, though, are known to behave sorrowfully for a totally different reason as well. This involves illnesses, especially of the terminal variety. A sick animal sniffs out a lonely corner for itself, where it lies in silence, awaiting the arrival of the inevitable. No doorbell injects energy into a dog that knows that it is dying. Vets alone can sometimes help in such situations, not doorbells. When Keynes spoke about animal spirits, he had the first kind of spirits in mind. Economic causes can often induce mental agony and lead to lethargy-ridden economic behaviour. Economic policies are meant to address such issues. However, as with the case of the physically suffering dog, or lion or what have you, timeworn fiscal and other policies may have little impact on economies that are literally sick on account of a medical reason, such as the raging pandemic-ridden world today. Even prior to the appearance of the dreaded virus, the world was whimpering due to the absence of animal spirits of the Keynesian variety. The disease has precipitated a double whammy for most economies of the world. A dog that misses its master is sad, but is ready to run as soon as the loved one appears. But, till cured of its illness, a dog that is suffering from a physical ailment will not accompany its master to run in the public park. And a slice of ham will never constitute a panacea for the problem. Similarly, human agents that constitute an economy do not respond to economic incentives alone when they are either afflicted by a disease with unknown remedies or are wary of an invisible virus-ridden sword of Damocles hanging over their heads. The entire world is suffering and India, therefore, cannot be an exception. The latest press release of the ministry of statistics and programme implementation conjures up a scary spectacle. Measured in terms of Quarter 1 (April-June) GDP figures, the economy has sustained a massive crash. At constant 2011-12 prices, our Q1 GDP in 2014-15 was a little above 25 trillion rupees. Since then, it had climbed up to cross the 35 trillion mark in 2019-20, only to tumble down to around 27 trillion in 2020-21, which is pretty close to where we began in 2014-15. The state of affairs resembles the exact opposite of the so-called sharp V-shaped turnaround that some are looking forward to. Needless to say, the figures will change over time and this for two different reasons. First, the published figures, when revised with the help of cleaner data, may well display a somewhat milder crash (or a harsher one for all we know) compared to what the current figures say. Secondly, towards the end of November, data for the second quarter too will be published along with revised estimates of the first. If Lady Luck favours, the two quarters combined may present a less disquieting story. As reported by The Telegraph (September 7, 2020), this is probably the view held by C. Rangarajan, the former governor of the Reserve Bank of India, in a paper jointly authored with the EY India chief policy advisor, D.K. Srivastava. Given their wide experience, the optimism of the authors cannot be summarily dismissed. Nonetheless, it is worth our while to examine the arguments carefully. The conclusion is summed up in the observation that “sectors like agriculture and essential goods and services were fully operational in the first quarter despite (the) coronavirus-induced lockdown... ” According to the MOSPI data, the agricultural sector did posit a positive 3.4 per cent growth relative to where it stood a year ago. As far as all other sectors are concerned, the published growth rates are negative. It is not obvious which sectors constitute “essential goods and services” in the quoted exercise, unless they refer to the ones that display smaller negative growth rates than those registered by others, such as manufacturing (-39.3 per cent) and construction (-50.3 per cent). Moreover, on the basis of the performance of the agriculture and essential services sectors in the first quarter of 2020-21, the paper reaches the conclusion that the year, 2020-21, as a whole (Q1 through Q4), is likely to come up with a marginal but positive growth rate vis-à-vis 2019-20. The strange conclusion has been reached in the face of a (-23.9 per cent) contraction of the entire economy in the first quarter. Further, while the first quarter reports the satisfying performance of rabi crops, the kharif output will be known only towards the end of the calendar year. Given the favourable course of the monsoon, it is tempting of course to conclude that agriculture will be buoyant for the entire year. Whether other sectors in the economy will pick up too is yet to be seen. If they do, then the first quarter damage may well be repaired over the remaining three quarters and, as Rangarajan et al have predicted, the entire year, 2020-21, will show a small positive growth over the year 2019-20. Negative growth reared up its head only after the appearance of the pandemic. The new feature that the pandemic added to the Keynesian demand deficiency problem was a supply-side failure. Weak demand was accompanied by novel attacks on animal spirits by a highly contagious disease. It affected demand, because quite apart from other economic difficulties, the consumer began to maintain a distance from the supplier. Demand wise then, animal spirits were severely suppressed. On the production side too, a similar phenomenon occurred, since producers found it too risky to carry on production activities. Workers lost jobs, producers lost profits. The Keynesian animal spirits problem joined hands with the second type of animal spirits issue brought up above. Their combined impact depressed animal spirits below where it ruled prior to the influx of the disease in early 2020. Economists began to offer their usual recommendations — government expenditure, generous monetary policy, low interest rates and so on — to address economic slowdowns. They worked to some extent, although weakly, since there exists no solely economic solution to a purely medical problem. This shows up partly in the paradoxical boom in the stock market generated probably by easy money policy when real output and employment collapsed. So long as the virus stays, animal spirits will continue to be subdued way below the level at which they stood prior to the onset of the disease. The crying need of the hour, therefore, is not to confuse a medical problem with an economic one. It is more than evident that the present doom will not disappear till a medical treatment is found, a vaccine or medicine, that the world population has firm faith in. That faith alone will make the world bounce back to life, like vet-cured dogs responding to economic doorbells. If not, even the marginal Rangarajan-Srivastava growth calculation will count as an absurd drama. The author is former Professor of Economics, Indian Statistical Institute, Delhi and Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-140
30-09-2020||Jharkhand||High-level security review conducted at Palamau ahead of Bihar polls||The Union home ministry’s special security advisor, K. Vijay Kumar, the director-general of CRPF, A.P. Maheshwari, and other senior officers held a security review at Dagra picket on Wednesday in Palamau with top cops of state police. Commandant of 134 battalion of CRPF, Daltonganj, A.D. Sharma, who was one of the participants of the high-level meeting at Dagra picket, said: “The high-level security review led by Kumar, Maheshwari, special director-general of police, CRPF central zone, Calcutta, Kuldiep Singh and other senior officers was convened at Dagra following the declaration of poll schedules for the Assembly elections in Bihar.” Sharma said the team of senior officials of the CRPF reached Dagra in a helicopter. He added that the team had its first stop at Chakarbandha in Bihar, where the officers audited the security for the elections. Sources said the arrival of Kumar and Maheshwari and their security review at Chakarbandha in Bihar and Dagra in Jharkhand’s Palamau were significant because of the Maoist threat of violence during the elections. The sources said the officers highlighted the need for better coordination among the police forces of the two states and the CRPF battalions posted there, especially in the border areas. A senior police officer from Jharkhand, who declined to be named, said: “The focus is to prevent Maoists from crossing over to Bihar, and vice-versa, during the elections.” Palamau has three highly strategic forward security posts at Dagra, Kooh Kooh Kalan and Chak. Sharma said that apart from attending the security review, the senior officers also met the CRPF personnel posted at Dagra. The picket here is under the 134 battalion of the paramilitary force. Kumar, Maheshwari and the other officers had their meals with the jawans, Sharma said. The kin of martyred jawans were felicitated by Maheshwari.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-282
30-09-2020||Jharkhand||Monsoon ends with 14% deficit in Jharkhand||The monsoon in Jharkhand ended in a deficit on Wednesday, but residents are happy that the state fared better than last year. Wednesday’s Met data showed Jharkhand’s rainfall to be 901.9mm against a normal of 1,054.7mm, a deficit of 14 per cent. In 2019, the four-month rainy season had ended with an 18 per cent deficit while in 2018 the figure was 28 per cent. In 2017, the monsoon had ended with a 10 per cent deficit. In 2016, the deficit was 2 per cent while in 2015 the deficit was 17 per cent. In 2014, the rain loss margin was 30 per cent. Meteorologists consider rain deficit up to 19 per cent to be normal. However, the monsoon is yet to bid adieu to Jharkhand. It is expected to exit around October 10, which is normal as well. But the calculation of rainfall during the monsoon is done from June to September. This year, the southwest monsoon had an early arrival. It entered two days in advance on June 13. The monsoon currents were strong, resulting in 2 per cent surplus rain in June. Although July and August ended in a deficit, the margin was within 19 per cent. The deputy director of IMD’s Ranchi meteorological centre, Abhishek Anand, said this year’s monsoon was up to the mark. “Rainfall during the four monsoon months was uniform and widespread. This helped in avoiding  a drought. Rainfall in regular intervals helped in irrigation and farming activities,” the deputy director said. Met statistics showed that Ramgarh topped the gainers’ list with 15 per cent excess rainfall. The district notched rainfall of 1,183.2mm against a normal of 1,027.8mm. The other districts with rain surplus included East Singhbhum, Dumka, Koderma, Latehar, Palamau and Sahibganj. Gumla topped the list of districts with a rain deficit. Against a normal of 1122.1mm, Gumla recorded rainfall of 564mm at the end of the four-month monsoon. The data revealed that capital Ranchi notched a 16 per cent deficit with rainfall of 906.7mm against a normal of 1,074.6mm. Wednesday’s satellite pictures suggested that the withdrawal line of the monsoon was passing through Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and northwest Madhya Pradesh. The Ranchi meteorological centre issued an alert of heavy rainfall at a few isolated pockets, especially in northeastern and central Jharkhand, this weekend due to the formation of a low pressure area over the Bay of Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-282
30-09-2020||Jharkhand||Cattle shed, portion of a home cave in at Lodna Colliery area||The underground fire-affected Lodna area of BCCL experienced a subsidence early on Wednesday morning when a portion of a milkman’s house and cattle shed caved in. There was no loss of life although the subsidence, a familiar danger of the Jharia coal belt region, created panic among the over 1,000 families of Lodna Bazar and adjoining areas. A team of Bharat Coking Coal officials, led by Lodna Colliery project officer K.K. Singh, reached the site soon enough and collated details of the incident from the milkman and other local residents. They also suggested remedial measures, including soil stowing at the site, to prevent any further damage. Milkman Ramchandra Yadav said, “The incident took place at 4am when all of us woke up to the sound of a big bang. We found that the boundary of my house was damaged and the cowshed, situated about 10 feet away, had caved into the ground. " He said they have been living in the area for the last three decades. “Earlier, our house used to be on the portion that caved in. It was converted to a cow shed and we moved about 10 feet away from there,” he said, adding that fortunately there were no animals in the shed at the time of the accident. “We have lost some furniture and domestic articles. We have demanded compensation from BCCL,” Yadav added. Yadav’s neighbour Naushad Ansari said, “We are scared after the incident. The site is close to a government school. Lodna Bazar, which is a densely populated area, is also not too far from the cave-in site." Ansari said BCCL authorities should immediately initiate fire-fighting measures by dumping soil in the area to prevent any further subsidence. BCCL project officer Singh said they had launched efforts to dump soil in the area to try and prevent further subsidence. “The area has been declared dangerous several years ago and people have been served notices to vacate the area several times. We will also try to shift out residents in association with the authorities,” he said. Md Mukhtar, a resident of Lodna, said Wednesday’s cave-in brought to the fore the sheer helplessness of the local population. “If residents of the area shift out on their own, they will be denied compensation as per the Jharia master plan. Yet, there is no effort to shift us from such a dangerous place," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-282
30-09-2020||Jharkhand||Virus causing skin disease infecting cattle in Palamau||A mysterious virus, which causes “lumpy skin disease” in bovine animals and can also be transmitted to humans, has been infecting cattle in Jharkhand, officials from the animal husbandry department said on Wednesday, raising concern over the spread of another virus without a vaccine. A few cases of lumpy skin disease were found in Palamau where the virus infected domesticated cows and buffalos, said animal husbandry director Nancy Sahay. The animal husbandry directorate subsequently issued an alert to all districts and asked authorities there to spread awareness about this viral infection. “All district officials have been asked to spread awareness among animal keepers about this disease and also ensure that it doesn’t lead to panic abandoning of animals,” said Sahay. “The only way to prevent the spread of this disease is to keep the infected animals in isolation, and not let other animals or humans come in direct contact with the infected bovine,” she added. Once an animal is infected, it develops lumps on the skin and loses appetite. Most of the infected animals also suffer from high fever and weakness. Although chances of fatality are low, the virus can adversely affect the reproductive system of the infected animal, and lead to health hazards for animal keepers, officials said. While the precautionary measures taken to prevent the spread of the lumpy skin disease virus (LSDV) were similar to the ones taken against Covid-19 virus, the former was not as lethal as Covid-19, officials said. This virus primarily infected animals and very few cases of humans getting infected were reported, officials said. The virus is mostly transmitted through insect vector, but transmission through direct contact has also been reported in the past. Before entering Jharkhand, the virus seems to have infected several thousand cattle in Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh and some other states. The mortality rate, however, was quite low among the animals that were infected, officials said. The Director of Medha Dairy, Sudhir Kumar Singh, said the virus can infect an animal for two to five weeks. However, the virus can affect the milk productivity of an animal for several weeks even after recovery, he added. In Jharkhand, the animal husbandry department has started testing samples of animals suspected to be infected by the virus, officials said. Besides, the department is also running extensive social media campaigns to spread awareness about the disease among the masses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-283
30-09-2020||Jharkhand||Hemant govt to waive Rs 2,000 crore farm loans in first phase||Chief minister Hemant Soren has approved a draft proposal for farm loan waivers to the tune of Rs 2,000 crore in Jharkhand with state the agriculture department setting up a high-level committee to fine-tune rules so that implementation can begin at the earliest. State agriculture minister Badal Patralekh announced the state government’s decision to the media on Wednesday at his office at Nepal House. “Funds to the tune of Rs 2,000 crore have been approved for the first phase. Between 2014 and 2019, about 8 lakh farmers have taken loans to the tune of around Rs 7,000 crore. Of this total liability, we will waive Rs 2,000 crore in the first phase this fiscal,” Patralekh said. “I have received the CM’s final nod on this a couple of days back after which we are setting up a high-powered committee to roll out the scheme,” the minister, a Congressman, said, reiterating the JMM-Congress-RJD coalition government’s commitment towards farmers. About the quantum of waiver per farmer, he said the high-powered committee would finalise it and make an announcement soon. Departmental sources, however, claimed that the waiver could be in the range of Rs 20,000 to Rs 25,000 for small and medium farmers. Taking on the NDA government, the minister said that while Modi 2.0 was “tilted towards privatising” everything from farms to mines, the Jharkhand government would do all it could to protect the people. Criticising the new farm laws recently passed by Parliament, the agriculture minister said the “black laws” would break the backbone of the nation’s agriculture sector. “For us, farmers are our annadata and we shall do all that is required to save them. This farm loan waiver is one of our commitments towards them. We keep our commitment despite the ongoing pandemic and funds shortage,” the minister said, criticising the Centre for not providing fiscal assistance to Jharkhand despite numerous pleas. “Be it GST, mining dues, among others, we have not been given our share by the Centre despite several requests. The NDA government, however, is pumping money in Bihar only because they are interested in winning polls and not people welfare,” he said. Notably, chief minister Hemant Soren has also criticised the farm laws. A week back, he hinted that the state may not implement after exploring legal options to try and block them in Jharkhand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-283
30-09-2020||Jharkhand||Entrepreneur builds machine to ‘generate’ water out of thin air||A local entrepreneur, whose water ATMs have been installed in various parts of Dhanbad, says he has developed an “atmospheric water generator” that works on the principle of condensation of humidity in air. Uday Thakur (49), who runs Jai Maa Enterprises, said he got the idea to try and develop such a machine after looking at water coming out of air-conditioners installed at a market. “The idea of developing the machine came in my mind around two years ago when I noticed the air-conditioners at Urmila Market of Dhanbad where my office is situated. I decided to execute the idea on a large scale and started work,” he said. Thakur, who holds a degree in rail transport management, explained that six months of lockdown provided the time he was looking for to execute his project. “The technology I have used is simple. It is about extracting water from humid ambient air by condensing water vapour and cooling it by passing it through a cool metal chamber. I have also used UV radiation-based filters to deactivate disease causing organisms,” he explained. Thakur said the water generated like that was 100 per cent pesticide free. “My machine is one of its kind in India in the way it uses the ozonation technique. Subsequently, I plan to develop a split unit that can be installed in air-conditioned environments or in places where there is a space constraint. “Water from my atmospheric water generator is of better quality. It is healthier than ground water and can prove to be very useful in areas where there is high arsenic or fluoride content,” Thakur explained. Thakur, whose water ATMS have also been installed at various locations of Sahebganj, said he was prompted to pursue his idea of a water generator after understanding the problems faced by residents of Gharbar Panchayat of Baliapur block of Dhanbad. High arsenic content in the water of the area had led to various health problems for residents. The innovator said that to build a 20,000-litre capacity atmospheric water generator, he would require Rs 20 lakh. “We need government support to execute the idea on a commercial scale,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-283
30-09-2020||Jharkhand||No mining by Centre or state in eco-sensitive zones, says SC  ||The Supreme Court has observed that if an area falls under an eco-sensitive zone then neither the Centre nor the state government will have the right to mine it. The remark was made on Wednesday by the top court which was hearing Jharkhand government's pleas challenging the Centre's decision to auction coal blocks for commercial mining. The court said prima facie, the Union government was entitled to auction coal blocks in the state. However, it said that it may send some experts to find out if the areas in question are eco-sensitive or not. A bench headed by Chief Justice S.A. Bobde asked the Centre to file an affidavit within a week on whether the areas in question were eco-sensitive zones or not. During the hearing, the bench observed, “At the moment we are not dealing with whether the Centre or the Jharkhand government has the right to do mining. If the area is eco-sensitive then no one, either the Centre or the state government, has the right to mine.” It said, “We are not experts to decide whether the areas are eco-sensitive or not. What we will do is send some experts to say on this,” . At the outset, senior advocate F.S. Nariman, appearing for Jharkhand, said  auction of coal blocks can be postponed for a few months and the suit that  had been filed under Article 131 be decided. Senior advocate A.M. Singhvi, also appearing for the state government, said that the state had a large population of tribal people and 30 per cent of the area were eco-sensitive forests. “I am challenging the coal auction as it is against the public interest and not the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act (MMDR Act),” he said. The bench asked Singhvi how he could say that the MMDR Act would not apply in the state on the ground that it was a scheduled area. “Central government is prima facie entitled to auction the coal blocks,” the bench observed, and asked Singhvi under which law mining leases in eco-sensitive areas were disallowed. Singhvi said mining could be done in small areas far away from eco-sensitive zones. To this, the bench asked him to show evidence that the areas in questions were eco-sensitive zones. Nariman then referred to various areas, including Hazaribagh Wildlife Sanctuary, and termed them eco-sensitive zones. The bench then wanted to know what the state had been doing in these areas. Attorney General K.K. Venugopal, appearing for the Centre, said, “Just 14 days before a suit is filed, they had filed a writ petition asking us to roll back auction of coal mines in Jharkhand for six to nine months or unless until the global investment climate improves, so that Jharkhand maximizes returns on natural resources.” The bench said it was focussing on the status of the area. “Our experience shows that people want to exploit eco-sensitive zones and if the areas are eco-sensitive then we will not allow either (state or Centre) to mine,” it said, adding that as the courts may send some experts to ascertain whether they were eco-sensitive areas or not. Venugopal said that they weren’t eco-sensitive areas, and added that they proposed to file an affidavit in this regard. The bench then adjourned the hearing for two weeks and asked the Centre to file an affidavit within a week on the issue and permitted the state government to file a rejoinder thereafter. On July 14, the top court had issued notice to the Centre on Jharkhand government's pleas challenging its decision to auction coal blocks for commercial mining. The state government alleged that the announcement was made by the Centre "unilaterally" without consulting it. Jharkhand has claimed that it is "highly inappropriate" for the Centre to conduct an auction at this time of COVID-19 pandemic as all the machinery of the state and the Centre are to be enjoined to "alleviate the problems of citizens" caused due to the deadly virus. "The defendant (Centre) has announced the impugned auction unilaterally without consultation with the plaintiff (Jharkhand). The plaintiff state is the owner of the mines and minerals situated within the territory of the plaintiff," said the suit. Referring to the Fifth Schedule to the Constitution, which deals with administration and control of Scheduled Areas and Scheduled Tribes, it said that six of the nine coal blocks in Jharkhand - Chakla, Chitarpur, North Dhadu, Rajhara North, Seregarha and Urma Paharitola -- which have been put up for auction fall within the Fifth Schedule areas. It said out of the total population of 3,29,88,134 in Jharkhand, 1,60,10,448 reside in Scheduled Areas and the impugned action impinges the rights of the indigenous people of the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-283
30-09-2020||Jharkhand||Youths write to CM asking him to repeal two controversial laws||Tribal youths from the Kolhan region on Tuesday wrote to Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren seeking repeal of two controversial laws — the Jharkhand Bovine Animal Prohibition of Slaughter Act, 2005, and the Jharkhand Freedom of Religion Act, 2017. A delegation under the aegis of Adivasi Youngsters United, Kolhan, submitted a memorandum to Soren through West Singhbhum deputy commissioner Arava Rajkamal, seeking repeal of the two laws to prevent mob lynching and assault of tribal people allegedly by Right-wing groups in the name of cow slaughter and religious conversions. “We have recently seen how seven tribals were beaten and had their heads tonsured partially and forced to chant religious slogans by Right-wing groups in Simdega on the suspicion of cow slaughter. Between 2016 and 2020, at least 18 tribal people have been lynched over cow slaughter allegations in the state. We would like the tribal-friendly government led by Hemant Soren to think of repealing the two laws which have been misused by the Right-wing fanatics to disturb the communal fabric and taking law into their hands,” said Manijit Hasda, a final-year graduation student of Tata College, Chaibasa, who led the delegation. The Jharkhand Bovine Animal Prohibition of Slaughter Act, 2005, was strictly enforced by the erstwhile Raghubar Das-led BJP government in the state in 2017 prohibiting slaughter and sale of cows while the Jharkhand Freedom of Religion Act, 2017, bars religious conversion by force or allurement making it a non-bailable offence with the provision of jail term of three years and Rs 50,000 fine for the guilty. “We would like the chief minister to direct the bureaucrats to take exemplary action against the accused in mob-lynching and assault of tribal people on the pretext of these rules so that such incidents do not recur. A strong law should be passed against lynching in the state,” said Hasda. According to the Jharkhand Janadhikar Mahasabha, a group of social organisations fighting for human rights, at least 29 Muslims and tribal people have been lynched or injured on the suspicion of cow slaughter, consumption of beef, stealing cattle or due to religious hatred between 2016 and 2020. Adequate compensation, judicial and police action are pending in several cases.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-283
30-09-2020||Jharkhand||Concern over continuation of lynching ||The Jharkhand Janadhikar Mahasabha, a joint platform of several activists and organisations, is worried that the minorities and the tribals were being subjected to mob lynching and violence by pro-Hindutva groups even after the Hemant Soren government assumed power in the state. “Since 2016, in Jharkhand, at least 29 Muslims and Adivasi lynched/injured on suspicion of cow slaughter, consumption of beef/stealing cattle or due to religious hatred,” the Mahasabha said in the first of a series of tweets on Monday. “Sadly, the violence has continued even after the Hemant Soren government took charge,” it added, attaching a list of those victims. The list began with an incident in Latehar district on March 18, 2016 when two Muslims on way to sell their cattle were beaten and hanged and ended with another in Simdega district on 16th of this month (September 2020) when 7 tribal Christians were beaten, partially tonsured and allegedly forced to chant Jai Shri Ram, on the suspicion of slaughtering a cow. After one such incident in Khunti district in September 2019, there was a lull of about nine months up to July 2 when three tribals were beaten, again on suspicion of consuming or selling beef, in two different incidents in East Singhbhum and Dumka districts, followed by the Simdega incident on September 16. “It is really unfortunate that such pro-Hindutva forces are again raising their heads during the present regime,” Siraj Dutta of the Mahasabha told The Telegraph on Tuesday, adding that the government should take stern action against the offenders. “Adequate compensation, judicial and police action are pending in several cases. In many cases, the police was complicit in the violence or in protecting the perpetrators,” another Mahasabha tweet alleged, adding “growing communalisation and violence by Hindutva groups in the state is deeply worrying”. “(There is) Need for Hemant Soren government to ensure that the police and administration respect constitutional values and ensure strict action is taken against communal violence,” said yet another tweet by the Mahasabha, adding the government also need to check attempts of Hindutva groups to spread religious hatred in the state. They had met state’s director general of police M.V. Rao about a month ago, seeking strict action against such lynching/violence, the Mahasabha informed, expecting the police would act accordingly. Police sources, however, maintained that action was being taken against those who indulged in such violence. In the latest incidence at Bherikudar village in Simdega district, the police arrested 5 of the 9 accused so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-283
30-09-2020||Jharkhand||Fadnavis visits Rajrappa temple||Former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, who is in charge of the BJP’s Bihar unit, on Tuesday reached the Chhinamastika temple in Ramgarh’s Rajrappa, around 75km from Ranchi. Fadnavis said he was at the temple to pray for his party and ally Janata Dal (United)’s success in Bihar. As the temple has been closed since March, Fadnavis offered his prayers to the goddess outside the locked entrance gate of the sanctum sanctorum. Fadnavis later went to take the blessings of Boriya Baba. He stayed for more than an hour at the baba’s ashram. A BJP leader from Ramgarh, who was with Fadnavis, said this was a crucial time for the Maharashtra leader who is seeking success for his party in Bihar. He said both in Maharashtra and Bihar, Fadnavis’s prestige was at stake. The dead body of a 24-year-old married woman, Pinki Devi, was found lying in a pool of blood at her home at Haldi Patti in the Dhansar police station area of Dhanbad on Tuesday morning. Devi’s husband Devendra Kumar Verma, 30, and their two sons, aged six years and four years, are missing. The incident came to light when the woman’s landlord went to her house as her children had not turned up for tuition classes. Police have sent the dead body for post-mortem at Patliputra Medical College and Hospital and launched a search for the husband and children. The body of a missing youth was found hanging from a tree in Murramkala on Tuesday night. The deceased was identified as Deepak Kumar, 25, a resident of Kedla. He was staying at his maternal uncle’s home in Patratu Basti, Dipnagar, and had been missing for the past three days. The body has been sent for post-mortem. Dhanbad deputy commissioner Uma Shankar Singh on Tuesday instructed the mukhias of 28 panchayats to submit the utility certificate with regard to the construction of toilets in all homes in their areas within a week, failing which FIRs would be lodged against them and their financial powers seized. Singh said that during a review on Tuesday by the state drinking water and sanitation department, officials from Ranchi expressed displeasure over the non-completion of toilet construction work. Prohibitory orders were imposed in Bermo in view of the upcoming Assembly bypoll on November 3. “The model code of conduct has become effective in the Bermo subdivision from Tuesday afternoon after the Election Commission of India’s announcement,” said Rajesh Kumar Singh, deputy commissioner, Bokaro. The code will be effective till the end of the election process. Campaigning within 100m of a polling station will be considered a violation of the code. The use of a sound amplifier will be prohibited from 10pm to 6am. Government-owned guest houses cannot be used for any political activities or meetings. The Bokaro administration is ensuring that Covid-19 norms are respected. Voting will be held in 468 polling booths. Polling agents aged above 55 years will not be deployed at the booths, while voters who have tested positive for the coronavirus can vote through postal ballot. In one polling booth, a maximum of 1,000 residents can vote. The Bermo seat became vacant following the death of MLA Rajender Prasad Singh on May 25. Twenty-four people were discharged from the dedicated Covid-19 health centre at Zonal Training Institute of the Railways at Bhuli on Tuesday after being tested for the coronavirus. Dhanbad deputy commissioner Uma Shankar Singh said those discharged have been provided health kits and instructed to remain in home quarantine for the next 14 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-283
30-09-2020||Jharkhand||Excise department to destroy expired beer worth Rs 3 crore||Jharkhand Excise's Jamshedpur office will destroy beer bottles worth about Rs 3 crore in a few days. With liquor shops closed for about 45 days, and bars and clubs still shut, a large stock of beer have gone beyond their expiry date. "Beer has a maximum shelf life of six months. Due to lockdown, and subsequent restrictions on the operation of bars, a huge stock of beer has expired.  Such bottles were lying in licensed liquor shops and at the godown of Jharkhand State Beverage Corporation Ltd (JSBCL), along with bars and clubs.  We have ceased all those bottles by visiting these establishments and are in the process of getting the expiry stock destroyed soon," East Singhbhum district assistant commissioner, excise,  Arun Kumar Mishra told The Telegraph Online. Mishra has written to the East Singhbhum deputy commissioner, Suraj Kumar for deputing a magistrate to monitor the work.  “Once the DC deputes a magistrate, we will identify a spot where all the bottles will be buried after being destroyed. The work of destroying and burying the bottles will be videographed in presence of the magistrate," he said. Mishra further informed that his department has collected over 17,000 cartons of expired beer bottles, costing a whopping Rs 3 crore. He said this exercise will not impact government revenue, but will definitely affect the companies concerned. According to sources in the excise department, there are 134 licensed liquor shops in the East Singhbhum, majority of which are in the steel city,  besides 40 beer bars and six clubs. Most of the stock collected from stores, bars and clubs are being stored at the JSBCL godown. A departmental officer has been deputed at the godown to ensure that expired beer is not supplied to any of the licensed shops. Liquor shops have become operational in the state since June 1, while bars and clubs are yet to reopen.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-283
