September 1, 2020||Chandigarh||Alumnus of PEC gives lessons on future of management amid COVID||An alumnus of Punjab Engineering College, Chandigarh, TS Bedi who has turned people management & communication professional, recently conducted a webinar on the fast emerging challenges confronting people managers and communication leaders in the 21st century. The webinar was conducted for the students, academia, faculty of St Xavier's institute of management & technology. Addressing a virtual mix of nearly 250 working as well as learning professionals of HR & Communication streams, Bedi called upon them to" prepare themselves fast to keep pace with the huge global challenges being thrown by the emerging; unabated changes in technology in the coming times, now only further escalated by the outbreak of the unfortunate pandemic COVID 19," he said. He added that post the pandemic, most of the people management & communication tasks are likely to get completely decentralized while also be driven through an online form of communication only. "This will definitely lead to retention of only the most competent people management & communication professionals suiting best the need of the new normal models of e-commerce and digitized global economy. And it will only be natural to expect that the future roles in these streams might be reclassified as e HR managers & leaders," he added. Welcoming Bedi in his introductory note, Principal Fr (Dr.) T Nishant, SJ observed that in order to ensure that our employees, whether in the academic or in the corporate sectors can be encouraged to contribute their best ever, they must be allowed complete freedom for creativity in their work. The webinar was also hosted by Prof Piyush Ranjan Sahay, who coordinated the webinar, Assistant Professor Samar Reaz who anchored the online event, Rana Pratap Singh and Prof Joel D Cruz.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/alumnus-of-pec-gives-lessons-on-future-of-management/articleshow/77857963.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Indore||IISR estimates over 15% damage to soyabean crop in Madhya Pradesh||INDORE: Heavy rainfall is estimated to have increased the damage to standing kharif crop mainly soyabean due to infestation. The infestation has grown rapidly in soyabean growing pockets of the region due to variation in temperature and rain. Indian Institute of Soybean Research, Indore has also conducted a survey to assess loss to soyabean crop and has initially estimated 10-15 per cent damage to the crop in state. IISR Indore director Dr Nita Khandekar said, “It was unprecedented hot and there was low rainfall in July which lead to enhanced infestation of stem fly. Consequently, heavy continuous rainfall in August lead to other diseases in the susceptible varieties of soyabean.” Khandekar said, the survey by the team found most damage in farms that lacked timely application of fungicide, while those which had application just a few days ahead of the rain have negligible loss. Scientists from IISR including Dr. Laxman Singh Rajput, plant pathologist, Dr. Lokesh Kumar Meena, agricultural entomologist and Dr. S. D. Billore, Agronomist also found Rhizoctonia aerial blight and anthracnose diseases in the susceptible varieties. The institute in its weekly advisory to farmers suggested to grow resistant varieties and apply plant protection chemicals as suggested by scientists to overcome these problem. Soyabean, cotton, maize and pulses are the main kharif sown crops of the region that covers almost 22 lakh hectares every season in Indore division. In Indore division, farmers have sown soyabean on around 8.5 lakh hectare. The agriculture department has initially estimated a loss of about 22 per cent in soyabean crop in Indore division led by Indore and Alirajpur districts on the basis of the crop survey. Crop damage survey has also been initiated in Dewas and adjoining areas by the department. A senior official, wishing anonymity said, “Soyabean is a major crop in Ujjain division and rain has caused a lot of damage in Dewas. Survey is in progress to assess the damage. Initially we are apprehending about 10-15 per cent damage.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/iisr-estimates-over-15-damage-to-soyabean-crop-in-madhya-pradesh/articleshow/77860312.cms||Meenakshi Sharma
September 1, 2020||World||Biden hits campaign trail, blames Trump for city violence||PITTSBURGH: Joe Biden is forcefully condemning the violence at recent protests while also blaming President Donald Trump for fomenting the divide that's sparking it. He's dismissing his presidential opponent as incapable of tackling the violence himself. “He doesn't want to shed light, he wants to generate heat, and he's stoking violence in our cities,” Biden said during remarks in Pittsburgh Monday. “He can't stop the violence because for years he's fomented it." Biden went on to denounce rioting, looting and arson at recent protests. “It's lawlessness, plain and simple. And those who do it should be prosecuted,” he said. The speech marks a new phase of the campaign as Biden steps up his travel after largely remaining near his home in Wilmington, Delaware, to prevent the spread of the coronavirus. And after centering his candidacy on Trump's mishandling of the pandemic, Biden is making a broader push to argue that Americans won't be safe if Trump wins reelection. That's an effort to blunt Trump's “law and order” message, which the president is emphasising as some protests against racial injustice have become violent. A sense has taken hold in the Trump campaign that the more the national discourse is about anything other than the virus, the better it is for the president. Trump tweeted on Monday: “The Radical Left Mayors & Governors of Cities where this crazy violence is taking place have lost control of their 'Movement.' It wasn't supposed to be like this, but the Anarchists & Agitators got carried away and don't listen anymore - even forced Slow Joe out of basement!” In Pittsburgh, Biden said of Trump, “He may believe mouthing the words law and order makes him strong, but his failure to call on his own supporters to stop acting as an armed militia in this country shows you how weak he is,." Biden is seeking to cast recent protests as the Trump administration's problem. However, Trump and Republicans are highlighting violence at protests as examples of what the country would look like under a Biden administration. In Kenosha, Wisconsin, the National Guard was deployed to quell demonstrations in response to the police shooting of Jacob Blake, a Black man, that have resulted in some looting, vandalism and the shooting deaths of two protesters. And this weekend, one of Trump's supporters was shot at a demonstration in Portland, Oregon, prompting multiple tweets from Trump himself, including one late Sunday erroneously accusing Biden of failing to criticize the “agitators” at the protests. On Sunday, Biden strongly denounced violent acts on any side. “I condemn violence of every kind by anyone, whether on the left or the right. And I challenge Donald Trump to do the same,” he said in a statement. “We are facing multiple crises — crises that, under Donald Trump, keep multiplying. COVID. Economic devastation. Unwarranted police violence. Emboldened white nationalists. A reckoning on race,” Biden was saying in Pittsburgh. “Declining faith in a bright American future. The common thread? An incumbent president who makes things worse, not better.” Portland has seen nearly 100 consecutive nights of Black Lives Matter protests,and many have ended with vandalism to federal and city property. Trump and other speakers at last week's Republican National Convention frequently highlighted incidents of violence at protests that were sparked by the police killing of George Floyd last May, predicting that if Biden is elected in November such incidents will become the norm. However, Biden accuses Trump of viewing the violence as a “political benefit.” “He's rooting for more violence, not less. And it's clear about that,”Biden said last week. For months, Trump was desperately trying to distract from the pandemic and, at times, seemed to receive slight positive bumps in support when touting the possible economic recovery, campaign officials said. But other attempts to change the narrative with cultural wedge issues fell flat, including a defense of Confederate monuments in the wake of calls for racial justice and polling suggested that Trump was far out of step with the Black Lives Matter movement, which enjoyed wide public support. The Trump team has leaned hard on the push for law and order, even after it backfired when the president cleared Lafayette Square of peaceful protesters in early June. They now feel more confident of the case, having spent weeks, and their convention, hammering home one of their closing arguments: that Biden is a tool of the radical left and is powerless to stop the fringe forces.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/biden-hits-campaign-trail-blames-trump-for-city-violence/articleshow/77860634.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Business||GDP collapses 23.9% in Q1, worst among big economies||NEW DELHI: India’s economy posted its steepest contraction on record in the April-June quarter of the current fiscal year as the strict lockdowns imposed to ward off the spread of the deadly coronavirus infection stalled economic activity, shut out consumption and investment and led to job and income losses. Asia’s third largest economy was already faltering when the pandemic struck. In April-June, it suffered a contraction for the first time since India began maintaining quarterly records in 1996. Data released by the National Statistical Office (NSO) on Monday showed GDP in the April-June quarter of 2020-21 slumped 23.9% compared with growth of 3.1% in the previous (January-March) quarter. Among major economies, India’s contraction was the sharpest. China, after posting a contraction in the January-March quarter has recovered with 3.2% growth in the April-June quarter. Globally, India is close to UK’s contraction of 20.4% in the second quarter. Agriculture was the only bright spot. The sector, which has benefited from a robust monsoon, rose an annual 3.4% in the June quarter compared with a growth of 3% in the June quarter of 2019-20. On a quarterly basis, recession deepened in the manufacturing sector as it posted four consecutive quarters of contraction while the construction sector declined for the third quarter in a row. Economists define recession as two consecutive quarters of negative growth. The manufacturing sector, which has been in the grip of a sharp slowdown, fell 39.3% in the June quarter while construction slumped 50.3% during the three-month period. Trade, hotels, transport and communications sector posted the second highest contraction, declining 47% in the June quarter. The services sector, which accounts for nearly 60% of the economy, slumped 20.6% in the June quarter, compared to a 4.4% growth in the previous. Services such as hotels, restaurants, hospitality and airlines, have borne the maximum brunt of the. Private consumption, a key driver of the economy witnessed a sharp decline of 24.5% in the first quarter from 8.5% increase in the year ago period. However, government consumption saw a 20.2% increase in the June quarter compared with the 9.5% growth in the same quarter of the previous year. This highlights the role of government spending in supporting the economy. According to a Care Ratings analysis, investment growth witnessed a sharp decrease of 47.9% in the June quarter. As a percentage of GDP, investments (as measured by Gross Fixed Capital Formation) at 19.5% during the quarter was the lowest under the new series (2011-12). Chief economic adviser Krishnamurthy Subramanian said the contraction was expected given the lockdown that happened globally. “India is definitely experiencing a V-shaped recovery. We should expect better performance in the subsequent quarter,” Subramanian said after the release of the quarterly data. The government and the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) have unleashed several measures to reverse the slowdown and protect the vulnerable sectors. These steps include fiscal stimulus and free food for the poor while the central bank has pumped in funds but economists say more needs to be done to revive growth and provide a fresh lifeline to sectors hit hard by the pandemic. Former finance minister P Chidambaram launched a scathing attack, saying the numbers should be a matter of “surprise and shame” for the government. Economists said they expect pressure on growth to continue in the quarters ahead with a spike in the number of coronavirus infections. “Consumption demand and investments which are necessary to propel the economy would continue to be tepid and is unlikely to see a noteworthy improvement during the course of the year. Government spending would have to do the heavy lifting,” said Madan Sabnavis, chief economist at Care Ratings. “Although the higher growth in the agriculture sector and consequently rural demand would support the domestic economy, it would not be sufficient to compensate for the decline in urban demand and growth. We project the country’s GDP to contract by around 6.4-6.5% in FY21,” Sabnavis said. Watch GDP collapses 23.9% in Q1, worst among big economies||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/gdp-collapses-23-9-in-q1-worst-among-big-economies/articleshow/77860877.cms||Surojit Gupta
September 1, 2020||India||Pranab Mukherjee, 'dada' of Indian politics, bids goodbye at 84||NEW DELHI: Pranab Mukherjee, whose career on the national political stage began as a Rajya Sabha MP in 1969 and ended as President in 2017, passed away Monday evening at the age of 84 – 22 days after he was admitted to the Army Hospital (Research and Referral) in New Delhi following an emergency operation for a clot in the brain from which he never recovered. It was a rare defeat for a public figure who'd managed to defy the vicissitudes of politics and fickleness of personal equations to rise to the highest constitutional post in the land. He had slipped into a deep coma, and his medical condition was further complicated as he tested positive for Covid-19 and finally succumbed to septic shock caused by a lung infection. The government has announced a seven-day period of mourning till September 6. Mukherjee was one of only three ministers in Independent India to have held three CCS (cabinet committee on security) positions: finance, defence and external affairs. He was also leader of the House in Rajya Sabha and Lok Sabha. Live updates: Ex-President Pranab Mukherjee to be cremated todayA Congressman all his political life, barring a brief period when he fell out with Rajiv Gandhi, Mukherjee worked with three PMs: Indira Gandhi, whose attention he first caught, P V Narasimha Rao and Manmohan Singh. After his return to Congress, his career was revived by Rao who appointed him deputy chairman of the Planning Commission. However, he was passed over for the PM’s job in 2004 when Sonia Gandhi chose Manmohan Singh. Read AlsoPranab's life with 5G — the five GandhisPranab Mukherjee’s association with five Gandhis defined his political journeyMukherjee received the Bharat Ratna, the nation's highest honour, last year, a recognition that stood out because it was conferred at the behest of a government belonging to a party he had consistently opposed. Earlier, BJP's allies JD(U) and Shiv Sena had broken ranks from their NDA partners to support his presidential bid. Pranab Mukherjee: From Mirati To Rashtrapati BhavanThough not a mass leader — he won only one Lok Sabha election, in 2004 and never made a mark in state politics — he was the go-to man in successive governments for trouble-shooting assignments. Read AlsoIndia mourns former President Pranab MukherjeeFormer President of India Pranab Mukherjee passed away on Monday evening after being hospitalized for the past 22 days following a critical brain surgery. His health had started deteriorating on Monday as he suffered a septic shock due to his lung infection and was in a deep coma on ventilatorPresident Ram Nath Kovind, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Congress chief Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi led the nation in paying tribute to Mukherjee. A man of many hues, he was a voracious reader whose knowledge of history and politics was embellished by a ringside view of events of national import. India grieves the passing away of Bharat Ratna Shri Pranab Mukherjee. He has left an indelible mark on the developm… https://t.co/KCDQY3beBT— Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) 1598877493000His body will be laid in state at his residence 10, Rajaji Marg from 9am to noon on Tuesday and will be cremated at Lodhi Road crematorium at 2.30 pm. Sad to hear that former President Shri Pranab Mukherjee is no more. His demise is passing of an era. A colossus in… https://t.co/OERB2XRwRT— President of India (@rashtrapatibhvn) 1598876714000He was a key negotiator with the Left on the India-US nuclear deal till the communists parted ways with the UPA. He also spearheaded the UPA government's unsuccessful effort to defang the anti-corruption movement that launched Aaam Aadmi Party and help clear the way for Narendra Modi’s win in the 2014 LS elections. Read AlsoPranab Mukherjee was like 'guide' for us, didn't believe in political untouchability: RSSCondoling the demise of former President Pranab Mukherjee, RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat on Monday said that Mukherjee didn't believe in political untouchability. "He was a guide for Sangh and was affectionate towards the organisation and his passing away is an irreparable loss to the RSS," Bhagwat saidA government reply to a Parliament question in 2010 (UPA-2) said Mukherjee was heading all empowered GoMs expect one and was head of 15 of 34 other GoMs. Seen as ‘Mr Fixit’ in UPA-1 and 2, he headed eGoMs on 3G spectrum, procurement and management of foodgrain, drought management, gas pricing, price band of PSU shares, mega power projects and mass transit systems. In all, he headed 95 GoMs during his time in the two UPA governments. On Monday morning, the Army Hospital said his condition had deteriorated. “There has been a decline in the medical condition of Pranab Mukherjee since yesterday. He is in septic shock due to his lung infection and is being managed by a team of specialists. He continues to be in a deep coma and on ventilator support," the hospital said. Mukherjee is survived by two sons and a daughter. Abhijit Mukherjee, a former MP, broke the news of his father’s death through a tweet. His daughter Sharmistha has been active in politics and was spokesperson for the Delhi Congress. Watch India grieves passing away of Bharat Ratna Shri Pranab Mukherjee||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pranab-mukherjeedada-of-indian-politics-bids-goodbye-at-84/articleshow/77861264.cms||---
September 1, 2020||India||Pranabda walked 7-8km and wrote his diary even on the day he fell sick: Singhvi||Anyone who interacted with Pranab Mukherjee — Pranabda to so many of us — came back with a lasting impression about this remarkable man. In public life and in politics, my earliest interactions, after those with Madhavrao Scindia, were with Pranabda. The former took me to meet the latter. I came back marvelling at this encyclopaedic intellect blessed with an elephantine memory. I frequently told Pranabda that politics’ gain was the loss of so many disciplines—constitutional law, the legal profession, academia, historical research and so on. Few could rival his precise precedent-based approach, plucking accurately from the air an anecdotal event which usually fit the problem at hand like a glove. Just last year he regaled me for over an hour with the historical evolution of West Bengal politics, greeting me as the new West Bengal MP! Typically, he would rattle off precise figures of political parties’ relative strengths during each WB assembly election since Independence, with names and facts 50 years old! Few could match his iron discipline, from his morning constitutional to his late-night diary entries, followed with unfailing and uninterrupted continuity. My access to him allows me to disclose that the very day he suffered the brain injury late at night, he had completed his 7 or 8 km walk (split into morning and evening segments) and written his treasured diary before retiring — early by his standards — at 11 pm. Live updates: Ex-President Pranab Mukherjee to be cremated todayOpening the Parliamentary debate on Budget 2011 for the Treasury benches, I had coined an acronym for the budget, each letter of which applied equally to its author, Pranabda. In my acronym ‘DIRECT’, D stood for discipline, I for inclusive, R for reform-oriented, E for expenditure & growth reduction, C for creative and T for transformative. The real USP of Pranabda was his rock-like solidity. He had humungous and unmatched experience, a middle-of-the-road approach on economic issues, which leveraged the virtues of a historically licensed and currently liberalising economy with the benefits of a free market approach, without becoming starry eyed or being swayed by either. His elephantine memory, a unique mix of political grip with technocratic expertise and an unprecedented mastery of procedures, rules, convention, practices and precedents, set him apart. Read AlsoPranab Mukherjee, 'dada' of Indian politics, bids goodbye at 84Pranab Mukherjee, whose career on the national political stage began as a Rajya Sabha MP in 1969 and ended as President in 2017, passed away Monday evening at the age of 84 – 22 days after he was admitted to the Army Hospital (Research and Referral) in New Delhi following an emergency operation forOn each of four vital criteria available for any individual’s evaluation, Pranabda scored highly and in different ways. His talent was legendary. There are few, if any, who possessed his in-depth knowledge and easy familiarity with the intricacies of policymaking on totally unrelated subjects. He was a man for all seasons and I cannot think of any occasion when he failed to deliver. Secondly, his ideological commitment was clear and consistent: he was a slightly left-of-centre centrist, with a balanced approach on social and economic issues, but consistent with the socialist context of a transforming and unequal economy like India and with the inclusive philosophy of the party he represented. Thirdly, his temperament, criticised by some as short and hot, was fully understandable for a man heavily pressed for time, who had no time for small talk or idle political gossip. But catch him with time or in a relaxed mood (like a flight to Kolkata or elsewhere, as happened with me more than once), and you would be treated to a delightful experience of old-world charm, anecdotal treasures, deep and incisive analysis and a childlike simplicity. Finally, his commitment to his convictions was strong, honest and sincere: he was incapable of pretensions and came across as he was, without hypocrisy or camouflage. In a 2012 article before Pranabda was even selected as the Presidential nominee by diverse parties, Inder Malhotra quoted an unnamed writer who described Pranabda as a “front person, reference point, troubleshooter, lightning rod, live wire, fulcrum, flywheel, and, indeed, the very heart and soul of the government”. Malhotra added: “This was a mind boggling... stupendous achievement for someone with most modest beginnings... who had to walk a few miles to the nearest school.” He was the go-to man for everything in UPA-I and II and the number of EGOMs/GOMs he headed was testimony to this. Read AlsoIndia mourns former President Pranab MukherjeeFormer President of India Pranab Mukherjee passed away on Monday evening after being hospitalized for the past 22 days following a critical brain surgery. His health had started deteriorating on Monday as he suffered a septic shock due to his lung infection and was in a deep coma on ventilatorIn our late-night meetings, he would tell me how Ajoy Mukherjee, a fine leader, expelled unfairly by Atulya Ghosh, formed the Bangla Congress, starting Pranabda’s political career in 1967. Bangla Congress sent him to Rajya Sabha, where, Indira Gandhi, impressed with his industry and analysis, started relying on him and appointed him commerce minister of India at the age of 42. After his exile (he named the persons responsible for it), Rajiv himself appointed him spokesperson. He would frequently tell me (whilst I would deny) that he had two failings because of which he could not aspire to be PM — his lack of fluency in Hindi and the fact that he was never elected to Lok Sabha (cured later for one term). India was fortunate in having the indefatigable spirit, the unending zest for sincere hard work, the sagacious counsel and anchor-like stability of a wise philosopher and guide like Pranab Kumar Mukherjee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pranabda-walked-7-8km-and-wrote-his-diary-even-on-the-day-he-fell-sick-singhvi/articleshow/77861418.cms||Abhishek Singhvi
September 1, 2020||India||Nearly 2mn cases reported in Aug, India sets global Covid record||NEW DELHI: India reported close to 2 million Covid-19 cases in August, the highest recorded in any country during any month since the outbreak of the pandemic. The country also saw a surge in deaths from the virus, with 28,859 fatalities reported in August, a 50% jump from the previous month’s toll. The 19,87,705 cases recorded during August in India, as per TOI’s data collated from state governments, made it the worst outbreak of the virus in any country during a single month — higher than the number of infections reported in the US in July (19,04,462). However, in terms of deaths, the US and Brazil reported a higher toll than India in August. The US had recorded nearly 31,000 deaths till August 30 while Brazil had registered 29,565 fatalities. In India, the massive surge in infections during August can be gauged from the fact that 54% of all cases recorded since the outbreak of the pandemic came during the month. India’s total caseload stands at over 36.8 lakh. Of these, 28.3 lakh have recovered while there are nearly 7.9 lakh active cases in the country. India’s number of active cases is second only to the US, where the count stands at 25.6 lakh. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news The virus has so far claimed 65,373 lives in India, the third highest in the world following the US (1.87 lakh) and Brazil (1.2 lakh). On Monday, India recorded the lowest jump in cases in a week, with 65,968 fresh infections reported in the country. The day’s death toll, at 824, was the lowest for a single day since August 3. The decrease in fresh cases is consistent with the trend of lower number of infections detected on Mondays due to lower tests over the weekend and processing work slowing down due to Sunday being a holiday. Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka are the three high burden states currently leading the Covid-19 caseload in the country, accounting for 45.7 % of new cases detected on Sunday. The three states together also accounted for 50% of the deaths reported on Sunday and Maharashtra alone accounted for almost 21% of cases and over 30% deaths recorded on the day. The state has also been recording a high positivity rate of 20% and above. Seven states accounted for 70% of the 78,512 cases recorded in 24 hours, health ministry data showed. Apart from Maharashtra, the other states with high caseload were Andhra Pradesh (13.5%), Karnataka (11.2%), Tamil Nadu (8.2%), Uttar Pradesh (7.8%), West Bengal (3.8%) and Odisha (3.8%). Watch Covid-19: Close to 2 million cases in August, India sets a global record||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/nearly-2-million-cases-reported-in-august-india-sets-a-global-covid-19-record/articleshow/77861526.cms||---
September 1, 2020||India||Truth is a defence against contempt, but with riders||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court said on Monday that right to free speech was no licence to derogate the judiciary and denigrate judges but agreed that truth was a valid defence against contempt of court offence if it met the twin criteria of “bona fide and in public interest”. Rejecting activist-advocate Prashant Bhushan’s defence that his tweets were his bona fide opinions forming part of his right to free speech, which could not be regarded as contemptuous, a bench of Justices Arun Mishra, B R Gavai and Krishna Murari said: “That free speech is essential to democracy cannot be disputed but it cannot (be used to) denigrate one of the institutions of democracy. “No doubt, one is free to form an opinion and make fair criticism but if such an opinion is scandalous and malicious, the public expression of the same would also be at the risk of contempt jurisdiction. It cannot be forgotten that rights under Article 19(1) are subject to reasonable restrictions under Article 19(2) and rights of others cannot be infringed in the process. The same has to be balanced.” Read AlsoSC imposes token Re 1 fine on Bhushan for contempt, lawyer says he’ll pay upThe tempest over whether Prashant Bhushan should be punished for bringing the Supreme Court into contempt with his comments ended unspectacularly on Monday, with the court handing down the activist-advocate the easy option of paying Re 1 as fine to avoid the stringent default punishment ofOn freedom of press, the bench said that it was an important aspect of democracy. “We cannot control the thinking process and words operating in the mind of one individual, but when it comes to expression, it has to be within constitutional limits.” Referring to Bhushan’s remarks, the bench said: “Lawyers’ noble profession will lose all its significance and charm and dignity if lawyers are permitted to make any malicious, scandalous and scurrilous allegations against the institution of which they are a part. Lawyers are supposed to be fearlessly independent and robust but at the same time respectful to the institution.” The SC added: “If a scathing attack is made on judges, it would become difficult for them to work fearlessly and with the objectivity of approach to issues. The judgment can be criticised. However, motives to the judges need not be attributed, as it brings administration of justice into disrepute.” Responding to the argument that Bhushan, in his 35-year career, had made a huge contribution to society through PILs in the SC, the bench said: “Merely because a lawyer is involved in the filing of PIL for the public good does not arm him to harm the very system of which he is a part. It cannot be said that a person who is a lawyer having 35 years’ standing, who has made malicious and scandalous comments in tweets and amplified them by the averments made in the affidavit in reply which have the effect of denigrating the very institution to which he belongs, can be made honestly or in good faith.” The bench said for considering truth as valid defence, it must meet two requirements. “The sine qua non for considering truth as a valid defence are that the court should be satisfied that defence is in the public interest and the request for invoking the said defence is bona fide,” it said. “We are of the considered view that the defence taken is neither in public interest nor bona fide, but the contemnor has indulged in making reckless allegations against the institution of administration of justice. As referred by the attorney general, the averments are based on political consideration, and therefore in our view cannot be considered to support the case of the contemnor of truth as a defence. The allegations made are scandalous and are capable of shaking the very edifice of judicial administration and also shaking the faith of the common man in the administration of justice,” the bench added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/truth-is-a-defence-against-contempt-but-with-riders/articleshow/77861723.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
September 1, 2020||India||Review move to leave Assam out of ILP, govt told||GUWAHATI: The Supreme Court on Monday gave the Centre four weeks for a “comprehensive relook” at a presidential order excluding Assam from the inner-line permit system, whose implementation several outfits have demanded as a shield against CAA, reports Rokibuz Zaman. “We want to hear this matter. Even in the Kashmir issue, the same point was involved. Please reconsider your decision,” Chief Justice SA Bobde told attorney general KK Venugopal while adjourning the hearing of two petitions challenging the Adaptation of Laws (Amendment) Order, 2019, through which the ILP was extended to some northeastern states, excluding Assam. The petitioners, All Tai Ahom Students’ Union and Asom Jatiyatabadi Yuba Chatra Parishad, termed Assam’s exclusion “unconstitutional” and said the state required a system of regulating the entry of “outsiders”. Advocates Vikas Singh and Kaushik Choudhuryargued that the ILP system was crucial to insulating Assam from provisions in the new citizen-ship law that many organisations fear would leave the state burdened with illegal immigrants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/review-move-to-leave-assam-out-of-ilp-govt-told/articleshow/77861733.cms||---
September 1, 2020||India||Appear on October 5 to face penalty for contempt, SC tells Mallya||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Monday directed Vijay Mallya to appear before it on October 5 to face punishment to be awarded to him for contempt of court and asked the Centre to ensure the presence of the fugitive businessman who fled the country in 2016 and is now in London. A bench of Justices U U Lalit and Ashok Bhushan passed the order while rejecting Mallya’s plea for reconsideration of its 2017 verdict by which he was convicted for contempt for violating the court’s order by transferring US $40 million to his children’s accounts in foreign banks. “Now that the review petitions are dismissed, we direct respondent No 3 (Mallya) to appear before this court on October 5 at 02:00pm and also direct the ministry of home affairs, the Government of India to facilitate and ensure the presence of respondent before this court on that day,” the bench said. The apex court had issued notice to Mallya on March 8, 2016 on the plea by banks for recovery of about Rs 9,000 crore which he and his companies owed to them. He, however, managed to flee the country days before the SC took up the case against him. He was convicted for contempt of court in 2017 on a plea filed by a consortium of banks, led by SBI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/appear-on-october-5-to-face-penalty-for-contempt-sc-tells-mallya/articleshow/77861779.cms||Amit Anand Choudhary
September 1, 2020||India||India, China must find way to peacefully solve issues, says Jaishankar||NEW DELHI: On a day when military tensions between India and China built up in eastern Ladakh again, external affairs minister S Jaishankar said it is critical for both countries to reach an arrangement soon for peaceful conduct of bilateral relations. Addressing the US-India Strategic Partnership Forum (USISPF), Jaishankar said India has been “cognisant” of China’s rise and is impacted by it as an immediate neighbour. “But India has been rising too, and that’s equally important to remember,” he said. Asked about the Pakistan-China nexus, the minister said India factored it in while making policy. In recent weeks, as the struggle begins to pull the Indian economy out of the slowdown, both PM Modi and Jaishankar have been trying to woo global industry to ramp up investments in India. Responding to US business’ questions about the Indian government’s recently announced import embargoes on 100 items, the minister said, “We hope these products would be made in India. Please do invest in defence manufacturing in India. The Indian policy of “Atmanirbhar Bharat” is about increasing our national capacities.” He stressed that the path of economic recovery post Covid will be “focused on improving ease of doing business”. On Indo-US ties, Jaishankar said, “Today we have a level of political trust that we didn’t have earlier.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-china-must-find-way-to-peacefully-solve-issues-says-jaishankar/articleshow/77861801.cms||---
September 1, 2020||India||India trespassed on our land, taking countermeasures: China||NEW DELHI: After the Indian army cited another attempt by Chinese troops to unilaterally change the status quo in the Pangong Tso area on the night of August 29-30, China accused India of “illegally” trespassing the LAC on Monday at the southern bank of the lake and near the Reqin mountain. The PLA accused India of conducting “flagrant provocations” and said in a statement that China was taking “necessary countermeasures” to deal with the situation. In a statement, Zhang Shuili, spokesperson for the Western Theater Command of the PLA, urged India to immediately withdraw its troops and avoid any escalation. “We solemnly demand the Indian side to immediately withdraw its troops that are illegally trespassing the border line, strictly control and restrain its frontline troops and earnestly honor its commitments, so as to avoid further escalation in the situation,” he said, adding that China will closely follow the developments at LAC to “resolutely” safeguard its territorial sovereignty. The Chinese foreign ministry too denied that Chinese troops at any stage had violated the LAC. Indian government sources said though that the latest “provocation” by China followed its own admission after several rounds of talks that “positive progress” had been made in the military and diplomatic dialogue and sought to undo the consensus reached for early and complete disengagement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-trespassed-on-our-land-taking-countermeasures-china/articleshow/77861822.cms||---
September 1, 2020||World||India trespassed on our land, taking countermeasures: China||NEW DELHI: After the Indian army cited another attempt by Chinese troops to unilaterally change the status quo in the Pangong Tso area on the night of August 29-30, China accused India of “illegally” trespassing the LAC on Monday at the southern bank of the lake and near the Reqin mountain. The PLA accused India of conducting “flagrant provocations” and said in a statement that China was taking “necessary countermeasures” to deal with the situation. In a statement, Zhang Shuili, spokesperson for the Western Theater Command of the PLA, urged India to immediately withdraw its troops and avoid any escalation. “We solemnly demand the Indian side to immediately withdraw its troops that are illegally trespassing the border line, strictly control and restrain its frontline troops and earnestly honor its commitments, so as to avoid further escalation in the situation,” he said, adding that China will closely follow the developments at LAC to “resolutely” safeguard its territorial sovereignty. The Chinese foreign ministry too denied that Chinese troops at any stage had violated the LAC. Indian government sources said though that the latest “provocation” by China followed its own admission after several rounds of talks that “positive progress” had been made in the military and diplomatic dialogue and sought to undo the consensus reached for early and complete disengagement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/china/india-trespassed-on-our-land-taking-countermeasures-china/articleshow/77861824.cms||---
September 1, 2020||India||Indian Army’s counter-incursion foils China’s salami-slicing||NEW DELHI: China will continue with its `salami-slicing’ tactics to test India’s resolve in all the three sectors of the 3,488-km long Line of Actual Control (LAC), stretching from Ladakh to Arunachal Pradesh. But India is no longer averse to playing the cartographic hardball, stresses the Indian defence establishment. “The gloves have come off,” said a senior defence officer on Monday, after it became clear the Indian Army had undertaken a pre-emptive military manoeuver to occupy heights in the Chushul sector in eastern Ladakh to thwart Chinese designs. This is in tune with the thinking that the only way to force China to the negotiating table is through a “counter-incursion” to gain some much-needed leverage in the deadlocked negotiations over the proposed disengagement in Pangong Tso and Gogra as well as de-escalation in the Depsang-Daulat Beg Oldie sector. Read AlsoIndia trespassed on our land, taking countermeasures: ChinaAfter the Indian army cited another attempt by Chinese troops to unilaterally change the status quo in the Pangong Tso area on the night of August 29-30, China accused India of “illegally” trespassing the LAC on Monday at the southern bank of the lake and near the Reqin mountain.But this does not mean the Indian military action on the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday was an incursion into Chinese territory. A senior officer took pains to stress that the Indian forces had only occupied the Chushul heights that fell within India’s perception of the LAC. “Mountain warfare is all about occupying the dominating heights. China did surprise us with its multiple incursions into eastern Ladakh in early-May. It breached the understanding along the LAC. This time we have surprised the Chinese,” said another officer. Live updates: India-China LAC standoffBut the Indian establishment also realizes China, which is no Pakistan, is there for the long haul. The PLA has been furiously building infrastructure close to the LAC since early-May, which ranges from new roads, lateral links, helipads and bridges, while also augmenting the capacity of its airbases at Hotan and Kashgar (Xinjiang), Gargunsa, Lhasa-Gonggar and Shigatse (Tibet). It also includes the laying of optical fibre cables for its troops at the face-off sites in Pangong Tso and Gogra-Hot Springs areas, as reported by TOI earlier. The main Hotan airbase facing eastern Ladakh has well over 40 fighters, which includes the latest J-20 fifth-generation jets as well as J-11s and J-8s, as well as some AEW&C (airborne early-warning and control) aircraft and armed drones. Other bases like Kashgar have six to eight Xian H-6K bombers, apart from fighters. “The deployment is 30 to 40% more than the usual,” said another officer. Read AlsoFor China border, 6 new artillery rocket regimentsNEW DELHI: The defence ministry on Monday inked contracts worth Rs 2,580 crore for six new regiments of the indigenous Pinaka multi-launch artillery rocket systems, which have a strike range of 40-km. The acquisitions wing of the MoD signed the contracts with defence PSU Bharat Earth Movers Ltd“The threat is clear. The multiple incursions in early-May could not have taken place without the explicit clearance from the top Chinese political-military hierarchy. The two steps forward and one step back typifies China’s behaviour over the years to incrementally grab Indian territory,” he added. The PLA is also establishing surface-to-air missile sites in its “depth areas” around 50 to 100-km from the LAC, opposite areas like Lipulekh, Naku La and Doklam in different sectors, to guard against Indian fighters. India, of course, has counter-deployed in all the areas. Watch Indian Army’ foils China’s salami-slicing tactic, occupies heights in Chushul sector||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/indian-armys-counter-incursion-foils-chinas-salami-slicing/articleshow/77861837.cms||Rajat Pandit
September 1, 2020||India||SCO: Russia waiting for Jaishankar’s confirmation||Russia is awaiting official confirmation of India's participation in a meeting of the SCO foreign ministers on September 10. If he does travel, foreign minister S Jaishankar will for the first time come face to face with his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi since the current military standoff with China was reported in early May. As reported by ToI on August 2, Russia had proposed that both BRICS and SCO foreign ministers meet physically in Moscow on September 10. However, diplomatic sources said, the BRICS meeting will now be held virtually on Friday this week. As per a tentative schedule, the Indian foreign minister is expected to arrive in Moscow late evening on September 9. India and Russia are also likely to use the opportunity to hold a meeting of the India-Russia Inter-Governmental Commission on Trade, Economic, Scientific, Technological and Cultural Cooperation (IRIGC-TEC) which guides bilateral economic cooperation. The IRIGC-TEC is chaired by the Indian foreign minister and Russian deputy PM. Pakistan's foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi will also be present at the SCO meeting. It will be interesting to see though if Jaishankar and Wang hold a bilateral meeting to defuse the border situation. The two leaders spoke after the June 15 Galwan clash and while the conversation did help establish the "broad principles" for disengagement in eastern Ladakh, the actual process on the ground remains far from complete. There has been fresh sign of trouble actually at Pangong, where the Chinese have stayed put despite the understandings reached apparently in the military commanders' meetings, with the Indian Army accusing Chinese troops Monday of making another attempt to unilaterally change the status quo. India though has maintained that while it can't be business as usual with China, it will not shy away from any engagement with Beijing on multilateral fora. Both BRICS and SCO meetings will help prepare the ground for the summits later this year in St Petersburg. Russia currently holds the chairmanship of both the organisations. Jaishankar, if he travels, will also be only the second minister to travel abroad since the Covid-19 lockdown came into effect in March. Defence minister Rajnath Singh had travelled to Moscow in June for the Victory Day parade. Significantly, India is also the host this year for the SCO heads of government meeting that is expected to take place on November 30. The government had said in January this year that heads of government of all eight member-states, including Pakistan, will be invited for the meeting "as per established practice and procedure" of SCO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sco-russia-waiting-for-jaishankars-confirmation/articleshow/77861842.cms||Sachin Parashar
September 1, 2020||India||For China border, 6 new artillery rocket regiments||NEW DELHI: The defence ministry on Monday inked contracts worth Rs 2,580 crore for six new regiments of the indigenous Pinaka multi-launch artillery rocket systems, which have a strike range of 40-km. The acquisitions wing of the MoD signed the contracts with defence PSU Bharat Earth Movers Ltd (BEML) and private sector companies, Tata Power Company Ltd (TPCL) and Larsen & Toubro (L&T). The six Pinaka Regiments comprise 114 Launchers with automated gun-aiming and -positioning system and 45 command posts to be procured from TPCL and L&T, along with 330 vehicles from BEML. “These six Pinaka regiments will be operationalised along the northern and eastern borders of our country (with China), further enhancing the operation preparedness of our armed forces. Induction of the Pinaka regiments is planned to be completed by 2024,” said an MoD official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/for-china-border-6-new-artillery-rocket-regiments/articleshow/77861843.cms||---
September 1, 2020||India||Congress attacks govt on Ladakh stand-off, BJP strikes back||NEW DELHI: BJP and Congress engaged in a war of words on Monday over the LAC stand-off with the saffron outfit hitting back at the opposition party after it targeted the government over the latest attempt of transgression by Chinese troops in Ladakh. BJP asked why Congress is “crying” when the Indian Army has kept the nation’s territorial integrity secure by thwarting the neighbouring country’s designs. Party spokesperson Sambit Patra said India and PM Modi have shown “red eyes” to China and questioned as to why is Congress showing “moist eyes”. Citing the defence ministry statement that Indian troops had thwarted the latest attempt by Chinese troops to transgress in south bank Pangong Lake, Patra said,“BJP and the people of India salute the Indian Army. The bravery with which they have discharged their duty and protected India’s sovereignty deserves our salute.” “I want to ask Randeep Surjewala, Rahul Gandhi that we have red eyes but why do you have moist eyes? Whenever we are attacked or we carry out a surgical strike to destroy terrorist camps, then why do you start crying? You should be happy,” he said. He was responding to the jibe by Congress spokesperson Surjewala who tweeted, “Another brazen attempt at aggression by China in Pangong Tso Lake. Everyday there is a Chinese intrusion... Pangong Tso Lake area, Gogra and Galwan valley, Depsang plains, Lipu Lake, Doka La and Naku La pass. Our armed forces are standing fearlessly to protect Mother India. But when will Modi ji show his red eyes.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/congress-attacks-govt-on-ladakh-stand-off-bjp-strikes-back/articleshow/77861845.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Hubballi||Demand for govt to recognise Noor Inayat Khan’s legacy||Hubballi: While English Heritage, a charity organisation, has accorded a distinct blue plaque for Noor Inayat Khan, the Indian-origin woman who worked as a spy for Britain during World War II, the demand for an Indian recognition has intensified, especially from Karnataka as she was a descendant of 18th century ruler Tipu Sultan. Rajya Sabha MP Rajeev Chandrasekhar, who has been requesting the Union government to accord recognition for Noor Inayat Khan since 2006 in Parliament, told TOI that then defence minister Pranab Mukherjee had visited Noor’s memorial in France and had recognized her bravery. “We have been urging the government that our youth awards should be renamed after her. She was the first woman to have landed in enemy territory of occupied France in World War-II,” he said. He noted that Noor Inayat Khan has been recognised by the British and French governments and people. “It’s appropriate that India too does the same with a fitting tribute. It can name the children’s bravery awards after her,” he said. Writer Chandrashekhar Mandekolu, who has written a biography ‘Noor Inayat Khan’, said she was an enthusiast of multiple religions. “She recalled Lord Krishna’s words from the Bhagavad Gita when she was confused over the use of violence during Worlld war II. She had also translated 20 of the Buddha’s Jataka Tales into English. In an interview during world War II, she was asked if her loyalty was towards Britain or India, she firmly said it’s towards Britain until Hitler is defeated and France is freed from his clutches and later it’s towards India,” he said. “Though she was born in a Muslim family, she used to keep the Upanishads with her, and she was influenced by her father Inayat Khan, a Sanskrit scholar,” he added. Her life story should be introduced in textbooks of Karnataka and India as well, he urged. Rahamat Tarikere, a Sufism enthusiast and a professor at Kannada University, Hampi, said Noor is the pride of all Kannadigas and Indians for belonging to the family tree of Tipu Sultan. “Noor and her father spread Indian music and Sufism across Europe. Though Noor was not an Indian officially, her heart was in India. Hence, she should be accorded appropriate recognition on the lines of Kalpana Chawla, who did not have Indian citizenship,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/demand-for-govt-to-recognise-noor-inayat-khans-legacy/articleshow/77858403.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
September 1, 2020||Patna||Postal dept to transport local products across country: Min||PATNA: The postal department would become a source hub for the promotion and transportation of small products of Bihar across the country through post offices, Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad announced on Monday. He asked the MPs, MLAs and MLCs to provide the list of popular products of their respective regions. The minister said small artists, entrepreneurs and manufacturing units would get a boost as the postal department would provide them a platform to promote and transport their products across the country. Speaking at the inauguration and foundation stone laying ceremony via videoconferencing for various projects of Bihar postal circle, he said, “In Bihar, Madhubani painting is a popular art form while people are also engaged in button-making business. Now, we will promote such small products with the help of post offices in India,” he said. Ravi inaugurated the newly constructed head post office in Lohia Nagar, Patna Sahib postal division, Muzaffarpur’s parcel hub and head post office in Begusarai. He also laid foundation stone for Khusrupur sub post office and regional office of postal department in Bhagalpur. He instructed the officials concerned to complete the new building work within a time frame. The minister announced that 25 more ATMs of IPPB would come up at different post offices. The announcement came after deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi requested him to increase the number of ATMs at post offices. There are 44 ATMs at post offices. He praised the postal department officials for their efforts to deliver goods, medicines and monetary relief to people during the coronavirus-induced lockdown. “Around 60,000 food packets were distributed by the postal department in Bihar and over 1 lakh in India. We have delivered 10,133 tonnes of medicines, besides ventilators and personal protective equipment kits across the country,” Ravi said. He added: “India Post has provided cash to the tune of Rs629 crore at the doorsteps, of which Rs447 crore were provided to 32 lakh people through Aadhaar enabled payments system (AePs) during the lockdown.” SuMo said during the lockdown, the Centre sent Rs500 each to the account of 2.38 crore women of Bihar for three months. “The post office played a major role in the withdrawal of money during lockdown and also benefited the people by delivering cash at their doorsteps. Of Rs629 crore, Rs342 crore were provided to 18 lakh account holders in Bihar,” he said. Union minister Giriraj Singh, urban development and housing minister Suresh Kumar Sharma and MLAs Ranvijay Singh, Sanjeev Chaurasia, Ajay Nishad, Arun Kumar Sinha, Ajay Mandal and officials of postal department were also present in the ceremony virtually.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/postal-dept-to-transport-local-products-across-country-min/articleshow/77858484.cms||Faryal Rumi
September 1, 2020||Dehradun||Complete promotion process in depts within a week: ACS||Dehradun: Taking cognisance of the delay in departmental promotions, additional chief secretary (ACS) Radha Raturi on Monday issued orders directing the state officials and the head of several departments to ensure that the promotion process is completed within a week. She added that all the posts of promotion which were lying vacant need to be filled up within a week. “It has been brought to my knowledge by different employee unions that the process for promotion was being delayed in many departments,” Raturi said. Terming the delay unjustified, she said that it needs to be rectified on priority basis. Earlier in March, the state government had also issued orders with regard to the completion of the promotion process. Virendra Gosain, general secretary of secretariat employees’ union, told TOI, “There were roughly around 40,000 pending promotions in the state, out of which 60% have been done and the rest are still pending.” On several occasions, we have asked the authorities concerned to get the process completed.” In September last year, the government had stopped promotions in all government departments as the matter of reservation in promotions was ongoing in the Supreme Court. After the Apex Court order, the state government, in March this year, ordered officials to start the promotion exercise in their respective departments. “While many departments compiled with the instructions, there were some which did not get the process started. It was a great injustice to employees, especially those who are on verge of retirement,” added Gosain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/complete-promotion-process-in-depts-within-a-week-acs/articleshow/77858417.cms||Kautilya Singh
September 1, 2020||Hubballi||BSF soldier from Vijayapura dies in J&K||Vijayapura: A BSF soldier hailing from Vijayapura district died after being electrocuted while on duty at Jammu & Kashmir on Sunday. The deceased is Shivanand Jagannath Badiger, 29, a resident of Basarkod in Muddebihal taluk. He was working as a guard at BSF’s electric section for a decade. He reportedly had served at the border with Bangladesh and China earlier. Family sources said they got intimation from BSF that Shivanand was electrocuted while on duty. “He was married to Pushpa of Tumbagi village in Talikoti taluk a year ago,” they added. Shivanand’s brother Kalappa said their parents fell unconscious after they heard the news. “We have requested the district administration to bring the body at the earliest,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/bsf-soldier-from-vijayapura-dies-in-jk/articleshow/77858550.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Covid warrior BDO dies of infection||BEHRAMPORE: More than a month after Chandernagore deputy magistrate Debadutta Roy succumbed to Covid, the disease has claimed the life of another WBCS officer and block development officer (BDO) of Murshidabad’s Nowda. Krishna Chandra Das, 51, passed away on Sunday night. Das had fever from August 4 and his swab sample was taken on August 6. After the report came positive, he was admitted to Behrampore Matrisadan Covid hospital on August 8. He was shifted to a private hospital in Kolkata the next day after developing acute respiratory distress. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee expressed her condolence to the Das family, friends and colleagues on Twitter. Banerjee referred to his death as an “irreparable loss” and described Das as “a dedicated WBCS officer at the forefront of the fight against Covid-19 who displayed a great sense of sincerity and commitment to his work in the pandemic situation”. Das, who was originally from Joynagar, is survived by his wife Malati, two daughters and a son. “My husband had respiratory problems due to asthma and underwent surgery for a tumor in his head about one-and-a-half years ago. He also had high pressure and diabetes,” Malati said. Sudipta Porel, additional district magistrate (zilla parishad), said, “As a frontline Covid warrior, Das tried to make people aware of the need to wear masks and adopt other preventive measures. We express condolence to the bereaved family members.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cov-warrior-bdo-dies-of-infection/articleshow/77859510.cms||Sukumar Mahato
September 1, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Congress set to start assembly poll campaign today||PATNA: Congress will kick-start its virtual rally from West Champaran on Tuesday. Christened ‘Bihar Kranti Mahasabha’, it will be the launch of Congress campaign in state for the upcoming assembly election. The party has planned 100 such rallies, at least two in each district. Sources said these rallies would indicate the constituencies where Congress is interested to field its candidates. “We will hold rallies in all the 41 assembly constituencies we had contested in the last assembly election, besides 50 to 60 new ones. Our virtual rallies are actually focused on the seats we are planning to contest,” a senior Congress leader said. As per the list prepared, the first phase of rallies will be held in the 43 assembly constituencies, mainly in North Bihar, till September 21. The second list is awaited. When asked about the focus on north Bihar constituencies, Congress’s minority wing head Minnat Rahmani said, “We are starting this virtual rally from West Champaran because of Gandhi Ji’s association with this district. Also, Valmiki Nagar will have byelection.” State Congress campaign committee chairman Anand Madhab said the preparations for virtual rallies have been done and a stage has been made at the party office here for state party leaders to address workers and people. “There will be national, state and district level leaders in all the rallies. We have targeted 10,000 people in each rally. We will tell them about the promises not fulfilled by chief minister Nitish Kumar and schemes which our party will implement after coming to power,” said Anand. As per the first phase schedule, party leaders will address a meeting in Bettiah and Narkatiyaganj assembly constituencies in West Champaran district on Tuesday, followed by Valmiki Nagar and Ram Nagar the next day. Congress had contested all these seats in 2015 and had won Narkatiyaganj and Bettiah seats. Other assembly constituencies which the party leaders will address in the first phase include Kalyanpur, Govindganj, Belsand, Pipra, Riga, Bajpatti, Harlakhi, Benipatti, Supaul, Nirmali, Araria, Forbesganj, Amour, Kasba, Kadwa, Manihari, Kodha, Pranpur, Alamnagar, Bihariganj, Sonbarsa, Mahishi, Jale, Benipur, Paroo, Kanti, Bhore, Baikunthpur, Maharajganj, Barhariya, Manjhi, Ekma, Hajipur, Lalganj and Vaishali. The first phase will conclude with rallies in Rosera and Bibhutipur in Samastipur district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/congress-set-to-start-poll-campaign-today/articleshow/77858615.cms||Sheezan Nezami
September 1, 2020||Business||At Rs 47,000 crore, FPIs buy record stocks in August||MUMBAI: Bucking the trend of selling in most emerging market equities, foreign fund managers have been buying in India in August. The chief reason is the sensex that was rising through the month, prompting mainly exchange-traded funds (ETFs) to buy in the domestic market. Official data showed that in August, net inflow by foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) was more than Rs 47,000 crore — a record in over a decade. In the last three months, total net FPI inflows have been nearly Rs 80,000 crore. However, because of a net outflow of nearly Rs 62,000 crore in March when the benchmark indices had fallen sharply soon after the Covid-19 outbreak was declared a global pandemic, the net inflows for 2020 is at about Rs 36,100 crore, data from CDSL showed. Institutional dealers said that ETFs managed from abroad and registered as FPIs in India have the mandate to follow a preset benchmark like the Nifty, sensex or some other index. So if the ETF’s benchmark goes up, the fund manager has to buy, and sell when the benchmark slides. With the sensex rising above the 39k mark after six months and above 40k on Monday during the day’s session after more than six months, these FPIs had to buy Indian stocks and thus added to the total FPI net inflow figure. On Monday, however, FPIs showed a net outflow as the indices fell sharply. Read AlsoSensex crashes 839 points on bad newsMUMBAI: Fresh tensions on the India-China border in the Ladakh region and markets regulator Sebi’s refusal to extend the date for a new margining system weighed on the sensex on Monday, which slid over 1,600 points from its early high. It finally closed at 38,628 — down 839 points, or 2.1%, on theWatch At Rs 47,000 crore, FPIs buy record stocks in August||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/at-rs-47k-cr-fpis-buy-record-stocks-in-aug/articleshow/77860332.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Record engagement of disabled persons in NREGA||JAIPUR: The rural development department, which has set a target to engage 50,000 specially abled people under the scheme in 2020-21, has already engaged over 24,582 disabled persons in NREGA work this year, the highest ever in the state. A lot of people who lost their jobs because of lockdown got themselves engaged in NREGA work, including persons with disabilities (PwDs). The total number of PwDs registered in NREGA is 69,864 and the persondays generated by them so far is 6.76 lakh (in 2020-21). In 2019-20, the engagement of disabled workers in MGNREGA work was 21,472; 15,942 in 2018-19; 12,882 in 2017-18; 10,320 in 2016-17; 7,195 in 2015-16; 4,071 in 2014-15; and 3,122 in 2013-14. “We are strictly monitoring the engagement of specially abled persons in MGNREGA work. We have issued two orders to the district collectors – to monitor the number of disabled mates engaged in NREGA work and to check the number of disabled persons working in the field,” said state’s MGNREGA commissioner P C Kishan. “We have given them a target to engage 50,000 PwDs this year (2020-21). It will be difficult to achieve the target, but we will try. Generally, people are not sensitive towards specially abled persons. But, we have asked the collectors monitor this aspect and educate people about it,” he added. Last year, the MGNREGA department had identified various soft activities/tasks for persons with disabilities. Around 15-20 tasks were identified by the department. This includes plantation work, distributing drinking water to workers, taking care of labour’s child and nursery activities. Other soft activities include digging earth, carrying mud from one place to other, prepare seeds for sowing, preparation of saplings before plantation, applying manure and watering the plants||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/record-engagement-of-disabled-persons-in-nrega/articleshow/77860761.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Business||PhonePe to hire 10,000 contract workers||BENGALURU: Payments platform PhonePe plans to hire 10,000 contract workers to more than double its feet-on-street team tasked to on-board small shops or kiranas as merchants accepting digital payments. Its current merchant-onboarding team is about 8,000 strong. PhonePe, which has over 11 million merchants, is aiming to more than double this base to 25 million in 12 months as it kicks-off the expansion amid the pandemic when digital payment volumes are rising. This is particularly aimed at widening digital payments acceptance in semi-urban and rural areas. The Bengaluru-based company said it will also on-board these kiranas on its PhonePe for Business app to offer them full-stack services including payment confirmations, receipts and reconciliations. This comes at a time when the payments firm has emerged as the top platform for peer-to-merchant (P2M) transactions on Unified Payments Interface (UPI) ahead of rivals Google Pay, Paytm and Amazon Pay. In July, it clocked a total 540-550 million transaction on UPI, 40-50% of which is P2M, people aware of the matter said. Overall on UPI too, the share of P2M transactions has been rising, in the range of 40-45% of total transactions, over the past few months as people opt for online payments for various use-cases apart from sending each other money. PhonePe said despite the penetration of digital payments, kiranas across India still rely on cash. “While kirana owners have smartphones, data and the aspiration to adopt newer technology, but there are no services that match their aspirations. Kiranas are looking to acquire customers and forge deeper relationships with them. Customers, on the other hand, are looking for safety and convenience, while continuing to access their local trusted neighbourhood merchant,” the company said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/phonepe-to-hire-10k-contract-workers/articleshow/77860180.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Business||RBI unveils more steps to arrest rising bond yields||MUMBAI: To manage the rising trend in yields in the government securities (G-secs) market, which have wider ramifications for the interest rate in the economy, the RBI on Monday announced additional measures. These steps are expected to soften the yields in the bond market. In the last three weeks, the benchmark yield on the 10-year G-sec had hardened from about 5.80% per annum to a high of 6.25%. However, last week after the RBI announced two open market operations (OMOs) aggregating Rs 20,000 crore and also refused to auction G-secs at higher yields, the 10-year benchmark on Monday closed at 6.12%. After the bond market closed for the day, the central bank announced two more weekly OMOs in September totalling Rs 20,000 crore and increased the amount of G-secs banks could invest under their held-to-maturity (HTM) portfolio to 22% from 19.5% now. The RBI also said that banks could refinance some of their loans taken earlier, under a special liquidity measure christened long-term repo operation (LTRO), at a lower rate of 4% compared to 5.15% earlier. According to a report by Acuite Ratings, the steps taken by the RBI are aimed at cooling down the bond yields. The measures “will help to stabilise the bond yield curve, which has suddenly become a bit steep”. The increase in HTM limit for statutory liquidity ratio securities will also enable banks to purchase additional government papers and address the short-term marked-to-market concerns, which could have led to losses for banks. “Additionally, the RBI has also proposed large-scale term repo operations in September when advance tax flows are likely to impact the system liquidity and, thereby, give a boost to the banks’ fresh investments in both government and corporate bonds,” the report said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rbi-unveils-more-steps-to-arrest-rising-bond-yields/articleshow/77860305.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Mysuru||Increased demand for honeybee farming in Kodagu||Mysuru: Honeybee farming or apiculture is slowly regaining its popularity in Kodagu district owing to Covid-19 pandemic that has rendered many youths homeless and compelled them to return to their native places and take up the traditional occupation. There has been an increase in the demand for bee boxes from the horticulture department and the Khadi and Village Industries Commission since the past few months. Bhagamandala and regions around Brahmagiri, Talacauvery and Pushpagiri forest areas are known for honey production. However, sacbrood virus threatened honey production in the 90s. Presently, there are around 12,050 people who are involved in bee farming and are using 65,000 bee boxes. Youths who had settled in Bengaluru and other places have returned to Kodagu due to coronavirus threat and many of them have shown interest in bee farming. “There have been regular calls to the horticulture department for bee boxes. We have supplied 120 boxes in Madikeri, 100 in Somavarpet and 50 in Virajpet,” said horticulture department authorities. Usually the demand for boxes starts after the monsoon. Every year around 1,000 boxes are distributed by the horticulture department. However, this year, there has been demand for bee boxes much before the monsoon ends. “Youths are visiting the office to seek advice on whether bee farming is a profitable business with less investment,” said horticulture department officer B.D Vasanth. K S Purushothamma, apiculture trainer, Khadi and Village Industries Commission, told TOI that every year training will be given to around 100 people in bee farming. Karnataka’s only bee farming training centre is in Bhagamandala. The government provides bee boxes in subsidized rates. Bee keeping process starts in November-December and the harvesting will be done by April. -||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/increased-demand-for-honeybee-farming-in-kodagu/articleshow/77858767.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
September 1, 2020||Mysuru||Kindarijogi to woo kids in digital series||Mysuru: Primary school children across the state may soon enjoy a digital series of poet laureate Kuvempu’s popular classic “Bommanahalliya Kindarijogi’ created by Rangayana. Rangayana director Addanda C Cariappa on Monday met primary education minister S Suresh Kumar in Bengaluru and urged him to take steps to make school children view the digital theatre series ‘Kindarajogi’. The play has been recorded in the form of ‘vachikabhinaya’ (reading dialogues or speech -act play) by Rangayana artistes in neutral costumes. Suresh Kumar confirmed the meeting on Twitter. Cariappa told TOI, “Kindarajogi, a fairy tale like poem was written by Kuvempu when he was just 18. He wrote this poem inspired by Robert Browning’s ‘Pied Piper of Hamlin’ to entertain and to spread moral education among children.” “It exposes kids to morals like gratitude and betrayal. These speech -acts play carries more significance to the present world where breaking promises has almost become the order of the day,” he added. He said that earlier, former education minister HG Govindegowda and theatre veteran BV Karan had vouched for this poem as a mean to provide moral education. “I conveyed the same to the minister and urged him to introduce the ‘Kindarajogi’ digital series to schoolchildren. We created it to keep theatre fans busy when people stayed at home during the Covid-19 lockdown,” he said. Rangayana had also released the digital series of Devanuru’s play Kusumabale and SL Bhairappa’s ‘Parva’ along with Kindarajogi. Cariappa said three cameras were used to record the artists’ performance for the digital series. They would sit and read from the book and act with their hands as necessitated by the character. As many as 16 artistes took part in this exercise. The background music has been scored by Rangayana artistes. In total, there are nine episodes, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/kindarajogi-to-woo-kids-in-digital-series/articleshow/77858722.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Patna||42k apply for admission to UG courses in Patna University||PATNA: Patna University (PU) has received more than 42,000 applications for admission of students to various courses both under the conventional and self-financing modes for the 2020-21 academic session. The last date for online submission of applications for admission to undergraduate (UG) courses ended on Monday. PU registrar Manoj Kumar Mishra told this newspaper that the last date for online submission of applications for admission to postgraduate (PG) courses had been extended till September 21 in view of the delay in publication of results. “The examination of one theory and some practical papers of the last final year degree examinations will be held in mid-September after reviewing the situation,” Mishra said, adding that students would be given enough time to submit their graduation marks along with the application forms for admission to the PG courses. According to the latest figures, as many as 10,200 students have applied for admission to the BA course against altogether 1,650 seats, including 600 each in Patna College and B N College and 450 in Magadh Mahila College. Similarly, more than 10,000 applications have been received for admission to the BSc programme against 1,206 seats in science stream, including 600 in Patna Science College, 350 in B N College and 256 in Magadh Mahila College. Nearly 9,500 students have applied for admission to the BCom course against 650 seats (400 in Vanijya Mahavidyalaya and 250 in Magadh Mahila College under self-financing scheme). Admission to the UG courses in different colleges of PU will be held through faculty-wise combined entrance tests. According to a tentative programme, the entrance test for admission to BCom will be held on September 26 and that for BA will be held on September 28. The entrance test for admission to BSc and BFA will be held on September 29 and 30, respectively. “While Magadh Mahila College has been authorized to hold combined entrance test for admission to BA and BCom courses, Patna Science College will conduct the entrance test for BSc programme,” the registrar said. He added, “The entrance test for all self-financing courses at UG and PG levels will be held between September 30 and October 7. Admission to all the conventional PG courses will be held on the basis of marks obtained in the last graduation examination.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/42k-apply-for-admission-to-ug-courses-in-patna-university/articleshow/77858630.cms||B K Mishra
September 1, 2020||Patna||Admn: 90% of patients in home isolation recovered in Patna district||PATNA: Over 90.2% of Covid patients in home isolation in Patna district have so far recovered and the rest are on course to recovery, officials said on Monday. Altogether 16,194 Covid patients have so far opted for home isolation in the district and 14,622 of them, including 4,080 women, have recovered with the help of Covid care management cell constituted by the district administration. As of now, 1,572 patients are in home isolation in the district, including 32.6% women. Among these patients, 8.2% are symptomatic. Of the total recovered patients, 6,522 people are in the age group of 20 to 39 years, 5,094 (age group 40-50 years), 1,500 (age group 0-19 years), 1,389 (age group 60-79 years) and 177 (age group 80-99 years). According to data available with the state health department, 21,045 people have so far contracted the virus in Patna. Of them, 18,733 have recovered and active cases in the district stand at 2,150. Patna DM Kumar Ravi said 56 patients were shifted to isolation centres or hospitals from home isolation after consultations with Covid care management cell experts. “Three patients were shifted to health facilities on August 30 and 21 on August 28. We have distributed 56 medicine kits to people at doorsteps so far, including seven on Sunday,” he said. The DM added, “The Covid care management cell has so far made 51,736 calls to people under home quarantine to check their health status. While 939 people were given medical advice by health experts, 1,168 others were connected to the telemedicine cell.” According to the administration, no patient has so far died under home isolation in the district. Covid patients under home isolation have been advised to eat only healthy food, do exercise or yoga and drink ‘kadha’ and turmeric milk once a day for speedy recovery. A 22-year-old girl from West Boring Canal Road, who has been under home isolation for the last seven days, said she took help of doctors for speedy recovery. “The doctors advised me to take vitamin B12 and C supplements, which is effective to fight the virus. I wear face mask even at home,” she added. Another 38-year-old patient, who is hopeful of recovering from the disease in the next five days, said the crucial period was over now. “Two members in my family tested positive, including me. We isolated ourselves at home. I was having mild fever. However, I am now experiencing only sore throat,” he added. City-based physician Dr Diwakar Tejaswi said exercise, yoga and proper health diet were essential for speedy recovery from the virus. “People should only eat healthy food and take vitamin C, D and zinc. They should at least check their pulse rate thrice a day through oximeter,” he said, adding wearing mask at home was also necessary for containment of the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/admn-90-of-patients-in-home-isolation-recovered-in-patna-district/articleshow/77858549.cms||Faryal Rumi
September 1, 2020||Business||Sensex crashes 839 points on bad news||MUMBAI: Fresh tensions on the India-China border in the Ladakh region and markets regulator Sebi’s refusal to extend the date for a new margining system weighed on the sensex on Monday, which slid over 1,600 points from its early high. It finally closed at 38,628 — down 839 points, or 2.1%, on the day. Selling was across the board as 27 of the 30 sensex stocks closed lower with Reliance Industries, ICICI Bank and HDFC contributing the most to the index’s fall, BSE data showed. Expectations of a steep decline in GDP growth numbers and the rising number of coronavirus infections also made investors on Dalal Street nervous. Strong selling by foreign funds, with net outflow at Rs 3,395 crore during the day, further contributed to the index’s fall, market players said. Domestic funds, however, cushioned the slide with a Rs 681-crore net inflow. Sebi has proposed changes to some rules related to margin that traders and investors pay for buying and selling in the market. However, traders said the back-end system needed to migrate the current system into the new process is not ready yet. Monday onwards, brokers were trying to follow the new system ahead of the deadline, which led to some selling in the market. On Monday afternoon, Sebi had a meeting with brokers — along with officials from the exchanges, depositories and clearing corporations — to take stock of the situation. After that, the markets regulator said that the deadline would not be extended, contrary to the demand by brokers, a release by ANMI, a brokers’ body said. Under the new system, buying as well as selling of shares will require upfront margin (deposit of some cash or cash equivalent with the exchange) — a departure from the current system of charging margin only for buying. This will require extra cash for trading in the market. Sebi also said that a stock bought today can’t be sold the next day — another departure from the current system that allows buying today and selling the next day, called buy-today, sell-tomorrow system. According to Kotak Securities EVP (equity technical research) Shrikant Chouhan, the implementation of the new margin norms came just as the market was grappling with the fresh India-China dispute along the border. “Anticipation of a sharp contraction in India’s GDP, the highest number of Covid-19 cases being recorded in a day and concerns of the virus spreading to rural India — all contributed to the fall in the index that broke the lowest level in the last six days,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sensex-crashes-839-pts-on-bad-news/articleshow/77860430.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Surat||Surat shows vision to fight blindness||SURAT: The raging coronavirus pandemic has not deterred the philanthropic spirit of Surat. As the country celebrates Eye Donation Awareness week, Surat has topped all Gujarat districts in giving vision to the blind in the period from April to July 30. According to the data of National Programme for Control of Blindness and Visual Impairment (NPCBVI), of the 282 corneas collected during this period, 138 were donated in Surat district alone. A majority of the donations came in the 40 days after the lockdown relaxations were given in June, said ’‘ Dr. Praful Shiroya, President, Lokdrashti Eye Bank, Surat, told TOI. Paresh Bhatiya, who retired as a pharmacist from Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) two months ago, can't thank enough for regaining vision. "Due to infections in my cornea, I lost vision in one eye in 2010. For a few weeks, I was completely blind when I was undergoing treatment. Meanwhile, I got cornea transplant done and regained complete vision. I can even see without spectacles,” Bhatiya, 58, a resident of Rander, told TOI. In 2019 too, Surat had topped the state in eye donation with 1,556 collections and the district has been topping in this activity in Gujarat for the last three years, smashing its own records. “We resumed eye donation collection 15 days around June 15,” added Dr Shiroya whose eye bank has been active in this work for the past 24 years. "On August 28, my aunt Kantaben Patel died at the age of 68 in Surat. Our family members have always supported the cause of organ donation. So, we did not wait even for a minute to call the eye bank to collect her cornea after death. Her husband’s eyes were also donated when he died few years ago'' said, Dinesh, Kantaben's nephew. As part of the ongoing ‘Eye donation Awareness Week’, the eye bank has launched a massive campaign to create awareness among people for cornea donations. A special rath (chariot) to enlighten people about the importance of eye donation is run in Surat city and district where pamphlets of information and contact details are distributed. On an average, the eye bank collects 1,300 donated eyes every year in Surat. Despite Covid-19 pandemic, the eye bank staff was responding real time whenever they received calls from the relatives of donors. Nilesh Mandlewala, founder of Donate Life, an NGO working for organ donations, added, “Despite crisis, Surat does not change its character, which is giving during life or even after death. The awareness campaigns for eye donation have played pivotal role in people coming forward.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-shows-vision-to-fight-blindness/articleshow/77858416.cms||Vijaysinh Parmar
September 1, 2020||Chennai||Turning cabbie to help hubby, she is now Tamil Nadu’s first woman 108 driver||CHENNAI: As she wore the white coat over her salwar and pushed her feet into the new pair of shiny black shoes, M Veeralakshmi smiled and posed for cameras. She will be the state’s first woman at the wheels of the 108 ambulance. “I did not know I was the first woman when I was offered the job in June. My family was worried that I was being offered a job as a frontline worker at the time of pandemic,” said 30-year-old Veeralakshmi, who was working as cab driver and teaching many others to drive. “I was working to help my husband and earn some money for the family. But I wanted to achieve more,” said Veeralakshmi, who holds a diploma in automobile engineering and has a heavy vehicles driving licence. Last week, when she sat on the passenger seat next to an 108 ambulance driver, as part of the week-long training, she was terrified. “That’s when I understood the seriousness of the job. I was scared when I saw blood all around me,” she said. On Monday, none of these expressions showed on her face. “I saw most people got better when they reached the hospital on time. That made me feel great,” she said. Her six-year-old son watched the 118 ambulances with awe as chief minister Eddapadi K Palaniswami flagged them off. The boy and his 10-year-old sister waved at their mother when he drove past them. EMRI officials said the fleet count now stood at 1,005 ambulances, of which 350 vehicles have been set aside for Covid-19. Among the 118 new additions, were 90 ambulances with lifesaving medical equipment, 10 high-tech vehicles for transporting blood for 10 government blood banks from camps, and 18 other ambulances donated by the ZEE group.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/turning-cabbie-to-help-hubby-she-is-now-tns-1st-woman-108-driver/articleshow/77860795.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Patna||Covid-19: Bihar records 87% recovery rate, 1,324 fresh positive cases||PATNA: Altogether 1,324 new Covid-19 cases were registered in Bihar in the past 24 hours, taking the state’s tally to 1,36,337 till Monday. However, 2,267 patients got cured in the past 24 hours and 1,19,572 people have recovered from the virus infection in Bihar so far. With six official deaths, the toll mounted up to 694 and active cases stood at 16,069. The health department stated that 90,024 samples were tested in the past 24 hours and total 31,87,161 samples had been tested in state so far. State’s recovery rate stands at 87.70% As per the Union minister of health and family welfare, Bihar was at 11th position in terms of active Covid-19 cases in the country. The data till 8am on Monday shows Mumbai at the top with 1.93 lakhs active cases. The same data showed 17,333 active cases in Bihar till 8am. As per the data shared by the state health department, Patna registered 154 new cases, taking the tally to 21,045 in the district. However, with 18,733 recoveries and 162 deaths, active cases stand at 2150. The other districts with high number of fresh cases included Bhagalpur (125), Madhubani (68), Purnia (65), Gopalganj (58), Gaya (52) and East Champaran (52). Two official deaths were reported in Saran, taking its toll to 24, followed by one death each in Patna, Begusarai, Bhagalpur and Bhojpur. AIIMS-Patna reported four Covid deaths on Monday. A 63-year-old man from Mahadev Nagar in Sheikhpura, a 55-year-old man from Dumra in Sitamarhi, a 70-year-old man from Bazar Samiti in Buxar and a 48-year-old man from Sonepur succumbed to Covid-19 there. AIIMS-Patna nodal in charge for Covid-19, Dr Sanjeev Kumar, said ten patients were discharged while 16 new infected people were admitted on Monday. Some of the new admissions included from Ram Krishna Nagar, Birla Colony, Rupaspur, BH Colony, Krishna Vihar Colony and Maner in Patna district. No deaths were reported by the Nalanda Medical College and Hospital. One new patient was admitted on Monday as 26 Covid patients were undergoing treatment at NMCH.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/state-records-87-recovery-rate-1324-fresh-ve-cases/articleshow/77858531.cms||Sheezan Nezami
September 1, 2020||Patna||74 units formed to curb cybercrime in Bihar||BHAGALPUR: The state police have formed 74 cybercrime social media units (CCSMUs) for checking the increasing number of cybercrime cases, ADG of economic offences unit (EOU) Jitendra Singh Gangwar said on Monday. Talking to this correspondent, he said approximately 2,000 cybercrime cases are reported in Bihar every year and the state police has introduced ‘connect with care’ theme to create awareness among people about the steps to be taken to avoid becoming the target of cybercrime and frauds. He said ‘crime detection, prevention and awareness’ are the main of the ‘connect with care’ theme. Gangwar said one CCMSU has been formed on 20 police stations. Each CCSMU is manned by 10 personnel headed by a inspector with 3 sub-inspector (SIs), 2 constables, one computer programmer and 3 data operators/technical experts. The CCSMU works as a composite team in dissemination of information about cybercrime cases and their findings. He said EOU acts as the nodal agency to solve cybercrimes. Six police personnel at each of the CCSMUs have been trained in dealing with cybercrime and 2,200 other police personnel apart from those attached with CCSMUs have also been trained, he said. Each district, having a minimum of 20 police stations, has at least one CCSMU. People should approach the CCSMU immediately in case of falling prey to cyber fraud. Phishing, online harassment, cyber stalking, invasion of privacy, bank frauds, credit and debit card frauds, ATM fraud, email hacking, trafficking in child pornography, violating privacy, impersonation, malware attack, spreading hate among communities, fake recruitment frauds are some of the common cybercrimes these days, Gangwar said. Explaining the dos and don’ts under the ‘connect with care’ theme, the ADG said people using their electronic devices should update patch (a set of changes to a computer program or its supporting data designed to update and fixing security vulnerabilities or improve it) and primarily believe that the Wi-Fi connection is not safe as its hotspot does not encrypt (conceal data by converting it into a code to prevent unauthorized access by criminals) the user’s data. Online shopping should also be done through secured and trusted websites. Similarly, Gangwar said, users should not operate bank and other sensitive accounts through public Wi-Fi network or from internet booths. They should also not allow automatic connectivity to Wi-Fi in his/her computer or cellphone, he said. Auto update of applications option should also be avoided.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/74-units-formed-to-curb-cybercrime/articleshow/77858534.cms||Kumar Rajesh
September 1, 2020||Patna||Cops arrest Patna man for ‘marrying’ Facebook pal from Gujarat||PATNA: Similar on the lines of a Bollywood blockbuster, a diamond merchant’s daughter flew down from Ankaleshwar in Gujarat to Patna to marry the man, who cannot walk and she had never met but only on Facebook. She stayed with his family for two days before they reached a temple near Gandhi Maidan on Saturday night and reportedly got married. At that time, a Gujarat police team, along with her father and local police, arrived there and took them to Kadamkuan police station and later to Ankaleshwar by a flight Sunday night after completing formalities the whole day. Her father alleged that the girl was a minor and he had lodged an FIR against the 24-year-old man for allegedly helping her elope from house. The girl, attired in wedding ‘lahanga’ and ‘chunari’ kept on wailing at the police station, pleading to her father to allow her to live with “her husband and in-laws”, but in vain. “I am happy here and have no problem at all. For God’s sake, leave me,” a police officer at Kadamkuan police station quoted the girl as having told her father. When her father said they (groom’s family members) would kill you, the girl replied: “Wo mujhe manjoor hai (that is acceptable). But I will not prefer to go home again.” Kadamkuan police station SHO Nishikant Nishi said on Monday the girl had eloped from her house on August 27. Both the bridegroom, Amit Shanker Jamuar alias Akash, and the bride were handed over to the Gujarat police team. Both became friends through Facebook more than a year ago. Akash’s family lives at Lohanipur in Patna, he said. The girl’s father had lost his cool on seeing Akash in the wedding dress. “Tumhe apni aukat dekhni chahiye thi. Pahle naukri to kar lee hoti phir shadi ki baat sochte (You should have thought of your economic conditions. You should have got a job before thinking about marriage),” the girl’s father reportedly told Akash, who has a chartered accountant degree. Akash, who is unable to move on his own, replied, “I had disclosed everything to your daughter, sir. Yet she decided to proceed on.” J M Desai, who headed the Gujarat police team, said they reached Patna after tracking the girl’s mobile phone tower location. He said the accused has been booked under POCSO Act as the girl’s father claimed in the FIR that she was only 17-year-old. Though the couple repeatedly claimed they were adults and should be released on bail, Desai said, “It’s for the court to decide whether she is a minor or not. We have accomplished our task.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cops-arrest-patna-man-for-marrying-fb-pal-from-gujarat/articleshow/77858495.cms||Ramashankar
September 1, 2020||Business||RIL’s deal for Future retail biz blocks Amazon||NEW DELHI/MUMBAI: By proposing to acquire the retail assets of Future Group (and not Future companies), the Mukesh Ambani-led Reliance Industries (RIL) has ensured that rival Amazon does not become its shareholder. Amazon is a significant shareholder (49%) in a Future Group company, which owns about 10% stake in Future Retail, the largest outfit within the group in terms of turnover and which operates more than 1,000 stores under Big Bazaar, Fbb, Foodhall and Easyday Club brands. Read AlsoReliance puts Rs 25,000-crore bet on bright Future for retailTen days after it bought a majority stake in online pharmacy retailer Netmeds, Reliance Industries Ltd (RIL) on Saturday said it had sealed a deal to acquire the retail business of the financially-stressed Future Group for Rs 24,713 crore. The transaction, which has been in the works for months,According to the contours of the deal between Future Group and RIL, the former will merge 19 retail and its related back-end infrastructure companies, including Future Retail, into Future Enterprises. This company will then transfer the retail and supply chain businesses to two separate arms of RIL. Had the deal involved the merger of Future Enterprises (excluding non-retail assets) with the arms of RIL, then Amazon would have got a stake in the two outfits. But with the proposed deal structure where RIL acquires Future Group’s retail assets and not its companies, the former has ensured that competitor Amazon is not its shareholder, said Bank of America Securities in a research report. The Future transaction solidifies RIL’s dominance in India’s organised market, which is estimated to be worth $1.3 trillion by 2025 from $700 billion in 2019, according to a February study by Boston Consulting Group and the Retailers’ Association India. It also creates a large entry barrier by removing a sizeable player from the sector that competitors could have acquired to scale up, said a JP Morgan note. Amazon reportedly had plans to increase its stake in Future Retail to 49%, but the deal didn’t materialise. The US e-commerce giant is currently the authorised online sales partner for Future Retail, but the future of this alliance after the deal with RIL couldn’t be ascertained. Both RIL and Future Group haven’t made any comment on what would happen to Future Retail’s existing partnership with Amazon. In the new scheme of things, Amazon will have shares of Future Enterprises after the merger of Future Retail with the latter. Future Retail shareholders, according to the terms of the deal, will receive 101 shares with a face value of Rs 2 each of Future Enterprises for every 10 shares of Rs 2 each held. After the retail assets are transferred to RIL, Future Enterprises will have interests in food and fashion product manufacturing, an insurance joint venture with Generali and textile partnership with NTC Mills. In this entity, RIL will invest Rs 1,600 crore by way of preferential shares and warrants convertible into equity, to acquire a 13% interest. In a presentation released to the stock exchanges, Future Enterprises said that on the manufacturing businesses that would remain in the company there would be added volumes now from RIL’s retail stores and would also gain from JioMart’s digital platform. However, the company makes no mention of Amazon in the presentation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rils-deal-for-future-retail-biz-blocks-amazon/articleshow/77860035.cms||John Sarkar
September 1, 2020||Jaipur||Need special efforts to bring minorities in mainstream: Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot said special efforts are needed to bring the minorities into the mainstream of development.  He added that it is necessary that people of all classes come together to win the fight against poverty. Gehlot was addressing the virtual ceremony organised by the Minority Affairs and Wakf Board at the chief minister’s residence on Monday for the inauguration of eight buildings constructed at Rs 18.75 crore and the foundation stone of two buildings of Rs 3.8 crore in different districts of the state. He said that these development works would prove to be a milestone in achieving the objective of expanding basic facilities in health and education for the minority community. With the expansion of these facilities, people in minority dominated areas will get benefits of education and health services. Gehlot said that the state government is providing resources as per the requirement for education and health facilities in all areas of the state. He said that in some areas of minority community lagging in education and it is the priority of the state government to develop facilities for education in these areas. Recently, the state government has taken important steps in this direction by giving constitutional status to the Rajasthan State Madrasa Board. The Madrasa Board will now be able to actively seek out the minority community’s access to modern education. Minister of minority affairs Shale Mohammad thanked the CM for giving constitutional status to the Madrasa Board. He said that under CM’s direction, services like hostels and health centres are being expanded in various minority areas of state. In many places, skill development training programmes for the youth of minority communities have also been started. Loans are also being provided to willing and skilled youth for education and to set up their own employment. Ministers Raghu Sharma and Mamta Bhupesh were also present at the function.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/need-special-efforts-to-bring-minorities-in-mainstream-cm/articleshow/77860763.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Varanasi||‘Ram temple construction marks start of a new era’||GORAKHPUR: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath said the beginning of Ram temple construction at Ramjanmabhoomi in Ayodhya marks the beginning of a new era and is a work of public welfare. Speaking in a seminar on the topic ‘Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Mandir Nirman Ka Shubharambh: Bharat Mein Ek Naye Yug Ka Aarambh’ on Monday, CM Yogi said, “The entire country is feeling honoured with the beginning of construction of Ram Temple at Janambhoomi in Ayodhya, and this is not only the beginning of temple construction but beginning of a new era. The construction has become a reality due to the martyrdom of lakhs of Rambhakts. The work of Ram is the work of welfare and the construction of Ram temple is the best work of welfare.” “The happiness of people after the Supreme Court verdict in Ayodhya case shows the values and ideals of Indian democracy. Actually, temple construction is also a way of paying respect to Indian culture, tradition and ancestors,” he said. Yogi said the coming of the Modi government in 2014 laid the foundation of governance based on Ram Rajya. “The government worked for the poor and deprived by launching welfare schemes for their uplift through the mantra of ‘Sabka Saath Sabka Vikas’ marks Ramrajya,” he said. The seminar was part of a series of programmes organized by Gorakshpeeth to mark the death anniversaries of Mahant Digvijaynath and Mahant Avaidyanath. This year the events are being held online. Hailing the role of both Mahants in Ram temple movement, CM Yogi said, “I don’t think there is anyone who is not influenced by the spiritual ideals of Lord Ram, and that is why the society struggled for the construction of Ram temple. The resolve and aspirations of Mahant Digvijaynath and Mahant Avaidyanath for Ram temple construction have been fulfilled as they dedicated their entire life for establishment of Ramrajya.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/ram-temple-construction-marks-start-of-a-new-era/articleshow/77859304.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Patna||Bihar farmers to produce solar energy too, says Sushil Kumar Modi||PATNA: Deputy chief minister and senior BJP leader Sushil Kumar Modi on Monday said the farmers of Bihar would not only grow crops in their fields but also generate solar energy in the future. Addressing the executive committee meeting of the farmers’ cell of the state BJP, SuMo said the government was working on a plan to co-relate agriculture produce with solar energy to improve the economic condition of the farmers. “The farmers will not only be known as ‘annadata’ but also as ‘urjadata’ in the days to come,” the deputy CM said, adding, that agriculture pumps based on solar energy would be installed in the fields for the purpose. He said the government would promote the use of solar energy generated pumps for agriculture purposes. SuMO revealed that 1.4 lakh farmers have already been given power connections for agriculture purposes in the state. As a result of which the farmers were being supplied power at the rate of only Rs 65 paise per unit instead of Rs 6.15 per unit earlier fixed by the government. “This has been possible due to power connections given to the farmers at a subsidized rate,” he added. He said the state government has approved ‘Bihar Agriculture Investment and Promotion Policy 2020' to boost agriculture-related industry in Bihar. BJP state president Dr Sanjay Jaiswal laid emphasis on the all-round development of farmers in the state. He said the state’s economy would get a boost only when the economic condition of the farmers improved. The party president said the issues related to farming were on a top priority of the state and the Centre. “It is a matter of great satisfaction for the farming community that both the central and the state governments are more concerned about the economic condition of the farmers. A slew of welfare schemes have already been launched for the purpose as well,” he added. Jaiswal said the BJP has coined a slogan ‘Atmanirbhar Kisan, Atmanirbhar Bihar’ for the amelioration of the farmers' lot in the state. He urged the farmers to make optimal use of agriculture-related schemes like hatchery, dairy and fisheries to improve their economic condition. The state president of the party also talked about Rs 1.5 lakh crore released by the central government for improving the infrastructure in the field of agriculture and its related works. “PM Narendra Modi’s concerns about the farmers could be gauged from the fact that he christened the Union agriculture ministry as Union agriculture and farmers welfare ministry,” Jaiswal said. State agriculture minister Prem Kumar highlighted the schemes launched by the state and the central government for the farming community on the occasion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/farmers-to-produce-solar-energy-too-says-sumo/articleshow/77858554.cms||Ramashankar
September 1, 2020||Allahabad||Held for posts, woman’s connections under lens||PRAYAGRAJ: Almost a week after she was arrested for allegedly posting objectionable and derogatory videos about Hindu deities on YouTube, Prayagraj police said they are looking into to Sana Khan’s alias Heer alias Pari connections in the country and aboard, which included two Pakistani youths. A resident of Noorullah Road, Sana (22) was arrested on August 25 on charges of posting derogatory content about Hindu duties. Police swung into action after Sana allegedly uploaded an objectionable video of 3.58 minutes on YouTube on August 23 and it went viral. Police said that the accused had uploaded 129 videos on YouTube and she was in touch with two Pakistan-based youths via WhatsApp calls. IG (Prayagraj range) KP Singh said, “Police have interrogated the woman at length and we are currently looking into her connections both in the country and aboard. We found out that one Waris currently working in UAE and two men from Hyderabad used to send her money.” After her arrest on August 25, an FIR under section 153A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language) and 505 of (statements creating or promoting enmity, hatred or ill-will between classes) of the IPC and, section 66 of the Information Technology (IT) Act were registered against Sana at Khuldabad police station.Police later added more sections to FIR to include charges of spreading disharmony through mischievous content, sedition and section 67 of the IT Act. During interrogation, Sana told the police that her maternal uncle was the former president of Jamaat E Islami Hind and is currently associated with another organisation. She said her uncle’s son was an active member of Student Islamic Organisation (SIO). The IG said that Sana, her uncle and his son had attended the protest against the National Register of Citizens and Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) at Mansoor Ali Park in January 2020. She told the police that a Kanpur-based man used to help her in shooting the videos and uploading them on YouTube.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/held-for-posts-womans-connections-under-lens/articleshow/77858199.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Business||75% of moratorium companies are junk grade||MUMBAI: About 75% of companies that have availed of a loan moratorium are sub-investment or junk grade, according to a report by Crisil. The rating agency has said that these companies deferred payment of their loan instalments either in order to survive or to build a medium-term liquidity cushion. The report is significant considering that the RBI mandated a six-month moratorium on repayment of loan dues ended on Monday. This dispensation provided much-needed liquidity support to mid-sized sub-investment grade (rated BB+ or lower) companies. It has also prevented these companies from being downgraded despite weakening finances. However, despite the moratorium ending, many can still avoid default as the RBI has announced debt restructuring for companies under stress due to the pandemic. Crisil analysed over 2,300 non-financial companies that availed of the moratorium to tide over pandemic-induced cash-flow challenges, after categorising them by rating, sector, and size. It revealed divergent trends. Three out of four entities that availed of the moratorium are rated in the sub-investment grade. Most of them were grappling with a slowing economy before the pandemic began. The severely curtailed business activity that followed in the first quarter of this fiscal had cramped cash flows, so the moratorium came as a big relief. Only one out of four companies that availed of the moratorium is rated in the investment grade. They took recourse to the moratorium to build a liquidity cushion for exigencies in the near term. “Companies in sectors impacted the most by the pandemic have been the keenest to avail of the moratorium. While every sector has been affected by the dislocations stemming from the pandemic, the majority of those with lower resilience have availed of the moratorium. Few among the more-resilient ones have done so,” said Crisil senior director Subodh Rai. Of those availing the moratorium, 20% were in highly impacted sectors such as gems & jewellery, hotel, auto components, automobile dealers, power (power utilities, independent power producers and energy traders), packaging, and capital goods and components. On the other hand, only 10% were from less-impacted sectors such as pharmaceuticals, chemicals, FMCG, secondary steel, and agriculture. Size has also been a differentiator with few relatively bigger businesses going for it. In the mid-sized corporate segment (Rs 300-1,500 crore turnover), the number of companies availing of the moratorium was more than thrice those in the Rs 1,500 crore and above turnover range.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/75-of-moratorium-cos-are-junk-grade/articleshow/77860104.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Patna||Bihar ranks 30th in Niti export index||PATNA: With a score of 21.5, Bihar is at the 30th position in the overall rankings of NITI Aayog’s Export Preparedness Index 2020 while neighbouring Jharkhand is ranked 14th rank with a much higher score of 48. The index has ranked 36 states and Union Territories on their export preparedness. Gujarat bagged the first position followed by Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu in the overall rankings based on four parameters— export policy, business ecosystem, export ecosystem and export performance. Leading economist Shaibal Gupta said the export ecosystem in the state is underdeveloped because of the small market size and minimal industrial activity. “Given the economic profile of Bihar, other than agricultural commodities like makhana and silk fabrics from Bhagalpur, domestic and international exports have a limited scope. It is due to low economic activity and small industry size in Bihar.” The report has also divided the states and UTs into four categories— coastal (8 states), landlocked (11), Himalayan (9) and UTs/city-states (8). Bihar is at the second last position among all landlocked states in India. "Though Bihar exported 9.35 lakh MT of agricultural products amounting to Rs 2,025 crore during 2018-19, its share of export among Indian states stands at 0.5%, which is one of the lowest," said Barna Ganguli, assistant professor at the Asian Development Research Institute (ADRI), Patna. She added, "The low exports from the state can be attributed to many factors, including lack of established export houses in the states. At present, commodities from the state are exported through middlemen or traders who charge additional money from the manufacturers for the same.” She further said, "Other than agricultural products, Bihar also exports leather, processed food, textile, handloom, Madhubani paintings and Bhagalpur silk. However, there is no export policy in the state as of now.” Satyajeet Singh, a leading makhana exporter, said in the absence of dry ports in Bihar, exporters from the state have to go to other states such as like Maharashtra or West Bengal to load their containers and get customs clearance. Singh exports makhanas to 12 countries, including the US, the UK and the Middle-East. “There is no dry port or customs clearance in Bihar. Either I have to load my containers at Kolkata port or Mumbai port and get customs clearance from there. In the absence of any export infrastructure in the state, exporters have to pay the additional transportation and manpower costs,” he said. Singh added, “Not just in terms of export infrastructure, other factors such as comprehensive export policy, R&D infrastructure and access to finance should also be taken into consideration by the government to boost exports from the state.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-ranks-30th-in-niti-export-index/articleshow/77858446.cms||Arunima Lal
September 1, 2020||Dehradun||Doon Hosp runs out of blood, patients forced to buy from outside||Dehradun: With volunteers staying away from the blood donation camps of Government Doon Medical College and Hospital (GDMCH) probably in fear of contracting Covid-19, the medical facility has run out of blood and doesn’t even have a single unit of each blood group at present. Patients allege that GDMCH, the biggest government hospital in Dehradun, had exhausted its blood stock last week forcing patients to buy from outside. According to sources from the medical college administration, the last blood donation camp was held on July 21 at ISBT and around 25 units of blood was collected in it. In the last 40 days, GDMCH barely received about 101 units of blood while the blood bank here provided 194 units of blood during the period. GDMCH has also given platelets to 10 patients in a fortnight. A staffer from the GDMCH blood bank said that there is an acute shortage of blood and the hospital has refused to accept the requests of over 30 patients and outsiders in August as blood wasn’t available. “At present, we have just one unit of B positive blood,” he added. In view of the crisis, the medical college administration has urged people to come forward for blood donation and has assured to arrange passes for people who would be interested in donating blood. Dr Ashutosh Sayana, GDMCH principal, informed that the blood bank of Doon Hospital is facing a shortage of blood as both voluntary donations have reduced and blood donation camps are not taking place. To compensate for the scarcity of blood, the medical college administration is organising blood donation camps on September 1 and 2. “Camps, organised by GDMCH and private players/NGOs, were the major source of blood for the hospital. We require blood for those who undergo cesarean operation, those suffering from thalassemia, and for emergency cases,” said Dr Sayana. He added that people who are interested in donating blood can call on the helpline numbers of the hospital and the administration will get their passes made after which they will not be stopped by the police. The blood donation camps will be organised at Dwarika Store on Tuesday and at the district court on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/doon-hosp-runs-out-of-blood-patients-forced-to-buy-from-outside/articleshow/77858399.cms||Ishita Mishra
September 1, 2020||Mysuru||Govt promotes cashew cultivation through MGNREGS||Mysuru: Cashew production has become stagnant across the country and to increase it, the Centre has modified the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme allowing farmers to take up plantation in their lands from this year. The department of horticulture will provide farmers saplings, material along with labour cost, sources told TOI. After Mysuru betel leaf, farmers in the district can take up cashew plantation under MGNREGS. The Union government is encouraging farmers to take up several horticultural crops under MGNREGS apart from National Horticulture Mission schemes by including papaya, drumsticks, coconut, banana, mango, guava and other local specific plantation crops like rubber from this year. Deputy director of horticulture Dr BT Rudresh told TOI that farmers having job cards issued by local gram panchayats can take up plantation especially in dry lands, areas with degraded soil and marginal land as such land is good for cultivation of cashew. The department will provide farmers up to 400 saplings per acre after purchasing them from cashew cultivation areas of Kodagu, Kolar, Dakshina Kannada and Belagavi. Dr Rudresh said farmers can get assistance up to a maximum of Rs 80,000 per acre for buying saplings, other material and for labour. He said that the department has received many enquiries for cashew cultivation from HD Kote, Hunsur, Periyapatna and Nanjangud taluks. Yield from third year The high-yielding H-30 variety saplings will be supplied to farmers. Farmers can plant up to 600 saplings in their land depending upon space. Though the cashew plants will start flowering within a year of plantation, they will start yielding only from the third year. The hybrid variety of plant will yield nuts weighing 12- 13 grams. Farmers can harvest 18 to 23 kilograms of nuts from each tree per year and an acre of cashew plantation can produce 1,300kg nuts per year, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/govt-promotes-cashew-cultivation-through-mgnregs/articleshow/77857617.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Patna||Now, PMCH plans more healthcare facilities for thalassemia patients||PATNA: The integrated centre for haemoglobinopathy and haemophilia, known as the day care centre (DCC), of the Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) will now widen its healthcare facilities. It is running under the department of paediatrics. The hospital administration has decided to provide facility for test of expecting women with family history of two genetic diseases — thalassemia and haemophilia — with the help from the department of gynaecology and clinical pathology, said PMCH medical superintendent Dr Bimal Kumar Karak on Monday. The DCC, first of its kind in the state, has been offering free treatment to children having thalassemia and haemophilia. He said there was also a proposal to keep ready 20 units of blood with DCC for thalassemic children and the necessary formalities would be initiated for this purpose soon. The coordination committee of the DCC would work out plan for it, he said. In charge of the DCC, Dr Anil Jaiswal, professor and head of paediatrics department, said altogether 230 patients of thalassemia and 85 of haemophilia have been treated at the DCC since its inauguration on June 14 this year. While thalassemic patients are treated with blood transfusion, those with haemophilia get medicines. Though the DCC functioned only during the day time, it has made arrangements to admit children reaching there in the evening or late hours in the paediatrics ward for test. “A play zone, a counselling room and other basic facilities were attached with the DCC on the upper floor of the gynaecology ward,” said Dr Jaiswal. On an average, eight children visit this 10-bed DCC every day. Postgraduate students of paediatrics are assigned duty on rotation in the DCC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/now-pmch-plans-more-healthcare-facilities-for-thalassemia-patients/articleshow/77858509.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Kolkata||The Man Who Knew How To Make Friends||Pranab Mukherjee was never a mascot for delivery of goods in Bengal, a reason why he made his first entry into Lok Sabha as late as in 2004. For most part of his journey, he worked from the Upper House, giving politicians lessons in the art of the possible. Mukherjee will be remembered for fulfilling the Bengali psyche’s Delhi dreams. He scripted a narrative of pluralism that went beyond the usual give-and-take in politics. Mukherjee’s contemporary ABA Ghani Khan Chowdhury brought the Metro Railway to Kolkata, but the dhoti-clad Brahmin rode into Bengali hearts when he assumed the highest office at Raisina Hills. He put Bengal back in national discourse at a time people in the state had started feeling left out of the Centre’s scheme of things. There was also a political aspect to the making of Rashtrapati in 2012. Mukherjee could do what was unthinkable in Bengal; he took arch-rivals CPM and Trinamool Congress on board in his presidential race, making a rare political statement. Mukherjee kept on making friends in the enemy camp, constantly trying to build a consensus across the political spectrum. Unlike Manmohan Singh, Mukherjee didn’t have a foreign degree to flaunt. Neither was he a glib talker like P Chidambaram. He was not even a mass leader like Mamata Banerjee. But experience helped Mukherjee grow as the troubleshooter in Congress politics, without the pedigree of Lutyens’ Delhi. Mukherjee entered politics during the heyday of Naxalbari movement in the late sixties, when the educated Bengali youth rebelled against parliamentary democracy. He joined the Bangla Congress, a breakaway faction led by Ajoy Mukherjee, and became a Rajya Sabha MP in 1969. He stood firmly by former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi and her son Sanjay during the Emergency from 1975 to 1977. Congress made a comeback in 1980, but Mukherjee lost the Lok Sabha elections from Bolpur. Indira, realising his worth as a strategist, got him elected to Rajya Sabha from Gujarat. It was also during this time the Left, under Jyoti Basu, kept complaining against Bengal’s deprivation by the Centre while Mukherjee served as Union minister or deputy chairman of the Planning Commission. This was also true during his stint as Pradesh Congress president from August 2001 to 2010. Mukherjee backed Somen Mitra for the PCC president elections in 1992 while former CM Siddhartha Shankar Ray and Congress leader Priya Ranjan Das Munshi threw their weight behind Mamata. Mamata’s defeat in the PCC polls prompted a split in Bengal Congress, leading to its steady decline in electoral politics. Mukherjee had to bear it. The same person put the seal on an electoral understanding with Trinamool against the Left in the 2001 assembly polls. But that didn’t deter Mukherjee from cultivating a working relationship with the Left after it won the 2001 polls and emerged as a key player during UPA-1 from 2004 to 2008. But when Left pulled the plug on the government over the Indo-US nuclear deal, Mukherjee made Congress win the confidence vote in Parliament. He was also equally indispensable during the UPA-2 regime when he took Trinamool ministers into confidence. Few will remember Mukherjee for the Gadgil-Mukherjee formula — a revenue sharing model between the Centre and states. For most, Mukherjee will be a byword for survival in a fast-changing socio-political matrix.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/the-man-who-knew-how-to-make-friends/articleshow/77860785.cms||Saugata Roy
September 1, 2020||Mangaluru||APMC yard will be developed into a modern market: Dakshina Kannada DC||Mangaluru: Latest facilities will be provided at the Baikampady yard of Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) and it will be developed into a full-fledged modern market. The present office bearers of APMC have already developed facilities at the yard. APMC will provide cold storage, godowns to scientifically store fruits and vegetables and other amenities needed for sale of agricultural produce, said deputy commissioner KV Rajendra. Chairing a meeting with traders and elected representatives at the APMC on Saturday, Rajendra directed the APMC to prepare a project report on urgently needed basic civic amenities at the yard with assistance from the public works department. Efforts will be made to develop facilities at the yard Smart Cities Mission, Mangalore Urban Development Authority, National Horticultural Mission and other departmental funds, Rajendra said. Final output of all the efforts will be to ensure that all wholesale trade is shifted to the APMC yard in the future, he said. Reassuring 44 licensed traders at the Central Market, the DC said the licence holders at this facility, since closed, will be housed on priority at the redeveloped yard. APMC is responding to their demands pro actively, he said, adding it is not the intent of the district administration to cause any sort of inconvenience to anyone. Due care will be taken to protect the interests of traders who operated earlier at the Central Market. Shifting of whole vegetable and fruit trade from the market to the yard, basic amenities of which the APMC recently upgraded at a cost of Rs 1 crore has vastly eased traffic pressure in the city, the DC said. As per statistics provided by Mangaluru City Traffic Police, an average of 1000 trucks used to come to the market earlier causing traffic congestion, he said. While the recent amendment to the APMC Act has provided a venue for farmers to sell their produce at a place of their choice, the wholesale traders will still necessarily have to carry out their trade from the APMC yards itself, he said. Traders are still bound by the APMC Act, he said, adding urban local bodies – Mangaluru City Corporation – in this case will take action against wholesale traders if they sell their produce outside APMC notified areas. Rajendra also directed the ULBs to issue trade licence for sale of any agricultural produce only if the trader concerned has obtained licence from APMC beforehand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/apmc-yard-will-be-developed-into-a-modern-market-dakshina-kannada-dc/articleshow/77858687.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Patna||Ahead of Bihar assembly polls, Reds flex muscles||GAYA: With the use of AK-47 assault rifles and threat of ‘Jan Adalats’ to punish real land owners, CPI (Maoists) have started flexing muscles in their former bastion to the south of GT Road in Gaya. A couple of days back, the Maoists killed two persons in Magra police station area, one of whom they accused of being a police informer and land broker. On Sunday, they dropped hand written notes threatening ‘Jan Adalats’ or Kangaroo courts to punish land owners who reclaim the land earlier grabbed by the Maoists and distributed among its supporters. The typical hand note written in Hindi with Red fervour also threatened police force engaged in anti-Red operations. Confirming the recovery of hand notes, Gaya SSP Rajiv Mishra said that law abiding villagers need not worry as the Maoists have lost clout and as such they were making desperate efforts to register their presence in the area once regarded as a Red bastion. “Behaving more like a criminal gang devoid of ideological moorings, the Maoists have lost ground. Increased police mobility, social out reach programmes of the police forces, expansion of the communication network, increased awareness level and ever shrinking base has unnerved the Maoists,” the SSP said. “Their supply chains too have got disrupted and funding too has dried up,” claimed Mishra. The Maoists do not have the fund required to maintain the Red squad, the group trained in guerrilla warfare and as such desertions are taking place. A few weeks back, some Maoists surrendered in the presence of ADG (operations) Sushil Khopde. According to Maoist watchers, for several years now, they have not organised ‘Jan Adalats’, to punish their detractors. As per records, the last reported ‘Jan Adalat’ was organised in March 2013 in Bhadwar village of Dumaria police station area of the district. The ‘adalat’ was organised to grant ‘clemency’ to a villager whose property was earlier grabbed ‘attached’ (grabbed) by the ultras. In the past, election time has been a harvesting season for the Maoists who used to be wooed by candidates cutting across political lines to enforce selective boycott of the election at polling stations where their rivals enjoyed perceived edge. “Asked whether the recent muscle flexing was also aimed at money making during the elections,” SSP Rajiv Mishra said that he was not sure but this cannot be ruled out either.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ahead-of-bihar-assembly-polls-reds-flex-muscles/articleshow/77858633.cms||Abdul Qadir
September 1, 2020||Goa||Mosques in Goa to reopen from Tuesday||PANAJI: Mosques in Goa will reopen from September 1 onwards, with strict implementation of health and safety protocols. “We recommend opening of all mosques in the state for regular five times namaz, from September 1. The respective mosque committee should take full responsibility for implementing government SOP for safety measures,” a statement issued by the Association of All Goa Muslim Jamaats said. The premises however will only be open for residents living near the mosques. Religious congregations and Friday namaz still remain prohibited till September 21. The association has also recommended strict social distancing practices and hygiene precautions. “The safety of every person coming to the mosque, staff, committee members and their families at home should not be risked. It’s the responsibility of the mosque committee to maintain social distancing in the premises,” the statement said. Safety measures like installation of touch-free hand sanitisers, use of thermal gun, wearing of face masks, prohibition of children below the age of 10 years and senior citizens above 65 years, keeping toilets and wudu (ablutions) corner closed, have been recommended to the mosque committees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mosques-to-reopen-from-today/articleshow/77860796.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Patna||Bihar announces 7-day mourning to pay homage to former President Pranab Mukherjee||PATNA: The Bihar government has announced a seven-day mourning beginning Monday to pay homage to former President Pranab Mukherjee, who passed away earlier in the day. All government official functions will remain suspended. The national flag will fly half-mast at all the government buildings and installations till September 6 as a mark of respect to the departed leader. Governor Phagu Chauhan, chief minister Nitish Kumar, deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi and leader of opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav condoled the death of Mukherjee, who was sick for quite some time. Expressing his grief over Mukherjee’s death, Nitish in his condolence message called the former President “Ajatshatru (one who has no enemies) of politics”, who was equally respected by both ruling and opposition, an official release said. Describing Mukherjee as a great patriot, scholar, popular leader and a renowned economist, Chauhan said the country has lost a leader par excellence. His timely guidance for the development of the state would always be remembered and people would recall him with great honour. “The void created by his demise will be difficult to fill,” he said. Nitish said he (Mukherjee) was loved and respected by people of all sections of society. Be it opposition or the ruling parties, he was respected by politicians cutting across party lines. He will be known for establishing high standards of values in Indian politics. He served the nation as the 13th President from 2012 to 2017. He was honoured with the Bharat Ratna in 2019. Nitish described the passing away of Mukherjee as the end of an era.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/state-announces-7-day-mourning/articleshow/77858614.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Business||RIL-Future Group deal will boost JioMart ops, challenge e-tailers||BENGALURU: The Reliance Industries-Future Group deal’s impact will go beyond brick-and-mortar retail in India. It will also affect the country’s growing e-commerce economy as RIL’s chairman Mukesh Ambani eyes a bigger play online. The recently announced acquisition will accelerate scaling up of Reliance’s newly launched e-commerce venture JioMart. It will also make it harder for its rivals — Walmart’s Flipkart and Amazon India — to strengthen offline presence for the grocery business, according to a note by Goldman Sachs on Monday. Additionally, this deal, if completed, would mean e-tailers would be left with fewer avenues here to invest in to strengthen their supply chain and logistics network offline. Read AlsoRIL’s deal for Future retail biz blocks AmazonBy proposing to acquire the retail assets of Future Group (and not Future companies), the Mukesh Ambani-led Reliance Industries has ensured that rival Amazon does not become its shareholder. Amazon is a significant shareholder (49%) in a Future Group company, which owns about 10% stake in Future“ ... we highlight that this acquisition, if completed, would also remove one potential expansion avenue for competitors, especially Amazon and Walmart, who have been looking to bolster their physical presence in retailing in India to strengthen their online business,” the Wall Street powerhouse said. Reports by Kotak and Axis Capital also indicated similar changes in dynamics for the online battle, and that Future’s retail assets will help Reliance in ramping up its online business “meaningfully”. Across various brands and formats like Big Bazaar, Future has 1,736 stores. For example, Amazon India has been using some Big Bazaar outlets to fulfil grocery deliveries for Pantry. JioMart, which so far sells grocery, has seen a peak of 4 lakh daily orders already. This is higher than horizontal rivals like Flipkart or Amazon India as well as vertical platforms like Bigbasket and Grofers. JioMart, which has been scaling operations in the middle of the pandemic, has made deliveries free for all orders without any minimum order size. This, sources said, has helped the company corner new users. “Further, Easyday, which is a small kirana-like neighbourhood store format, can also potentially boost JioMart’s fulfilment capability in the cities that it is present in…We believe these stores can be converted into Reliance-branded outlets and be utilised to carry out JioMart’s hyperlocal operations. Further, Reliance Retail can also get data of these local neighbourhoods and can easily on-board them as JioMart’s customers,” a report from Kotak Institutional Equities said. It added that there are close to 1,000 Easyday, Heritage Fresh and Nilgiris stores in Future’s network, as of December 2019, and some of them, locally for select locations, had started WhatsApp-based ordering. WhatsApp, with 400 million active users, is expected to play a key role for JioMart to smoothen online ordering via the messaging platform, whose parent firm Facebook invested $5.7 billion in Jio Platforms. Amazon India has also been expanding its grocery service too. While its Pantry service was available in 110 cities in May, the company in June said it had expanded Pantry in over 300 cities. JioMart is currently available in 200 cities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/will-boost-jiomart-ops-challenge-e-tailers/articleshow/77859980.cms||Digbijay Mishra
September 1, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Export, hoarding widen gap between wholesale and retail prices of potato||KOLKATA: The huge demand for potatoes in states outside Bengal and the tendency of hoarding by a section of traders to maximize profit have left hiked the prices. On Friday, the state issued an ultimatum to potato traders for bringing down the wholesale price to Rs 22 a kg so that retail price did not exceed Rs 25 a kg. However, there is still a yawning gap between wholesale and retail prices. The retail price of the Jyoti variety should not have exceeded Rs 28 a kg since the ,wholesale price is Rs 26 a kg. “But retailers in collusion with market committees now keep a margin of Rs 4 to Rs 6 per kg, which is not only unethical, but inhuman,” said Gautam Saha, a wholesaler and owner of a cold-storage in Dhaniakhali. TimesViewExtra focus needs to be on staple food items. The government has stepped in to rein in the runaway increase but ground inspections are a must to check whether all norms are being followed.According to the agri-marketing department, the price of potatoes should dip in the retail market by Thursday. “We have assessed we still have 10 lakh tonnes of excess potatoes in stores. So, there is no reason why wholesale potato price cannot be brought down to Rs 22. Even then it is not difficult for a trader to retain a good profit margin,” said Kamal De, member of the market task force. Even though Bengal, one of the biggest producers of potatoes, has grown a little less than earlier years, the production was enough to fulfil the domestic demand. But scarcity of the tuber in neighbouring states led to a massive export from Bengal’s cold storages. “Currently, we have 29 lakh tonnes of potato stored in the 462 cold storages. In March, 57 lakh tonnes were stored in cold storages,” said Lalu Mukherjee, general secretary of West Bengal Potato Traders’ Association. Bengal consumes 5 lakh tonnes of potato a month. “With the current stock, we can manage to sail through the next six months. The next crop will come in February. But the supply of potatoes to other states would severely hamper our reserves,” a source said. Even though there is no ban on potato export to other states, the state has started keeping vigil at the borders to prevent a huge supply of potatoes from going to neighbouring states. Bengal also has 50,000 tonnes of potatoes stored in different cold storages for emergency situations. According to sources, some of the stored potatoes may hit markets before Puja in a bid to bring down the price further.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/export-hoarding-widen-gap-between-wholesale-and-retail-prices-of-potato/articleshow/77859524.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
September 1, 2020||Patna||Bihar minister Bima Bharti’s husband likely to join RJD||PATNA: Even as speculations are rife about possibility of Awadhesh Mandal, husband of state sugarcane industries minister Bima Bharti, joining RJD, the latter on Monday said she would fight the assembly election under the guidance of CM Nitish Kumar. Though Bharti made her stand clear, she refused to comment on the possibility of her husband joining the RJD. “Go and ask him,” she told reporters, adding, “I am in JD(U) and CM Nitish Kumar is my leader. I have started preparing for the assembly polls which I will fight under the guidance of Nitishji from Rupauli.” Interestingly, Awadhesh, a muscleman, had played a key role in shaping Bharti’s career. She contested from Rupauli as an independent for the first time in 2000 and won the seat. Bharti then joined RJD but shifted to JD(U) later. In 2010 and 2015 assembly elections, she successfully contested on JD(U) ticket from Rupauli seat. Though Bharti is from Madhepura district, her in-laws hail from Rupauli. Sources said though Bharti has not met RJD leaders, her husband is in touch with them. “She doesn’t want to lose her cabinet portfolio by revealing her husband’s plans,” said an RJD functionary. A fortnight back, former industries minister Shyam Rajak had joined the RJD.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/minister-bima-bhartis-hubby-likely-to-join-rjd/articleshow/77858591.cms||Sheezan Nezami
September 1, 2020||Patna||Bihar govt urges East Central Railway to operate local trains for examinees||PATNA: The state government on Monday requested the East Central Railway (ECR) to operate inter-district and local passenger trains in Bihar to facilitate the movement of candidates appearing for JEE/NEET and other entrance tests from September 1 to 13. State transport secretary Sanjay Kumar Agarwal said the decision was taken at a high-level meeting in this regard on Monday. The Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) for admission in IITs, NITs and other premier institutions for engineering courses would be held from September 1 to 6 at 43 centres in seven districts of Bihar, including 20 centres in Patna. Altogether 61,932 candidates would appear in Patna for the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) on September 13. “There is a possibility of movement of candidates from one district to other for writing these examinations. So, it is necessary to operate sufficient number of inter-district and local passenger trains within the state in order to ensure that the candidates appearing for the examination do not face any problem,” Agarwal said. He also directed all the DMs and senior police officers to ensure uninterrupted movement of buses in all districts between September 1 and 13 in view of several other competitive exams. Agarwal said, “To provide convenience to the candidates, it is necessary to operate buses and other vehicles in all districts. Bihar State Road Transport Corporation should coordinate with private bus operators to ensure that maximum number of vehicles ply on roads.” The transport secretary would hold a meeting with private bus operators and auto drivers as soon as possible to ensure the sufficient number of buses and autorickshaws for hassle-free travel of examinees. “During the operation of trains and buses, the provisions of Covid-19 must be followed. Keeping in view the movement of large number of candidates, adequate deployment of police force and security personnel at bus stops and railway stations would be ensured to prevent spread of coronavirus,” Agarwal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/govt-urges-ecr-to-operate-local-trains-for-examinees/articleshow/77858593.cms||Faryal Rumi
September 1, 2020||Vijayawada||Pranab was the main contact for leaders from AP, T||Amaravati: Pranab Mukherjee may have given the assent to AP Reorganization Bill as President, but he is believed to have batted against the state’s bifurcation as long as he was the Union minister. He endeared himself to leaders from both Telangana and Andhra as he kept his views on the division of AP close to his chest. He was also the main contact for leaders from both regions when he was a cabinet minister. Leaders from both regions reposed faith in him when he headed a Congress panel to decide on the bifurcation of Andhra Pradesh. Congress leaders from AP region pinned high hopes on Pranab as they considered him a strong backer of their arguments. Though he used to be non-committal whenever they met him to put before their arguments opposing the bifurcation, he is believed to have played a big role in stalling the split in haste to the extent possible. As the committee’s report, headed by Pranab, on the state’s bifurcation was not made public, Telangana leaders believe he played a key role in the formation of the new state. His constant silence on the crucial issue won him accolades from both regions. For several years, he was the one-point contact for leaders from both AP and Telangana regions who went to him to pour out their grievances. Since getting an appointment with party supremo Sonia Gandhi was tough, many leaders used to meet him as they believed he was the only leader who could convince Sonia. Interestingly, Pranab had a deep association with AP — right from heading the committee on the issue of the state’s bifurcation to finally clearing the Bill as the President. He was also the one who was rushed to AP by Sonia following the sudden death of then chief minister YS Rajasekhara Reddy to elect his successor. Amidst demands within the Congress legislature party (CLP) to make YSR’s son Jaganmohan Reddy the chief minister, Pranab declared then interim chief minister K Rosaiah as the party’s choice to continue as CM. A year later, when Rosaiah wanted to quit the post, Pranab was deputed to AP again to pick his successor, and N Kiran Kumar Reddy became the next CM. “Pranab was a dedicated soldier of the party. He simply implemented the party high command’s decision irrespective of his personal choices,” said former MP and YSR’s close associate KVR Ramachandra Rao. Former PCC president Raghuveera Reddy said Pranab always used to encourage the party’s hardworking leaders. “He never missed an opportunity to visit the state to address party workers,” he recalled. With the NDA government under AB Vajpayee deciding to grant statehood to Uttaranchal, Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh, the Congress took the risk of resolving the issue of AP’s bifurcation after YSR’s death. Sources said party veterans P Chidambaram and Jairam Ramesh prevailed upon the Congress high command on going ahead with the bifurcation despite strong opposition from Pranab.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/pranab-was-the-main-contact-for-leaders-from-ap-t/articleshow/77859560.cms||Samdani MN
September 1, 2020||Kolhapur||Solapur rural reports 308 cases & 6 deaths||Kolhapur: Solapur rural has reported 308 fresh Covid patients and six deaths due to the contagion on Monday, taking the total number of cases to 11,521 and the death toll rises to 330. A total of 8,114 patients have recovered so far and 3,077 are undergoing treatment. According to the official communication, all the deceased are men, including five senior citizens. Kamala tehsil reported two deaths while Pandharpur, Barshi, Mohol and Madha tehsils each reported one death. Pandharpur tehsil in Solapur district reported 74 new cases, taking the total number of patients in the tehsil to 2,546, Out of the total cases in Pandharpur tehsil, 1526 are traced in town while 1,020 are from villages. The tehsil has recorded 51 deaths including 32 from Pandharpur town. It has 751 active patients. Sangola tehsil has the lowest number of Covid-19 cases – 560. It has recorded seven deaths. Solapur city reported 55 fresh cases, from 43 different localities, taking the total number of cases in the city to 6,643. The city has reported 412 deaths and has 782 active patients. As many as 5449 patients have recovered from the contagion so far. Prabhag number five has the highest number of cases – 448, while prabhag number 11 has the lowest number of cases - 110.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/solapur-rural-reports-308-cases-6-deaths/articleshow/77858434.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Bareilly||Two die, three hurt as running wheat grinding machine explodes||Bareilly: Two persons died and three were injured when a wheat grinding machine mounted on a tractor exploded while grinding of flour in Devarniya area here on Sunday evening. One of the deceased, Bhagwandas, had recently purchased the machine from another person. He was showing the other four how the machine functions. Suddenly, its roller burst due to pressure. All of them were rushed to hospital, where Bhagwandas and anothet person succumbed to injuries. RK Singh, SHO, Devarniya police station, said, “The owner of the machine used to visit nearby villages and grind wheat. He had recently purchased the machine from one Rajaram from Khanjanpur village.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/two-die-three-hurt-as-running-wheat-grinding-machine-explodes/articleshow/77857245.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
September 1, 2020||Jaipur||No lockdown in JEE-NEET exam cities: Rajasthan govt||JAIPUR: The state’s home department on Monday issued an order directing that “no lockdown or shutdown shall be in force” in any of the 9 JEE Main examination cities from August 31 to September 7, and in any of the 6 examination cities for NEET from September 12 to 14. The 9 JEE Main examination cities are Ajmer, Alwar, Bikaner, Jaipur, Jodhpur, Kota, Sikar, Ganganagar and Udaipur. The six examination cities for NEET are Ajmer, Bikaner, Jaipur, Jodhpur, Kota and Udaipur. “All candidates and their guardians, if any, as well as the examination personnel, are allowed to travel from their place of stay to the examination cities/centres either in their personal vehicles or hired or public vehicles,” the order issued by principal secretary (home) Abhay Kumar stated. “Copy of the candidates’ admit cards including soft copies or any other document held by the candidates and any document held by the examination personnel and staff/ representatives of service providers in support of their deployment shall be considered as valid movement pass throughout the state,” it added. “Hotels and other hospitality units such as guest houses/dharamshalas/lodges etc. shall remain open in these cities during the stated dates to facilitate movement of large number of candidates and their guardians. These units and restaurants shail comply with the SoP and guidelines laid down by union health ministry in this regard on June 4 . District Authorities shall ensure strict compliance of the SoP and guidelines,” it further added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/no-lockdown-in-jee-neet-exam-cities-govt/articleshow/77860790.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Collector withdraws lockdown orders issued by incident commander||JAIPUR: Lack of coordination and miscommunication among the district administration officials led to declaring Malviya Nagar police station (Jaipur East) and Bajaj Nagar police station areas as high-risk and containment zones respectively. Later, Jaipur collector Antar Singh Nehra withdrew both the orders, issued by the incident commander, when panic-stricken locals raised the issue with the administration and it was revealed the collector was ‘not taken into confidence’ in the matter and the health officials were not consulted. It also came to light that Covid guidelines were not followed before issuing the orders. "The incident commander (Sanju Pareek) issued the orders without taking me into confidence or consulting the assistant commissioner of police (ACP) and the health officials. She did it on the advice of the SHO without visiting the spot on her own. I reprimanded her for not visiting the spot and asked, ‘Is SHO an authority to give advice? I also asked her to withdraw the orders immediately and visit the site. I said, they should decide only after visiting the site," said Nehra. "According to the rules, the ACP, the medical officer and the incident commander must first visit the area. They should assess the spread of the virus, number of positive cases in each area, whether positive cases have been found in a particular house, whether there are cases in the nearby houses (at a distance of 200 metres) or whether the cases are widespread in the area (in various places)," said Nehra. "If cases are widespread in the particular area, it should be declared a containment zone up to 50 metres of that area. It should be decided by all three of them. The quarantine norms will apply to those who tested positive and the family members. They must also be informed that tests will be done again in 3-5 days," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/collector-withdraws-lockdown-orders-issued-by-incident-commander/articleshow/77860772.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Kolhapur||Prakash Ambedkar allowed in temple||KOLHAPUR: Succumbing to pressure from Vanchit Bahujan Aaghadi (VBA) leader Prakash Ambedkar, the Thackeray government on Monday opened the doors of Pandharpur’s famous Vitthal temple for a few minutes and allowed him to enter. After his visit to the Vitthal temple, Ambedkar claimed that he has been assured that the government would soon take a decision on reopening the temples, though with some riders. Accompanied by hundreds of supporters, Ambedkar arrived in Pandharpur in Solapur district though the police had sealed all the borders. Police stopped the VBA workers, led by Ambedkar, near the temple. After securing permission from district collector Milind Shambharkar, Ambedkar entered the temple with 10 supporters and had darshan of Lord Vithoba. The temple was then closed. Ambedkar later tweeted: “I am informed by the chief minister that temples, masjids, Buddha vihar and Jain temples will be opened soon. Government is preparing rules for the same. It is expected to take place within eight or 10 days”. He has warned that he would again come to Pandharpur if the government does not keep its word.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/ambedkar-allowed-to-enter-pandharpurs-vitthal-temple/articleshow/77858420.cms||Satyajit Joshi
September 1, 2020||Dehradun||CS directs officials to make arrangements for NEET, AIIMS entrance exams||Dehradun: Uttarakhand’s chief secretary (CS) Om Prakash on Monday directed the state officials to ensure that all arrangements are properly done for upcoming NEET and AIIMS examinations and the candidates do not face any problem on exam dates. In the letter, CS wrote that AIIMS entrance and recruitment examination should be considered as an essential activity. “The examination centres across the state shall be allowed to open and operate for all activities related to preparation and conduct of examination. The movement of candidates from their homes to their examination centres and then back to their homes shall be facilitated,” the letter mentioned. Notably, the NEET 2020 exam has been scheduled on September 13.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cs-directs-officials-to-make-arrangements-for-neet-aiims-entrance-exams/articleshow/77858440.cms||Kautilya Singh
September 1, 2020||Hubballi||Karnataka: Dead patient’s kin attack doctors, staff at Gadag hospital||GADAG: Irked by the death of a Covid-19 patient, his relatives allegedly attacked doctors and medical staff at Gadag Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) here on Monday. It is said that a person suffering from severe fever was brought from Chinchali village in the morning, but he was made to wait for a long time due to unavailability of beds. The patient’s relatives, who claimed they are relatives of a ZP member, alleged that doctors collected swab sample from the patient, but he died by afternoon. “He died due to delayed treatment. If doctors and staff had taken him in soon, he could have been saved,” they alleged. As the crowd started assaulting doctors and staff in the Covid ward, the hospital looked like a battlefield. Gadag assistant commissioner, the DSP, GIMS director and other officials rushed to the spot and controlled the situation. Doctors, medical staff go on strikeFollowing the incident, doctors and medical staff went on strike in the afternoon. Much to the inconvenience of patients. The staff demanded action against those who assaulted them and sought protection. “We are attending Covid and non-Covid patients by risking our lives. If such incidents recur, we won’t be able to perform our duties,” they said. However, no case was registered till late evening as Gadag police are still inquiring about the incident with both the parties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/dead-patients-kin-attack-docs-staff-at-gadag-hosp/articleshow/77858448.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan: Recovery number rises, mortality rate dips||JAIPUR: Sanganer MLA Ashok Lahoty was among the 290 persons who tested positive for Covid-19 in Jaipur on Monday. Lahoty divulged his medical condition through his Twitter handle appealing those who came in touch with him in recent past to get tested. The state reported its biggest single-day jump of 1,466 new infections on Monday taking the tally to 81,693. Though the state reported the biggest single-day spike, it also registered a big jump of 1,719 recoveries taking the tally of recovered persons to 66,812. The recovery rate currently stands at 82% and the mortality rate has gone below 1.3%. In the last 24 hours, the virus claimed 13 lives taking the casualty toll to 1,056 in the state. A health department official said they were taking the pandemic situation differently in each district. Also, collectors have been authorised to take a call to contain the spread of the virus to treatment. In Jaipur, the number of deaths are on the rise. Two more persons lost the battle against Covid taking the toll to 275. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (290), Kota (232), Jodhpur (145), Alwar (142), Bikaner (71), Pali (63), Ajmer (53), Sirohi (42), Tonk (40), Baran (40), Jhalawar (40), Udaipur (36), Nagaur (36), Dungarpur (29), Bharatpur (21), Jhunjhunu (18), Dholpur (16), Pratapgarh (16), Rajsamand (16), Sawai Madhopur (16), Dausa (14), Hanumangarh (14), Sriganganagar (12), Bhilwara (12), Chittorgarh (12), Sikar (10), Barmer (9), Churu (8), Bundi (5), Jalore (4), Banswara (3) and Jaisalmer (1).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/recovery-number-rises-mortality-rate-dips/articleshow/77867937.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Recovery number rises, mortality rate dips||JAIPUR: Sanganer MLA Ashok Lahoty was among the 290 persons who tested positive for Covid-19 in Jaipur on Monday. Lahoty divulged his medical condition through his Twitter handle appealing those who came in touch with him in recent past to get tested. The state reported its biggest single-day jump of 1,466 new infections on Monday taking the tally to 81,693. Though the state reported the biggest single-day spike, it also registered a big jump of 1,719 recoveries taking the tally of recovered persons to 66,812. The recovery rate currently stands at 82% and the mortality rate has gone below 1.3%. In the last 24 hours, the virus claimed 13 lives taking the casualty toll to 1,056 in the state. A health department official said they were taking the pandemic situation differently in each district. Also, collectors have been authorised to take a call to contain the spread of the virus to treatment. In Jaipur, the number of deaths are on the rise. Two more persons lost the battle against Covid taking the toll to 275. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (290), Kota (232), Jodhpur (145), Alwar (142), Bikaner (71), Pali (63), Ajmer (53), Sirohi (42), Tonk (40), Baran (40), Jhalawar (40), Udaipur (36), Nagaur (36), Dungarpur (29), Bharatpur (21), Jhunjhunu (18), Dholpur (16), Pratapgarh (16), Rajsamand (16), Sawai Madhopur (16), Dausa (14), Hanumangarh (14), Sriganganagar (12), Bhilwara (12), Chittorgarh (12), Sikar (10), Barmer (9), Churu (8), Bundi (5), Jalore (4), Banswara (3) and Jaisalmer (1).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/recovery-number-rises-mortality-rate-dips/articleshow/77860797.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan: Recovery number rises, mortality rate dips||JAIPUR: Sanganer MLA Ashok Lahoty was among the 290 persons who tested positive for Covid-19 in Jaipur on Monday. Lahoty divulged his medical condition through his Twitter handle appealing those who came in touch with him in recent past to get tested. The state reported its biggest single-day jump of 1,466 new infections on Monday taking the tally to 81,693. Though the state reported the biggest single-day spike, it also registered a big jump of 1,719 recoveries taking the tally of recovered persons to 66,812. The recovery rate currently stands at 82% and the mortality rate has gone below 1.3%. In the last 24 hours, the virus claimed 13 lives taking the casualty toll to 1,056 in the state. A health department official said they were taking the pandemic situation differently in each district. Also, collectors have been authorised to take a call to contain the spread of the virus to treatment. In Jaipur, the number of deaths are on the rise. Two more persons lost the battle against Covid taking the toll to 275. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (290), Kota (232), Jodhpur (145), Alwar (142), Bikaner (71), Pali (63), Ajmer (53), Sirohi (42), Tonk (40), Baran (40), Jhalawar (40), Udaipur (36), Nagaur (36), Dungarpur (29), Bharatpur (21), Jhunjhunu (18), Dholpur (16), Pratapgarh (16), Rajsamand (16), Sawai Madhopur (16), Dausa (14), Hanumangarh (14), Sriganganagar (12), Bhilwara (12), Chittorgarh (12), Sikar (10), Barmer (9), Churu (8), Bundi (5), Jalore (4), Banswara (3) and Jaisalmer (1).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/recovery-number-rises-mortality-rate-dips/articleshow/77867938.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan: Recovery number rises, mortality rate dips||JAIPUR: Sanganer MLA Ashok Lahoty was among the 290 persons who tested positive for Covid-19 in Jaipur on Monday. Lahoty divulged his medical condition through his Twitter handle appealing those who came in touch with him in recent past to get tested. The state reported its biggest single-day jump of 1,466 new infections on Monday taking the tally to 81,693. Though the state reported the biggest single-day spike, it also registered a big jump of 1,719 recoveries taking the tally of recovered persons to 66,812. The recovery rate currently stands at 82% and the mortality rate has gone below 1.3%. In the last 24 hours, the virus claimed 13 lives taking the casualty toll to 1,056 in the state. A health department official said they were taking the pandemic situation differently in each district. Also, collectors have been authorised to take a call to contain the spread of the virus to treatment. In Jaipur, the number of deaths are on the rise. Two more persons lost the battle against Covid taking the toll to 275. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (290), Kota (232), Jodhpur (145), Alwar (142), Bikaner (71), Pali (63), Ajmer (53), Sirohi (42), Tonk (40), Baran (40), Jhalawar (40), Udaipur (36), Nagaur (36), Dungarpur (29), Bharatpur (21), Jhunjhunu (18), Dholpur (16), Pratapgarh (16), Rajsamand (16), Sawai Madhopur (16), Dausa (14), Hanumangarh (14), Sriganganagar (12), Bhilwara (12), Chittorgarh (12), Sikar (10), Barmer (9), Churu (8), Bundi (5), Jalore (4), Banswara (3) and Jaisalmer (1).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/recovery-number-rises-mortality-rate-dips/articleshow/77867936.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab registers 50 deaths, 1,541 new cases; toll 1,453||CHANDIGARH: Punjab registered 50 deaths due to Covid-19 and 1,541 new positive cases on Monday. The total number Covid-19 deaths in Punjab now has touched 1,453 while 53,992 people have tested Covid positive. The state had 15,512 active Covid cases on Monday. Meanwhile, 1,280 patients were discharged from various hospitals in Punjab on Sunday after recovery. However, 77 Covid patients continue to be critical and remain on ventilator support while 474 are on oxygen support. Ludhiana district recorded the highest number of deaths on Monday (18), followed by Mohali (10), Amritsar (5), Hoshiarpur (5), Kapurthala (4), Jalandhar (3), and Fatehgarh Sahib, Fazilka, Gurdaspur, Patiala and Moga (1 each) . Bathinda district the highest number of Covid-19 positive cases (231), followed by Ludhiana (210), Jalandhar (202), Patiala (156), Amritsar (118), Mohali (102), Gurdaspur (75), Barnala (58), Hoshiarpur (44), Mansa (44), Ferozepur (42), Sangrur (40), Muktsar (36), Pathankot (35), Kapurthala (33), Faridkot (32), Fatehgarh Sahib (25), Moga (23), Ropar (16), Nawanshahr (11), Tarn Taran (5) and Fazilka (3). According to the state government’s medical bulletin, out of the 210 Covid cases in Ludhiana, three were transferred to other states and 70 duplicate entries deleted. Also, one duplicate death entry was deleted from Tarn Taran district. The 1,541 positive cases included 13 police personnel, 13 prisoners, 12 frontline workers, seven with source of infection from outside Punjab and six health care workers. As there were 15,512 active Covid-19 cases in Punjab, Ludhiana district had the highest number of 2,392 active cases, followed by 1,988 in Jalandhar, 1,581 in Mohali, 1,423 in Patiala and 877 in Gurdaspur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/punjab-registers-50-deaths-1541-new-cases-toll-1453/articleshow/77868093.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Kolhapur||Strict measures likely in Kolhapur, Sangli||Kolhapur: The Kolhapur and Sangli districts are set to have several restrictions to control the death rates and the rise in Covid-19 cases. On Sunday, speaking to district authorities, Sangli guardian minister Jayant Patil had said that the situation merited strict measures. Both districts are facing a severe shortage of ICU and oxygen beds and the patients are looking for beds in other districts. Sangli’s death rate is around 3.5% while Kolhapur’s has touched 3% in the past month. Both districts had the pandemic under control till a month back; however, the situation is grim now. Locally, several villages and towns are planning to observe total lockdown for three to seven days. Kolhapur guardian minister Satej Patil said, “Right now, no decision on a strict lockdown has been taken. We are stepping up our efforts to stop the spread and ensure that the death rate comes down as soon as possible. I am going to discuss the issue with the district authorities.” The district administration is also confused over the imposing of a strict lockdown. A top official, requesting anonymity, said, “A couple of days ago, we had suggested a strict lockdown in the district as many doctors and other frontline workers are succumbing to Covid-19. There would be some opposition from the daily wage workers. However, we are going to suggest some strict measures such as curfew in the evening and controlling crowd at public places.” The official said that a proposal to add around 400 oxygen beds and 300 ICU beds in Kolhapur district has been sent to state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/strict-measures-likely-in-kolhapur-sangli/articleshow/77858461.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||State reports 1,280 new cases, 14 deaths||Ahmedabad: In the 24 hours ending 5pm on Monday, the state reported 1,280 new Covid-19 cases, taking the total so far to 96,435. This was the fourth straight day with more than 1,200 new cases. The new cases included 257 from Surat, 173 from Ahmedabad, 128 from Vadodara, 118 from Rajkot and 114 from Jamnagar. The total cases in Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot are now 31,604, 20,583, 8,197 and 4,803. The state also reported 14 Covid deaths, taking the total to 3,022. The deaths included three each from Ahmedabad, Surat and Rajkot, two from Bhavnagar, and one each from Vadodara, Gandhinagar and Jamnagar. Rajkot’s death toll reached 93 while Ahmedabad, Surat and Vadodara have so far recorded 1,715, 625 and 131 deaths, respectively. A total of 1,025 patients were discharged in the same period in the state, taking the total of recovered patients to 77,782. The discharges include 137 from Surat, 128 from Ahmedabad, 107 from Vadodara, and 106 from Jamnagar. The number of active patients in Gujarat rose to 15,631, which is 16.2% of all cases so far. The share of discharged and deceased patients is 80.7% and 3.1%, respectively. Gujarat carried out 66,363 tests in these 24 hours, taking its total to 23.31 lakh. State health department officials say they are conducting 1,021 tests per day per million people. On Monday evening, Gujarat had 5.02 lakh persons under quarantine, of whom 481 are in institutional quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/state-reports-1280-new-cases-14-deaths/articleshow/77859567.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Jaipur||JEE Main candidates begin rushing towards exam centres||JAIPUR: In all, 45,227 candidates are likely to appear in the online JEE-Main exam from September 1-6 in nine districts in the state. The campaign for either postponing or cancelling the exam had left thousands of candidates living in remote areas confused. The state has nine exam centres. Most of the aspirants were under the impression that the Centre would cancel the exam because of pressure from various political parties. However, after all decks were cleared, candidates started reaching their exam centres either in hired cars or personal vehicles. Following the footsteps of Madhya Pradesh, the state on Monday evening announced free transport for JEE-Main candidates. However, the late decision will not provide much relief to the candidates. “I am on the way from Bharatpur with my son and his two friends who will appear in the JEE-MAIN exam in the morning shift in Jaipur. The online campaign has sparked confusion among them as they waited till the afternoon to leave for the exam centre,” said a parent, who is a RAS officer posted in Bharatpur district. Around 12,000 candidates will appear in Jaipur. To avail free transport services, students have show their admit cards to the bus driver or the conductor. The service will be available till September 7.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jee-main-candidates-begin-rushing-towards-exam-centres/articleshow/77862759.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Amritsar||Punjab registers 50 deaths, 1,541 new cases; toll 1,453||CHANDIGARH: Punjab registered 50 deaths due to Covid-19 and 1,541 new positive cases on Monday. The total number Covid-19 deaths in Punjab now has touched 1,453 while 53,992 people have tested Covid positive. The state had 15,512 active Covid cases on Monday. Meanwhile, 1,280 patients were discharged from various hospitals in Punjab on Sunday after recovery. However, 77 Covid patients continue to be critical and remain on ventilator support while 474 are on oxygen support. Ludhiana district recorded the highest number of deaths on Monday (18), followed by Mohali (10), Amritsar (5), Hoshiarpur (5), Kapurthala (4), Jalandhar (3), and Fatehgarh Sahib, Fazilka, Gurdaspur, Patiala and Moga (1 each) . Bathinda district the highest number of Covid-19 positive cases (231), followed by Ludhiana (210), Jalandhar (202), Patiala (156), Amritsar (118), Mohali (102), Gurdaspur (75), Barnala (58), Hoshiarpur (44), Mansa (44), Ferozepur (42), Sangrur (40), Muktsar (36), Pathankot (35), Kapurthala (33), Faridkot (32), Fatehgarh Sahib (25), Moga (23), Ropar (16), Nawanshahr (11), Tarn Taran (5) and Fazilka (3). According to the state government’s medical bulletin, out of the 210 Covid cases in Ludhiana, three were transferred to other states and 70 duplicate entries deleted. Also, one duplicate death entry was deleted from Tarn Taran district. The 1,541 positive cases included 13 police personnel, 13 prisoners, 12 frontline workers, seven with source of infection from outside Punjab and six health care workers. As there were 15,512 active Covid-19 cases in Punjab, Ludhiana district had the highest number of 2,392 active cases, followed by 1,988 in Jalandhar, 1,581 in Mohali, 1,423 in Patiala and 877 in Gurdaspur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/punjab-registers-50-deaths-1541-new-cases-toll-1453/articleshow/77868094.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab registers 50 deaths, 1,541 new cases; toll 1,453||CHANDIGARH: Punjab registered 50 deaths due to Covid-19 and 1,541 new positive cases on Monday. The total number Covid-19 deaths in Punjab now has touched 1,453 while 53,992 people have tested Covid positive. The state had 15,512 active Covid cases on Monday. Meanwhile, 1,280 patients were discharged from various hospitals in Punjab on Sunday after recovery. However, 77 Covid patients continue to be critical and remain on ventilator support while 474 are on oxygen support. Ludhiana district recorded the highest number of deaths on Monday (18), followed by Mohali (10), Amritsar (5), Hoshiarpur (5), Kapurthala (4), Jalandhar (3), and Fatehgarh Sahib, Fazilka, Gurdaspur, Patiala and Moga (1 each) . Bathinda district the highest number of Covid-19 positive cases (231), followed by Ludhiana (210), Jalandhar (202), Patiala (156), Amritsar (118), Mohali (102), Gurdaspur (75), Barnala (58), Hoshiarpur (44), Mansa (44), Ferozepur (42), Sangrur (40), Muktsar (36), Pathankot (35), Kapurthala (33), Faridkot (32), Fatehgarh Sahib (25), Moga (23), Ropar (16), Nawanshahr (11), Tarn Taran (5) and Fazilka (3). According to the state government’s medical bulletin, out of the 210 Covid cases in Ludhiana, three were transferred to other states and 70 duplicate entries deleted. Also, one duplicate death entry was deleted from Tarn Taran district. The 1,541 positive cases included 13 police personnel, 13 prisoners, 12 frontline workers, seven with source of infection from outside Punjab and six health care workers. As there were 15,512 active Covid-19 cases in Punjab, Ludhiana district had the highest number of 2,392 active cases, followed by 1,988 in Jalandhar, 1,581 in Mohali, 1,423 in Patiala and 877 in Gurdaspur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-registers-50-deaths-1541-new-cases-toll-1453/articleshow/77860799.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||HC for antigen tests instead of RT-PCR after arrests||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court has suggested that the state government switch over from RT-PCR tests to Rapid Antigen Tests (RAT) to ascertain whether an accused is Covid-19 positive after his arrest, and ahead of producing him before a judicial officer.The court sought to know this because RAT gives prompt result and it could help police in meeting the deadline of 24 hours before which cops have to produce an accused before a judge after arrest. In response to a woman’s complaint about not producing her husband before court within 24 hours of his arrest, the state government explained that such delay is caused in this Covid-19 pandemic because cops have to wait for at least 24 hours before producing him before a judge after his arrest. Hearing this, the bench of Justice Sonia Gokani and Justice N V Anjaria said, “Noticing the fact that the test of RT-PCR for Covid-19 virus takes minimum 24 hours for the results to be arrived at and that clashes with the statutory time period prescribed under the Code of Criminal Procedure, it is being proposed that let Rapid Antigen Tests be resorted to after seeking guidance/ opinion of the health experts for this purpose, which gives prompt results, so as to avoid overstepping of time limit prescribed by the statute.”Public prosecutor Mitesh Amin sought time from the court for a reply after consultation with expert doctors and the director general of police. The reply is expected by Wednesday. In March, the high court had ordered that every person who was to be sent to jail should be tested for Covid-19. Later, the subordinate courts issued directions that the accused persons must be tested for Covid-19 ahead of their production before judges. Under court orders, cops have to wait for at least one day for arrested persons’ Covid test results. Earlier, this wait period was even longer forcing cops to keep accused in their custody.The RAT reportedly has less specificity than RT-PCR test. However, the state government, on July 16, told the high court that the specificity of RT-PCR itself is 70%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-for-antigen-tests-instead-of-rt-pcr-after-arrests/articleshow/77859597.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Dehradun||Woman stabbed to death by stalker||Pithoragarh: A 22-year-old woman was killed allegedly by a stalker while she was working on her field in Jayal village on Sunday evening. Based on a complaint, police registered a case against the accused Rajendra Chand on Monday and launched a search operation. According to police, the victim Kavita Bhatt was working on her field in the village when Chand, 32, reached the spot. A heated argument ensued and he attacked Kavita with a knife (khukri). The victim sustained grievous injuries and was rushed to the district hospital where doctors declared her dead. Pithoragarh circle officer RS Rautela said that the incident was a case of love affair gone awry. He added that the woman had recently stopped talking to Chand due to which he was angry. The CO further said that the accused attacked Kavita after she refused to talk to him on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/woman-stabbed-to-death-by-stalker/articleshow/77858482.cms||Prem Punetha
September 1, 2020||Bhopal||Over 1,500 cases in a day again, MP tally at 64,000||BHOPAL: Number of Covid-19 cases in Madhya Pradesh have doubled in the month of August as more than 1,500 fresh cases were reported for the second consecutive day on Monday. A total of 1,532 fresh positive cases were reported on Monday taking the tally of positive cases in state to 63,965. With these new cases, a total of an alarming 32,159 positive cases have been reported in the state in the month of August itself. Thus registering an increase of more than 100% the tally of positive cases — 63,965 — has doubled from what it was — 31806 — exactly a month ago on July 31st. This means that more than 50% of the total 63,965 cases that have been reported in the state since March 20, when the first Covid-19 case was found, have been reported in the month of August alone. The overall positivity rate — number of people testing positive per 100 samples tested — which was 4.1 till the month of July has now crossed 4.6. This means that of every 100 samples tested more people are being found positive now compared to number of people found positive till July. Even on Monday when more than 1500 people were tested positive, a total of 27,316 samples were tested and of those 5.5% were found positive. On Monday it was the 12th consecutive day when more than 1,000 patients were tested positive in a single day. On the brighter side, 1,190 people who were admitted in hospitals recovered and were discharged taking the total number of people who have recovered to 48657. On Monday there were a total of 13,914 active patients in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/1500-cases-in-a-day-again-mp-tally-at-64k/articleshow/77859595.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Chennai||After lull, active Covid-19 cases spike in TVK Nagar||CHENNAI: One of the worst areas hit by Covid-19 during the April-May-June peak in Chennai, Thiru-vi-ka Nagar has once again recorded a significant increase in the number of active cases after a drop. This has coincided with the gradual increase of Covid cases in the city post relaxation of lockdown regulations and e-pass norms. Greater Chennai Corporation data shows that on August 30, TVK Nagar had 1,007 active cases, which formed 10% of its total caseload. A fortnight ago, it had 610 active cases, 7% of the caseload. The present scale of infection in TVK Nagar was witnessed in the last week of July. Officials from the zone said the number of active cases has been increasing in the past one month. “Almost all cases are due to workplace clusters,” an official said. “These are people who went to work and passed on their infection to their family members. It is totally unavoidable. We have to ensure that the infection is under control,” the official said. People who have tested positive from the zone include blue collar and white collar workers, as well as construction workers. Officials said the cases were steadily increasing in wards 64, 65, 66 and 69 (Kolathur, Villivakkam, Peravallur and Siruvallur north). However, they said there was no ‘wild spread’ of cases as was witnessed in ward 77 (Pulianthope) during the summer months. “TVK zone is testing more than 500 samples every day. We have conducted testing in markets, commercial complexes, fish and meat stalls,” an official said. The zone’s Covid mortality rate has reduced from 2.78% to 2.67% in the past fortnight even as it has recorded 25 deaths. At present, Chennai’s mortality rate is 2.03% and corporation commissioner G Prakash has said the plan was to “bring it down to 1.5%”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/after-lull-active-covid-19-cases-spike-in-tvk-nagar/articleshow/77860802.cms||Siddharth Prabhakar
September 1, 2020||Rajkot||Four vehicle thieves nabbed||Rajkot: Four vehicle thieves were nabbed on Monday and 31 vehicle thefts detected in Rajkot. Police said Hitesh Karen (33), Sanjay Mer (30), Anil Vadekhania (19) and Gopal Rojasara (21) would steal the two-wheelers from Rajkot and sell them in villages of Surendranagar district. “Of the accused, Hitesh was an expert in breaking locks.  Sanjay and Anil would zero in on the vehicles and Hitesh would break their locks. Gopal would help in the sale of the vehicles,” said J D Zala, inspector with Bhaktinagar police station. Of the accused, Hitesh figured in a rape case as an accused, while Sanjay was arrested twice in bootlegging cases. “We have seized 29 two-wheelers and spare parts of two two-wheelers from the possession of the accused,” said Zala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/four-vehicle-thieves-nabbed/articleshow/77859616.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: JK Lon Hospital to treat rare disease at Rs 4 crore per year||JAIPUR: Government-run JK Lon Hospital has started giving a patient the most expensive treatment the facility has ever provided. The drug costs Rs 4 crore per year and the patient will have to take it lifelong. The patient, a three-year-old boy who is suffering from Spinal Muscular Atrophy (a rare disease), was fortunate to have been selected by the company which is manufacturing the drug. The company has decided to provide it to the boy on charitable access programme (CAP). The boy hailing from Uttar Pradesh is the son of an armyman. He was recently given the first dose of the medicine. The best part of the treatment is that the medicine is taken orally daily and it can be taken at home. However, the hospital has asked the patient to come to the hospital every month for follow up so that they would be able to monitor his health and the power his muscles have gained. JK Lon Hospital superintendant Dr Ashok Gupta said, “The child was brought to our hospital from Gorakhpur for treatment. When he was 8 months old, his mother noticed that the child showed decreased movements and weakness in lower limbs. When the child was unable to stand and walk, his parents consulted doctors and a genetic test was done which confirmed the diagnosis of Spinal Muscular Atrophy (SMA).” During diagnosis, doctors discovered mutation in the survival motor neuron gene 1 (SMN1) of the boy, which is the cause of SMA. In a healthy person, SMN1 gene produces a protein that is critical to the function of the nerves that control the muscles. Without it, those nerve cells cannot properly function and eventually die, leading to debilitating and sometimes fatal muscle weakness. The only hope for the boy was the treatment for the disease, but it was quite expensive. The medicine which the boy started taking at JK Lon Hospital acts on pseudogene of SMA and acts by including Exon 7 of SMA pseudogene in translation of SMN protein. It is expected that with formation of functional protein with this drug, the patient will be able to lead a normal life. Individuals with SMA have difficulty performing basic functions like breathing and swallowing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jk-lon-hospital-to-treat-rare-disease-at-rs-4-crore-per-year/articleshow/77860798.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur: 10 beds for civic staff at Isolation Hospital||KOLHAPUR: The Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) has decided to reserve 10 beds at the Isolation Hospital for KMC workers who contract Covid-19 infection. The decision was taken in the KMC general body meeting on Monday after the corporators alleged that the Covid management system has collapsed totally and the civic personnel working on the frontline are succumbing to the infection. The corporators said the needs of the family members of all KMC workers who have succumbed combating the pandemic should be looked after forever. Senior corporator Jayant Patil said: “All civic employees have been on the field for the past few months. We have lost several of them. Their families had to struggle to get hospital beds. Many lost their lives. We want their families’ needs to be looked after and henceforth, no KMC worker should struggle for treatment.” Civic chief Mallinath Kalshetti said the family members of the deceased civic workers will get an insured sum. Moreover, civic employees will get free treatment. “Ten beds will be reserved at Isolation Hospital for treatment of the civic staff. Also, regular antigen tests will be carried out at four centres in the city.” The corporators also discussed Ganesh idol immersion preparations. There are over 850 mandals registered in the city. The officials said 380 mandals have registered to donate idols while the rest have decided to immerse the idols at the Irani Quarry. To address fears that social distancing will not be followed at the immersion site, the officials said only three persons from each mandal will be allowed to accompany the idol at immersion site. Meanwhile, the food carts will not be allowed along the immersion route said the traffic officials. The roads towards Panchaganga river and lakes will remain closed along with the roads towards the immersion route.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/10-beds-for-civic-staff-at-isolation-hospital/articleshow/77858483.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Dehradun||Woman, who fabricated fake suicide story of husband’s death, held for his murder||Dehradun: A woman, who had claimed that her husband killed himself on August 28, was arrested on Monday by the Cantt police of Dehradun on charges of murdering her husband. Earlier, the Cantt police was informed that a man, identified as Ram Pukar Jha, had killed himself in his rented accommodation in Prakash Nagar Bindal Colony area. Jha was from Motihari area of Bihar and worked as a daily wager in Dehradun. His wife Kajal had told the police that Jha was addicted to liquor and the family was facing an acute financial crunch. However, the postmortem of the body revealed that hanging was not the cause of death. On August 30, house owner Pappu Diwakar lodged a complaint mentioning that on the day of Jha’s death, he had a fight with his wife. Diwakar maintained that after his intervention, the couple went inside the house and sometime later, the news of Jha’s suicide broke out. In his complaint, he alleged that the woman may have killed her husband. Acting on the complaint and on basis of the postmortem report, the Cantt police questioned Kajal, who confessed her involvement in the murder. Kajal told police that her husband was addicted to liquor and was not much concerned about the future of their two children – a seven-year-old daughter and an 18-month-old boy. Kajal, who worked as a domestic help, said that she had frequent fights with her husband over the issue. She claimed that on August 28, Jha came home in an inebriated condition and they entered into a heated argument. After the verbal tussle, she strangled him to death and hanged the body with the help of a saree. She was arrested on Monday for her crime.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/woman-who-fabricated-fake-suicide-story-of-husbands-death-held-for-his-murder/articleshow/77858472.cms||Kautilya Singh
September 1, 2020||Bareilly||Man, 30, drowns in Katna river; woman, her two kids feared drowned in separate incident||Pilibhit: A 30-year-old resident of Gajraula Kalan village, Shan Mohammad, drowned in Katna river and the body was fished out by police with the help of local divers on Monday afternoon. The victim had slipped into the river around 11am, following which police launched a rescue operation. SHO Jai Prakash Singh said the body was sent for autopsy. In another incident, a woman and her two children — aged seven and two years — feared drowned in Devha river near Karkhera village under Bisalpur kotwali. According to police, Savitri Devi jumped into the swollen river along with her seven-year-old daughter and two sons. Though her elder son was rescued by locals, three others remained untraced. Soon, police and a flood rescue team of the Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC) launched a rescue operation that continued for the second day on Monday. The operation would continue until the bodies were fished out, said Bisalpur sub-divisional magistrate Chandra Bhan Singh. SHO Sunil Kumar Sharma said, “The relationship between Savitri and her mother-in-law were discordant. On Sunday, she jumped into the river along with her children.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-30-drowns-in-katna-river-woman-her-two-kids-feared-drowned-in-separate-incident/articleshow/77857267.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Kolhapur||760 new cases reported across Kolhapur district||Kolhapur: As many as 24 deaths along with 760 new cases of Covid-19 were reported across Kolhapur district on Monday. With addition of these figures, the total number of cases has now reached to 23,802, while the death toll stands at 723. “The total number of patients discharged from hospitals is at 15,049. Currently, the district has 8,030 active patients undergoing treatment at different hospitals across Kolhapur,” a health official said. “Out of the 760 cases, Kolhapur city reported 255 of them. So far, the city has reported 7,584 cases and 196 deaths due to the contagion,” he added. 30 deaths in Sangli Sangli district registered the highest number of deaths due to Covid-19 reported in a day on Monday wherein 30 people succumbed to the contagion. The district also saw a total of 998 new cases. The total number of cases has now reached to 12,394 and deaths have gone up to 495. The sudden rise in deaths has taken the death rate to 3.99% which is more than the national and state averages. The number of cases is rising mainly due to increased testing, while deaths are rising due to shortage of facilities to treat critical patients. Meanwhile, district collector Abhijeet Chaudhary on Monday appointed four officers to coordinate among the hospitals regarding the availability of beds for treatment of Covid patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/760-new-cases-reported-across-kolhapur-district/articleshow/77858474.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Ex-President visited Vizag last August||Visakhapatnam: A pall of gloom descended on the port city on Monday evening as news of the demise of former President Pranab Mukherjee trickled in. Mukherjee was in the city in August last year to attend a private programme. He also came here in 2016 when as President, he visited the headquarters of the Eastern Naval Command. “He was a thorough gentleman and humble to the core. One thing that amazed us was the way he started interacting with port officials during his stay at our guest house. We felt honoured to host a learned guest like him,” PL Haranadh, then vice-chairman of Visakhapatnam Port Trust, reminisced. Mukherjee was in the city as chief guest of the foundation day ceremony of Gitam on August 10 last year. Addressing students, he spoke highly about Mahatma Gandhi. “He’s not just the ‘father of the nation’, he is also the ‘maker of the nation’,” he had said. The former external affairs minister also spoke about his dream for India. “India has been invited as an observer for the G8 summit, but the day is not far when India will be a member of the G8, for which we have to focus on research.” He stayed at the port guest house for the night, where a group of port trust officials met him informally. The former President welcomed them without any hesitation. Officials also handed him a ship memento. “He had a simple diet. He gave us his choice of a humble meal before his arrival. And, may be because it was a Saturday, he took a vegetarian meal,” recalled C Hari Chandran, secretary of Visakhapatnam Port Trust.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ex-president-visited-vizag-last-august/articleshow/77859599.cms||Arpit Basu
September 1, 2020||Kolkata||Pranab Mukherjee, a numbers man and a teacher who chose khadi over school||KOLKATA: For some, he was a phenomenal politician, for others he was an astute academic. Pranab Mukherjee had always been an awe-inspiring character in Indian politics who could deliberate on tax reforms, skiff across election results and recite ‘Meghaduta’ in Sanskrit in the same breath. Mukherjee’s friend for nearly seven decades and former principal of then Presidency College Amal Mukhopadhyay says he has never seen a reader as voracious as him. “His brilliance and wisdom from multidisciplinary studies are unmatched. I have rarely come across a person who had such a phenomenal memory,” he said. But Mukherjee had another weapon in his arsenal — his moderate temperament. A follower of Mahatma Gandhi, Mukherjee wrote in his biography, “a few moments of peace will achieve far more than years of war”. “He would not even take a harsh step against those who were his staunchest critics, whether at the Pradesh Congress or at the national arena. President George W Bush, who was a bit cold to him initially, would talk to him for longer hours when he was working on the India-US civil nuclear agreement,” recounted Sukhendu Sekhar Roy, a Trinamool Rajya Sabha member. His self-composure during crisis was unmatched. In his biography, Mukherjee briefly touched upon how he got the news of his expulsion from Congress in 1986 when he was having a discussion at former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Kamalapati Tripathi’s residence. Though his personal relation with Rajiv Gandhi was “always good”, Mukherjee spent “sleepless nights” trying to figure out what exactly went wrong. “Dada’s biggest asset was his unperturbed nature, which was never shaken even during the toughest times,” Roy said. Former non-official director of United Bank of India Srenik Sett had worked closely with Mukherjee since 2005. According to Sett, the former President, who started his career as a teacher of political science between 1963 and 1968 at Vidyanagar College in South 24 Parganas, always remained more of a teacher. “Perhaps that teacher in him prompted Pranabda to remain the chairman of Indian Statistical Institute from 2004 to 2012. That’s what prompted him to help set up Aligarh Muslim University’s Jangipur campus,” recounted Sett.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/numbers-man-teacher-who-chose-khadi-over-school/articleshow/77860865.cms||Rohit Khanna
September 1, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur: Fire breaks out at private hospital||KANPUR: A fire broke out in an inverter unit of a private hospital in Gujaini area of the city on Monday morning. There were 12 patients present at the hospital when the incident occurred but all were moved to the safe places immediately. No caualty was reported in the incident. According to the fire official Kailash Chandra, the information regarding the blaze was received in the morning hours. Several fire tenders were rushed to the hospital and the fire was brought under control in no time, the official added. A team of firemen focused on evacuating the patients to a safer place while the others contained the fire in the building comprising three storeys, said the senior fire official||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/fire-breaks-out-at-pvt-hosp/articleshow/77860496.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Varanasi||UPCC chief extends support to weavers||VARANASI: UP Congress Committee chief Ajay Kumar Lallu has assured weaver leaders of all support regarding their demands, including revision of power tariff. The weavers have threatened to go on a strike from Tuesday in support of their demands. UPCC president Ajay Kumar Lallu met the leaders of fraternity at a `jan samvad programme organised at the house of a party worker in Pilikothi area on Monday regarding their problems especially those related to power tariff. In his address, Lallu attacked the state government and said, “At a time when the weaving industry has no works due to Covid-19 lockdown and sufferings of weavers have increased, the state government has compelled them to pay the power tariff on the basis of meter reading in place of fixed charges realised from them in the past. It is the time when the weaving sector should be given special packages for the survival of industry and weavers the state government is increasing burden on poor weavers due to its anti-poor mindset.” Assuring weavers to extend all support to their stir and demands, he said that the issue had already been raised in state assembly and Congress will raise it strongly in Parliament also. Earlier, Hassan and other weaver leaders apprised Lallu and other Congress leaders of the problems being faced by the fraternity in operating their units due to change in provision of power tariff realisation by the state government since January. They claimed that hundreds of weavers have sold out their powerloom machines to the scrape traders in past months. Ishrat Usmani coordinated the event in which UPCC general secretary Vishwa Vijay Singh, former minister Ajay Rai and other leaders were also present. After this event Lallu visited Kaal Bhairo and Kashi Vishwanath temples and offered prayers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/upcc-chief-extends-support-to-weavers/articleshow/77859378.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Dehradun||Locals encroach upon houses built for financially weak people in Mussoorie||MUSSOORIE: Even as the local administration is working to evict more than 80 illegal squatters from Mussoorie Municipal Council (MMC) land at Chifonkot near Gandhi Chowk, it has come to light that 40 flats, which were built for people from financially weak section of the society on MMC land, have been encroached upon by locals allegedly in connivance with politicians. In 2010, MMC land on Tehri bypass road was taken by the administration to construct 90 flats for financially weak people under the Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission (JNNURM). However by 2015-16, only 40 flats could be constructed. Among these 40 flats, only about 25 were fully constructed and the remaining 15 were left in semi-finished condition. The construction of the rest of the proposed flats was never started. Amidst growing demand to resettle the oustees from Chifankot in these flats, MMC conducted a physical verification at the site last week and found that all 40 flats – supposed to be unoccupied – had people living in them since 2017. “Currently all 40 flats are occupied. About 14 flats have been occupied by disaster-affected families who were asked to shift here in 2017 for a short period and about 10 by families who had been proposed as beneficiaries by the MMC a few years ago,” a local resident alleged Sources allege that a few of these flats have been also encroached by the contractor who was engaged in construction works at this site. “There should be a proper verification of all occupants so that illegal ones are ousted. These flats must be allotted to only those persons who are identified by the administration,” says Mohan Petwal, a local resident and mandal adhyaksh of BJP.MMC chairman Anuj Gupta when queried said that these flats had not been handed over to the MMC and neither has the council allotted these flats to any of the occupants currently residing there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/locals-encroach-upon-houses-built-for-financially-weak-people-in-mussoorie/articleshow/77858475.cms||Anmol Jain
September 1, 2020||Goa||With low-key Onam, funds used to help community||Panaji: Keralites settled in Goa observed a quiet Onam festival this year in the wake of the pandemic. Elaborate sadhyas (feasts) were reduced to a few items only and festivities were limited within friends and families. “This year’s Onam was a minimalistic, stay-at-home celebration. All the functions that have been held in previously were cancelled,” Vasu Nair, president of the all Goa Malayalee association said. Under this parent body, a total of 13 Malayalee associations from various parts of Goa come together annually to celebrate Onam in the state with a series of events leading up to the main festival day. The harvest festival that dates back centuries and is celebrated among Malayalees irrespective of one’s religious associations. Prior to this, the Malayalee community in Goa had limited its celebrations in 2018 to pool funds and donate them to the Kerala relief after it was hit with the devastating floods two years ago. This year, all the associations cancelled the programmes and decided to use the money meant for the events to help Keralites in Goa who have lost their jobs or are not being paid salaries due to the pandemic. “There are people in our community who are facing difficulties due to Covid-19. The various Malayalee associations have reached out to them and given them money or utilities. On our end, lavish expenditures have been reduced especially in sadhya where only 14 items were served,” Nair said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/with-low-key-onam-funds-used-to-help-community/articleshow/77860805.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Dehradun||Massive landslide on Mussoorie-Dehradun road causes traffic snarls||Mussoorie: A massive landslide on Mussoorie-Dehradun road near Galogi early on Monday disrupted traffic movement along the stretch. This also led to serpentine queues of vehicles on both sides. However, the debris could not be cleared even till late in the evening. Considering the frequent landslides, the public works department (PWD) has permanently deployed several JCBs in the area. However, the road could not be cleared as the debris kept falling throughout the day. PWD junior engineer Pushpendra Kumar said, “We deployed four JCBs at the spot but they could not work as debris kept falling. There was another major landslide in the afternoon bringing down more rubble.” He added that it would be difficult to clear the stretch until the debris stop falling. Meanwhile, the roadblock also resulted in long queues of vehicles on both sides as angry residents waited for the debris to be cleared. A Dehradun resident Rajkumar said, “I have been stuck here since 9 am waiting for the road to be cleared.” Notably, there have been numerous landslides on the stretch this year causing much inconvenience to commuters. Residents have blamed the unscientific road cutting done by the PWD for road widening as the reason for the same.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/massive-landslide-on-mussoorie-dehradun-road-causes-traffic-snarls/articleshow/77858489.cms||Anmol Jain
September 1, 2020||Dehradun||Woman sets self on fire, admitted to hosp||Dehradun: A 28-year-old woman set herself ablaze in the Tyagi Road area of Dehradun on Monday morning. The police team rushed her to Coronation Hospital, where her condition is stated to be critical. The woman was identified as Seva Kalan-resident Poonam Dhiman. She is the wife of one Sonu, who works as a carpenter in a shop in Chakrata area of Dehradun. The couple have a one-year-old girl child. Before setting herself on fire, the woman kept the child aside. The locals along with cops from Lakhibagh police outpost rushed to her help and took her to the hospital in an ambulance. The reason behind her step has not been ascertained as yet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/woman-sets-self-on-fire-admitted-to-hosp/articleshow/77858487.cms||Kautilya Singh
September 1, 2020||Bhopal||229 new Covid cases in Bhopal, count nears 11,000||BHOPAL: BJP vice-president Prabhat Jha and two other MLAs — Sardendu Tiwari (Churhat) and Sanjay Sharma (Tendukheda) tested positives for Covid-19 here on Monday. They were among the 229 new Covid-19 cases were reported in Bhopal. Confirming the diagnosis in a tweet, Jha said, “I was in Gwalior for the last 7-8 days for party work. I got my Covid-19 test after feeling unwell on the advice of doctors. Test report is positive. During this time, whoever has come in contact with me get yourself tested.” Jha is BJP’s national vice-president and party in-charge for Punjab and Chandigarh. He is now in the dozen plus list of politicians who have been diagnosed with the infection. He has been admitted to Chirayu hospital. Congress MLA from Tendukheda, Sanjay Sharma, his PA and two staff members have also tested positive. MLA Sharma lives in 45 Bungalows area of Bhopal. Sardendu Tiwari (Churhat) who lives in Badwariya Kalan, also tested positive, according to a health department report. With 229 new cases, the number of infected patients has so far reached 10,734 in the state capital. Eight positive cases were reported in Luv-Kush Nagar (Awadhpuri) while the same number of positives were reported in Gandhi Chowk (Berasia). Eight positive cases were also reported from Panchsheel Nagar. Four positives have been reported in Ayashoda Garden (Bagh Mughalia). Similarly, four positives in the same family were reported in Karond. Amrai (Baghsewania) reported three positives. Goumti Nagar and Katara hills reported two positive cases of the infection each. A doctor has been diagnosed with the infection in NKS Hospital. Gautam Nagar reported two new positive cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/229-new-covid-cases-in-bhopal-count-nears-11k/articleshow/77859621.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand to start eco-tourism circuit, says forest minister||Dehradun: The Uttarakhand forest department has decided to start five eco-tourism circuits to increase livelihood opportunities for local youths and beef up financial profits for the Corporation, an entity of the forest department. In a meeting held on Monday, state forest minister Harak Singh Rawat said that the move will give a new lease of life to the otherwise unkempt forest bungalows. “There are many forest bungalows which the department is not able to maintain very well and therefore, by handing over their charge to the Corporation, they will at least be utilised in a righteous way.” A similar move was started by the Himachal Pradesh state government two years ago. Also, the state is going to have two city forests — in Indira Nagar and in Ramnagar areas of Dehradun — as announced by the Union environment minister a few months ago. The move is aimed at adding greenery in urban areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-to-start-eco-tourism-circuit-says-forest-minister/articleshow/77858494.cms||Shivani Azad
September 1, 2020||Mysuru||C’nagar head constable succumbs to Covid-19||Chamarajnagar: A head constable attached to the Gundlupet police station in Chamarajanagar on Sunday night succumbed to Covid-19 at a private hospital in Mysuru. Suresh, 47, had been undergoing treatment for the past 15 days, Chamarajanagar police said. Suresh is the second cop in Chamarajanagar to have fallen victim to the pandemic. Members of his family performed his last rites at Udigala village in Chamarajanagar taluk on Monday. Chamarajanagar additional superintendent of police Anita BH Haddannavar said that Suresh had been an efficient policeman. She added that a member of his family would be given a job on compassionate grounds, in addition to other benefits that the government provided to all Covid-19 warriors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/cnagar-head-constable-succumbs-to-covid-19/articleshow/77858485.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Bareilly||Residents of two villages clash over stray cattle, several including two policemen injured||Bareilly: A clash erupted between residents of two villages after a group of people from one of the villages were found performing black magic for restricting the movement of stray cattle in their village late on Saturday. When the residents of the adjacent village came to know about this activity, they gathered in large numbers to stop them. The situation escalated and both the parties started pelting stones at each other. When police attempted to control them, one of their sub-inspectors was grievously injured during the clash. The situation was controlled after heavy force was sent in the area. Police have booked 38 identified and 125 unidentified people for rioting and attacking public officers on duty. Three persons have been arrested so far. Station house officer (SHO) Sadar police station Ashok Pal said, “Residents of Behta village were performing black magic when the members of adjacent Nizampur Gautia village raised objection. Soon, both the parties indulged in violence and started pelting stones. When a local outpost in-charge along with a constable arrived at the spot and attempted to control the situation, villagers attacked them. The situation was later controlled after heavy force was sent to the village. An FIR has been registered against the villagers under relevant sections and suitable action has been taken against violators.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/residents-of-two-villages-clash-over-stray-cattle-several-including-two-policemen-injured/articleshow/77857289.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
September 1, 2020||India||‘During LS polls, 4 out of 5 pics flagged as fake kept circulating on WhatsApp’||NEW DELHI: Around the time the Lok Sabha election was in full swing, fact-checkers were hard at work. A high-voltage campaign means a flood of content moving around with claims ranging from plausible to wild. But moderating wasn’t easy. If five fake WhatsApp images were flagged, four kept circulating anyway, a study has found. Read the entire story on TOI+https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/india/4-out-of-5-fake-whatsapp-images-keep-circulating-even-after-being-flagged/articleshow/77865648.cms||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/during-ls-polls-4-out-of-5-pics-flagged-as-fake-kept-circulating-on-whatsapp/articleshow/77861996.cms||Chandrima Banerjee
September 1, 2020||Bareilly||Four reported injured by Chinese manjha in Baradari locality of Bareilly in 24 hours, 2 FIRs registered||Bareilly: Four persons were reported injured in separate incidents after coming in contact with Chinese manjha in Baradari locality of Bareilly since Sunday. Chinese manjha is easily available in every kite shop despite it being banned because of being economical.Ajay Chauhan (25), resident of civil lines locality, was on his way to a private hospital on his bike on Stadium road when his head got entangled in a Chinese manjha and later slipped through his nose. He was immediately rushed to the hospital where 13 stitches were applied to his wounds.Mahendra Kashyap, resident of Subhashnagar, was on his way back home from work when he came in contact with Chinese manjha and got hurt.Two other persons were also hurt and a FIR was registered by Ajay and Mahendra at Baradari police station. Police have detained a few people who were flying kites using Chinese manjha and raids were conducted in the market searching for shops selling Chinese manjha.Station house officer (SHO) Baradari Sheetanshu Kumar said, “We are taking action against people using and selling Chinese manjha. Two persons were recently injured because of Chinese manjha and we have registered their complaint. We have given a warning to people flying kites in the area, especially near the flyover.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/four-reported-injured-by-chinese-manjha-in-baradari-locality-of-bareilly-in-24-hours-2-firs-registered/articleshow/77857311.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
September 1, 2020||Bhopal||MP floods: Narmada still 4ft above danger mark||BHOPAL: Narmada was still flowing over danger mark in Sethani ghat of Hoshangabad district. On Monday night, though the water receded and reached around 968 feet, still four feet above the danger mark of 964 feet. More than 3,600 people were still living in 48 relief camps that were set up all over the district by the district administration, but no casualty was reported in the district despite water level breaking 47-year-old record and flowing 19 feet above the danger mark. Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan also visited affected villages of Hoshangabad district. He even reached out to those villages which have been marooned on a boat. In Balabhont village of Hoshangabad district, Chouhan distributed food packets and water bottles and assured people that all care would be taken. He instructed the district collector to ensure appropriate food, water and medicine supply in affected villages and also instructed to start the loss assessment work for crops once the water recedes in a scientific way so that no one is deprived of relief against the crops lost. “Relief and rescue works were carried out on Monday also, water had receded but it is still above danger level. More than 3,000 people are in relief camps. All our teams are on alert and no casualty due to flood have been reported in the district so far,” district collector Sehore, Dhananjay Singh told TOI. Two teams of army, two teams of NDRF and local force was deployed as Narmada crossed it danger mark and reached 983 feet level which was the highest in past 47 years, inundating nearly half of the Hoshangabad town. “People in flood-affected areas need to be alert though as rain may come back again and risk of diseases to people in flood-hit areas also increases once the water recedes. There has been massive loss to crops as well which would be promptly assessed and relief provided to affected farmers in addition to compensation received under crop insurance scheme,” the CM had said on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/narmada-still-4ft-above-danger-mark/articleshow/77859651.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Varanasi||Kashi artisans hail PM’s call to team up for toys||VARANASI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s reference to Varanasi as a toy cluster having many skilled artisans in his ‘Mann Ki Baat’ address on Sunday filled the craftsmen of wooden toys in his constituency with pride and joy. For the master craftsmen like Rameshwar Singh, Godawari Singh, Premchand Vishwakarma, Ashok Kumar and others, PM’s vision of developing India into a big hub of toy production was a morale booster. They expressed their willingness to be part of PM’ vision and to adopt all technical advancements that can improve the quality of their toys and help increase India’s share in the over Rs 7 lakh crore rupee global toy industry. Varanasi is known for its distinguished wooden lacquerware and toys got the Geographical Indication (GI) tag in 2015. Even during the pandemic, the women artisans of Varanasi made about 50,000 wooden rakhis. They also sent beautifully crafted wooden rakhi to PM Modi on Rakshabandhan. “There are about 3,000 families of wood craftsmen in different localities like Kashmiriganj, Kojwa, Badagaon, Harahua, Luxa, Daranagar of Varanasi engaged in the traditional craft for generations,” said Dr Rajani Kant, GI expert and president of Human Welfare Association. Besides wooden toys, these artisans also make idols and kitchenware that are a speciality of this region, he added. In his ‘Maan ki Baat’ address, PM had called upon entrepreneurs to promote the local toys industry. “To my start-up friends, to our new entrepreneurs I say, Team up for toys. Let us make toys together. For everybody, it is the time to get vocal for local toys. Come, let us make some good quality toys for our youth. Toys should be such that in their presence childhood blooms and smiles. Let us make toys which are favourable to the environment too.” The PM also mentioned names of some toy clusters in the country, including Varanasi. He said there are several skilled artisans who possess expertise in making good toys and some parts of the country like Channapatna in Ramnagaram in Karnataka, Kondapalli in Krishna in Andhra Pradesh, Thanjavur in Tami Nadu, Dhubari in Assam, Varanasi in Uttar Pradesh are also developing as toy clusters. He said the global toy industry is worth more than 7 lakh crore rupees, but India has very little share in it. “The toy industry is very vast. Be it cottage industries, small industries, MSMEs and along with this big industries and private entrepreneurs too come in the ambit of this,” he said. PM talked about his deliberations with the Children University of Gandhinagar, ministry of women and child development, ministry of education and MSME ministry on how to make new toys available to children and how India could become a big hub of toy production. He exhorted entrepreneurs to team up, saying it is the time to get vocal for local toys.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/kashi-artisans-hail-pms-call-to-team-up-for-toys/articleshow/77859366.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Pune||Pandemic brings to a halt Pune’s famed 127-year-old visarjan tradition||PUNE: The Sarvajanik Ganeshotsav started by Lokmanya Bal Gangadhar Tilak in 1893 to unify the people against the British has a 127-year-old immersion procession tradition on Anant Chaturdashi in Pune. It will be broken on Tuesday. The procession has been cancelled this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic. In the past, there have been restrictions, and a delayed procession, but never has it been completely cancelled. Every year, the procession begins at Mahatma Phule Mandai with the five manache (revered) Ganapati idols __ Kasba, Tambdi Jogeshwari, Guruji Talim, Tulshibaug and Kesari Wada__ leading it. They are accompanied by scores of dhol-tasha (drums) troupes and their display and decorated tableaux watched by lakhs of people who crowd the vicinity. The manache Ganapati are followed by hundreds of other mandals in the main procession route on Laxmi Road. Other mandals take two other roads. All three routes converge at Alka Talkies Chowk, before the mandals with their idols cross Sambhaji Bridge across the Mutha River to immerse their idols along the ghats. The procession, under tight police security, often spans 30 hours. Social activist Anand Saraf, associated with Pune’s grandest festival for 50 years, said neither did the Spanish Flu in 1918 nor did any war lead to a cancellation of the procession. “In 1917, the British government had objected to the procession, but 90 mandals participated in it. Except for a 40-day delay in 1942, the procession has always taken place,” Saraf said. History scholar Mandar Lawate said the plague in 1897, the Spanish flu and World War I did not affect the festivities. The British had cancelled the procession and imposed a curfew during the Ganeshotsav celebrations in September 1942. “Most mandals had then conducted rituals and kept the idols till they got permission to conduct the procession on November 3, that year. Subdued Ganeshotsav celebrations were witnessed in 1965 due to the India-Pakistan War, and riots. The procession was not cancelled. It was conducted until sunset without any fanfare,” Lawate said. Pune’s mayor Murlidhar Mohol said citizens have respected their appeals and conducted immersions at home. “Close to 40,000 idols were immersed in the mobile tanks made available by the Pune Municipal Corporation or handed over at the collection centres. Many immersed the idols at home. Other Puneites must follow this practice on Tuesday too,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pandemic-brings-to-a-halt-punes-famed-127-yr-old-visarjan-tradition/articleshow/77860809.cms||Rujuta Parekh
September 1, 2020||Dehradun||Special bus service for JEE-MAIN aspirants||Dehradun: The state roadways has decided to run buses in every district for students scheduled to appear for JEE-MAIN exams. The bus service will operate from September 1 and continue till September 6, the last date of the exam. The ticket charges of the buses will be nominal, officials said. The move is being taken to ensure that JEE-MAIN aspirants do not face any difficulty in finding transport to reach their exam centres, they added. The centres for the exams are located in Haridwar, Haldwani, Dehradun, and Roorkee. The exams will be conducted in two shifts and the examination hall will have the facility of face masks and sanitisers. Officials added that the state government will take “strict measures to ensure social distancing and avoid large crowd gatherings.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/special-bus-service-for-jee-main-aspirants/articleshow/77858499.cms||Mohammad Anab
September 1, 2020||Nagpur||Fewer in number, yet CBSE students dominate CAP list||Nagpur: Despite being drastically fewer in numbers, CBSE students account for over 40% spots in the top thousand merit rankings for Nagpur city. The provisional merit list compiled by the education department, as part of Common Admission Process (CAP), reconfirms the dominance of CBSE students in Std XI admissions landscape. It is on the basis of this CAP merit list that admissions for state board-affiliated junior colleges are done. Almost 62,000 students had registered for SSC in Nagpur district. For CBSE schools, there is no official figure available but it’s estimated that around 10,000 students would have registered for the Std X exam here. Considering the enrolment ratio to landing a spot in the merit list, CBSE students win hands down. TOI spoke to academics from both boards, but neither wanted to comment on-the-record, as it may seem more of a public spat between two separate board principals. A state board school principal said evaluation done by the CBSE has always been a concern. “They have more control over internal marks and that helps students to get an edge. There was a time when over 50% of their marks were from internals, but then that format of exam was scrapped,” said the state principal. But this year was a bumper scoring one for both SSC and HSC. It was a year when records tumbled and passing percentage reached historic highs. The liberal marking by state board has been attributed mostly to a gentle nudge by authorities to not inconvenience students more as already Covid-19 had depressed many. A state board principal said, “Of course, the marking this year has been liberal, but it has happened after a very long time. Evaluators were more lenient towards children as the last thing a student under lockdown wants to see is a mark sheet with failed written on it.” Despite the skyrocketing scores of state board, CBSE did not cede ground and stayed put on its usual territory of 40%-50%. Another junior college trustee said financial background plays a role. “Usually, the top-ranking students are intelligent ones, regardless of their status. But they move up and down with one or two marks difference. Sometimes, good tuitions, conducive study environment and physical comforts help students to focus more and score that vital 2-3 marks more which can move them 50-60 ranks up,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/fewer-in-number-yet-cbse-students-dominate-cap-list/articleshow/77859709.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
September 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Veteran asks collector to defer GCCI polls||Ahmedabad: Questions are being raised over the elections scheduled on September 5 for the top posts, and other offices, at Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (GCCI). The most recent case in point is a plea by veteran GCCI member Rohit Shah made to the Ahmedabad Collector to defer the elections of the chamber.  GCCI elections have already been deferred once before, from its earlier date in July to September 5, after concerns were raised over Covid-19 pandemic. In his plea to the collector, Shah wrote, “People above 65 years of age are advised not to step out during the pandemic.. At such a time, if elections are held, majority of people being senior citizens will not be able to come for the polling from other cities. Within Ahmedabad itself, at least 35% members are more than 60 years of age and thus may not be able to participate in the polling.” “The heavy rainfall across different parts of the state will be a further deterrent for people to come and cast their vote,” the letter further adds. Citing the guidelines of Unlock 4.0, Shah also mentioned that gatherings only upto 100 people will be allowed till September 21. “It is important that elections be conducted in a democratic manner and therefore, in the long-term benefit of the institution, it is best that the elections be deferred,” the letter states. In the past, the former election officer appointed for GCCI polls, P K Laheri, had suggested to the apex body that the elections be deferred as cases of Covid-19 were on the rise.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/veteran-asks-collector-to-defer-gcci-polls/articleshow/77859783.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Goa||Purse seiners to start season gradually||Panaji: Owners of big fishing vessel, who could not commence activities till September 1 as most of their workers had returned to their respective states, are now hoping to begin the season. However, with a lot of the labour force yet to return to Goa, fishing activities are not likely to kick-start all at once, they said. “We had decided that bigger boats would start from September 1. However, many of our workers have not yet arrived,” said president of All Goa Fishermen’s Association Harshad Dhond. The crew usually returned August onwards. But this year due to transport-related issues many could not come back. Individual boat owners therefore resolved to send buses to bring back their workers. Since most of the crew members are from Jharkhand, sending a bus there takes three-and-a-half days each way. Besides the fuel cost, the boat owners are also paying for the food and Covid-19 test at the state border. “The Goa government will have to help us since we have taken the responsibility of bringing the crew back to the state,” president of Cutbona Boat Owners Association, Savio D’Silva, said. “Those who can afford to send buses to pick up migrant labour can start fishing activities. Purse seine fishing will therefore start gradually and won’t take off in a full-fledged manner. Right now, Goa’s fisheries sector is very unpredictable,” Dhond said. He has sent a bus at the cost of Rs 2.5 lakh on Wednesday and is expecting it to be back by Wednesday. While mechanised fishermen intended to start the season earlier, unfavourable weather conditions forced them to postpone the fishing activities to the last week of August. Traditional fishermen were also affected due to the rough seas that prevailed through most of August. Compared to these vessels, purse seine boats require a greater manpower of 20-25 crew members and stay out at sea for longer durations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/purse-seiners-to-start-season-gradually/articleshow/77860870.cms||Nida Sayed
September 1, 2020||Kanpur||Susheela Singhania nominated UPCA patron||KANPUR: Susheela Singhania, widow of late Dr. Gaur Hari Singhania, has been nominated as patron of the Uttar Pradesh Cricket Association (UPCA) at a meeting of the association’s board of directors held on Sunday. Nomination of Susheela Singhania was unanimous amid 10 active board of directors. UPCA board has 12 directors. It had lost two of its directors in August. First, president Yadupai Singhania, son of late Dr. Gaur Hari Singhania, lost his life in Singapore during treatment and later another director Shoaib Ahmad breathed his last at Lucknow recently. UPCA honorary secretary Yudhvir Singh told TOI that since JK Group had contributed a lot to UPCA, therefore, the association decided to accept the family member as a patron. The two vacancies of directors would be filled soon, he added. The 10 directors in virtual meeting assembled from their houses, and after condoling the death of Yadupati Singhania and Shoaib Ahmad, they nominated Susheela Singhania as patron. The honorary secretary said that the directors discussed some proposals for the annual general meeting, which was as per custom scheduled to be held in September. Audit and accounts were also discussed and extension of services of present chartered accountant was also considered. Since the corona pandemic was in full bloom in the country, AGM too would likely be held virtually, he added. The 10 directors who participated in the meeting were Rajeev Shukla, Yudhvir Singh, S K Agarwal, Abhishek Singhania, Ashok Chaturvedi, Liaqat Ali, P D Pathak, MM Mishra and Prem Manohar Gupta and Tahir Hassan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/susheela-singhania-nominated-upca-patron/articleshow/77860457.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Pune||CoEP team to monitor noise pollution on Laxmi Road||Pune: Teams from the applied sciences department of the College of Engineering Pune (CoEP) will record noise levels on Tuesday at 10 spots along the main immersion route on Laxmi Road. “We will measure the noise levels on Tuesday though there is no procession as a control to compare it with previous years and in the future. The exercise will be difficult as the students who carry out the readings at the spots every year are not on campus,” Mahesh Shindikar, professor of the applied sciences department of COEP, who leads the exercise every year, said. The average ambient noise during the immersion last year was 86.2 dB, a decrease compared to 90.4 dB in 2018. The Maharashtra Pollution Control Board also records noise levels each year across Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad over five days of the festival.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/coep-team-to-monitor-noise-pollution-on-laxmi-road/articleshow/77860836.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Bhopal||MP to provide free travel to JEE, NEET students||BHOPAL: After Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh government too has decided to provide transport facility for students appearing in NEET and JEE examinations. Making the announcement, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said that all possible steps will be taken to facilitate free transport of students safely to their respective exam centres. To avail the facility, the candidate has to register on 181 or Madhya Pradesh e-pass portal or mapit.gov.in or Covid-19. The concerned district administration will provide this facility to the candidate. CM Chouhan said that students will have to come from their village and town to the development block or district headquarters to get this facility. The facility will be provided for commuting from there to the examination center. In order to follow the Covid norms and keep students away from unnecessary contact, physical frisking of the NEET aspirants before entering the exam centre will not be done. Instead, candidates will have to go through a metal detector. In Madhya Pradesh there will be 144 centres of NEET this year where 58,860 students will appear. There were 84 centres last year where 54,445 students had appeared. Students in Bhopal have already downloaded admit cards for the NTA NEET 2020 exam which is scheduled to be organised on September 13. This year the number of centres in Bhopal has been doubled to ensure the exam centres following the Covid norms. Last year, there were 15 exam centres across the state capital. Like previous years, this year also the majority of the centres in the state capital are in CBSE schools. Some of the exam centres in Bhopal are IES Public School, Red Rose School, Gyan Ganga School, Campion School and Sharda Vidya Mandir. On the condition of anonymity, owner of a school whose school has been made an exam centre told TOI that there will be around 35 centres in Bhopal where 18,000 students are expected to appear. Notably, last year around 12,000 students appeared in 15 centres. The Joint Entrance Examination Main 2020 and National Eligibility cum Entrance Test 2020 are scheduled for September 2020. The Supreme Court had rejected the plea to postpone the entrance examinations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/jee-neet-students-to-get-free-travel-to-centres/articleshow/77859691.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur: Babysitter detained for beating toddler after video goes viral||KANPUR: A 24-year-old female babysitter, captured in a video brutally thrashing a three-year-old child at Indiranagar in Kalyanpur, was detained by the police on Monday. In the video that has gone viral on social media triggering a public outrage, the woman is seen kicking the child and hitting on his chest and back with a slipper. The child is seen crying in pain. The police detained the accused maid on the complaint of the child’s father Saurabh, a railway employee and a resident of an apartment in Indiranagar area of Kalyanpur. Saurabh told the police that they have two sons. “While one of our children is being looked after by my in-laws, who resides nearby, for another three-year-old we had hired a maid to look after him in their absence as both of them are working,” he said. He further said the maid behaved well during their presence. “But, since the past few days, we noticed major behavioural changes in our child who appeared to be shocked and frightened. Also, we saw red marks on his body. We grew suspicious that something was going wrong with him. Later, we procured video footage installed in one corner of the room to check the behaviour of the maid with their child in their absence,” he said. A police official said the accused during her interrogation said she would beat up the child to keep him in order. “We have come to know about the incident, and have detained the maid. We are in the process of registering a case against her under relevant sections at Kalyanpur police station,” said SSP Preetinder Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/babysitter-detained-for-beating-toddlerafter-video-goes-viral/articleshow/77860516.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
September 1, 2020||Agra||Agra trader, wife and son set ablaze inside house, partially burnt bodies found||Agra: In a brutal triple murder, partially burnt bodies of a general merchant Ramveer Singh (55), his wife, Meera (52) and son Babloo (23) were found in their house in Agra’s Nagla Kishan area on Monday morning. Additional director general (Agra zone) Ajay Anand, who reached the crime spot, told TOI that they are investigating the motive behind the incident. He said, “Prima facie, there was no intention of loot and enmity could be the reason behind the crime. All angles are being looked into.” The incident took place between 12 am and 3 am. “The hands and legs of the deceased were tied up. While the body of Ramveer was superficially burnt, the bodies of Meera and Babloo had partial burn injuries,” said IG (Agra zone) A Satish Ganesh. The forensic team has collected evidence from the crime spot, he added. Agra SSP Babloo Kumar said preliminary investigations have revealed that Ramveer had paid Rs 12 lakh to retired Armyman, Narsingh Pal, for "arranging a job for his son in Indian Railways". “Police are questioning him as Ramveer had a heated argument with Pal three days ago. Besides, police are also working on other theories, including a family dispute. However, it is too early to draw any conclusion,” the SSP said. Kumar added that kerosene was used to burn the bodies after the accused failed to use LPG gas for burning down the house. According to the SSP, the suspects tried to make the murder look like an accident but could not succeed as there was limited supply of gas in the cylinder. “The autopsy report is yet to be received but it seems that they were strangled with some wire as injury marks are visible,” he said. The SSP said that five teams have been formed to investigate the case. “We will soon solve the triple murder,” he added. The deceased had moved to Agra from Mathura almost a decade ago and had opened a small shop in his house. On Monday when the shop didn’t open and some residents saw smoke billowing from the house, they informed the police. State Congress Committee president Ajay Kumar Lallu said that crime had become the state’s identity. “UP CM is enjoying the power and criminals are busy in jungleraj. This is the story of BJP Ramrajya,” he tweeted. BJP MP from Agra SP Singh Baghel, who visited the spot, said that politics over the crime should be avoided.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/agra-trader-wife-and-son-set-ablaze-inside-house-partially-burnt-bodies-found/articleshow/77858542.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
September 1, 2020||Surat||171 new cases, three deaths in Surat||Surat: Surat city’s Athwa zone reported 46 Covid-19 cases, highest on Monday. According to Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) officials, Athwa zone has now has 2,345 Covid-19 cases, third highest cases in the city after Katargam (3,125) and Rander which has 2,377 cases. Surat city reported total 171 new cases on Monday taking the Covid tally to 16,465 in the city. Three patients succumbed to the virus on Monday taking the death toll to 617. SMC officials said 59 Covid-19 patients were discharged on Monday. In Surat district, 55 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported on Monday taking the total cases to 4,518 in the district. One patient succumbed to the virus taking the death toll to 198.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/171-new-cases-three-deaths-in-surat/articleshow/77859692.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Chennai||Artist in Connemara library revamp sees life come full circle||CHENNAI: Fifteen years ago, as an undergraduate student of the Government Fine Arts College in Egmore, K Ganesh and his friends were involved in the artistic renovation of paintings at the Connemara Public Library and in the Egmore museum. For Ganesh, now a professional, life has come a full circle as he has been tasked with the artistic renovation of the ceiling of the library. According to M Ganesha, library in-charge, the library has more than 8.8 lakh books. “I joined the library as a junior assistant in 1989 and have put in 31 years of service. The pandemic gave the opportunity for our staff to catch up on regular maintenance work. We are very excited about reopening of the library from September 1,” Ganesha said. The pandemic scare, however, has meant that the other Ganesh has to go about his work alone as workers are scared to come to Chennai. Work, which began in March, was stopped due to lockdown. Ganesh, who has completed his masters in industrial textile design, otherwise is engaged in renovating old paintings, and textile design at his hometown Vellore. He was approached by the contractor as he has previous experience of restoration work in the library. The only difficult part, Ganesh says, is to work at a height of more than 80 feet while restoring the ceiling. Ganesh said the wooden book racks in the heritage library would have lost some inches over the years and restoring them took special skills, a workshop for which is conducted every year at the library. “The work was supposed to be finished by the end of August. But Covid changed everything. Even now, with skilled workers, work can be finished in a shorter time. But skilled workers are only a handful in our area of work. We expect the work to finish by the end of this year,” said Ganesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/artist-in-connemara-library-revamp-sees-life-come-full-circle/articleshow/77860835.cms||Srikkanth D
September 1, 2020||Pune||Pune: For third time since 1893, no passes for procession||PUNE: A system of handing out passes, more than 120 years old, to hundreds of Ganapati mandals to participate in the procession to immerse their idols is on hold this year. Joint police commissioner Ravindra Shisve said they have not issued any passes to the mandals this year. “We have told the mandals to immerse the Ganapati idols in and around their temples or the pandals. We have not issued any permission for the procession,” he said. Sanjeev Javale, president of Shrimant Bhausaheb Rangari Ganapati Trust, told TOI that in the early 1890s, there were very few mandals in the city which participated in their own procession on the roads. “The system of passes for the immersion procession evolved in the mid-1890s after the number of mandals grew and it became necessary to keep a record, Bhausaheb Rangari started the system of giving passes from his wada,” Javale said. According to Javale, Rangari would sit at the window of his wada and distribute the passes with numbers on them. “The mandals would then line up on different roads of the city for immersion in that order,” he added. Laxmi Road, Kelkar Road and Kumthekar Road is where mandals arrange their tableaux or chariots to avoid a tussle for space, he said. “The system evolved in this wada, but when mandals began increasing, the police took over. They now have a separate window to issue the permission,” Javale said. The system halted temporarily twice before, during the 1896 plague and after the Panshet dam broke in 1961, he said. “For the third time in the history of Ganeshotsav in Pune, procession passes will not be issued,” Javale added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/for-third-time-since-1893-no-passes-for-procession/articleshow/77860825.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Rajkot||Rajya Sabha MP, son test positive||Rajkot: Recently elected BJP Rajya Sabha MP Abhay Bharadwaj and his son Ansh were among 81 people who tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday. They have been admitted to the Rajkot Civil Hospital and their condition is said to be stable. His other family members including BJP concillor and brother Nitin Bharadwaj tested negative. The family members have been quarantined as per the guideline. In all, there are 3,220 positive cases in Rajkot city as on Monday. Six people died during treatment, but the official cause of death will be declared only after assessment by the death audit committee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rajya-sabha-mp-son-test-positive/articleshow/77858563.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Pune||Rain hits supply, prices of leafy vegetables spike in retail market in Pune||PUNE: Retail prices of green vegetables have increased in the city, as continuous rain has reduced its supply in the wholesale market by around 15%, traders said. A bundle of coriander, initially sold at Rs40-50, now commands a price of Rs50- 60 in the retail market. Spinach and fenugreek are also being sold at Rs30 and above. Retailers said the prices of tomato and potato have also gone up by Rs10-Rs15 per kg, with potato being sold at Rs45-50 per kg. Prices of tomato currently start from Rs60 for a kg and soar further depending on the quality and size. Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) traders attributed the drop in the supply and increase in prices to the rain in the region which has damaged crops and disrupted transportation. They claimed that the supply would increase with some break in the rainfall. The wholesale market, which witnesses a week’s largest arrival of vegetables on Sunday, said the supply was much lesser than expected the past seven days. “The vegetable supply was down by at least 15% to 20% on Sunday. The shortage was mainly because of the heavy spells that affected the crops. Also, many consignments of leafy vegetables were spoiled. The wholesalers purchase the vegetables from farmers in bulk, but the retailers accept only good quality produce,” a wholesaler said. Sanika Naik, who placed an online home delivery order of vegetables, said the coriander was not available below Rs50 per kg, while tomatoes were being sold over Rs60 per kg. “There is a shortage of leafy vegetables. The local retailers were selling the items at around Rs50, and even those were not of best quality. Even green chillies were sold at higher than usual rates,” Naik said. Sanjay Kadam, a resident of Shankarsheth Road, said he used to travel to the Mandai for purchasing vegetables, but was now dependent on local retailers for his daily supply of greens. “The retailers often sell vegetables at higher prices. But it’s not like we are spoilt for choices now,” Kadam said. Habib Shaikh, a retailer from Shivajinagar area, said the shortage has been there since last few days which pushed up the prices. “I am selling only quality vegetables, but the demand is more because of the Ganesh festival. We are expecting an increased supply of vegetables in the next few days,” Shaikh added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rain-hits-supply-prices-of-leafy-vegetables-spike-in-retail-market/articleshow/77860839.cms||Sarang Dastane
September 1, 2020||Pune||Four flights to arrive at Pune airport with 400 stuck in Dubai||PUNE: Altogether four flights will arrive at the city airport in September from Dubai under the Vande Bharat Mission, bringing in around 800 people stranded abroad. “Air India will operate all the four flights from Dubai to Pune. While the schedule is yet to be announced by the airline, the flights will land in Pune on September 3, 10, 17 and 24,” an airport official said. Sources said that close to 800 people are expected to return from Dubai and neighbouring United Arab Emirates (UAE). “Apart from Pune, eight flights of Air India will reach Mumbai from Dubai, while several more will arrive in Delhi, Lucknow, Ahmedabad, Chennai, Madurai, Hyderabad, among other places. The bookings for these flights have already started,” an airline source said. Last month, the airport operated three international flights. In June, the Pune airport operated 9 international flights with 315 passengers. Four international flights operated in May and two international flights in April.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/four-flights-to-bring-back-home-400-stuck-in-dubai/articleshow/77860852.cms||Joy Sengupta
September 1, 2020||Agra||Agra: Unable to pay medical bills, couple ‘sells’ newborn to hospital||AGRA: Babita, 36, underwent a C-section to deliver a baby boy last week. The procedure cost Rs 30,000, her medicines Rs 5,000. Neither she nor her husband Shiv Charan, a 45-year-old rickshaw puller, had the money. The hospital, the Dalit couple alleged, asked them to sell the baby to settle the bill — for Rs 1 lakh. “This is a serious matter. It will be investigated and suitable action taken against those found guilty,” district magistrate Prabhu N Singh said after TOI reported the allegations to the district administration. Municipal ward councillor Hari Mohan said he was “aware that the couple had to sell their child for not being able to pay hospital bills.” Shiv Charan, he added, was facing a severe financial crisis. Read AlsoAgra: Unable to pay medical bills, couple ‘sells’ newborn to hospitalBabita, 36, underwent a C-section to deliver a baby boy last week. The procedure cost Rs 30,000, her medicines Rs 5,000. Neither she nor her husband Shiv Charan, a 45-year-old rickshaw puller, had the money. The hospital, the Dalit couple alleged, asked them to sell the baby to settle the bill — forThe hospital dismissed the allegations and said the baby had not been “bought” but "given up" by the couple for adoption. “These claims are wrong. We didn’t force him to give up his child. He did so of his own accord. I have a copy of the written agreement signed by the parents, expressing his willingness,” said Seema Gupta, manager of JP Hospital in the Trans-Yamuna locality. Shiv, Babita and their five children live in a rented house at Shambhu Nagar in Agra. Shiv makes no more than Rs 100 a day — not every day — and his eldest son, 18 years old, used to work as a labourer at a shoe factory until it closed during the Covid-19 lockdown. No Asha worker visited them, they said, and no one helped them figure out where they could get free treatment when Babita was pregnant. “We are not covered under the Ayushman Bharat scheme either,” Shiv told TOI. When Babita went into labour, Shiv said the hospital told them she needed a Caesarean section. “At 6.45pm on August 24, she gave birth to a boy.” But they didn’t have the money to cover the costs. “My wife and I can’t read or write. We gave thumb impressions on all documents, as the hospital asked. I didn’t get discharge papers, bills or any other papers,” Shiv said. They parted with the baby for Rs 1 lakh. Sources said such transactions are usually followed by babies, always boys, being “sold” to parents looking for easy adoption. Child rights activist Naresh Paras said the explanation does not fulfil the mandate. “Every child adoption has to be done through a procedure laid down by the Central Adoption Resource Authority. The hospital administration’s claim of having a written agreement for adoption of a newborn holds no value. They have committed a crime.” Babita, meanwhile, wants her child back. “We just needed some money,” she told TOI. Paras said addressing gaps in access to affordable healthcare would have prevented the entire incident. “The pregnant woman didn’t receive any benefit under the Integrated Child Development Scheme, the local anganwadi centre didn’t help, nor did Asha workers point her to the community health centre. The district administration should make sure this doesn’t happen again.” Watch Agra Dalit couple 'sells' baby boy to clear hospital dues||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/unable-to-pay-med-bills-dalit-couple-sells-newborn-to-hospital-for-rs-1-lakh/articleshow/77858547.cms||Deepak Lavania
September 1, 2020||Chennai||Lockdown eased, hills beckon but with riders||Taking a long drive through the winding ghat roads of Nilgiris or Kodaikanal to enjoy the chilly breeze just got easier with the Tamil Nadu government allowing people to travel to these destinations with a valid e-pass. One might even stay in their favourite resort, but it might take a while for tourism in these hill stations to bounce back as there are enough measures to deter crowding.Though government has mandated that only those with e-passes will be allowed, the recent decision to grant passes to all those who apply means that anyone wishing to take a trip to the hill stations will be able to do, in their vehicles. Resorts and hotels are also allowed to open. But the government has decided not to reopen popular tourist spots like the Botanical Garden or the parks and lakes to deter crowds. Officials hope that since parks, gardens and lakes with boating, which are the main attractions in the hill stations, are not accessible, a large chunk of the tourist population would stay away. “People can visit Kodaikanal, check into a room and enjoy the beauty of the “cool climes, but cannot enter any of the popular spots like boat house,” said an official from Dindigul district administration. “We have to work out the details such as the number of passes to be issued in a day and ways to manage the influx. A meeting has to be convened with officials from various departments to discuss this,” said the official.Nilgiris collector J Innocent Divya too said they are yet to work out the finer details of throwing open the gates for tourists. “We will seek more clarity from the government on opening of resorts, number of people who can be allowed from other districts for tourism purpose. We will then frame guidelines based on the instructions,” she said. Salem district collector S A Raman said natives of Yercaud who move downhill and then go back can show their Aadhaar card, but others without e-pass will be sent back.The reaction to the easing of lockdown norms was mixed from other stakeholders like cab drivers, hoteliers and tour operators. Secretary of Kodaikanal Hoteliers Association S Abdul Kani Raja said unless the e-pass system was completely scrapped it would not help the tourism sector. Also, from a business point of view there is no point in opening up the district borders without opening tourist spots. “If tourist spots are not opened people will only plan for a day trip. Without a stay in the hill station there will be less spending,’’he said.(With inputs from Shantha Thiagarajan and V Senthilkumaran)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/lockdown-eased-hills-beckon-but-with-riders/articleshow/77859725.cms||V Devanathan
September 1, 2020||Pune||Pune: Malls take doorstep delivery route to beat business blues||PUNE: Select city malls have started free-of-cost doorstep deliveries of products, including clothes, bags, perfume, make-up and skin care items, to push up sales during the pandemic. Surjit Singh Rajpurohit, chief operating officer , Amanora Mall, Pune, said, “Customers have to enquire at the mall website for home delivery of a product. The store will then get in touch with the customer and share details with him/her via a video call and e-catalogue. The customer then has to place an order, make the payment, and the product is delivered to his residence.” H said on an average, the mall now catered to a 1,000-2,000 home deliveries a day. Arun Arora, centre director, Phoenix Marketcity, said, “This is the first time we have started home delivery of products, especially keeping in mind the pandemic when customers prefer to stay at home. The mall has so far made home deliveries worth Rs8-10 lakh in the last few days.” Somebody in the know at The Pavillion Mall said, “We are working on a model where people can place an order for a product online, which will then be home delivered” Uma Talreja, customer care associate, chief marketing and customer officer at Shoppers Stop said, “Our 300+ ‘personal shoppers’ have undergone over 40,000 hours of digital training. They connect with the customer via WhatsApp/videos/calls and show digital catalogues and help cthem place orders for home delivery.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/malls-take-doorstep-delivery-route-to-beat-business-blues/articleshow/77860854.cms||Neha Madaan
September 1, 2020||Nagpur||Nitin Raut drops plan for weekend lockdown with curfew||NAGPUR: Guardian minister Nitin Raut has dropped the plan for full lockdown with curfew on weekend. On the other hand, BJP legislators and office-bearers in the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) have demanded mayor Sandip Joshi to implement janata curfew on Saturday-Sunday. In its guidelines while announcing Unlock-4, the central government had imposed restriction on state governments for implementing local lockdown. The centre said local lockdown outside containment zones should not be imposed without prior consultation with it. TOI on August 28 had reported Raut was planning full lockdown with curfew on Saturdays and Sundays from September. He had stated final decision will be taken on Monday. Raut held meeting with divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar, CP Bhushan Kumar Upadhyay, municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B, collector Ravindra Thakare and others on Sunday. Joshi and other public representatives were not present. Explaining why full lockdown with curfew on weekend has been dropped, Raut told TOI that it will affect many, especially economically backward people who already facing serious problems due to earlier full lockdown and Covid-19 pandemic. “Deliberations concluded that will not make much difference,” he said. According to sources, Raut also spoke to representatives of traders’ associations who too requested him to not go for full lockdown with curfew on weekend. “Traders said it will further worsen their business,” the sources said. Mayor Joshi said that all public representatives who attended the meeting with him were in favour of imposing weekend janata curfew for controlling Covid cases. Apart from leader of opposition in NMC Tanaji Wanve, all public representative were BJP legislators and office-bearers in NMC. “Civic chief was also present in the meeting,” said Joshi and added that final decision will be taken after meeting with representatives of traders’ organizations on Tuesday. On restriction imposed by the centre, Joshi said that janata curfew is different from full lockdown with curfew. “In janata curfew people and shopkeepers on their own will keep all activities closed on weekend. “It doesn’t require any notification or police deployment,” he said. A press release issued by the NMC stated that Joshi has directed the civic chief to take decision on janata curfew. The municipal commissioner and collector are competent authorities who can issue the orders. All traders’ associations are demanding scrapping odd-even system if janata curfew is to be implemented. The civic chief on Tuesday will issue guidelines for September which will clear the civic body’s stand on odd-even system. Raut said, “There are various plans to control the cases and deaths. A team will be deployed for each of 10 zones soon. An IAS officer will lead each team that will comprise an official from NMC, forest department, one representative from all hospitals and two from NGO. These teams will coordinate between the administration and hospitals. It also make surprise visits to dedicated Covid hospitals.” The minister also directed the NMC to double the number of testing centres. GMCH and IGGMCH have been told to open post-Covid centre and call centre. He also urged people to medicines to boost immunity and suggested various household remedies. Radhakrishnan informed about NMC’s plan to increase testing centres from 34 to 50 soon. He said each centre will collect minimum 100 swab samples in a day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/raut-drops-plan-for-weekend-lockdown-with-curfew/articleshow/77860860.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
September 1, 2020||Bareilly||Crocodile attacks man who was defecating near a canal in Kheri||Bareilly: A man who had gone to defecate in the open near an irrigation canal was injured in a crocodile attack in Sheetlapur village of Singahi block in Lakhimpur Kheri on Monday morning. The victim has sustained injuries in his hand. The crocodile bit his right hand and tried to drag him into the water. This is the second incident of crocodile attack on humans in the area. Earlier, a youth was killed while taking a bath in Mohana river in buffer forest area of Dudhwa Tiger Reserve on July 28. At least 13 rescue operations have been carried out in the buffer area of Dudhwa since April. DTR's (buffer) DFO Anil Patel told TOI, “We have sent a team to look into the incident. The victim's condition is stable. Our rescue teams are always on alert. The rivers are swollen during monsoon and excess water is dispersed into the associated irrigation canals and ponds. So, there is a rise in the man-crocodile conflict during this time of the year."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/crocodile-attacks-man-who-was-defecating-near-a-canal-in-kheri/articleshow/77857356.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
September 1, 2020||Madurai||Man seeks govt relief to maintain orphaned grandchildren||Madurai: Madras high court on Monday ordered notice to the state government on a plea moved by a 67-year-old man seeking compensation under the victim compensation scheme for maintenance of his two minor grandchildren, as his son allegedly murdered his wife.Justice G R Swaminathan ordered notice on the petition filed by M Karuthaperiyan, a resident of Alanganallur in the district. The petitioner stated that his son Vellaiperiyan was married to Abinaya and the couple have a 6-year-old daughter and 4-year-old son. Due to a domestic dispute, Vellaiperiyan murdered Abinaya in 2019. The Alanganallur police had arrested his son and remanded him in judicial custody on October 9, 2019.On October 12, 2019, police informed him to go to the Government Rajaji Hospital, where he was told that his son, who was lodged at the Madurai Central Prison had committed suicide and a case was registered by the Karimedu police.Karuthuperiyan stated that after the death of his son and daughter-in-law, he and his wife are taking care of both the grandchildren. Since they are an elderly couple, they are unaware about the future of both the children.Since he hails from a economically poor family, he sought Rs 10 lakh under The Tamil Nadu Victim Compensation Scheme for Women Victims/Survivors of Sexual. Assault/Other Crimes, 2018 or under Compensation Scheme for Women Victims/Survivors of Sexual Assault/other Crimes, 2018, to be used for their education.The district child protection officer and child welfare committee can be assigned to monitor the children after his demise and till they attain majority.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/man-seeks-govt-relief-to-maintain-orphaned-grandchildren/articleshow/77860863.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Kanpur||Last absconding aide of gangster Vikas arrested||KANPUR: Ramu Bajpai, the last absconding aide of gangster Vikas Dubey who was carrying a reward of Rs 50,000 and was on the run since July 2 and 3 night, was arrested by STF and district police in Chaubeypur area of the district on Monday. Superintendent of police (Rural) Brajesh Srivastava said, “Bajpai is the last accused of Bikru ambush and has a reward of Rs 50,000 on his head. He was wanted under sections 147, 148, 149, 302, 307, 394, 120 b, 7 CLA Act and 3/25 Arms Act with regard to Bikru shootout on July 2 & 3 night.” “Police have recovered a .315 bore rifle and cartridges from Ramu’s possession. He was arrested from Baba Quan area in Chaubeypur,” SP added. Till date, six criminals including Vikas have been gunned down, while more than 26 accused have been arrested and sent to jail. Seven others have surrendered before special court. SSP Preetinder Singh informed TOI that Ramu Bajpai is a cousin of Shyamu Bajpai, who had been injured and arrested following a police encounter a few days ago. “Ramu was a close aide of the slain gangster Vikas, and has confessed to killing policemen by spraying bullets on them from the roof-top of a house on the night of July 2 & 3 in Bikru village,” he added. To recall, eight policemen, including DSP Devendra Mishra, were ambushed in Bikru village in Chaubeypur area of Kanpur when they were going to arrest Dubey and fell to bullets fired from rooftops shortly after midnight on July 2 & 3. Dubey was killed in an encounter in the morning of July 10 when a police vehicle carrying him from Ujjain to Kanpur met with an accident and he tried to escape from the spot in Bhauti area in Sachendi, the police had said. Prior to Dubey’s encounter, five of his alleged associates were killed in separate encounters with the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/last-absconding-aide-of-gangster-vikas-arrested/articleshow/77860551.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
September 1, 2020||Bhopal||Survey begins to assess crop damage in Dewas||INDORE: Following much-needed relief from heavy and continuous rainfall that ultimately resulted in receding Narmada level and other water bodies in last two days, local administration in flood-affected Dewas district on Monday started a survey of damage caused due continuous downpour. According to Dewas collector Chandramauli Shukla, a team has been constituted to compile data of losses and damage of residential structures, household items, livestock and other items reported due to incessant rainfall reported on August 29, 30 and releasing access of water from Tawa and Bargi Dam that inflated Narmada that ultimately led to flood in villages situated alongside its bank in Dewas. He added that increasing backwater of nullahs flowing through low-lying areas of Dewas and increasing water level of Jamner had further worsened the situation in Nemawar and adjacent localities. The survey team has been ordered to visit flood-affected 40 villages including Bijalgaon, Chichli, Karondmafi, Dundhyakhedi, Akavyala, Pipalneria, Kundgaonkhurd, Daiyat Murjhal, Turnal, Mavasi, Bapchaya, Khidkiya, Navalgaon, Ganjanpur, Nimanpur, Mandleshwar, Mirjapur, Jamner, Rajor and Navada. Prima facie, partial/complete damage to around 230 residential structures have been reported while about 15,000 people have been affected due to incessant rains and flood in Dewas but no death was so far reported. Local administration has claimed to have shifted around 4,000 people to a safe place and providing food packets to about 8,000 people. Meanwhile, 13 out of 16 gates of Gandhi Sagar Dam in Mandsaur have been closed due to reducing inflow of water in reservoir. According to senior officials, 13 gates of Gandhi Sagar Dam were opened on Sunday morning on water level crossing the mark of 1305 feet. Due to a high inflow of water, the dam’s level had touched the mark of 1307 feet but after rains stopped in catchment areas, the inflow has also reduced. By Monday evening, the dam authority had closed seven big and six small gates while three small gates were opened to release the access of water that had reduced to 1306.10 feet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/survey-begins-to-assess-crop-damage-in-dewas/articleshow/77859756.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘We’ve lost a passionate teacher, a patron of innovation’||AHMEDABAD: The passing of Pranab Mukherjee, the 13th President of India, saddened the education community in the city, which had been attached to the politician in various capacities. Prof Anil Gupta, his long-time associate who also conducted the PGP elective ‘Public Policy for the Inclusive Development of India’ at IIM Ahmedabad (IIM-A) with him and Prof Vijaya Sherry Chand, said the lectures he conducted at IIM-A were an essence of his political career that spanned over 45 years. “As many know, he was a lecturer in the beginning of his career, and education remained closed to his heart,” he said. Prof Gupta said they had lost a passionate teacher and a patron of innovations. “Who would have thought that farmers and teachers could stay at Rashtrapati Bhavan? He continued the legacy started by Dr APJ Abdul Kalam and gave impetus to grassroots innovations. Prof Sherry Chand said all the inputs of the former President were built on the primacy of constitutional values and the principle of equitable development of our society. “His memory was phenomenal and his ability to draw on history so strong that he would effortlessly relate Fazlul Huq’s Bengal Agricultural Debtors’ Act (1938) and the Debt Settlement Boards with the current agrarian crisis,” he said. Mukherjee was the chief guest at the 62nd convocation of Gujarat Vidyapith in December 2015. In his address, Mukherjee urged the graduating students to use their education effectively and apply Gandhian principles in their lives. ‘With the distinct training of Heart, Hand and Head which is Nai Talim, the onus is on you to construct a Samarth Bharat,’ he had said. Dr Ramesh Kapadia, director of Universal Healing Program Center (UHPC), said that the entire Vidyapith family mourns his loss.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/weve-lost-a-passionate-teacher-a-patron-of-innovation/articleshow/77860091.cms||---
September 1, 2020||India||Central teams to 4 states where Covid cases have surged||NEW DELHI: The health ministry will deploy central teams in four states — Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh and Odisha — after a sudden surge in Covid-19 cases in these states, with some reporting more number of fatalities. Of these four states, UP has the most number of active cases pegged at 54,666, followed by Odisha (27,219), Chhattisgarh (13,520) and Jharkhand which has 11,577 active cases. In terms of cumulative cases till date, UP has 2,25,632, Odisha (1,00,934), Jharkhand (38,435) and Chhattisgarh with 30,092 cases. Uttar Pradesh also reported the most number of deaths among these states at 3423 while Odisha, Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh reported 482, 410 and 269 deaths respectively. “The teams will support the states’ efforts towards strengthening containment, surveillance, testing and efficient clinical management of positive cases,” the health ministry said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/central-teams-to-4-states-where-covid-cases-have-surged/articleshow/77862018.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Meerut||House collapses on 6-member family, 8-yr-old critical||Bijnor: Six members of a family sustained injuries as their dilapidated house collapsed while they were sleeping inside in Fatanpur village here on Monday morning. Of the injured, the condition of an eight-year-old girl is said to be critical. On hearing their cries, neighbours rushed to the spot and pulled them out of the debris. They were then rushed to the district hospital from where the eight-year-old was referred to Meerut for higher treatment. Bijnor superintendent of police Dharamveer Singh said, “Six members of a family — Vijaypal, 47, his wife Babli, 45, and their children Mamta, 17, Prachi 8, Ashish, 15 and Nikhil, 12 — were sleeping inside their pucca house when it collapsed. Villagers and police rushed to the spot and rescued the victims. Out of them, Prachi was referred to Meerut for higher treatment as she is critical.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/house-collapses-on-6-member-family-8-yr-old-critical/articleshow/77858599.cms||Harveer Dabas
September 1, 2020||Madurai||HC imposes Rs 10k cost on petitioner||Madurai: The Madras high court on Monday imposed Rs 10,000 cost on a petitioner for filing a public interest litigation (PIL) seeking to replace the present joint director of Kallar reclamation school and appoint some other person to the post. The court was hearing the PIL filed by K Muthiah Pasumpon, an advocate and general secretary of All India Forward Bloc (Subhasist). He claimed that C Amuthavalli, belonging to another community, was appointed as a joint director of Kallar reclamation school at Madurai in May. Since then, she was acting in a caste biased manner as she had transferred and issued charge-memo to several school and hostel staff. Hence, he moved the court seeking to replace Amuthavalli. A division bench of justices M Sathyanarayanan and P Rajamanickam observed that  though the petition is styled as a PIL, it pertains to the service condition of the official Amuthavalli.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-imposes-rs-10k-cost-on-petitioner/articleshow/77860871.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Pune||Empty diesel tanker hits four persons in Sangvi||Pune: Four people, including a woman, sustained injuries after they were knocked down by an empty diesel tanker at Sangvi late on Sunday night. The tanker came to a stop after crashing into a roadside pole. Sanjay Nikumbh, assistant inspector, Sangvi police, told TOI that the accident occurred around 9.30pm near Dhore Chowk. The tanker driver fled the spot, the officer said. The woman, identified as Asha Mule (49) from old Sangvi, sustained injuries on her shoulder and fractured her right leg. Besides Mule, Yash Ghavare from Shukrawar Peth, Vijay Dahiwal from old Sangvi and Vivek Aswale, a resident of Pimple Gurav, also were injured. Nikumbh said the driver crashed the vehicle against a pole while fleeing. “We have started a search for him,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/empty-diesel-tanker-hits-four-persons-in-sangvi/articleshow/77860873.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Kolkata||Road to Rashtrapati Bhavan via Kolkata's Mohsin Square, Mayfair Rd||KOLKATA: The Congress party office at Haji Md Mohsin Square, Nizam Palace, Tamra Bhavan on Mayfair Road and Bidhan Bhavan: these are the addresses in Kolkata where Pranab Mukherjee’s rise in public life was scripted. Mukherjee, who entered the political world as a student leader in the ’60s, gained a strong foothold in the Delhi power corridors, subsequently becoming the first Bengali to enter Rashtrapati Bhavan as the President. Mukherjee was a “late entrant” to student politics, but he soon made up for it by becoming the students’ union general secretary, thanks to his exceptional oratory. But it was a “meeting” at the Kolkata airport in the late ’60s that charted the course for his long political run. “Indira Gandhi was in the city to address a rally at Brigade and she wanted former Bengal chief minister Ajay Mukherjee to meet her at the airport. He introduced her to two youngsters — Pranab Mukherjee and Sardar Amjad Ali. Since then, there was no looking back for Pranabda,” said Kumud Bhattacharya, who served as a general secretary when Mukherjee was the Pradesh Congress president. Mukherjee was inducted into Gandhi’s cabinet in the early ’70s. Seven years later, she lost the polls and there was a split in the party. “Those were turbulent days when Pranabda consolidated loyalists under one umbrella. Indiraji came to Kolkata to hold a meeting with Congress leaders, like Barkatda (ABA Ghani Khan Chowdhury) and Pranabda. We had a meeting at Pranabda’s Nizam Palace quarters while hundreds of Congress workers waited outside,” recounted Debaprasad Mukherjee, Mukherjee’s close aide for over four decades. “Since then, we had often held meetings at Nizam Palace, even after the Pradesh Congress office shifted to Haji Mohammad Mohsin Square.” Mukherjee believed Tamra Bhavan on Mayfair Road was lucky for him. Whenever in Kolkata. “He would meet senior party leaders and workers there,” Debaprasad added. A politician’s life, however, is not without misgivings. In 2005, Mukherjee nominated a candidate from Ward 48 in the Entally area. But former PCC president Somen Mitra wanted to field someone else. “When the final list came out, we found my wife Sabita’s name was dropped. Meanwhile, a section of party workers decided to stop Pranabda from entering the PCC office at Entally,” said Congress leader Arun Das. Mukherjee, then the defence minister, was reportedly harassed by workers from wards 55 and 48 in front of Bidhan Bhavan. “I rushed to the spot and rescued him,” Das recalled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/road-to-rashtrapati-bhavan-via-mohsin-sq-mayfair-rd/articleshow/77860880.cms||Rohit Khanna
September 1, 2020||Meerut||Patients protest delay in Covid-19 report at Meerut district hospital||MEERUT: A data operator at Meerut’s PL Sharma district hospital went on a leave on Monday after developing symptoms of Covid-19, leaving the healthcare establishment in disarray and anxious patients waited for their coronavirus reports for hours before holding a protest. Some of the patients were waiting for Covid-19 report for the last three days. They were disturbed by the daily visits to the hospital which posed a big risk to their health. “We are being harassed. If the reports are indeed taking three days to arrive, then the authorities should tell us the exact date. We will be saved from these repeated visits,” a patient told TOI over the phone. Several patients held protests against the “insensitivity” of the health staff. “I had given the sample for Covid-19 testing on Friday. Since then I have visited the hospital twice to get my report. The health staff only keeps guiding us to different department windows,” said another Covid-19 suspect. When contacted, Dr K Singh, chief medical superintendent of the hospital said, “The data operator who makes Covid-19 reports has been keeping unwell and took an off on Monday as he had Covid-19 like symptoms. Due to this, the reports got delayed. After I got to know that people were waiting for the reports, another data operator, who takes care of office reports, was sent to take over the Covid-19 reports counter. The matter has been solved.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/patients-protest-delay-in-covid-19-report-at-meerut-district-hospital/articleshow/77858602.cms||Ishita Bhatia
September 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gold price rises slightly to Rs 52,700||Ahmedabad: Gold prices rose marginally up on Monday, to settle at Rs 52,700 per 10g in the Ahmedabad market, against Friday’s price of Rs 52,550. After touching a record high of Rs 58,000 earlier in August, gold prices have been volatile and declined by a significant Rs 5,300 through the month. Analysts suggest instability in prices is deterring fresh investments in the yellow metal. “Given the volatility in gold prices, investors are in wait and watch mode. As the price began crashing, many investors sold gold to book profits. Once prices steady and an upward trend is seen, investors will enter the market again,” said Haresh Acharya, director, India Bullion and Jewellers’ Association. “Demand may pick up around Diwali but it remains to be seen how the monsoon is. If there is excessive rainfall, it will once cause crop damage fears and in turn hurt demand,” Acharya added. Industry sources also said gold is being sold at a discount of Rs 1,000 against its defined price, due to over supply. Despite a decline in prices over the past two-three weeks, gold has failed to attract customers at retail counters as jewellery stores across the city continue to bear a deserted look.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gold-price-rises-slightly-to-rs-52700/articleshow/77859854.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Bhopal||Kamal Nath demands probe into Chirayu’s Covid treatment||Kamal Nath demands probe into Chirayu’s Covid treatmentTimes News NetworkBhopal: Former chief minister Kamal Nath on Monday demanded an inquiry into Covid19 treatment in the state. The senior Congress leader said he has received a number of complaints against Corona infection treatment in Chirayu Hospital.“I have received a lot of complaints about treatment in Chirayu Hospital. People are making a number of allegations against Chirayu which was declared a Covid treatment hospital. People want there should be an investigation into this,” Kamal Nath said. “I want to tell chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan that he was admitted in Chirayu Hospital for treatment. I don’t know how much information he gathered. Did he get to know the truth about medical treatment there?” the former chief minister asked.“Those persons who are complaining against the hospital, met me and said they want a probe. I want there should be an open investigation into the Corona infection treatment in the hospital, a clear inquiry should be conducted so everyone can keep their evidence regarding the kind of treatment being given there,” the senior Congress leader said. “The hospital has become a death centre,” Kamal Nath alleged.He further raised suspicion over records of patients in the hospital. Kamal Nath alleged there are no proper records being maintained of patients in the hospital. “Patients come and go, they are discharged. What was their report, what was the treatment given, what were their problems during discharge? There are no proper records being maintained by the hospital. All records are manufactured,” he alleged. “Till a probe in not conducted, the truth about this hospital will not be revealed and people who have been treated there and those who lost their kin will not be at peace,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/kamal-nath-demands-probe-into-chirayus-covid-treatment/articleshow/77859795.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Madurai||New fleet of 108 ambulances to enhance services in districts||Madurai: Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Monday flagged off new 108 ambulance vehicles in Chennai to be introduced for better emergency services to the public. In the first phase, 118 new vehicles are being introduced across the state, including 25 in south and central districts.“The new vehicles will strengthen our existing fleet. Though 500 vehicles are to be added, only 118 are are allotted in the first phase. Vehicles have been added in nine southern and central districts,” said R Prasath, regional manager, Madurai region, GVK-EMRI 108 ambulance services. All ambulances are equipped with life-saving equipment, including pulse oximeter, ventilators, and GPS as well, he added.Five new ambulances were assigned to Pudukottai, Dindigul and Theni districts. The official added that districts like Madurai and Tirunelveli, will get additional vehicles later. The addition of the ambulances comes at a time when there is high demand, especially for ferrying Covid-19 patients. “As of now, we are shuffling the vehicles based on the need as Covid-19 and non-Covid-19 ambulances. In some districts, where more Covid-19 cases are there, we find it difficult to assign non-Covid-19 ambulances. The additional ambulances will help reduce the waiting time for patients,” said Prasath.As part of the new fleet, 30 smaller vans for tough terrain and hilly areas were also added of which three were allotted to Dindigul district. “These are well-equipped like a normal ambulance. The small size helps access remote and hilly areas better and faster,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/new-fleet-of-108-ambulances-to-enhance-services-in-districts/articleshow/77860874.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||HC dismisses PIL seeking to defer assembly bypolls||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court on Monday dismissed a PIL that asked for postponement of byelections on eight assembly constituencies in this Covid-19 pandemic situation. The bench of Chief Justice Vikram Nath and Justice J B Pardiwala junked the PIL by terming it as premature, because the Election Commission of India (ECI) is yet to announce its schedule and there was no notification issued to this effect. The ECI had objected to the PIL stating that its decision on holding elections “cannot be pre-empted” and that it has not fixed the schedule and only asked the election officers to come up with the survey reports. Petitioner Farsubhai Gokalani had sought deferment of elections saying that it would only worsen the Covid-19 situation because 18 lakh people will be participating in the process. He had insisted that this is the time to set up Covid-19 testing booths and not polling booths. He later challenged the broad guidelines issued by the ECI for elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-dismisses-pil-seeking-to-defer-assembly-bypolls/articleshow/77859799.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Nagpur||43,981 cases, 1,202 deaths in Aug, and 27,090 recoveries too||Nagpur: The month of August destroyed all calculations and projections of various authorities about the Covid-19 peak, with 43,981 cases reported from 11 districts in Vidarbha. However, authorities are still not sure whether this is the peak of Covid-19 in region or not. Even on August 31, health authorities as well as political leadership have said that real peak is expected in mid-September now. According to projections by the state health service department, Vidarbha’s total Covid-19 caseload was to be around 75,000 when the region is at its peak. But, in case of Nagpur, these predictions have already gone wrong. The health department had predicted total 17,000 cases in Nagpur district at its peak, but now the district is heading towards 50,000 mark alone. Despite more than 43,000 cases in August, more than three times the cumulative cases from March to July, a good recovery rate was a matter of respite for the region. Recovery rate, which was 54% on August 14 has increased to 63% on August 31. Total 37,218 patients have recovered till date, out of which 27,090 have recovered in August alone. Many others are on way to recovery. A matter of serious concern for the region is increasing death toll. The month of August reported 1,202 deaths. This number is nearly four times the total deaths from March to July, which was 387. Nagpur has reported highest 919 deaths in last 31 days. Amravati (70), Yavatmal (55), Akola (42), Chandrapur (28) follow. “Covid condition in Nagpur is more serious than any other district of Vidarbha. But, especially in last week of August, cases are rising in other districts of Nagpur division too,” said a senior health official from the divisional health service department. In fact, TOI had reported on August 29 that Chandrapur and Wardha — two districts with good control on spread — have been reporting higher number of cases and deaths. On August 31, Chandrapur reported its second 200+ spike of cases and record 3 deaths in a day. On the other hand, Wardha reported 59 cases, surpassed the 1,000-mark and also reported 2 deaths. Now, all districts in Vidarbha have deaths reported due to Covid-19. Apart from Nagpur, where death toll has already surpassed 1,000 mark, Akola (152), and Amravati (131) have reported more than 100 deaths. Yavatmal (86), Buldhana (48), Washim (31), Chandrapur (29), Wardha and Bhandara (23 each), and Gondia (20) — all districts have deaths in double digits. Only exception is Gadchiroli, where only one death has been reported, that too in Telangana, where the patient was under treatment. Chandrapur has reported 28 out of its 29 deaths in August. Month| Cases| recoveries| deaths March | 21 | 07| 01 April | 294 | 75| 11 May| 1362| 1082 | 55 June| 2932| 2359| 91 July| 10323| 6596| 229 August| 43981|27090|1202 …. District Cases Recoveries Deaths Gadchiroli 584 449 0 Gondia 1197 713 17 Washim 1159 927 15 Yavatmal 2325 1866 55 Akola 1507 1333 42 Buldhana 1803 1384 18 Bhandara 1036 589 21 Wardha 780 497 17 Chandrapur 2024 927 28 Amravati 3593 2638 70 Nagpur 27973 15767 919||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/43981-cases-1202-deaths-in-aug-and-27090-recoveries-too/articleshow/77860932.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
September 1, 2020||Nagpur||Std XI round-I admissions begin amid new normal||Nagpur: Admissions in Std XI colleges for round one started from Monday, in an already delayed academic session. The Common Admission Process (CAP) allotment list for students was released on Sunday afternoon. Based on the college allotment list, students will now get till September 3 to complete admission formalities. Cut-offs for admissions were also released by the education department and Ambedkar College (Deekshabhoomi) saw the highest general category cut off at 491 marks. Kabir Rawlekar, vice-principal of the college, said this year the high scores in board exams have led to rise in cut-offs. “There are quite a few high scorers this year. In fact the merit topper has also taken admission in our college. This is the case for general science admissions so you will see that the cut offs will rise when bifocal admissions start,” said Rawlekar. For admission process, students have to confirm their seat by making payment. This year, colleges have provided online payment facilities, too, considering the Covid-19 pandemic has restricted travel and even gathering of crowd on the premises. Ashnarayan Tiwari, principal of Adarsh Vidya Mandir (Gandhibagh), said even though admissions can be completed online, a few parents still came to the campus. “I think it’s a psychologically comforting thing for some to go through the formalities in person. We are prepared to handle both and have put in a system wherein the applicants do not have to stay for long,” said Tiwari. He added that documents of students had already been verified by the schools and posted online and selection done through CAP committee. “So our role for now is limited to completing formalities which is accepting fees. Every student can stay back at home and simply use the payment gateway to finish the formalities. No need to take risk by coming all the way here,” said Tiwari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/std-xi-round-i-admissions-begin-amid-new-normal/articleshow/77859805.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
September 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Bad roads: GMRCL passes the buck||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat Metro Rail Corporation Limited (GMRCL) has laid the blame, for the sorry state of roads along the metro rail corridor, on overflowing catch-pits and repeated digging by AMC and utility agencies like electricity, telephone and gas companies.The GMRC authorities in a statement said, “GMRCL with regards to condition of roads alongside the metro alignment had identified 571 potholes in a joint survey with AMC and 476 have been repaired and the work is in progress for 95 potholes.” They said repeated road damages were caused by poor drainage of rainwater on the stretch near Himalaya Mall to Helmet circle, from Sabarmati Torrent Circle to Rathi Apartment, New Vadaj Palak Crossroad to GSRTC Crossroads, APMC Market to Jivraj Crossroads and along low-lying roads especially from Paldi to Akhbarnagar adjoining railway tracks. Amit Gupta, chief general manager GMRCL said repair work has begun and wherever they face difficulties, it will be sorted out in coordination with the AMC. In the past, AMC’s standing committee chairman Amul Bhatt had said that the roads along with Metro corridor are to be repaired by the Metro. He said, “We have made several requests in the coordination committee to repair the roads but they have failed to do so.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bad-roads-gmrcl-passes-the-buck/articleshow/77859721.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Pune||Tempo driver killed in eway accident||Pune: A tempo driver (52) was killed after his vehicle turned on its side while moving at a high speed in Talegaon Dabhade on the Pune-Mumbai Expressway on Monday. The tempo was heading towards Pune from Mumbai when the accident took place. The Talegaon Dabhade police said the tempo driver was a resident of Khatav in Satara district. “We are verifying his name by contacting his family members,” the police said. An officer from the Talegaon Dabhade police said the tempo driver had gone to Mumbai to deliver vegetables and was heading back to Pune. The driver lost control over the wheel and it turned on its side. The expressway patrolling team and local police station personnel rushed to the spot and removed the tempo and the injured driver from the expressway. He was rushed to a private hospital where he was pronounced dead on arrival. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/tempo-driver-killed-in-eway-accident/articleshow/77860875.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Rajkot||Liquor worth over Rs 6L seized in Junagadh||Rajkot: A total of 1,630 Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) bottles worth Rs 6.52 lakh were seized from Sambalpur GIDC in Junagadh on early Monday morning. “Our investigation revealed that one Ravi Bharai had stored the liquor bottles in his factory. We have launched a manhunt for Bharai who has gone absconding after his name figured in the case,” said R K Gohil, sub-inspector with Junagadh local crime branch.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/liquor-worth-over-rs-6l-seized-in-junagadh/articleshow/77859806.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Pune||Ujani full, discharge from Khadakwasla continues||PUNE: The storage in Ujani, the largest among 26 dams in the Bhima basin, reached the 100% capacity on Monday with the reservoir adding 48 TMC water in one month. On Monday evening, the reservoir’s live storage rose to 54 TMC following significant discharge of water from various dams located in the upstream areas. Ujani getting filled to its brim will assure adequate supply of water for agriculture in Solapur and Pune districts and also parts of Ahmednagar. Irrigation department officials said discharge into Bhima river from Ujani would begin soon, if the reservoir continued to receive water inflow. The dam is likely to release water on Tuesday which will further flow towards Pandharpur in the Bhima river. An irrigation department official said, “We are monitoring the water levels in the dam. The maximum rise in the water level was witnessed in the past 15 days. We will now maintain the water levels in the dam around 100%” The irrigation department on Monday continued discharge of water from Khadakwasla, Pavana and Mulshi, though it was brought down by the evening after rainfall in the catchment reduced. The Khadakwalsa released water at the rate of 3,424 cusec. The dam released water at 11,700 cusec in the morning. The release from Pavana was maintained at 2,100 cusec, while Mulshi’s discharge was reduced from 10,300 cusec to 6,500 cusec. The collective stock in the four dams supplying water to Pune was (99.09%). Khadakwasla, Varasgaon and Panshet have full stock of water, while Temghar’s storage reached 93.3%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ujani-full-discharge-from-khadakwasla-continues/articleshow/77860872.cms||Sarang Dastane
September 1, 2020||Goa||SOP awaited from Goa for social, cultural events||PANAJI: Even as the Centre has issued guidelines regarding the restart of social events and open-air theatres as part of Unlock 4.0, Goa, grappling with rising Covid cases, may take a while to see major events. The directorate of art and culture has no plans as of now, and is waiting for the state government to issue SOPs in this regard. “The Goa government has not come out with its SOPs yet,” an official said. “Until it does, nothing is going to be held from our end.” The Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) issued a new set of guidelines for Unlock 4.0, allowing significant relaxations across the country. One of these states that open-air theatres would be allowed to reopen from September 21. Also, social/academic/sports/entertainment/cultural/religious/political functions and other congregations will be permitted with 100 people only. However, strict measures like mandatory wearing of face masks, social distancing and thermal scanning provisions must be observed. However, the directorate’s social calendar for the months of September and October has no events listed so far. “Due to the pandemic, we cannot have any programmes nor invite audiences for workshops. As a result, our activities are zero,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sop-awaited-from-state-for-social-cultural-events/articleshow/77860889.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Kutch hybrid energy park expected to generate 41,500MW||GANDHINAGAR: The state government has paved the way for setting up of the ambitious solar and wind parks project in Kutch district by expediting the process of land acquisition for the hybrid energy park. The Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) had been regularly seeking updates on the project of national importance for the past two years. Sources in the government said 60,000 hectares of land will be allocated for the project in one go. The solar and wind parks project in Kutch is expected to generate 41,500 MW power. The PMO has given the deadline of 2022 for completion of the project, which has been running more than two years behind schedule. The energy park is expected to attract investment of around Rs 1.35 lakh crore. This is one of the select projects of national importance that the PM reviews at his monthly PRAGATI (Pro-Active Governance and Timely Implementation) system. There is a strong buzz in the secretariat that PM Modi could lay the foundation stone for the Kutch hybrid renewable energy park during his likely visit to Gujarat either in September or in October. A high-powered committee of officials have approved land allocation plans for five major companies and forwarded the draft allocation plan to the state cabinet for approval. Sources said that the cabinet will shortly approve the land allocation. A key source said, “At present, SECI (Solar Energy Corporation of India), NTPC, GIPCL, GSEC, Adani Power and Suzlon are expected to get land for their 23,000MW, 5,000MW, 2,500MW, 3,500MW, 3,500MW and 4,000MW solar and wind power generation projects respectively.” Another key source close to the development said, “The government has decided to expedite land allocation process for the proposed renewable energy park in Kutch. Around 60,000 hectares of land will be allocated at one go.”  He said, “This will be the biggest renewable energy park in Gujarat and probably even the biggest in the country. The state cabinet is expected to give its final nod to the project shortly.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/kutch-hybrid-energy-park-expected-to-generate-41500mw/articleshow/77859633.cms||Kapil Dave
September 1, 2020||Pune||Pune: Duo arrested for robbing petrol pump employee||PUNE: An alert petrol pump employee intercepted a criminal on police records, Majid Shaikh (19), for robbing Rs 5,700 from his pocket at Roshni fuel station at Koregaon Park junction on Sunday afternoon. The suspect’s accomplice, Vrushab Pise (20), who had sped away on a motorcycle, was later arrested by the Koregaon Park police. Senior inspector Pramod Patki from the Koregaon Park police said, “Shaikh and Pise, who is also a criminal on police records, got fuel filled in a motorcycle, but did not pay. Instead, they robbed pump employee, Shantaram Sonone (25).” Sonone mustered courage and caught Shaikh on the spot. “He was then handed over to police,” Patki said, adding they recovered the cash from the duo. Sonone told TOI, “Shaikh started a conversation with me and diverted my attention, signalled the bike rider to start the vehicle and stole cash from my pocket. He charged at me and pushed me, and was about to flee. I realized the suspect had stolen money. After I raised an alarm, my colleague and I caught him on the spot,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/duo-arrested-for-robbing-petrol-pump-employee/articleshow/77860879.cms||Asseem Shaikh
September 1, 2020||Pune||Boy damages 5 bikes, assaults Bopodi man||Pune: A minor boy (16) was detained on Sunday on the charge of damaging five motorcycles in Bopodi in the day’s wee hours and assaulting a resident later that evening. An officer from the Khadki police said the minor boy, a Class X student, was caught on CCTV camera damaging the vehicles parked on the public road at Barate Chawl area of Bopodi. “The residents saw the damaged bikes on Sunday morning and decided to check CCTV footage of different commercial establishments and a religious place in the area to ascertain culprits behind the incident,” the officer said. The officer said around noon, residents spotted the boy in the CCTV footage and decided to question him. “A group of residents, including Siddharth Mote (30), went to the boy’s house and questioned him. This enraged the boy and he assaulted Mote with a stick,” the officer said. “A group of boys from Barate Chawl picked up a fight with the minor on Saturday, following which he decided to teach them a lesson by damaging five bikes with iron rod,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/boy-damages-5-bikes-assaults-bopodi-man/articleshow/77860881.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Delhi||Set up testing centres at all ISBTs, says Delhi HC||NEW DELHI: Anticipating an influx of migrant travellers after Unlock-4, Delhi high court on Monday ordered the AAP government to set up testing centres at each of the interstate bus terminals of the capital. A bench of justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad noted that in view of Unlock-4, under which the Centre has permitted all intrastate and interstate movement, “Delhi government ought to take urgent steps to ensure that testing facilities are set up at all the interstate bus terminals and railway stations.” The court said such testing centres should be up and running immediately “as the migrants are returning to Delhi from various parts of the country to earn their livelihood, and many of them may be asymptomatic carriers of the virus and will, therefore, need to be tested and quarantined, as the case may be.” It gave the government a week to set up the facilities with “adequate testing capacity, depending on the inflow of the passengers” after government’s counsel Satyakam informed the bench that a May order by Delhi Disaster Management Authority that deals with the entry of any individual in Delhi and the protocol to be followed in case of such individuals, including migrant workers, still holds good.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/set-up-testing-centres-at-all-isbts-says-hc/articleshow/77859788.cms||Abhinav Garg
September 1, 2020||Meerut||Recover all loss & damages NCERT suffered due to pirated books from the accused, says panel||MEERUT: A four-member NCERT committee formed to look into the recent seizure of 10lakh fake textbooks has in its report suggested that all the damages and loss suffered by the autonomous government organization due to the publishing of the counterfeit books should be recovered from the people accused of printing them. “NCERT may request the police to share the list of culprits who are indulged in printing and book selling activities (pirated) to initiate relevant civil proceedings before the court of law seeking damages and compensation for the huge loss suffered by NCERT,” the panel said in the conclusion of the report. Meanwhile, a court in Meerut on Monday issued a non-bailable warrant against the owner of a printing press, where the pirated NCERT books worth over Rs 35crore were recovered 10 days ago, his nephew and two others. Former BJP functionary Sanjeev Gupta, his nephew Sachin Gupta and their two aides are missing since August 21 when the huge consignment of books was unearthed. Sanjay is the kingpin of the racket, police have said. A similar consignment was seized in Amroha. “We have been trying to locate their location, but they are evading arrest. Court has now issued a warrant against the absconding suspects,” Meerut SP (City) Akhilesh Narayan Singh confirmed. While the NCERT panel, in its report (a copy of which is with TOI), has confirmed that the books with the agency’s watermark seized from the warehouse in Meerut and Amroha don’t conform to the standard parameters. The team which inspected the warehouse in Meerut’s Partapur area found to its shock that the illegal publisher was doling out up to 50% commission to the book sellers. In contrast, the NCERT authorized vendors give a maximum of 20% commission to the shopkeepers, making them less lucrative. The team, on request of UP police, visited sealed warehouses in Meerut’s Partapur area and Gajraula in Amroha. The team made several observations in its report. “It seems that paper was procured illegally because NCERT uses 80 GSM papers whereas this paper was 60/64 GSM. Moreover, below the NCERT logo on the NCERT watermark, name of the manufacturing firm and year of manufacture was not available,” an excerpt in the report read.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/recover-all-loss-damages-ncert-suffered-due-to-pirated-books-from-the-accused-says-panel/articleshow/77858612.cms||Piyush Rai
September 1, 2020||Bhopal||For Chhatarpur man, Covid comes as blessing in disguise||BHOPAL: The Covid-19 pandemic seems to have comes as a blessing in disguise for a poor visually-impaired man, resident of a village in Chattarpur district. Before the outbreak, the man used to sing bhajans and beg for alms outside the Golden Temple in Amritsar, Punjab. After he returned due to the pandemic, he started cultivating vegetables in a small piece of land near a village in Khajuraho. From beggar to vegetable grower, corona has changed his life. Like any other labourer, Kishori Ahirwar, about 35 years old, had also migrated from Chattarpur district to Delhi, one of the favourite destinations of labourers. But as luck would have it, he moved on to Amritsar and learnt singing from a Sikh family. “I would sing bhajans near the Golden Temple and beg for alms,” he said. About three ywears ago, Kishori also got married to a girl from a poor family of West Bengal whom he had met near the Golden Temple. Kishori said after the “disease spread”, he also decided to returned home to Kurela village near Khajuraho. From Amritsar, he went to Delhi with a group of people in a four-wheeler. From there, he managed to reach Kurela in a truck. But Kishori was not welcomed in his village. The bhajan singer-turned-farmer said that his brothers were angry over the fact that he got married to a woman of another caste. When he had returned, he also had two small kids -- one a little over a year-old while other awas bout four months. “I remembered that my father had a small house under Indira Awas Yojana in Pahera Purwa, another village near his native hamlet. The abandoned house was in a very bad shape .Behind it, there is a small piece of 50 sq feet of land. He managed to reach there and started living in the dilapidated dwelling. A local NGO, Viklag Kalyan Samiti, got in touch with Kishori while supplying ration during the lockdown and helped in his rehabilitation. “We also got the couple trained for organic farming,” said Mukesh Kumar Patel of the Samiti. Kishori said he was cultivating barbatti (long beans), bottle gourd, bitter gourd and okra, among other vegetables. He now sells about 3 to 4 kg of vegetables every day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/for-chhatarpur-man-covid-comes-as-blessing-in-disguise/articleshow/77859807.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Madurai||Cases, deaths drop in south TN, central region tally crosses 32k||Madurai/ Trichy: The number of daily fresh Covid-19 cases in the 10 southern districts of the state has come below 900 for the first time in more than two months. As many as 887 fresh cases and nine deaths were recorded in the region on Monday. Meanwhile, the number of cases in the central region crossed the 32,000-mark with 656 fresh cases on Monday, while it recorded 10 more deaths. Eight districts comprising Ariyalur, Karur, Nagapattinam, Perambalur, Pudukottai, Thanjavur, Tiruvarur and Trichy registered 32,066 cases, which include 5,599 active cases. The region crossed its 30,000 cases on Saturday. In the past three days, the region recorded 2,082 cases. The region has been reporting 600-plus cases every other day for the past one month. The southern region is reporting less than 10 deaths in a day after a gap of 64 days. It was on June 28 that nine deaths were recorded last and the total deaths in the region were 48. Though the death rate in the region has marginally dipped to 1.75% from 1.76% last week, it is more than 1.48% in the state. There have been instances even last week when the daily deaths were little more than 10 and shot up the next day due to the delay in reflecting the actual figures in the bulletin. Four districts in the region recorded more than 100 fresh cases on Monday but none had more than 150 cases. Six districts had less than 100 cases on Monday. Madurai recorded more than 100 cases for the 4th day in succession. Dindigul (129) recorded the highest number of cases. Sivaganga with 26 cases had the least number of cases. After a gap of 45 days, Theni (77) recorded less than 100 cases. Despite adding 887 fresh cases, the number of active cases on Monday is 296 less than that of Sunday. Only three districts – Theni, Tirunelveli and Kanyakumari – have more than 1,000 active cases. While Pudukottai recorded 86 cases making its tally 6,071 on Monday, Thanjavur, Tiruvarur and Nagapattinam registered 125, 113 and 105 cases respectively. In August, the region reported 343 deaths so far. Out of 491 deaths, the region had only 148 deaths till the end of July. Almost everyone had comorbid conditions besides Covid-19 infection. A 58-year old woman from Thanjavur died of respiratory failure and Covid-19 pneumonia. Two patients from Thanjavur and Trichy died at private hospitals. Perambalur recorded 10 new cases, while in Karur the figure is 47.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/cases-deaths-drop-in-south-tn-central-region-tally-crosses-32k/articleshow/77860878.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Surat||Bizman found dead, suicide note recovered||Surat: Body of a 48-year-old textile business was found in his car near Madhuvan Party plot in Jahangirpura and police suspect that he committed suicide. A bottle of some poisonous material and a suicide note was also recovered the car of deceased, Jayesh Saraiya, who had a business of textile products in a rented shop of Bombay Market. The note purportedly written by him states: ‘I am going, I am not getting the share, will not meet in this life, will meet in next life.” Preliminary police investigation revealed that he was facing a financial crisis and there was some property-related dispute in the family. Saraiya, a resident of Avishkar Row House, left home on Friday morning saying that he was going out to meet a lawyer. His phone was working till evening but later it was switched off. His family members searched for him, but later approached Rander police. It is also learnt that he could not pay the rent for his shop in Bombay Market for the past few months and had requested financial help from his brother.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/bizman-found-dead-suicide-note-recovered/articleshow/77858628.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Madurai||Hostel students felicitated||Madurai: Students who studied from hostels and secured good marks in public examinations were felicitated by district collector T G Vinay on Monday. The award ceremony which held at collector’s office was organized by advocate and social activist S Malaisamy and child welfare committee member B Pandiaraja. Six students, three each from Class 10 and Class 12, were felicitated with a medal and award. Among class 10 students, who studied from hostels, K Rohini secured the highest with 448 out of 500. She was followed by K Harshith with 425 and M Rohini 389. Among class 12 students K Rajapandi secured the highest with Rs 498 out of 600. He was followed by M Monoj Kumar with 488 and T Ruthra 486. A total of 471 students appeared for Class 10 exams including 162 girls. 530 students appeared for Class 12 exams including 195 girls. The collector urged the students to motivate other students studying in hostels by visiting them in person.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hostel-students-felicitated/articleshow/77860882.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Nagpur||Raut wants state say in VC appointments||Nagpur: Citing recent “political appointment” while selecting Nagpur University vice-chancellor, energy minister Nitin Raut has demanded amending rules so as to make state government’s role mandatory while appointing candidate(s) on prestigious posts in state universities. Raut raised the issue in the cabinet meeting chaired by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray wherein he quoted example of NU VC’s recent appointment. “I was supported by other colleagues, including revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat. We apprised the CM of how political appointments on such prestigious posts are made from particular organizations due to arbitrary powers vested with the chancellor,” Raut told TOI. The minister said he has demanded amendment to the Maharashtra Public Universities Act, 2016 related to VC’s appointment. “There were many well qualified and experienced candidates in the race, but the choice of candidate surprised all of us. All Congress ministers supported me. I told the CM that in coming days, Kolhapur VC along with those of agriculture universities would be appointed and same pattern would be followed if the rules are not amended,” he said. “There is no point if the state government is not taken into confidence while appointing a VC. The CM has responded positively,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/raut-wants-state-say-in-vc-appointments/articleshow/77859837.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
September 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Court refuses to release seized ambulance||Ahmedabad: A city sessions court has refused to release an ambulance, which was seized by Naroda police because the vehicle was used for bootlegging during the lockdown period.The court last week rejected an application by the ambulance owner, Raju Thakor, with observation that it is highly improper to use the vehicle, which is used for welfare purpose, in such an anti-social activity. Besides, the court also based its decision not to release the vehicle because the quantity of liquor found from the ambulance was 22 litre. The state government’s new rules prohibit release of vehicles, from liquor in quantity above 20 litre is found, during the pendency of trial. Earlier in July, a metropolitan court had rejected the application to release the vehicle. The court had expressed an apprehension that the ambulance can again be used for the illegal activity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/court-refuses-to-release-seized-ambulance/articleshow/77859674.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Rajkot||Two die in Kutch||Rajkot: A man died near a village located in Bhuj taluka of Kutch district after his car swept away in heavy flow of water. Another person reportedly drowned in gushing water near Nakhatrana taluka of Kutch.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/two-die-in-kutch/articleshow/77859890.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Madurai||Mins’ comments will create rift in alliance: H Raja||Madurai: BJP national secretary H Raja accused state ministers Sellur K Raju and D Jayakumar of crossing their line while talking about the BJP. Raja said this posed a threat to create an unnecessary rift in the BJP-AIADMK alliance.“Talking ill of the party headed by the Prime Minister is talking equal ill of the PM himself,” he said on Monday after reviewing preparedness for the assembly election in Madurai.The minister said he appreciated just the Karnataka government in his ‘potent government’ tweet on August 19 for permitting the installation of Vinayaka idols in that state where the BJP is in power. The following day, minister Jayakumar strongly reacted to Raja's comment. Stating that he did not talk poorly about the Tamil Nadu government, he said it is his duty to point out the mistakes of government officials. “But I have not crossed the alliance dharma,” he added.Raja criticized Raju for stating that BJP is only a child in Tamil Nadu. Calling him a friend, he said Raju's connection was wrong.“I don’t know if Jayakumar and Raju want to damage the alliance and create trouble to the state government,” he said and asked the ministers not to comment on the BJP out of the context.Responding to a question on BJP’s position in the TN assembly elections next year, he said they should not be underestimated. “In Tripura, where we earlier had only 2% vote share we received 50% and formed the government. The communists have vanished,” he said.He called BJP a party with a pan-India presence. “We will cross the bridge when it comes,” he stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/mins-comments-will-create-rift-in-alliance-h-raja/articleshow/77860910.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Paatil to meet netas who lost||Gandhinagar: State BJP president C R Paatil, along with CM Vijay Rupani and deputy CM Nitin Patel will on Wednesday meet BJP candidates who were given tickets in the past three state assembly elections of 2007, 2012 and 2017, but lost. BJP leaders said Paatil reportedly aims to revive these party workers and leaders before the upcoming assembly byelections and elections of local bodies. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/paatil-to-meet-netas-who-lost/articleshow/77859829.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Nagpur||Golden hr lost as wary hospitals turn away lawyer stricken by heart attack||Nagpur: A 56-year-old lawyer was declared dead at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), where he reportedly reached over three hours after first complaining of chest pain. The golden hour, within which heart attack patients need to reach hospital, was lost due to alleged refusal by three private hospitals to admit advocate Nitin Ambilwade. They were afraid his breathlessness was due to Covid, though he had not been tested, and tested negative after his death. A resident of Model Mills, the lawyer’s family had rushed him to a nearby private hospital at Pardi in their car around 12.30pm on Friday. As Ambilwade was having difficulty breathing due to angina pain, the hospital refused to even provide first aid before the family could search for the right hospital in his condition. The lawyer was taken to two more major private hospitals in Nandanwan, which too refused to admit him apprehending a Covid case. Finally, around 4pm, the lawyer died on way to GMCH, where a swab sample was collected from the body and found to be negative on Saturday. “Our grievance is only that he should have been provided first aid,” said advocate Nilesh, Nitin’s brother. He confirmed that Nitin died of heart attack. The District Bar Association (DBA) has decided to raise the issue with the district administration and state government. Sources said NMC is planning to go further and ask all hospitals to reserve some beds for such patients coming with breathing difficulties, but yet to be tested for Covid or already tested negative. DBA president Kamal Satuja said they would be submitting a representation to home minister Anil Deshmukh, commissioner of police BK Upadhyay, and district collector Ravindra Thakre on Tuesday. Satuja said, “We are demanding authorities should take criminal action against all the three hospitals who refused to admit Ambilwade. The Supreme Court has already ruled that no emergency case should be denied hospital admission.” Former DBA president advocate Sudeep Jaiswal demanded compensation for the deceased’s family. “The hospitals who refused to give him first aid must collectively compensate Rs2 crore to Ambilwade’s family. The refusal is against medical ethics. I also want the registration of those doctors to be cancelled,” Jaiswal said. Officials from one of the private hospitals said the Covid quota has cut their overall beds as well as equipment availability. “The lawyer needed ventilator, which was not available. We are aware of emergency case, but right now administration’s focus is on Covid only. We have been pointing this out that non-Covid disease management is equally important. Now, should hospitals remove a ventilator from someone and put another emergency patient on it,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/golden-hr-lost-as-wary-hospitals-turn-away-lawyer-stricken-by-heart-attack/articleshow/77860953.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
September 1, 2020||Nagpur||JEE to kick off today with slew of measures under Covid shadow||Nagpur: After a long delay due to Covid-19, the Joint Entrance Examination (Main) finally begins from September 1. The exam will be held in two shifts daily, till September 6. National Testing Agency (NTA), the exam conducting body, has put in place a slew of measures to ensure that exam centres provide candidates with a “safe” environment once inside the premises. A JEE centre in-charge from Nagpur told TOI that they were following all guidelines sent by NTA. “We have made markings on the floor for candidates to stand, and enough staffers will be present to guide them around the premises. Care will be taken to avoid crowding. Thankfully, the number of students per shift has reduced drastically,” the in-charge said. The reduction of students per shift is a result of NTA adapting to the new normal. NTA increased the number of examination centres across the country to 660 from the earlier 570. JEE is a computer-based test, hence requires fewer centres than NEET, which is a traditional pen-and-paper exam. In addition to that, two exam shifts are held daily in JEE, which further reduces the need for more centres. Regardless, even for NEET, the number of centres has been increased to just over 3,800 from the earlier 2,500 approximately. The second change brought in by NTA was the increase in number of shifts by 50%. The exam will now be held in 12 shifts, up from the earlier 8. This change has brought down the number of countrywide candidates per shift to 85,000 from the earlier 1.3 lakh. Just over 8.5 lakh candidates have registered for JEE Main. TOI had earlier reported about the Covid distancing and sanitization measures put in place by NTA. Candidates will occupy alternate computer desks. This year, only 12 candidates will be seated in a room. After every shift, the room will be fully sanitized. This includes sanitization of computers, keyboards, mouses, mouse pads, furniture and floors. Staggered entry and exit of students will further help maintain Covid distancing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/jee-to-kick-off-today-with-slew-of-measures-under-covid-shadow/articleshow/77859868.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
September 1, 2020||Madurai||Lockdown relaxed, Kodai hills beckon but with clauses||Madurai: The state government’s decision to allow tourists to hill stations with valid e-pass has brought relief to many, who yearn to drive and enjoy the chill weather. However, stakeholders from the the tourism industry in Kodaikanal hills, who have been hit for the past six months, are not enthused as they feel that the e-pass system must be scrapped. An official from the Dindigul district administration said that tourists can visit the hill stations, check-in into a room and have a road trip to enjoy the beauty of the hill station. But, tourists will not be allowed to spots such as the lake and park, the main attractions in Kodaikanal. “We have to work out on various nitty-gritties involved in allowing tourists, like the number of passes to be issued in a day and to manage crowds at sightseeing places. A meeting has to be convened with participation of officials from various departments,” said the official. Secretary of Kodaikanal Hoteliers Association, S Abdul Kani Raja said that there will be no benefit for the tourism sector if e-pass procedure is not done away with. People’s movement should be allowed freely without any e-pass so that it will benefit hoteliers, guides, traders and cab drivers, who rely on tourism. “If tourist spots are not opened, public will only plan for a day trip. Without a stay in the hill station there will be less spending. Visitors should be allowed freely, and we are ready to volunteer in crowd management,” he said. P Ganesan, secretary of Kodaikanal Taxi Owner-Driver Association said they will benefi only if tourists are allowed to use public transport. “At present, only those who have a valid address proof in Kodaikanal are allowed in buses. Instead of an e-pass system, people can be screened for body temperature and allowed to visit after recording their address and other required details,” he said. Meanwhile, public have welcomed the relaxation who are yearning to visit the hill station. Abdul Rashid, a resident of Madurai said that he used to visit the hill station at least once in two months. He is now awaiting for an opportunity to get out of the city and relax in the nature’s lap, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/lockdown-relaxed-kodai-hills-beckon-but-with-clauses/articleshow/77860951.cms||V Devanathan
September 1, 2020||Delhi||Rework testing strategy, says Delhi high court||NEW DELHI: Alarmed over the sudden spike in Covid-19 cases in the last week, Delhi high court on Monday said the “Covid dragon has not been tamed” and asked the AAP government to rework its testing strategy. “This court is not satisfied with the number of testing actually being conducted on ground by Delhi government” a bench of justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad noted, citing the findings of the first sero survey on threat of community transmission posed by asymptomatic patients. It said that a comparison of the first and second sero surveillance, point to a “quantum jump” in the infection from around 23% to 29%, noting that “by and large it is a worrisome figure”, which the “court can’t ignore.” It said a comparison of the first and second sero-surveillance revealed that particular districts were more vulnerable where the percentage of serological prevalence had increased by 50.9% in South East Delhi, 46.2% in South Delhi and 38.6% in West Delhi, while overall seroprevalence in Delhi “shows a jump to over 20%.” The court directed the AAP government to “take measures to restrategise the testing plan so that the maximum number of people, who are asymptomatic, can undergo a test through RT-PCR.” It also told the government that while drawing up a fresh guideline it must examine if “the necessity of obtaining a prescription from a private doctor for undergoing the RT-PCR should be made mandatory/optional or done away with.” The court’s directions came after it examined the total tests conducted in the past 10 days and found that, while testing through the RAT had increased incrementally, RT-PCR tests on average were stagnating between 5,000 and 6,000. It said the RT-PCR testing was “virtually half” the capacity and asked the government to come up with a fresh advisory enabling people to directly get themselves tested through RT-PCR on payment, as long as it does not adversely impact the testing of the government samples sent to private laboratories, or the timeline within which the reports were to be submitted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/rework-testing-strategy-says-hc/articleshow/77859802.cms||Abhinav Garg
September 1, 2020||Patna||Man nabbed for staging son’s murder in Bihar's Bettiah||BETTIAH: Cracking a week old gruesome murder case that threatened to ignite a communal and political tinderbox ahead of the Bihar polls, the Bettiah police investigations led to the arrest of a father-son duo on Monday. It turned out that the ‘murder victim’ was one of the alleged perpetrators. “On August 22, a decapitated, disfigured, the head was discovered near a mosque near the industrial area. The next day, other mutilated parts of the corpse were found near the corn factory on the BIADA campus itself,” Bettiah SP Nitasha Gudiya said, recalling the sequence of events. She added, “The face and other parts were mutilated and were unrecognizable. One Akhtar Hussain then claimed to have recognized the remains as that of his 22-year-old son Abdul Khalid Hussain based on the clothes.” Hussain lodged an FIR naming Garima Sikaria, the co-convener of the Bihar BJP local bodies cell along with her entrepreneur husband Rohit Sikaria. Garima, also the chairperson of the Bettiah Nagar Parishad, had been inducted into the BJP by the then party chief Amit Shah during the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Hussain is alleged to have been embroiled in a land dispute with the Sikarias. “ Rohit Sikaria was handed a plot on lease by BIADA over which Hussain was earlier encroaching,” the SP said. “For two days, we were fighting a grim battle to prevent a communal conflagration,” the SP told TOI, adding that she found certain discrepancies in the father’s account after taking up the supervision of investigation herself. “First, only the father claimed to identify the body. Then, the dead body had white strands of hair which seemed unlikely in a 22-year-old deceased. The case seemed bizarre,” she told this newspaper. The informant and his family initially declined to receive the dead body after autopsy insisting on the arrest of the Sikarias. Late in the night on August 23, they finally buried the body in a cemetery close to their Lalu Nagar home near the industrial area. “The informant had sent his son to Delhi after the murder. We traced him there,” the SP said. The CPI-ML even convened a dharna seeking immediate action in the murder case. “In our protest against this gruesome murder, the CPI, CPM, Congress and RJD too lent support,” CPI-ML leader Sunil Rao told TOI. “We too have been deceived by the conspiracy,” he lamented after learning of the SP’s disclosure. “There has been some deep-rooted political conspiracy,” Rohit Sikaria told TOI. While the unearthing of the alleged real culprits may have prevented communal and political overtones from snowballing, Bettiah police are saddled with another question: Whose dead body was it? Tightlipped, the SP said that four persons, including the Hussain father-son duo, have been arrested. “ We shall now file another case into the murder of an (as yet) unidentified man. Our investigation has not ceased,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/man-nabbed-for-staging-sons-murder-in-bettiah/articleshow/77859864.cms||Abhay Mohan Jha
September 1, 2020||India||Amit Shah discharged from AIIMS||NEW DELHI: Home minister Amit Shah, who was admitted to AIIMS for post-Covid care on August 18, was discharged on Monday. “Amit Shah, home minister, was admitted at AIIMS, New Delhi, for post-Covid care. He was discharged today at 7am,” the hospital said in a statement. “He has fully recovered and is fit to resume his routine activities,” the hospital said. Shah, 55, had undergone treatment at Medanta Hospital in Gurgaon as he tested positive for coronavirus and was discharged after he tested negative. He was admitted to AIIMS on August 18 following complaints of fatigue and body ache. He is expected to rejoin office and take up official work soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/amit-shah-discharged-from-aiims/articleshow/77862105.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Nagpur||Aug deaths 7 times, cases 5 times more than total of previous 5 mths||Nagpur: With community spread having started, the district has registered seven times more Covid-19 deaths and five times more positive cases in August than those registered in previous five months put together. The positive cases are less compared to those projected by the state government reportedly due to the administration’s failure to increase the number of tests. The district has registered 1,045 deaths as on August 31. Of them, 919 (87.94%) deaths came in 31 days of August while the fatalities were 126 in 143 days between March 11 and July 31. As reported by TOI on Monday, the district’s case fatality rate ICFR) increased to 3.56% which is above the average CFR of world (3.39%), India (1.79%) and state (3.15%). The number of positive cases in the district surged to 33,365 as on August 31. Of them, 27,973 (83.83%) cases were recorded in 31 days of August while 5,392 cases came in 143 days between March 11 and July 31. Guardian minister Nitin Raut had already declared that city is seeing community spread of novel coronavirus infection. Consultant physician and intensivist Dr Nikhil Balankhe too confirmed there was community spread in the city in August. “Many people did not follow Covid-19 guidelines leading to spread after ease in full lockdown in June and July. Monsoon is a season known for upper respiratory tract infection (URTI) and it’s quite possible that this factor also contributed to increase in cases,” he said. With rise in cases, the administration had allowed home isolation of asymptomatic, mild symptomatic patients and home quarantine of high-risk contacts. Dr Balankhe further said that deaths increased due to late reporting to hospitals and lack of proper facilities in government-run Covid care centres (CCCs) and dedicated Covid hospitals (DCHs). “Most of the patients are ready to be at home instead of getting admitted to CCCs where they can be monitored properly. Number of beds in government-run DCHs are 80% of total capacity whereas 20% in private hospitals. Private hospitals are getting demand for beds from 80% patients.” “Need is to equip CCCs and government-run DCHs so that even asymptomatic patients get admitted there,” he said. Occupancy in CCCs is around 4% whereas 62% positive patients are in home isolation. Corporator Dayashankar Tiwari blamed lack of monitoring of positive patients and no tracing and testing of high-risk contacts for sudden spike of cases as well as deaths. On August 18, the government had projected 44,451 positive cases in the district by August 31. Currently, actual cases are 11,086 less than the projection. MLC Parinay Fuke said actual cases might be same as projected but were not reported as testing was not increased. “There were 17,872 cases as on August 18 and projection was for new 26,579 in 12 days. It meant 2,215 cases per day. If considered positivity rate of 30%, the test should have been 7,400 per day. But it was under 5,000 per day in the district. Testing needs to be increased for early detection and treatment which can control deaths,” he said. The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) and district administration had already predicted peak of Covid-19 in the district in September. Raut had also said second wave at beginning of winter cannot be ruled out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/aug-deaths-7-times-cases-5-times-more-than-total-of-previous-5-mths/articleshow/77861147.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
September 1, 2020||Bareilly||Stray buffalo goes on a rampage inside UP police station, cop hurt||BAREILLY: An angry buffalo took charge of a police station in Uttar Pradesh for a few minutes leaving cops and several onlookers running for cover. The stray animal ran amok on its premises in Sambhal on Sunday injuring a cop, damaging several vehicles and causing mayhem in the area. A purported video of the incident is now being widely circulated on social media. The injured inspector has been admitted to a hospital. He is now stable, the police said. People later gathered in large numbers at the police station and managed to drive the buffalo away from its premises after an hour-long struggle. In the viral video, a cop on his bike could be seen entering the police station when a huge buffalo comes from nowhere and attacks him. In fact, the buffalo rammed into the cop's bike and dragged him for a few metres to the shock of onlookers. The incident took place at Kotwali police station and the injured cop has been identified as inspector Shiv Pratap Singh. Moreover, just before its attack on the cop, the buffalo damaged several vehicles parked on the police station's premises. “We are not sure where this huge buffalo came from. It managed to enter the police station's premises and caused mayhem everywhere," Arun Kumar Singh, the circle officer, told TOI on Monday. Watch Watch: Buffalo attacks policeman in UP's Sambhal||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/stray-buffalo-goes-on-a-rampage-inside-up-police-station-cop-hurt/articleshow/77857514.cms||Maria Khan
September 1, 2020||Madurai||Policemen pool in Rs 86.5L for kin of cop killed in action||Tuticorin: Inspector general of police for south zone S Murugan on Monday handed over a cheque for Rs 86.5 lakh to the kin of police constable P Subramanian, 28, who was killed on August 18 while trying to nab history-sheeter Duraimuthu. The amount was voluntarily contributed by police officers and personnel from 10 districts.Subramanian was part of the team that tried to nab Duraimuthu in Vallanadu forest when the history-sheeter hurled a country made bomb at the constable, killing him instantly. The history-sheeter also died in the incident.The solatium was received by Subramanian’s widow S Buvaneshwari and his father S Periyasamy, at their residence in Pandaravilai village near Eral in Tuticorin district.Murugan told reporters that the money has been deposited in the bank and the family gets an interest of Rs 42,420 per month.Murugan said that efforts were being taken at the district level to handle the accused with caution during arrests to avert incidents such as the one that claimed Subramanian’s life. He added that the law has adequate provisions to book history-sheeters and rowdy elements. The IG assured all possible support to the family from the department.On the day the incident took place, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami announced a solatium of Rs 50 lakh and a government job for the family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/policemen-pool-in-rs-86-5l-for-kin-of-cop-killed-in-action/articleshow/77860976.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Delhi||Delhi's Lok Nayak Hospital eyes new high with a 22-storey centre||NEW DELHI: Lok Nayak Hospital, one of the capital’s largest healthcare facilities run by Delhi government, is all set to attain new heights. It will be getting a 22-storey-high medicine, maternity and advanced paediatric centre. It will also be one of the city’s tallest hospital buildings. “To improve healthcare facilities in the city, Delhi government has planned to upgrade many major hospitals run by it. The medicine, maternity and advanced paediatric centre is a part of this exercise,” said a Delhi government official. “The centre will be one of the best in the country. Though work had halted due to the Covid-19 outbreak, construction is expected to start in September,” he added. Currently functioning as a dedicated Covid-19 hospital with 2,000 beds, it is arguably the biggest such facility in the country catering to not only patients from the nearby Walled City and central Delhi areas, but also from neighbouring states like Uttar Pradesh. The new centre would add 1,570 beds to the hospital’s current capacity. The project, which has been planned at Rs 534 crore, is expected to be completed within two and a half years. It would have two basement levels and 22 storeys above the ground level. “The first to the seventh floors of the centre will have operation theatres, labour operation theatres, intensive care units and other facilities. The next five floors will have offices and space for common use. The wards will be from floors 12 to 22,” said the official. While the entire hospital complex is spread over more than 90 acres, the new centre will come up on a plot measuring 4.3 acres. “The centre will come up where the hospital’s old OPD administration building once stood. That building has been demolished,” the official said. There would also be a multi-level parking with the capacity to accommodate up to 200 cars. “The hospital used to witness a daily footfall of more than 7,000 patients before the pandemic. The new centre will help cater to more patients in the future. The new centre will have more ICU beds than the existing ones in the hospital. The total number of ICU beds will go up by three times. There will also be more than 40 operation theatres and separate OTs for labour,” the official said, adding that once the centre opened, it would have nearly 400 doctors and 1,500 nurses to take care of patients. Earlier known as Irwin Hospital, Lok Nayak is one of the oldest hospitals in the city. Its newest block would also be one of the greenest. The block would be built completely on Green Building norms and is expected to get Green Rating for Integrated Habitat Assessment 3 rating, for which it would have to fulfill 34 criteria, including energy and water optimisation, sustainable building materials, waste management, sustainable site planning, etc. The centre would have a sewage treatment plant with a capacity of 650 kilolitres per day. The treated effluent would be reused within the premises. Separate bins would also be provided for collection of different type of wastes and disposed off in an environment-friendly manner. The complex would also have extensive arrangements for rainwater harvesting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/lok-nayak-eyes-new-high-with-a-22-storey-centre/articleshow/77859860.cms||Sidharatha Roy
September 1, 2020||Nagpur||5.68 lakh evicted from home in 3 years, 20k amid pandemic: Study||Nagpur: Some 5.68 lakh people were forcibly evicted from their homes in India from 2017 to 2019 and at least 20,000 during the Covid-19 pandemic this year. These are the findings of a pan-India study ‘Forced Evictions in India in 2019: An Unrelenting National Crisis’ by Housing and Land Rights Network (HLRN) released recently. Currently, nearly 15 million people live under the threat of eviction and displacement in India. Delhi-based HLRN, a charitable trust, works for recognition, defence, promotion, and realization of right to adequate housing and land that involve gaining a safe and secure place for all individuals and communities, especially marginalized ones, to live in peace and dignity. The state agencies arbitrarily demolished houses of low-income communities and directly increased their vulnerability and risk during this public health emergency, it said. Given the widespread prevalence and high incidence of Covid-19 cases in India, the study found that state authorities forcibly evicted at least 20,000 people between March 16 and July 31, 2020. This, the study found, was in deviation from WHO and the ministry of health and family welfare directives to ‘stay home’, as well as a guidance note of the UN Special Rapporteur on Adequate Housing prohibiting evictions during the pandemic. In Nagpur’s context, the report mentions eviction of 200 people in Giri Colony and 500 from Jat Tarodi in November 2019 by the Nagpur Municipal Corporation. The demolition drive followed an order of Bombay High Court’s Nagpur bench to remove structures under high tension power lines. HC had asked the civic authority to rehabilitate affected families before the drive. The construction of the Nagpur-Mumbai Samruddhi super expressway resulted in the demolition of a school for tribal children, the report noted. NMC had recently demolished nine pucca homes alongside Nag river in Adarsh Nagar slum in August (however, this was not part of the study). Forced evictions not only violate human rights laws, but also reflect a continuing systematic dispossession of the poor, said Shivani Chaudhry, executive director, HLRN. Persistent acts of home demolition and eviction contribute to a rise in homelessness, displacement, impoverishment, and income inequality. The report documents forced evictions in India over the last three years, highlights the severe and long-term human rights impacts on affected persons, and makes recommendations to the government to address this serious but silent crisis. The report states that from 2017-2019, the state demolished over 1,17,770 houses across urban and rural India and over 5,68,000 people were forcibly evicted from their homes. In other words, about 1,90,000 people were evicted every year on average, at least 108 houses demolished daily, about 519 people lost their homes every day. Over 14.9 million people across India are currently faced with the threat of eviction and displacement from infrastructure and environmental projects, ‘disaster management’ efforts, and ‘city-beautification/slum-clearance’ drives, Chaudhry said. Evictions must not take place in inclement weather, at night, during festivals or religious holidays, prior to elections, or during or just prior to school examinations. However, evictions and home demolitions occurred throughout the year, including in extreme weather conditions – during the intense heat of summer, in the bitter cold, and in the monsoon season, reveals the report. The report sought immediate national moratorium on evictions, provide adequate rehabilitation or provide adequate alternative housing with basic facilities within a vicinity of 2–3km. It also sought an investigation into all acts of forced eviction and fire in ‘informal settlements’ in accordance with law.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/5-68-lakh-evicted-from-home-in-3-years-20k-amid-pandemic-study/articleshow/77859906.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
September 1, 2020||Bareilly||Sarus crane census to begin in UP on Sept 2||Pilibhit: A three-phase census of the Indian Sarus crane, official state bird of UP, is all set to begin on September 2. Classified as "vulnerable" in the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Red List, this non-migratory wetland bird is found mainly in the Gangetic plains of the state across 75 districts. The census is an integral part of the first-ever project of the UP forest department to prepare an "atlas" of this threatened species for formulation of future policies for their conservation. The census will be conducted by the Institute of Wildlife Sciences at Lucknow University in collaboration with the department of environment, forest and climate. Amita Kannaujia, professor in the department of zoology at Lucknow University and a key player of the sarus census. said, “The exercise will focus on collecting information about the bird's diversity, distribution and characteristics with mapping of their nesting and breeding spots, the prime threats to their survival, factors influencing the damage to their habitats and the strategies needed to ensure their conservation and growth." In the last all-India census in 2010, the presence of 11,905 sarus cranes in eight agro climatic regions was recorded. Their maximum density was found in Shahjahanpur-Pilibhit-Lakhimpur Kheri and Agra-Mainpuri-Etawah belts of UP “Studies and surveys have revealed massive shrinkage of this tall, grey red-necked flying bird’s habitat due to destruction of wetlands, widespread use of pesticides in agriculture, predation and man-sarus conflict,” said Kannaujia. The census would be completed in three phases - the first on September 2, the second on December 16 and the last in June, 2021. Another key person, KK Jha, a former principal chief conservator of forest of UP, said each phase of the census would be completed in a single day to wipe out any apprehension of cranes’ migration to other regions and the consequent doubling in their figures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/sarus-crane-census-to-begin-in-up-on-sept-2/articleshow/77857552.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Madurai||TNSTC resumes intra-district bus services today||Madurai/Trichy: Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) is all set to operate its fleet from Tuesday with the state government relaxing lockdown norms for intra-district public transport operation. Officials said that the number of buses in each route will be determined on the spot as they are not sure about the patronage. Officials will be deployed in bus terminals to take calls on frequency in each route based on demand. Meanwhile, TNSTC Trichy region has planned to put at least 50% of its fleets for operation. Buses to other districts including Thanjavur, Madurai, Karur, Ariyalur and Namakkal will be halted at the final most bus stops falling within Trichy district. People heading to other districts may have to cover a distance by foot to board the buses to be operated within the respective district borders. TNSTC will operate buses from 6 am till 9 pm. There are 930 fleets in Trichy region, TNSTC officials said that additional buses if needed will be diverted to the routes based on the demand. “Since private buses are hesitating to operate, the situation is in favour of us to handle decent patronage. We will ensure that the occupancy is not exceeded beyond 60% of the capacity,” a manager with TNSTC, Trichy, said. “We are planning to start operation with 250-300 buses. Our plan is to operate buses in every possible route in Madurai district. Decisions on the frequency of buses in each route would be taken on the spot by the officials posted at terminals depending on requirement,” an official from TNSTC, Madurai branch, said. Another official said that all the buses are ready for operation. Although buses were not operated for the past few weeks, they have been carrying out maintenance at regular intervals. All the buses to be deployed on Tuesday will be sanitized. “There is no fresh set of standard operating procedure from the higher officials. We will follow the procedure, which mandates only 60% of the passengers, hand sanitization and wearing of masks,” he said. Mofussil buses, which connect other districts, will have to wait for the nod from the state government. Madurai Corporation officials said that water for hand washing will be made available in bus terminals. Corporation employees would be deployed for sanitization of terminals and buses after each service. TNSTC staff, however, expressed doubts over passengers following social distancing in the buses. Officials said that passengers without facemasks will not be allowed to board buses. “Once the bus services resume, a dedicated team fielded at the bus bays will monitor the body temperatures of the passengers,” V Tirupati, a sanitary inspector at Trichy said. Trichy Corporation on Monday carried out disinfection drives at the central bus stand that has been closed for two months. TNSTC Trichy region Buses: 930 Depots: 13 Staff strength: 8,500 Income: Rs 1.5 crore per day (normal days) Passengers handled: 4 lakh per day (normal days) Points where bus service stops Trichy-Thanjavur: Devarayaneri Trichy-Pudukkottai: Mathur roundabout Trichy-Karur: Pettaivaithalai Trichy-Dindigul: Ponnambalapatti Trichy-Madurai: Thuvarankurichi Madurai Buses: around 1,200 Staff strength: 7,000 Depots: 17 Trips within district alone: 800 Passengers handled: 2.5 lakh Average collection: Rs 2.4 crore per day||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tnstc-resumes-intra-district-bus-services-today/articleshow/77860979.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Patna||Muzaffarpur schoolboy’s kidnappers demand Rs 1 crore as ransom||PATNA: The kidnappers of an 11-year-old schoolboy have demanded a ransom of Rs 1 crore. They had snatched the boy on Sunday while he was playing near his home at a village in Sahebganj in Muzaffarpur district. Chahat Kumar, who studies at a private school in Muzaffarpur, had come to his Jirati Tola village after lockdown as the school was closed. The boy’s mother Chinta Devi lodged a kidnapping case with the Sahebganj police station on Monday. She told the police that the kidnappers contacted the family within an hour of the incident on Sunday. Additional SHO of Sahebganj police station Sunil Kumar said the police are trying to ascertain the reason behind the kidnapping as the family is not well off to be able to afford such a sum. “The victim’s father Vinod Rai works at a private firm in Punjab,” he added. The incident took place around 2 pm when Chahat, a Class IV student of a Muzaffarpur-based private school, was playing with his friends outside his home at Jirati Tola village on Sunday. Within an hour of the incident, kidnappers contacted the family over the phone and demanded Rs1 crore for his safe release. The captors also threatened other family members if the ransom was not paid. The additional SHO said the priority is to recover the boy safely. “Raids were on to arrest the kidnappers based on CCTV footage. However, no breakthrough has been made in the case so far,” he added. The boy’s relatives told the police that he had come to his native village from Muzaffarpur following the Covid19 lockdown in March. The ransom call was made on the mobile phone of a close relative of the victim around 3 pm on Sunday. Chahat is the youngest among three children of Vinod Rai. The victim’s maternal grandfather Yogendra Rai fell sick after hearing the news of the kidnapping. He has been admitted to a hospital in Muzaffarpur for treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/muzaffarpur-schoolboys-kidnappers-demand-rs1-crore-as-ransom/articleshow/77859908.cms||Ramashankar
September 1, 2020||Bhopal||BMC sets up visarjan kunds at collection points on Anant Chaturdashi||BHOPAL: Bidding adieu to Lord Ganesha, devotees are handing over idols of the deity to the Bhopal Municipal Corporation officials this year at the collection points set up in the city to ensure a crowd-less visarjan during the pandemic. BMC officials have also kept small water-tanks (kunds) to allow devotees to perform the visarjan themselves. “So far the visarjan has gone very smoothly as there are 85 collection centres in the city and people are taking turns to hand over the idols to us. Most of the idols that people brought for visarjan were under two-feet, that were easily taken care of. Many people also abided by the ‘Mere Ganesh Mere Ghar’ campaign and performed the visarjan at home,” said PRO of BMC, Prem Shankar Shukla. He added that the BMC has set up small kunds to allow devotees to do the visarjan themselves with all the rituals so that they may not be tempted to go to the ghats and lakes. “We are trying to take care of everyone’s religious sentiments and placed water tanks at the collection centres; they are be big enough to hold around 150-200 small idols. As there is ban on visarjan at the ghats, we decided to let the people perform the visarjan at the collection centres only,” Shukla said. The BMC officials will then collectively keep the idols at the ghat at Shahpura. The clay from the idols will then be used to fertilise city gardens. Owing to the pandemic, many devotees are doing visarjan at home to avoid waiting in queues. “I have a small idol of under one-foot which is made of clay and I see no point in going out for the visarjan during this time. My family and I will perform the visarjan at home itself in the garden,” said Richa Pathak, a private employee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bmc-sets-up-visarjan-kunds-at-collection-points-on-anant-chaturdashi/articleshow/77859893.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Surat||Heavy Discharge causes deluge in Narmada||Surat/Bharuch: Heavy discharge from Sardar Sarovar dam due to heavy rains in the upstream areas triggered flash floods in nearly 30 villages of Bharuch district on Monday. Close to 5,000 people were relocated to safer places from the villages located on the banks of Narmada in Bharuch, Ankleshwar, Vagra and Jhagadia talukas. Following heavy rainfall in the dam’s upstream areas in Madhya Pradesh, nearly 11.43 lakh cusec water is being released into the Sardar Sarovar dam from Indira Sagar dam in MP. As a result, nearly 10.21 lakh cusec water is being released into the downstream, Narmada canal and powerhouse by the dam authorities. The flood waters left several fields heavily waterlogged. Twenty three gates have been opened up to 7.56 m and water level in the dam was 132.88 m on Monday evening, said PC Vyas, director, Sardar Sarovar Narmada Nigam Limited (SSNNL).  Bharuch collector Dr. MD Modiya said, “The water level at Golden Bridge crossed 34 foot, 10 foot above the danger level of 24 foot. After many years, Narmada is flowing bank to bank.” In Bharuch town, low-lying areas like Dandia Bazar, Furza, Dholi Kui, Pirkanthi witnessed heavy waterlogging and 1,347 people were shifted from these areas. round 669 residents of Mangleshwar, Nikor, Shuklatirth, Kadod Beyt, Dashan Beyt, Tavra and 812 from Sarfuddin, Dhanturia, Borbhatha, Haripura, Kansia, Chaapra and Khalapia villages of Ankleshwar were evacuated. Around 2,00 people were also shifted to safer locations from Vagra and all were taken to temporary camps set up. An NDRF team has been kept on a stand-by at Ankleshwar. DK Rajul, station superintendent, Bharuch said, “There is a flood in Narmada but railway movement has not been affected. There is no reduction in speed of the trains too. When the water level at the Silver Bridge reaches 40 foot, speed control advisory will be released." The flash flood also affected road connectivity in many parts of Bharuch and Narmada districts. The administration has ordered closure of small shops near Golden Bridge as a large number of people are crowding the place to have a glimpse of the stunning view flood in Narmada. Narmada collector Manoj Kothari told TOI: "The famous Shiva temple in Garudeshwar and the ancient Dutt temple at Garudeshwar are flooded. The raod connectivity between Garudeshwar and Kevadia Colony has been snapped and around 260 people from nine villages have been shifted to safer place. "||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/heavy-discharge-causes-deluge-in-narmada/articleshow/77858703.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Goa||Chicalim locals upset as PPE kits enter nullah||Vasco: The residents of Assai Dongri in Chicalim, on Monday morning, were shocked to find garbage, including PPE kits and masks, washed into a nullah in their ward. Chicalim sarpanch Seby Pereira alleged that the PPE kits are from the Dabolim airport. Villagers alleged that the garbage that was washed into the nullah was dumped near the grade separator next to the airport, on NH 66-B. “The PPE kits have names of airlines, which makes it clear that they belong to the airport. We will soon hold an inspection and find out the truth. The airport officials keep complaining about various things including bird hits and garbage, whereas they themselves are responsible for such a menace,” the Chicalim sarpanch said. Airport director Gagan Malik said, “We have made arrangements to dispose our Covid related safety material like PPE kits, etc. These are sent to the sub-district hospital at Chicalim for disposal. However, it has been brought to my notice that such an incident has occurred in the vicinity, an inquiry will be held.” Panch of Assai Dongri ward, Supresh Mayekar, said that “a month back residents complained of sewerage water from the airport building had been released in the nullah”. “Due to incessant rain it was difficult to ascertain the source, but we will soon find out,” Mayekar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/chicalim-locals-upset-as-ppe-kits-enter-nullah/articleshow/77860980.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Madurai||Water released from Vaigai dam to benefit 45k acres||Cleared/255 WordsMadurai: Deputy chief minister, O Panneerselvam on Monday released water from the Vaigai dam in Theni district, to the Periyar main channel on Monday morning, to benefit 45,041 acres under cultivation in the first of the two crop seasons. The discharge will continue for 120 days.Officials said that 900 cusecs will be released for 45 days and then in the turn base system for the next 75 days. Areas under cultivation that will benefit during the next four months include 43,244 acres in Madurai district – 26,792 acres in Madurai north taluk and 16,452 acres in Vadipatti taluk – and 1,797 acres in Nilakottai taluk in Dindigul district.On Monday morning, Vaigai dam had was 59.51ft against its full capacity of 71ft. Water available was 3,513 MCFT and the inflow was 1,357 cusecs. In Periyar dam, the level stood at 128.15ft against the full capacity of 142ft. Water availability in the reservoir was 4,298 MCFT. Outflow was 1,710 cusecs against the inflow of 275 cusecs.Panneerselvam said that from August 13, a total of 300 cusecs is released from Periyar dam. It includes 200 cusecs to irrigate 14,707 acres under cultivation in the Cumbum valley Ayacut in Theni district and 100 cusecs to meet the drinking water requirements of Theni district.Ministers R B Udhayakumar (revenue, disaster management and information technology) and Sellur K Raju (co-operation), Theni collector Pallavi M Baldev, Madurai collector T G Vinay, Dindigul collector M Vijayalakshmi, MLAs and officials from the public works department and farmer representatives were present on the occasion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/water-released-from-vaigai-dam-to-benefit-45k-acres/articleshow/77860981.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Close shave for 4 as car catches fire||Visakhapatnam: A taxi with three passengers caught fire close to a petrol bunk in Gopalapatnam area of Vizag city on Monday. Smart thinking on the part of the driver not only saved his life, but also that of his passengers, who managed to come out of the vehicle safely before the fire could spread. By the time a fire engine from Marripalem reached the spot and doused the fire, the car was completely gutted.No lives were lost. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/close-shave-for-4-as-car-catches-fire/articleshow/77859912.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Delhi||Delhi University: Longest admission process, most applicants||NEW DELHI: In an admission process lasting nearly three months, University of Delhi received the highest-ever applications at 3,53,153. The registration portal was closed at 5pm on August 31. This was also the longest admission process in DU’s history. An increase of almost one lakh paid applications was received this year compared with last year when the total number was 2,58,388. In all, 5,63,125 registrations were filed, a phenomenal jump of over two lakh compared with last year when it was 3,67,895. The varsity, which only included ECA admission applications at the start of August, found several thousand takers in quiz, theatre and dance categories. The high number of applications was attributed to two reasons: the portal staying active for a long duration as many school boards couldn’t complete their final exams till July, and an increase in the number of CBSE students getting 95% and above in the Class XII exams. This year, DU adopted a single application form where applicants were not required to specify any course at the time of registration. The admission process would be entirely online as part of SOPs being followed by the university due to the Covid-19 pandemic. While there was no clarity on the cutoff dates, speculations were rife that they would be released in October. The gender breakup data showed that male applicants stood at 1,81,484 compared with 1,71,681 women. The varsity also received six transgender applications this year. Delhi continued to lead with 1,42,526 applications, followed by Uttar Pradesh at 66,657 and Haryana at 50,701. Kerala, the only south Indian state in the top ten registration list, had 5,227 applicants. The data also revealed the continued streak of CBSE students with 2,85,128 applications coming from them, followed by Haryana board at 12,272, CISCE at 11,521 and UP board at 9,049. Earlier, TOI had reported that till July 19, DU had received the highest number of applications (1,27,714) for its undergraduate courses from the capital’s students. This year, yet again, sports like football, basketball and athletics beat cricket in the number of applications. While there were 1,627 applications for football, athletics and basketball had 1,621 and 1,420, respectively, and cricket 1,092. Watch Delhi University: Longest admission process, most applicants in DU’s history||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/longest-admission-process-most-applicants/articleshow/77859926.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
September 1, 2020||Mangaluru||NHAI ties up with four engineering colleges in coastal Karnataka||Mangaluru: The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has tied up with four engineering colleges of coastal Karnataka to collaborate and adopt nearby stretches of the NH as part of Institutional Social Responsibility (ISR). The objective is to leverage the intellectual prudence of students and faculty towards improvement of the road infrastructure ecosystem. Shishu Mohan, project director, NHAI, Mangaluru, told TOI that NHAI has approached four institutions including Manipal Institute of Technology (MIT), MAHE, National Institute of Technology, Karnataka (NITK) Surathkal, Mangalore Institute of Technology and Engineering (MITE) Moodbidri and Karwar Engineering College and signed an MOU with the directors. They will give suggestions for the development of the highways. The highway stretches have been divided accordingly among the four institutions. “We hope to depute one student each for every five kilometers. This will provide an opportunity for the students to get field experience and will act as a helping hand for NHAI,” he said. The institutes will have a better knowledge of local requirements, topography, and resource potential, and these vital inputs can be utilized by NHAI during different stages of construction and operation of the highway. This decentralized approach, besides building a sense of participation, also provides an opportunity to students for hands-on-learning, internship, and future areas of research. Adoption of the NH stretch by an institute will facilitate stakeholder engagement and help to mitigate the routine local problems such as traffic movement, congestion, and immediate identification of accident-prone sites. The highway users become more empowered in resolving local problems through the institute and the authority. Such instances will help NHAI in understanding the local needs, improve maintenance and riding comfort, and develop wayside amenities for enhanced user experience. The overall outcome shall be a commuter-friendly and enjoyable ride, stated NHAI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/nhai-ties-up-with-four-engineering-colleges-in-coastal-karnataka/articleshow/77857855.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: No leakage, Greater Kailash II flooding woes run deeper||NEW DELHI: In some ways, the mystery of the flooded basements in Greater Kailash II has been solved. The interim report of Central Ground Water Board, which conducted a ground survey in coordination with Delhi Jal Board, ruled out any leakage of water supply lines and said the construction of Delhi Metro tunnels and basements deeper than four metres could be obstructing the free flow of groundwater. “The groundwater movement in the area happens from south (Jahanpanah City Forest, which is a recharging zone) towards northwest (Savitri Flyover). During a survey of the area on August 19, we found the underground water level available between 2.5m and 6.5m below ground level (bgl) while the maximum depth of residential basements facing the seepage problem was 6m bgl. The bore wells indicated further rise of average 0.5m in water level after rain on August 23-24,” the CGWB report said. Read AlsoMystery deepens: A river runs through basements of Delhi's Greater Kailash-II housesResidents of Greater Kailash II are facing a strange problem these days. Their basements are getting flooded every day, with water seeping in from the ground and walls.DJB was asked to stop water supply for 36 hours, but there was no change in the situation, leading the surveyors to realise that the construction of metro tunnels and basements deeper than 4m was obstructing groundwater flow. “Since it is a rocky area and has very poor capacity to hold water, little rain or obstruction in outflow of water can lead to rise in water level,” the report stated. Sanjay Rana, president, GK II RWA, added, “CGWB also said that after a portion of the road outside Greater Kailash Metro Station caved in in July 2018, DMRC did deep grouting below the road to avoid a recurrence, but this affected free flow of groundwater.” DMRC denied a role in the problem. “We haven’t received the CGWB report, but it should be noted that when constructing around 100km of underground sections in the capital, DMRC has never come across such an issue,” stated Anuj Dayal, executive director, corporate communications, DMRC. “Near GK (near Savitri Flyover), metro tunnels have been built 10-15m below ground and the water table is below the tunnel. Also, tunnelling work was completed more than two years back and the problem has arisen now. However, we are open to addressing any complaint sent to us.” CGWB has recommended draining water from existing horticulture tube wells or shallow points in the area with heavy pumping till water levels declined to 7m. It suggested the drained water could be supplied to water-deficit areas. The report also prescribes repairing and cleaning of stormwater drains. DJB officials, however, could not provide any update on the matter. Residents had also approached Akhilesh Singh, senior scientist and former general manager of Indian Institute of Coal Management on the matter. Learning of construction influencing the aquifer connectivity, Singh said, “There is a need to immediately install high capacity pumping stations at Tikona Park, Sehgal Market I park and Rock Garden.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/no-leakage-gk-ii-flooding-woes-run-deeper/articleshow/77859900.cms||Vibha Sharma
September 1, 2020||Mysuru||Bandipur foresters seek permission to tranquillise tiger terrorising village||Mysuru: An old tiger terrorising the cattle and residents of Katwalu village, not very far from the backwaters of the Kabini Dam, in Mysuru district, and evading capture for the past one month, may be tranquillised by the foresters, who have been thwarted in their repeated attempts to drive it back to the woods. The big cat had, for the past month, turned the area on the fringes of the N Begur forest range, into its fiefdom, preying on the livestock of the Katwalu villagers. The foresters are awaiting the nod to tranquillise the big cat, which is believed to be more than 10 years old. As recently as two days ago, the tiger killed a calf in Katwalu village. Inputs from the residents of the village, in addition to footage and photographs from the camera traps, have helped foresters stay on the trail of the big cat. The foresters opined that the big cat must have ventured out of the wild owing to infirmities brought upon by the onset of the old age such as loss of its canines and claws. They said that the tiger may have lost its ability to hunt in the wild, prompting it to look for easy prey in human habitats, said assistant conservator of forests (ACF) for Hediyala sub-division Ravikumar. “We have been tracking the tiger for the past one month. We have sought permission from our superiors to knock the tiger out and capture it,” he told TOI. Director of Bandipur Tiger Reserve T Balachandra said that the foresters involved in the operation had placed cages to trap the tiger. “If it does not return to the forest, we will be left with no option but to tranquillise it. I have written a letter to the wildlife committee seeking clearance for the same,” Balachandra told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/bandipur-foresters-seek-permission-to-tranquillise-tiger-terrorising-village/articleshow/77858312.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
September 1, 2020||Rajkot||Bhavnagar highway closed||Bhavnagar-Dholera highway near Mahdiya village was closed for two wheelers on Monday as water level increased. The highway is flooded with water of Ghelo, Keri and Kalubhar rivers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/bhavnagar-highway-closed/articleshow/77859934.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Goa||Chicalim locals upset as PPE kits enter nullah||Vasco: The residents of Assai Dongri in Chicalim, on Monday morning, were shocked to find garbage, including PPE kits and masks, washed into a nullah in their ward. Chicalim sarpanch Seby Pereira alleged that the PPE kits are from the Dabolim airport. Villagers alleged that the garbage that was washed into the nullah was dumped near the grade separator next to the airport, on NH 66-B. “The PPE kits have names of airlines, which makes it clear that they belong to the airport. We will soon hold an inspection and find out the truth. The airport officials keep complaining about various things including bird hits and garbage, whereas they themselves are responsible for such a menace,” the Chicalim sarpanch said. Airport director Gagan Malik said, “We have made arrangements to dispose our Covid related safety material like PPE kits, etc. These are sent to the sub-district hospital at Chicalim for disposal. However, it has been brought to my notice that such an incident has occurred in the vicinity, an inquiry will be held.” Panch of Assai Dongri ward, Supresh Mayekar, said that “a month back residents complained of sewerage water from the airport building had been released in the nullah”. “Due to incessant rain it was difficult to ascertain the source, but we will soon find out,” Mayekar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/chicalim-locals-upset-as-ppe-kits-enter-nullah/articleshow/77861011.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Gurgaon||Gurugram cops to attach properties of proclaimed offenders||GURUGRAM: Police will now attach the properties of proclaimed offenders who have been evading arrest for years. In the past one month, Gurugram Police have arrested 164 people, including 72 proclaimed offenders and 32 bail jumpers. They have also recovered 52 kg of marijuana, 874 kg of charas and 110 kg of sulfa. Police commissioner KK Rao on Monday conducted a meeting with all DCPs, ACPs and SHOs and crime units to discuss pending cases, complaints and crime prevention. “Proclaimed offenders remain out of reach, which affects the investigation. Now we have decided to issue them notices and attach their properties,” he said. The police chief added that officers have been directed to prepare a list of POs in their jurisdiction, identify their properties and initiate the process to attach them. Rao also stressed on ‘crime mapping’ for prevention and identification and arrest of criminals, and clearing pending cases. Officials were directed to work on cases where there is a pending dispute, old enmity between groups and anything that may be possible motive for a murder and take steps for its prevention. A special drive in this regard will be carried out in the state, he said. The police chief also directed resolution of complaints, received at the offices of the police commissioner, DCPs and ACPs, as well as online complaints, within in a week’s time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/cops-to-attach-properties-of-proclaimed-offenders/articleshow/77861447.cms||Bagish Jha
September 1, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: Heavy rains likely in isolated places||VISAKHAPATNAM: Heavy rainfall is likely to occur at isolated places in south coastal Andhra and Rayalaseema region for the next three-four days. The last 24 hours saw moderate to heavy rains in several places across Rayalaseema and south coastal AP.  The IMD has attributed the rains to active southwest monsoon conditions and also the presence of a north-south trough running along Tamil Nadu coast. Some areas in Visakhapatnam, Srikakulam and East Godavari districts can expect very heavy rains, the IMD bulletin said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/heavy-rains-likely-in-isolated-places/articleshow/77859948.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: 10% of season’s rain in a day||AHMEDABAD: Jodhpur, Sarkhej, Bopal-Ghuma and Vejalpur received 10% of their seasonal rainfall of 1,037mm in 12 hours from 9am on Monday. The South West zone of the city received 107mm between 6am and 6 pm. AMC officials said there was heavy rain across the entire civic zone including areas like Chakudiya, Paldi, Usmanpura, Bodakdev, Gota, and Ranip among others. Sarkhej, where a rain gauge has been installed, received 94mm rain between 1pm and 6pm. On Monday, 10 trees were uprooted of which five were in West Zone and two in South West zone. The AMC control room said that almost all parts of the city received spells of heavy rain on Monday leading to waterlogging in several places. The Mithakhali underpass was closed to traffic during the day and was opened only late at night. AMC officials said the city has received 112% of its season’s rain so far. This is the second best rainfall in the last five years after 2017. The South West zone comprising Jodhpur, Vejalpur, Bopal-Ghuma, Sarkhej and Maktampura has received the highest rainfall of 1,037mm followed by 913 mm in Central zone. Over 650 trees have been uprooted in the city so far this year following heavy rain. Reports of minor or major road damage have come from 10,000 spots. Waterlogging complaints were received from 14 places in West zone. These were from areas like Paldi, Usmanpura, Naranpura, Navrangpura among others and also Jodhpur, Vejalpur and Sarkhej. Waterlogging was reported from Aanandnagar crossroads, from near Jodhpur crossroads, and Satellite among other areas. Even parts of Shivranjani, Shrinandnagar Thaltej, Memnagar, Vejalpur and Gurukul were waterlogged during the day. The AMC deployed multiple teams to clear waterlogging. The city received 896mm of rain this season till 9pm on Monday, and 52mm rain on the day itself. Between August 21 and August 31 the city has received 196mm rainfall. This is nearly 22% of the city’s total seasonal rainfall. In 2017, as on August 26 the city had received 120% of its annual seasonal rainfall, while in 2018 it was 45% and in 2019 it was 65%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/parts-of-city-receive-10-of-seasons-rainfall-in-single-day/articleshow/77859896.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Nagpur||Central govt mulls pvt entry in forestry sector, experts wary||Nagpur: The NITI Aayog, a policy think tank of the Central government, has developed a conceptual framework to allow public-private partnership (PPP) model in afforestation of degraded forests. Open forests (canopy density between 10-40%) of about 3 lakh sq km and scrub forests of 0.40 lakh sq km (canopy density of less than 10%) together form ‘degraded forests’. As per the plan, degraded forests are being targeted for afforestation under PPP model. The conceptual note (copy with TOI) says phase-I will include scrub forests and phase-II open forests. Local community consultation will be mandatory prior to any bid process. Top forest officials seeking anonymity said, “The PPP model is one of the features of the draft National Forest Policy (NPF)-2018, but the basic idea is to hand over degraded forest to private parties.” The note also said four types of PPP models are being worked out. It includes consumption/supply chain-based afforestation, which will include timber and non-timber based forest products and organic cultivation with corporates, small and medium-scale harvesters and target partners. “In this model, parties will have supply chain rights and mandatory afforestation targets. The concession period for all the models will be 25-30 years,” they said. The second model includes non-consumption based PPP and will have eco-camping, wilderness camps, recreation activities and volunteerism with niche tourism players, NGOs and corporates as target partners. The third PPP model will be combination of first and second model. The fourth PPP model includes hybrid afforestation, which will include output and performance based afforestation concession (OPAC). Officials said as per draft guidelines eligible participants will include public listed companies, private firms, cooperatives, PSUs, forest development corporations, gram sabhas, village panchayats, joint forest management committees (JFMCs), autonomous district, village development board and NGOs. When asked about safeguard for encroachments on forest land, officials said no change in legal status of land will be allowed and suitable penalty mechanisms will be structured in concession. No misuse of land will be allowed and strict adherence to relevant laws, rules and regulations will be followed. “Any land capture will trigger termination and damages will be recovered from concessionaire,” they said. “Allowing private partnership can seriously jeopardize livelihood of tribal communities and forest dwellers. These areas can benefit a lot more in terms of ecological services if the government mandates the participation of the local community in the management of these areas," says Rajiva Sahay, a retired IFS official. State wildlife board member Kishor Rithe said, “The PPA model on forest land is not new. First implemented by then environment minister Kamal Nath in MP, it generated a lot of criticism due to misuse of land.” Rithe added, “Why doesn’t government implement such projects on private lands. Degraded forests need to be converted into best habitats as these lands are also used by wild animals. Experts need to be consulted before taking a decision.” “There have been demands from the industry to open up forests for afforestation for many years now but government never budged as it defeats the whole purpose of Forest Conservation Act (FCA), which explicitly prohibits leasing forest lands to private bodies,” said environment lawyer Manish Jeswani. “It is only logical that the industry’s limited concern would be to source raw materials for themselves, and there could be an obvious loss of biodiversity as well as loss of livelihood of local populations because of that,” Sahay said. “This is nothing but pandering to demands of timber industry even while ignoring the traditional and cultural rights of tribal communities. If this policy is approved, then forest lands traditionally used by tribals will be leased to private parties, thereby violating FRA. It will also get manifested in social conflict and environmental disaster,” Sahay pointed out. As per the plan, state governments will identify forest land and concession granting authorities for afforestation or reforestation activities. Approval of Centre under Section 2 of the FCA, 1980 will be required. States will have to include such lands in their forest management plans. Forest officials said, “The need for PPP model has been felt as the BJP government at the Centre feels ongoing national forestry programs have not made desired impact and hence there is need to ramp up investments by involving state-of-art technology and know-how to enhance capacity and skilled manpower.” The idea is to bring livelihood opportunities for locals, increase forest productivity and quality, import substitution for wood-based industries, enhanced forest financing, introduction of advance technological inputs etc and moreover enhance flow of ecosystem services including carbon sequestration benefits. Forestry Base In India * India is one of the 12 mega-biodiverse countries, hosting 7% of the world’s biodiversity * Total forest & tree cover is over 8 lakh sq km (25% geographical area of country as per India State of Forest Report (ISFR)-2019) * Top 5 states with maximum forest cover — MP, Maharashtra, Arunachal, Chhattisgarh, Odisha * Over 27.5 crore people living in forest areas, including 8.8 crore tribals rely heavily on forests * Open forest & scrubs together form ‘degraded forests’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/central-govt-mulls-pvt-entry-in-forestry-sector-experts-wary/articleshow/77859940.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
September 1, 2020||Chandigarh||In Haryana, 1,450 found infected, 7 lose battle||Chandigarh: In its highest ever single-day spike in Covid-19 cases in the state, Haryana recorded 1,450 new cases and seven deaths on Monday. Most cases were reported from the neighbouring districts of Panipat and Karnal. With this, the state has had 64,732 cases and 689 casualties. Besides, 1,052 patients were discharged from hospitals after recovery, taking the overall recoveries to 52,672 and recovery rate of 81.37. At present, there are 11,371 active cases. Notably, six out of 22 districts on Monday reported more than 100 cases. Besides Panipat and Karnal, rest districts included Ambala, Sonipat, Faridabad and Gurugram, Panipat reported the highest number of cases in a district (154), followed by Karnal (135), Ambala (114), Gurugram (113), Sonipat (109), Faridabad (103), Hisar (86), Panchkula (78), Rohtak (73), Sirsa (67), Mahendragarh (60), Yamunanagar (60), Kurukshetra (57), Jind (51), Kaithal (40), Jhajjar (38), Bhiwani (34), Rewari (27), Palwal (24), Fatehabad (17), Nuh (8) and Charkhi Dadri (2). Of the seven casualties during the day, three were in Sirsa, two in Kaithal and one each in Panchkula and Faridabad. The highest number of cases has been reported from Faridabad (12,684), Gurgaon (11,931) and Sonipat (4,400). When it comes to active cases, Panipat tops the list with 1,084.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/in-haryana-1450-found-infected-7-lose-battle/articleshow/77861004.cms||Manvir Saini
September 1, 2020||Nagpur||Postmortem ignored in most deaths due to Covid rules||Nagpur: The guidelines of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on postmortem, toeing the principles released by the World Health Organization (WHO), is leading to a baffling situation where autopsy process is being skipped in many cases. There has been a spate of suicides and questionable deaths of young and elderly persons at their residences. However, the postmortem was not conducted following Covid guidelines, as cops and family members jointly decided to forego the exercise after they felt that there was nothing suspicious in the death. In many cases, the suicide victims are found Covid positive, so their postmortems were not performed. In the latest case, a 30-year-old married woman at Baba Baghdadiya Nagar ended life on Sunday. Her parents have raised objection, and are blaming her husband and in-laws for her taking the drastic decision. However, the postmortem would not be performed as she has tested Covid positive. Mankapur police station’s senior inspector Ganesh Thakre sounded helpless in the situation. “We will now go by the complaints and evidence found during investigations,” he said. Senior inspector Jayesh Bhandarkar of Tehsil police station, however, has put his foot down, stating that he would insist on postmortem in the latest suicide of a married woman, Payal Batho, at her residence at Chhoti Khadan, even if it means the doctors have to take utmost precautions. “The woman was married just one year ago. Her parents are on the way, and have expressed their doubts. In this condition, though there is a suicide note stating that her in-laws’ and husband’s harassment led to the suicide, even then there is a need for postmortem,” he said. According to a forensic expert, the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) 174 describing ‘accidental death’ and the manner in which such cases need to be probed do not makes postmortem a mandatory process, if the investigating officer does not feel its need. “It was a mutual decision of police and forensic department to be selective and conduct autopsy only in cases which raise doubts,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/postmortem-ignored-in-most-deaths-due-to-covid-rules/articleshow/77861007.cms||Soumitra Bose
September 1, 2020||Madurai||Meenakshi Amman Temple reopens with restrictions||Madurai: The world-famous Meenakshi Amman Temple in Madurai, along with all other temples, is set to reopen with restrictions after it was closed down for public on March 20. Children below the age of 10, pregnant women, those with co-morbid conditions and people above 65 years will not be allowed inside the temple. Executive officer of the temple K Chelladurai said that the temple will open to the public from 6 am on Tuesday. “We will follow the standard operating procedure for temples set by the state government,” he said. According to a press note from the temple administration, the temple will function from 6 am to 12.30 pm in the morning and from 4 pm to 8 pm in the evening. The timings for pujas are as follows, morning (6.30 am to 7.15 am and 10.30 am to 11.15 am), evening (4.30 pm to 5.15 pm) and night (7.30 pm to 8.15 pm). For devotees and public, entry to the temple will be allowed only through the ‘Amman Sannathi East’ gate. All those entering the temple must wear masks. Devotees are urged to leave their mobile phones at home when visiting the temple. Temperature screening and hand sanitisation must be done at the entrance of the temple. The temple administration, has made a single route for devotees to follow, such that one enters through ‘Amman Sannathi East’ entrance and exits the same way after going through various shrines, including Amman shrine and Swami shrine. No one is permitted to leisurely sit anywhere on the premises. Further, devotees are not allowed to bring any offerings of coconut, fruits or garlands to the temple. No offerings will be accepted as ‘archanai’. Priests will not distribute any prasadham, including ‘vibhuti’ and ‘kumkum’, directly. Administration will make arrangements for safe distribution of prasadham to devotees. Earlier, on Monday, the temple premises were cleaned and disinfected in preparation for reopening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/meenakshi-amman-temple-reopens-with-restrictions/articleshow/77861006.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Rajkot||Two die in Kutch||A man died near a village located in Bhuj taluka of Kutch district after his car swept away in heavy flow of water. Another person reportedly drowned in gushing water near Nakhatrana taluka of Kutch.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/two-die-in-kutch/articleshow/77859952.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Shimla||Three more succumb to coronavirus in Himachal Pradesh, tally crosses 6,000 mark||SHIMLA: Three Covid-19 deaths were reported in Himachal Pradesh on Monday. While a 68-year-old man positive patient from Nahan in Sirmaur district died at Indira Gandhi Medical College Shimla, report of a 70-year-old woman, who had died on Saturday, came out positive on Monday. A 48-year-old woman from Hamirpur, who had died on August 28, has also been found to be positive. The state also reported 171 positive cases of Covid-19, while 65 were declared recovered. The total number of positive cases has now reached 6,116, of which 1,563 are active, 4,473 have recovered, 36 have died and 42 have migrated out of state. The 68-year-old patient who died in Shimla was referred from Nahan on Wednesday and was a post renal transplant case. Those tested positive included 33 from Hamirpur district, 28 from Una, 26 from Solan, 20 from Bilaspur, 18 from Kangra, 16 from Chamba, 10 each from Kullu and Sirmaur, eight from Shimla and two from Mandi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/3-more-succumb-to-virus-in-hp-tally-crosses-6k-mark/articleshow/77861012.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Nagpur||Lantana weed threatens 269 parks & sanctuaries in 18 states||Nagpur: Around 269 protected areas (PAs) in 18 states are in the grip of lantana, an invasive weed that has degraded biodiversity of forests and associated services. Of the over 2,00,000 sqkm forest surveyed, lantana was detected in over 86,800sqkm. Through one of the most extensive sampling efforts, a team of three Wildlife Institute of India (WII) scientists including Ninad Avinash Mungi, Qamar Qureshi and YV Jhala found that over 300,000sqkm (44%) of total Indian forests were affected by lantana. The survey was conducted in forests of Shivalik Hills in the north, Central India and southern Western Ghats. The study uses data to develop an accurate countrywide map of lantana invasion for informed conservation actions. By combining this information with globally available information on lantana, the scientists investigated environmental factors that facilitate lantana invasion globally and in India in particular. “Lantana camara (sensu lato) is a species of global concern. In an unprecedented effort, we sampled 13,715 grids of 5×5km to record its abundance. Lantana has invaded over 15,400sqkm of the surveyed area and threatened over 3 lakh sqkm of total Indian forests (44%) with preference to warm, humid, fertile areas, degraded by extractive human use,” said Mungi, the lead author of the study. By combining the large-scale ground surveys, the study found lantana had expanded its climatic niche worldwide with over 11 million sqkm suitable for its invasion. Niche comparison revealed that lantana might have adaptive plasticity in its invaded range - where it was found to be more tolerant to higher temperatures, lower fertility and shade as compared to its native range. Over extraction of natural resources for livelihood in developing countries has degraded native ecosystems, making them vulnerable to biological invasions. Amongst invasive plants, Lantana camara, a woody shrub of tropical American origin, is regarded as one of the 10 worst species and a major concern in India. Despite 200 years of managing lantana in India, little information regarding its distribution at the country level or its biogeographic correlates is available, researchers said. Previous studies found multiple species and varieties of lantana across the tropics where it was introduced in 1800s. These species and varieties were introduced as hedge plants and were subsequently hybridized for improved stand and other ornamental properties. This added to the number of varieties, which were later reported to invade native forests. The study reveals dense invasion of lantana has been suspected to cause a decline in wildlife habitat and native plants and has also affected livelihood of communities dependent on forest resources. Its distribution is known to be influenced by native forest fragmentation in invaded areas and estimated forest loss in India is considered to be at the rate of 173sqkm annually. At rough estimates, its management is estimated to cost around Rs 14 lakh per sqkm in India. The work was supported by the WII and funded by the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA). DEGRADING OUR FORESTS * The sampling was conducted between November 2009 and March 2010. Over 1.17 lakh plots were sampled within 13,700 grids covering 207,107 km2 of forested area * Lantana prefers warm and humid areas. As most of the warm and humid forests in India are occupied by dense woody plants, the understory shrub density is mostly determined by light availability, which is a function of forest canopy cover as well as forest degradation * Studies suggest that frequent burning of forests was likely to facilitate lantana invasion * Human disturbances like tree cutting, tree lopping, and grazing can remove the native plants thereby reducing competition and making conditions favourable for lantana||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/lantana-weed-threatens-269-parks-sanctuaries-in-18-states/articleshow/77859968.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
September 1, 2020||Chandigarh||Pb to keep all curbs in urban areas||Chandigarh:Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Monday announced his government’s decision to continue with restrictions in urban areas, including weekend lockdown in all the 167 municipal towns of the state, along with 7pm-5am curfew in cities till the end of September. The decision has been taken in consultation with the Centre, as required by the Unlock 4.0 guidelines issued by the Union ministry of home affairs, said an official. Section 144 of the CrPC banning social, political, religious gatherings, protests and demonstrations will remain in force, while marriage and funeral gatherings will be allowed with 30 and 20 persons, respectively. There will be complete curfew on Saturdays and Sundays in municipal towns, while movement for non-essential activities wukk be prohibited between 7pm and 5am within municipal limits of all cities of Punjab all through the week. Movement of students and others in connection with all kinds of exams, admission or entrance tests conducted by universities, boards, public service commissions and other institutions has been excluded from restrictions. Capt Amarinder has directed district authorities to facilitate the movement of such persons. Religious places, restaurants (including those in malls) and liquor vends have also been allowed to stay open on all days up to 6.30pm. Restrictions on day/time do not apply to hotels. CM directed the district authorities to comply with these guidelines and has asked police to ensure strict action against organisers and main participants in case of any violation of orders under section 144 of CrPC. The spokesperson made it clear that essential activities and services, movement of persons and goods on national and state highways, inter-state and intra state movement of persons and unloading of cargo and travel of persons to their destinations after disembarking from buses, trains and aeroplanes will be permitted during the restrictive conditions. For weekend and night restrictions, shops and malls, except those dealing in essential commodities, will be allowed to remain open till 6.30pm from Monday to Friday but will be closed in all cities on Saturday and Sunday. Shops dealing in essentials will be open even on weekend, till 6.30pm. The existing restriction on passengers in vehicles will also constinue to remain in force, with only three persons, including the driver, to be allowed in a four-wheeler, and all buses and public transport vehicles to allow only half (50%) capacity with no person standing. Government and private offices will operate with 50% staff strength till the end of September.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pb-to-keep-all-curbs-in-urban-areas/articleshow/77861010.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Madurai||Students, teachers want schools to reopen due to digital divide||Madurai: With major relaxations in lockdown norms announced in the state, students and teachers are hoping for the government to reopen schools fully as well in a phased manner. Teachers and parents fear that the digital divide due to lack of access to internet and gadgets during online classes, will widen among students if schools are not reopened. “The government has said that classes could be held for Classes IX to XII with consent from parents and restrictions. However, there are no clear guidelines or SOPs so far. We don’t know if parents would be willing either. There needs to be more clarity,” said the principal of a private matriculation school. “Being in Class XII, this year is crucial for me. In online classes, I’m not able to grasp things that well, especially Maths. I also get tired watching the screen. At least a combination of online and school classes would be useful,” said K Anitha. “When online classes are going on in some private schools, it is unfair that our school students are missing out. Though Kalvi TV programmes are going on, it has not been that effective in reaching students,” said the headmaster of a government school. In government schools, teachers feel that the decision to reopen classes should be left with individual schools and headmasters depending on the Covid-19 cases in the locality and the school strength. “There are schools that have few students and limited teachers while some schools have enough open space. In such cases, the school can easily be reopened with precautions. Each school is different and there can be no one-size-fits-all kind of SOPs,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/students-teachers-want-schools-to-reopen-due-to-digital-divide/articleshow/77861009.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
September 1, 2020||Nagpur||CP talks Covid-hit junior out of suicidal thoughts||Nagpur: A 32-year-old police sub-inspector (PSI), who tested Covid-19 positive, slipped into depression and started thinking of ending his life. He even messaged his wife, bidding adieu and also asking her to end her life along with their one-year-old twin daughters. He was immediately shifted to another hospital and given a grant of 1 lakh. While doctors tried to restore his health, city police chief BK Upadhyay started talking to the PSI and boosted his morale. Zonal DCP Vinita Sahu, apart from egging the PSI on, spoke to his wife, who also tested positive, to ensure that she did not break down. The wife was in home isolation with her twins. The officer, admitted to a private hospital on August 24, was shaken up after seeing a fellow Covid patient die in the same ward. He was working in the containment zones in Pandhrabodhi and Hilltop before getting infected. Upadhyay said that he and DCPs (Sahu and Shweta Khedkar) tried to support the PSI morally. “I speak to 10-12 Covid-affected personnel everyday, asking them about their well-being and requirements,” he said. The top cop, who formed a Covid ‘Co-ordination team’ under DCP Gajanan Rajmane to help affected personnel, said food kits with dry fruits, oximeter, thermal scanners and other items are being provided. Dr Sandeep Shinde, chief medical officer of police hospital, said the PSI's health was monitored and he was administered best of the medicines. “The PSI has recovered,” he said. Zonal DCP Vivek Masaal, DCP Rajmane and senior inspector Vijay Kare of Ambazari police station too helped the PSI and his family recover . “As the PSI was not feeling happy at the hospital where he was admitted earlier, we rushed him to another place,” said DCP Sahu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cp-talks-covid-hit-junior-out-of-suicidal-thoughts/articleshow/77861019.cms||Soumitra Bose
September 1, 2020||Delhi||Street crime in Delhi: Calls down, FIRs up||NEW DELHI: The number of calls made to the police control room about street crimes like snatchings and robberies has reduced substantially while registration of such crimes has gone up at the same time, police data shows. This is significant for two reasons. A reduction in PCR calls reflects low crime rate, while registration of FIRs mean station house officers no longer strive to artificially keep crime figures low or 'under control'. Delhi Police gauged the crime situation on city streets by analysing the calls made to police numbers 100 and 112 in the past one year. They showed that the registration of FIRs — or conversion of PCR calls to criminal cases — was quite low in 2019. Last July, for example, of 4,831 calls related snatching received at the police control room, only 486 were converted into FIRs, a mere 10%. This year, even if the lockdown months of April and May are excluded, the number of PCR calls declined substantially. In July, there were just 1,845 calls for snatching, but 47% of them, or 872, were registered as FIRs. Similar trends were seen in cases of robberies. Delhi Police registered 10% FIRs for calls involving in dacoity or robbery in July and 7% in August last year. This year, despite the coronavirus-induced lockdown, the registration of FIRs in cases related to street crime saw a 23% rise over May, June and July. Senior officers in districts and ranges that TOI spoke to said that these figures reflected police commissioner S N Shrivastava’s zero tolerance policy on improper registration of FIRs. A deputy commissioner of police said, “In one of the first few meetings, he directed all police station chiefs to freely register cases wherever a PCR call regarding dacoity, robbery and snatching was received. He emphasised that complaints about FIRs not being registered would attract a show-cause notice and action.” Shrivastava, it is learnt, is of the view that a true picture of the crime scene and law and order cannot be achieved with factual crime figures. “This strategy coupled with a series of measures taken to curb street crimes, including tracking criminals on bail, identification of hot spots and increased patrolling by local police and PCR vans, helped reduce crime rate as evidenced in PCR calls,” said a senior officer. Since individual cases now attract the attention of senior officers, efforts are made to arrest the accused involved in a registered case. This is the reason why figures show a dip of 62% snatchings, around 45% in robberies and dacoity and around 27% burglaries against the crimes last year. A retired officer also explained that there always is a slight variance between PCR calls and FIRs because of repeat calls being made by a victim. There are also false calls, often made by inebriated people. Thefts or petty fights too are frequently elevated to dacoity, robbery or snatchings in PCR calls. “It's only problematic when there is a wide gap between PCR calls and FIRs. Conversion of 30-40% is questionable, 10% is extremely low,” he said. Watch Calls down, FIRs up for street crimes in Delhi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/street-crime-calls-down-firs-up/articleshow/77859961.cms||Somreet Bhattacharya
September 1, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab recorded 2nd highest prison suicides in 2019: NCRB||CHANDIGARH: Punjab recorded the second highest number of prison suicides in the country, after Uttar Pradesh, in 2019. As many as 13 jail inmates committed suicide, all by hanging, in Punjab jails, against 20 in UP. As per the ‘Prison Statics India 2019’ report released by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) last week, there were 20 unnatural deaths in Punjab jails. Out of these, 13 were of suicide by prisoners, two of murder by other inmates, two were accidental deaths, one death due to firing and two because of other reasons. A total of 116 jail inmates committed suicide across the country last year. Punjab jails recorded 117 natural deaths of prisoners in 2019. Punjab ranked fifth in the country with 23 escapees — six from inside jail, three from outside and 14 from police custody. While 172 prisoners fled from Gujarat jails, 50 from Rajasthan, 39 from Maharashtra and 31 from UP, Punjab Police managed to arrest 14 escapees. Punjab jails also recorded an incident of jail break, 25 group clashes and one of firing within the premises. A total of 61 persons, including 12 jail personnel, were injured in group clashes within Punjab jails. Last year, 17 NGOs were working for prison reforms in Punjab. Against the sanctioned staff strength of 3,673, Punjab jails had 73% staff as on December 31, 2019. Except one, the remaining 23 jails in Punjab had video conferencing facility. The state government had sanctioned Rs 268.90 crore budget for its jails in 2019-20 fiscal, out of which Rs 248.40 crore were actually spent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-recorded-2nd-highest-prison-suicides-in-2019-ncrb/articleshow/77861017.cms||Sanjeev Verma
September 1, 2020||Trichy||Rs 75 lakh subsidy for vegetable farmers||Trichy: In a move to stabilize the fluctuating vegetable prices, the state government has allotted Rs 75 lakh subsidy covering 7,500 acres under crop incentive scheme to farmers who cultivate vegetables during the off-season in Trichy district. Hundreds of farmers will benefit from the scheme, officials from the horticulture department said. Tamil Nadu government had earlier announced that farmers can avail an incentive of Rs 2,500 per hectare to cultivate vegetables during off-season. The move was aimed at ensuring availability of vegetables to consumers throughout the year at a reasonable price, officials added. “Sometimes the price of tomato and onion skyrockets causing heavy loss to the farmers”, horticulture department deputy director C Vimala said. “The area of vegetable cultivation was 15,000 acres last year. However, we are expecting that around 3,750 more acres will be covered this year,” she added. To avail the subsidy, farmers can apply with the block level officials of horticulture department by furnishing the bills of the vegetable crop, a copy of adangal or e-adangal along with the photograph of the field. Under the scheme, the incentive will be given to the farmers based on the area cultivated up to a maximum of two hectares.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/rs-75-lakh-subsidy-for-vegetable-farmers/articleshow/77862124.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
September 1, 2020||Madurai||Woman seeks action against man for injuring her cow||Madurai: A woman from Kalmedu village on Monday approached the Madurai district administration seeking intervention from the officials to take appropriate action against a man, who inflicted cut injuries on her cow. The woman, P Lakshmi said that one Jayaseelan is cultivating green fodder in the village. The cow which went loose, entered the field and fed on some fodder. Angered over this, Jayaseelan inflicted cut injuries on the animal’s left elbow joint for about 8 inches. Lakshmi said the animal writhed heavily due to pain. Instead of taking the animal to a doctor, she took it to the collectorate to air her grievances. Based on the advice of the officials, she took the cow to the nearby poly clinic, where treatment was provided and the animal given 12 sutures. Officials said that she has been asked to approach the concerned police station and lodge a complaint for appropriate action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/woman-seeks-action-against-man-for-injuring-her-cow/articleshow/77861014.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Delhi||Private schools can only charge monthly tuition fees, says Delhi government||NEW DELHI: In a major relief to parents of students of private schools, education director Udit Prakash Rai has said that the schools can only charge tuition fees on a monthly basis and no other charges can be levied. Upholding the directorate of education (DoE)’s April 17 and 18 orders and invoking two court cases, Rai said that the schools’ interpretation of lockdown being over was wrong. The schools have been directed to adjust the extra amount if already taken from the parents. Increased fee bills, including annual charges and others, were now being sent to parents by many schools. Parents had filed complaints against this with the government. TOI had also highlighted the issue. “Such act of the schools is not only in clear violation of the directions issued on April 17 and 18, but is also an inhumane act on their part keeping in view the prevailing pandemic conditions and long closure of schools. These schools are run by trust and charitable societies, hence, as per their Memorandum of Article, are supposed always to keep in mind the charity and providing of education to the students without indulging in profiteering,” stated the order. “Some representations have also been received from some private un-aided recognised schools and their associations wherein it has been claimed that since the period of lockdown is over, now they can charge the fees under all heads. This position as claimed is not correct as unlocking stage is still going on in a phased manner. Schools are yet to be opened for physical classroom learning,” read the order. “Not to increase any fee in the academic session 2020-21 till further directions irrespective of the fact whether or not the school is running on the private land or the land allotted by DDA or other government land-owning agencies,” the DoE stated further. Deputy chief minister and education minister Manish Sisodia tweeted, “Big decision of Arvind Kejriwal government for the parents whose children are studying in private schools. Schools should only charge tuition fees. The schools, which have already charged, should adjust the fees in other months.” In case any school violates the order, action will be taken against it under Section 24 of Delhi School Education Act & Rules, 1973 or other applicable law. Private schools have, however, opposed the decision. “The government is totally insensitive to our issues. How can the private schools survive if they are not allowed to charge annual and development fees. Tuition fees alone cannot meet the expenses of the salary of staff. Government of India has also announced that the lockdown is over and unlocking is in process. All these fees are approved by the government,” said SK Bhattacharya of Action Committee, an umbrella body of private schools.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/private-schools-can-only-charge-monthly-tuition-fees-says-govt/articleshow/77860006.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Trichy||We will contest alone and win 60 assembly seats: BJP TN president||TRICHY: Reiterating that the BJP-AIADMK alliance remains strong, Tamil Nadu BJP president L Murugan on Monday exuded confidence of going it alone in the upcoming state assembly election and winning at least 60 seats. “BJP is well groomed to contest on its own in around 60 seats in the assembly election as it has the chances to win there. Our focus is centred on the assembly elections now. BJP candidates clinched victories in local body elections. Likewise, our MLAs will occupy seats in the assembly also,” Murugan told reporters here during the state executive committee meeting of Tamil Nadu BJP youth wing. Murugan also claimed that BJP’s vote share in the previous elections led to the defeat of others. “If you look at the records, it will be clear as to who lost because of us in the 60 assembly constituencies,” he said. Dismissing any rift in the BJP-AIADMK alliance, Murugan said “Some people are fabricating such issues. The relationship of BJP and AIADMK is strong,” he said. He went on to say that then BJP state president L Ganesan was the one who had pushed for reservation for Arunthathiyar community in the all party meeting in 2009. “BJP wholeheartedly welcomes the reservation for Arunthathiyar community,” he said. Besides discussing the strategy for the assembly polls in the state, Monday’s executive meeting also talked about taking the nitty-gritty of National Education Policy (NEP) to the people through the youth wing and women’s wing. Taking strong exception to DMK opposing the three language policy prescribed in NEP, Murugan said that schools run by DMK people were teaching three languages whereas they were opposing the implementation of the system to prevent the poor students in government schools from learning them and coming up in life. “We are planning to hold demonstrations in front of schools run by DMK members,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/we-will-contest-alone-and-win-60-assembly-seats-bjp-tn-prez/articleshow/77862127.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab: Five cops among 6 held for killing man in road rage||BATALA: Police on Monday arrested five policemen, including one posted in the chief minister’s security, for the murder of a former sarpanch’s son. The sixth arrested accused is a domestic help. Gurmej Singh alias Pappi was allegedly shot by the accused on late Sunday evening. Batala SSP Rachpal Singh said in his police complaint, former sarpanch Amrik Singh has said that he, his wife Gurdeesh Kaur, son Gurmej and daughter-in-law Amrit Kaur were returning home after attending a shagun ceremony when two cars intercepted their vehicle. He said six youths alighted from two cars and started arguing with Amrit, who was driving, accusing her of rash driving. The accused then attacked Amrik’s family with baseball bats while one opened fire, killing Gurmej on the spot. The arrested policemen include Surinder Singh from Batala police district, who was posted with the chief minister security, head constable Avtar Singh, Amritsar (rural) head constable Balkar Singh, Batala (both posted with retired ADGP Parampal Singh), and two assistant sub-inspectors Ranjit Singh and Baljit Singh of Amritsar, city. A case has been registered against them under various sections of the IPC and the Arms Act at police station Kotli Surat Mallian.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/5-cops-among-6-held-for-killing-man-in-road-rage/articleshow/77861021.cms||Yudhvir Rana
September 1, 2020||Nagpur||Now, doctors to get credit points for webinars||NAGPUR: Practicing doctors will now get credit points for attending webinars. As the government has given directions not to hold physical conferences, workshop, or meetings to reduce mass gatherings to avoid spread of Covid-19, Maharashtra Medical Council (MMC) has decided not to grant credit points to physical conferences anymore. Instead, credit points will be allotted to webinars which will be held online to update medical knowledge of medical practitioners registered with MMC. “MMC has finally approved to grant credit points for these webinars. The said webinar must be conducted by registered organizations, associations, medical colleges and teaching institutes,” said Dr Vinky Rughwani, vice-president of MMC, who is from Nagpur. The application for accreditation needs to be sent to MMC 15 days prior to the date of webinar. Screenshots of the webinar will have to be sent to MMC. One credit point will be given to a medical practitioner for half-day webinar and two credit points will be given for a full-day webinar. “All registered medical practitioners have to renew their registration every 5 years from MMC. At the time of registration renewal, they need 30 credit points, which they collect by attending conferences, workshops and seminars. Now, as physical conferences are not possible these webinars will help them for renewal of their registration by providing credit points,” added Dr Rughwani. Earlier too, MMC has taken several decisions to help medical practitioners in state. Doctors who are serving Covid-19 patients in isolation wards, Covid hospitals, or in fever clinics across the state have been allotted up to 10 credit points. Process of registration and its renewal was made simpler and completely online to ensure more health manpower in state during pandemic. Online CMEs were allotted since January and doctors were allowed to earn up to 6 credit points from the online CMEs. Now, credit points have been allotted to webinars directly. Importance of credit points for practicing doctors · Doctors have to collect 30 credit points in five years of their registration period - Generally, they get credit points by attending Continuous Medical Education (CME) held across the years by medical associations · Those who fail to collect 30 credit points are not eligible to renew their professional registration for next five years · As physical seminars, CMEs are not possible in Covid-19 period, MMC has decided to allot credit points to online webinars now · MMC has already given several relaxations and additional credit points to Covid warrior doctors||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/now-docs-to-get-credit-points-for-webinars/articleshow/77860010.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
September 1, 2020||Goa||Covid test, negative certificate no longer needed to enter Goa||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Monday that the state has dropped all restrictions on entry, and that persons coming into the state won’t be tested for Covid-19. He said this decision is pursuant to the new guidelines issued by the Centre. “All instructions issued by the Union ministry of home affairs will be followed,” Sawant said, adding that according to these, there shall be no restriction on interstate movement, no Covid tests, no home isolation, and no need for a Covid-negative certificate. Till Monday, any person entering the state — except drivers of goods vehicles — had to follow the state’s SOP, which involved a Covid-19 test as well as stay in a quarantine centre till the result is out. If it returned positive, the person would have to be admitted to a Covid care centre or hospital. For those who didn’t wish to get tested at the border, a Covid-negative certificate would suffice if issued by an ICMR-approved laboratory within a specified time period. Even after the government opened the state for tourism, the pandemic kept many would-be visitors away, especially as cases continue to spike and deaths continue to increase on a daily basis. On Saturday, over 100 youth from Karwar demonstrated near the state border at Polem, Canacona, and threatened to stop vehicular transport and supply of essentials from Karwar if Goa didn’t open its borders from September 1. Home secretary Ajay Bhalla, in a communication to all state chief secretaries, had said they clearly stipulate that no separate “permission/approval/e-permit” will be required for such movements. “It has been reported that local level restrictions on movement are being imposed by various districts/states,” Bhalla had said. “Such restrictions are creating problems in inter-state movement of goods and services and are impacting the supply chain, resulting in disruption of economic activities and employment, besides affecting supply of goods and services. ”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/covid-test-ve-certificate-no-longer-needed-to-enter-goa/articleshow/77861022.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Trichy||Police crack whip on stray cattle owners, arrest 15||Trichy: Stray animal menace has prompted Trichy city police to crack the whip against cattle owners in the city to prevent traffic accidents. Police booked 15 cattle owners in 15 different cases for letting their cattle on the road at Cantonment, E Pudhur, KK Nagar, Sessions Court, Golden Rock, Airport, Ariyamangalam, Fort, Palakkarai, Srirangam, Woraiyur and Government hospital police stations in Trichy city. They were booked on charges of causing obstruction on public roads and posing danger to the public under IPC, Tamil Nadu city police (TNCP) Act, Cattle Trespass Act and Prevention of Cruelty Act. Police found more than 30 cows and goats at Karumandapam area, E Pudhur, Kajamalai main road, Selva Nagar, Golden Rock armoury gate to G Corner, Ponneripuram, Pudukottai Main Road, Jaganathanpuram Main Road, Nehruji Nagar on Thanjavur Main Road, near Anna statue Chinthamani, Kajapettai Main Road, North Gate Kollidam River bed, Kuzhumani Road, Takkar Road, Woraiyur and Uyyakondan Thirumalai areas in the city on Sunday. Commissioner of police, Trichy city, J Loganathan took the initiative following a public outcry about the dangers posed by stray cattle to the pedestrians and motorists. Road accidents caused by stray cattle are a regular affair in the city for several years. The efforts of the city corporation to impound cattle and keep them under its custody also failed to yield a solution to the issue. Police won’t impound cattle as keeping them would turn out to be a burden. Police officers said that the accused were not arrested considering the pandemic but the case will warrant the accused to pay penalty in the court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/police-crack-whip-on-stray-cattle-owners-arrest-15/articleshow/77862128.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: 1,300 teachers teachers get training on physical literacy||NEW DELHI: Deputy chief minister and education minister Manish Sisodia on Monday inaugurated an online training programme on “physical literacy” for physical education teachers in government schools. Around 1,300 teachers will be trained by ELMS Sports Foundation in a span of three weeks. While addressing the teachers, Sisodia said, “In the last few years, you all have played an important role in shaping our students. During these Covid-19 times, your role has become even more crucial because our students are confined to their rooms. This is hampering the physical growth of all the students. Physical and mental development are inter-linked. Today, when our children are not able to step out, it has become the need of the hour to introduce the concept of physical literacy. It will help in making every individual cognisant of their body and engage in the physical activities for their overall well-being.” Speaking about the importance of physical literacy, national badminton coach Pullela Gopichand said, “My coach, Hamid Hussain sir did not teach me much about the sport but he taught me how to love the sport. I do not know how much we apply physics and chemistry in our daily lives but a strong foundation in physical education will make a difference.” He asked the teachers to utilise the time and opportunity in an optimum manner with a curiosity to learn something new.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/1-3k-teachers-get-training-on-physical-literacy/articleshow/77860021.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Chandigarh||Faridkot facility medical supdt quits||Bathinda: Dr Rajiv Joshi, medical superintendent (MS) of Guru Gobind Singh Medical College in Faridkot, resigned on Monday. The medical college, of late, had been in the news over complaints of lack of facilities for Covid patients. He forwarded his resignation to the college principal to be further sent to Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS). When contacted, he confirmed he had resigned but refused to give a reason. College principal Dr Deepak John Bhatti said Dr Joshi cited personal reasons. Meanwhile, concern over complaints of patients alleging lack of facilities at the medical college, social, employee, farm and labour groups on Monday handed over memorandums separately to all three MLAs belonging to Faridkot district, asking them to urge the state government to set things right or they would be forced to start a “struggle”. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/faridkot-facility-medical-supdt-quits/articleshow/77861046.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Trichy||NHAI wants local body to tackle stray cattle menace||Trichy: The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has asked rural and urban civic body officials and representatives in Trichy and Dindigul districts to do the needful to prevent cattle straying on the highways. Motorists on Trichy-Dindigul National Highway (NH83) had complained of sudden intrusion of stray cattle on the highway. NH83 was widened as a four-lane four years back and the stretch has a toll plaza at Ponnambalapatti. In recent months, locals have been complaining about non-fatal accidents involving stray cattle that have been feeding on the grasses in the centre median. Although loss of lives was not reported this year, significant damages were caused to vehicles that collide with the animals apart from death of cattle. A majority of the cattle straying into the highways have proper owners, NHAI sources said. As complaints were raised by a section of road users, Ponnambalapatti toll plaza (TD toll road private limited) has sent circulars to a municipality, two town panchayats and 23 panchayats along NH83. Navalur Kuttapattu, Vannankoil, Sathirapatti and Ammapettai have been identified as hotspots of stray cattle menace.“We have instructed Manapparai municipality, two town panchayats in Dindigul district and 16 panchayats in Trichy district to tackle the cattle menace. Though we have warned livestock owners, they continue to let their cattle loose on roads,” said Senthil Kumaran, project manager, Ponnambalapatti toll plaza said. NHAI sources said that villagers on NH are prohibited from rearing their cattle over the right of way of NH. The owners should use the underpass to cross the NH. While NHAI or toll plaza management have no enforcement right, official sources said that they will intimate the local police stations to act against the offenders putting motorists’ lives in danger.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/nhai-wants-local-body-to-tackle-stray-cattle-menace/articleshow/77862132.cms||Deepak Karthik
September 1, 2020||Chandigarh||SGPC sets up lawyers’ panel||Amritsar: The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) has constituted a panel of lawyers to take legal action against its employees who were either suspended or dismissed by the committee’s executive body for their alleged role in case of missing of saroop of Guru Granth Sahib from its press and publication department. SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal informed on Monday that Bhagwant Singh Sialka, Baltej Singh Dhillon and Mohinder Singh Gill were included in the sub-committee formed under the supervision of their general secretary Harjinder Singh Dhami, also a lawyer. “It is a very serious issue and all those found responsible will have to face the legal consequences,” he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sgpc-sets-up-lawyers-panel/articleshow/77861026.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana may seek review of HC judgment on Ambience Mall||Chandigarh: The Haryana government may file a petition before the Punjab and Haryana high court seeking a review of the order passed by a division bench of the HC on July 10 ordering CBI probe into the “illegal” conversion of a portion of almost 19 acres meant for Ambience Lagoon Island Residential Complex in Gurgaon into a commercial complex in violation of the law. Sources confirmed that the office of Haryana advocate general (AG) has already given its opinion suggesting filing a review petition in the July 10 order and a final decision is to be taken by the state government. “There are some apparent errors in the judgment, wherein the court has mentioned not to touch upon the legality of some notifications but at the same time, the HC has ordered an inquiry in those aspects. We have suggested filing a review petition against some of the inconsistencies in the order,” Baldev Raj Mahajan, advocate general Haryana confirmed TOI. He added that the legal opinion suggesting filing review petition in the case has been sent to the Haryana’s town and country planning department, which has to take a final decision. The main allegations in this case are that the builder had raised the Ambience mall and other commercial buildings on land originally meant for developing a residential area only. On July 10, the HC had directed CBI to register an FIR and investigate the matter within a period of six months. Referring the matter to CBI, the HC had observed that a separate investigation is necessary by an independent agency to probe illegal actions and offence, if any made out and possible collusion between the builder and state authorities. The HC had also quashed the order through which a portion of the residential complex was de-licenced for commercial purpose. With these orders, the Ambience mall as well as other commercial buildings that were constructed by the builder on the land had been rendered illegal. On August 10, the CBI had registered a case in the matter against Raj Singh Gehlot, a resident of Green Park Extension, New Delhi; M/s Ambience Ltd; M/s Ambience Developers and Infrastructure Pvt Ltd; unknown officials of HUDA, town and country planning department of Haryana and other unknown private persons. The CBI also conducted searches at four locations, including Delhi, Panchkula and Chandigarh at the premises of the accused and others, in relation to the case. The matter is still under investigation by the agency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-may-seek-review-of-hc-judgment-on-ambience-mall/articleshow/77861028.cms||Ajay Sura
September 1, 2020||Trichy||Traders want Gandhi market to reopen||Trichy: Tamilnadu Vanigar Sangankalin Peramaippu have said that they will urge the state government to reopen the Gandhi market which has been closed for the past five months, at a meeting held at the new onion market complex in Trichy on Monday. They have sought the district administration to reopen the Gandhi market on the same day Koyambedu market reopens. “Since the Koyambedu market is reopening in a phased manner from September 18, we want Gandhi market to follow suit. We will meet the chief minister on Wednesday to convey the same,” association state general secretary Ve Govindarajalu said. The meeting was attended by representatives of 27 associations at the Gandhi market.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/traders-want-gandhi-market-to-reopen/articleshow/77862135.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Chennai||Chennai airport’s integrated terminal delayed||CHENNAI: The pandemic seems to have delayed the expansion work at Chennai airport by at least six months to a year. The Rs 2,000-crore project to build a new integrated terminal at the city airport has missed its September deadline and is expected to take another five or six months. This is likely to affect the entire phase-2 expansion work scheduled to be completed by the end of 2021. Work on 1,97,000sqm area between the existing international and domestic terminals began in 2018. The lockdowns to tackle the pandemic and limitations on the number of workers allowed at a work site due to social distancing norms, however, have slowed down the project in the past four months. As the construction of the terminal has missed its deadline, it will have a ripple effect on the demolition and rebuilding of the international arrival terminal which was to follow. Airports Authority of India (AAI) was scheduled to take up that work after shifting international arrivals to the new integrated building by end of the year. The entire project was supposed to be completed by December 2021 as per original schedule. AAI said work is slowly but steadily progressing amid Covid-19 disruptions. The work, stalled in March-end, was resumed in April in a slow pace. Glass cladding of the building, which began in April, is over on one side. Truss installation for the roof of the terminal, shaped like a wave, began in June and is currently underway, while the building has been completed. “The deadline could not be met because of the unforeseen disruption. But some delay has been weaved into the work schedule because construction at the site, which is in between two functioning terminals and also close to aircraft parking/taxiing area, is not easy,” said an AAI official. Delay in the terminal work is not expected to affect airport operations much because the pandemic and travel restrictions have made number of passengers fall to 8,000 a day, which was the number of passengers the airport handled per hour in the pre-pandemic days. “The terminals were planned when the airport, which was handling 20 million passengers per year with an annual growth rate of up to 11%, was heading towards saturation by 2022. It may take at least a year or more for the airport to achieve that number again even after flight services are restored. The AAI now has more time to complete the work,” said an airline official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/city-airports-integrated-terminal-delayed/articleshow/77860059.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Trichy||People opting self-medication have become Covid carriers||Nagapattinam: Despite repeated appeals made by the district administration and the health department to avoid self-medication, people with mild symptoms opting to take pills on their own, is also one of the reasons for the recent spike in Covid-19 positive cases in Nagapattinam district, officials said. Contamination of equipment at labs where Covid-19 tests are conducted may also be the reason for the rise in the cases, officials added. Health officials have planned to conduct a quality check at the labs to avoid faulty results. The total number of positive cases recorded in the district on Monday was 2,687, while it was just 772 on August 1. Within 30 days the number of positive cases has gone up by 300%. “Although health officials have been telling people to avoid self-medication, mild symptomatic patients are delaying tests by taking medicine on their own. At one point they are forced to approach the hospital. In the meantime, they spread the virus to as many people as possible,” district epidemiologist Dr Liyakath Ali said. “Contaminated testing equipment is also one of the reasons for the increase in the number of positive cases. Over a period of time, the testing kits start showing more positive results due to fault in the equipment. We have decided to conduct a quality check in the testing labs in the districts. Once it would be rectified, there is no possibility of getting faulty results,” he added. “The number of positive cases on July 30 was 685, before two public hearing meetings were conducted in Nagapattinam and Mayiladuthurai in connection with the creation of a new district. Only after the meeting, there was a spike,” officials said.“This apart, the general public have lost fear of the virus. Nobody cares about social distancing, personal hygiene and wearing masks. People have the responsibility to contain the virus by adhering to the norms,” a health official lamented.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/people-opting-self-medication-have-become-covid-carriers/articleshow/77862139.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
September 1, 2020||Trichy||Pvt bus operators not to operate fleets from Sept 1||Trichy: Though the state government has relaxed the lockdown restrictions after permitting intra-district bus operations from September 1 (Tuesday), private bus operators are in no mood to resume mofussil and city bus service across the state. Stating that operating buses within the districts is challenging and not viable, the private bus operators are to follow a wait and watch approach.The Federation of Bus Operators Associations of Tamil Nadu (FOBTN) said that 60% occupancy cap fixed by the state government will not be sufficient to meet their operational cost. “Diesel price has gone up. Since operating services within district is not feasible, we will wait until the state government allows more relaxations such as inter-district bus service,” D R Dharmaraj, state secretary, FOBTN told TOI. The bus operators said that they will consider resuming bus services only if the government allows 100% seating occupancy. “When we had operated buses earlier amid lockdown, the occupancy was very poor during the non-peak hours. We are even willing to avoid standee passengers but private buses should be permitted at least to fill the seating capacity,” Dharmaraj added. The bus operators said that they incurred losses when they operated their fleets in June.They will consider operating buses as periodical sanitisation and disease prevention drive will be taken up by the local private bus owners’ associations, the private bus operators said. After a gap of 78 days, private buses resumed service on June 10. But the service was hit on June 25 after the state government prohibited inter-district bus operation. There are 4,600 private buses across the state, including 275 private buses in Trichy district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/pvt-bus-operators-not-to-operate-fleets-from-sept-1/articleshow/77862142.cms||Deepak Karthik
September 1, 2020||Vadodara||No rain, but Vishwamitri River swells||Vadodara: Barodians got respite from the rains on Monday but the civic authorities were on their toes as water level in Vishwamitri River kept increasing. The river that passes through the city reached 23 foot, just three foot below the danger mark. The authorities said that the water overflowing from Ajwa Dam is causing rise in water level in Vishwamitri River. If the rains continue in the eastern parts of the district, Vishwamitri River may swell further. “As of now, we are just keeping an eye on the water level, but no one staying near the river has been shifted. Four persons staying in a residential colony in Sama were rescued,” said an official from the flood control room.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/no-rain-but-vishwamitri-river-swells/articleshow/77858803.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Mumbai||Parents being charged for suspended school activities to approach Bombay HC||MUMBAI: Parents from 15 schools in and around Mumbai plan to approach Bombay high court to demand that they do not charge them for activities suspended due to lockdown. Parents from over 20 schools on Monday had a virtual meeting under the umbrella of city NGO Forum for Fairness in Education. “Since all schools have different fee structures, we have advised parents to file individual petitions in HC. While the department’s orders to not charge or hike fee during lockdown has been stayed, schools are charging under various heads not allowed as per capitation fee Act of the state. Parents can seek relief under provisions of this Act,” said forum president Jayant Jain. Many parents claimed schools were setting deadlines for fee payments and barring students from online classes. “The school is conducting exams and our children are not allowed to appear as our access to the app has been stopped. Some schools are forcing parents to buy gadgets for e-learning, instead of giving us concessions,” a parent said. Parents also said schools are asking for financial records relaxation is sought. “The school told us to submit pay slips and income-tax returns to prove we can’t afford to pay fees but the management is not willing to share its accounts to show us there is a shortfall. Teachers are also not being paid full salary,” said another parent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/parents-being-charged-for-suspended-school-activities-to-approach-bombay-hc/articleshow/77861154.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Chandigarh||Corruption is corruption: Capt to Bajwa||Chandigarh: Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Monday rejected Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa’s contention that there was no comparison between the present scholarship scam and the bitumen scam, in which the latter’s name figured 15 years ago. “Corruption is corruption, in any and every form,” Capt Amarinder asserted. The bitumen scam allegations against Bajwa, then PWD minister, were as serious as those being levelled in the scholarship scam, he said. Capt Amarinder claimed that had he chosen to behave as irresponsibly then, as Bajwa expected him to now, he would have sacked the then minister on the basis of unsubstantiated charges without a fair probe. Amarinder said he had decided to assign a detailed and thorough investigation into the alleged scholarship scam to the chief secretary as there was clearly a dispute between the minister concerned and the social welfare department’s additional chief secretary, whose internal report had become the basis of allegations against the minister. He pointed out that as per the Punjab Rules of Business, 1992, “cases in which there is difference of opinion between the secretary and the minister in charge” shall be submitted to the chief minister through the chief secretary before issuance of orders. Having been a minister himself, Bajwa should have known that this was the only way forward in the the present case, he said and added that he had asked the chief secretary to thoroughly probe the matter before forwarding the case to him for action. Amarinder also trashed the Aam Aadmi Party’s so-called “rejection” of the chief secretary’s inquiry into the matter, terming it totally absurd and irrational. “Who are they to accept or reject anything?” he said. AAP itself had been rejected by the people of Punjab a long time back, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/corruption-is-corruption-capt-to-bajwa/articleshow/77861054.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Man arrested for fraud using SIM cards||Hyderabad: The Cyberabad cybercrime police on Monday arrested a 34-year-old man from Kolkata for cheating several persons and withdrawing money from their bank accounts by swapping their SIM card. The accused was identified as Bikas Shaw from Kalyani Nadiya, Kolkata. Shaw has been helping Nigerians to cheat victims in India since 2011. Police said the accused is a middleman who would cheat victims by impersonating them and swapping SIM cards. The accused had fraudulently transferred Rs 26.4 lakh from a city-based victim’s bank account last year. “The main fraudsters operating from abroad collect credentials by hacking into email accounts. They get access to sensitive data when people click on phishing links. Shaw stole credentials through internet banking, mobile number etc. After deducting his commission, he transferred remaining money to the miscreants,” said a police officer. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-arrested-for-fraud-using-sim-cards/articleshow/77860082.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Nagpur||Immerse Ganesh only in artificial tanks today||Nagpur: The final day of Ganesh visarjans on Tuesday will decide the fate of city lakes. TOI has been regularly reporting about immersions being carried out in artificial tanks. For the first time ever, Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has cordoned off all the lakes for immersions this year. The decision was taken by mayor Sandip Joshi to protect the health of water bodies. On Monday, a total of 465 Ganesh idols were immersed at the artificial tank kept on Air Force side of Futala Lake, shows data of environment NGO Green Vigil Foundation, which is volunteering at the site. Though the city has seen a drop of about 50% in immersions at lake sites due to the ongoing pandemic, Futala Lake might get crowded on Tuesday. A part of the lake’s boundary has been barricaded with cloth, which had starting tearing off by Monday evening. “People can easily enter and go for idol immersion at the lake. To ensure that all the efforts do not go futile, NMC should ensure proper barricading,” said Green Vigil founder Kaustav Chatterjee. He added that the stairs leading to the lake should be completely blocked. “NMC should also deploy more manpower at the site,” he said. Infographics KEEP THIS IN MIND - Do not immerse idol in any lake - Only two people allowed to immerse an idol in immersion tank - Wearing mask is mandatory - Do not perform aarti at immersion site - Do not distribute prasad at the site - Deposit nirmalya in the collection box - Maintain social distancing||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/immerse-ganesh-only-in-artificial-tanks-today/articleshow/77861473.cms||Manka Behl
September 1, 2020||Mumbai||Will BJP accept blame if Covid cases increase with temples open: Shiv Sena||MUMBAI: Targeting Opposition BJP and Devendra Fadnavis for launching ‘Ghantanaad’, a protest demanding reopening of temples in the state, Shiv Sena asked them if they would take responsibility if there was a spike in Covid-19 cases. Sena mouthpiece Saamana’s editorial said, “Before raising the issue, Opposition should understand the pandemic situation in the state. People should achieve ‘peace of mind’ and ‘peace from hunger’ at temples, but Opposition should understand the real meaning behind the term ‘peace of mind’. It does not translate to peace of mind to attain political gains.” The priority now was to safeguard people’s lives and the rest will follow, the party advised the Opposition. Sena clarified there was no doubt that temples should reopen. “Temples and other forms of worship are part of the economy, and source of bread and butter for lakhs of people,” it said. The Marathi daily said there was a spike in Covid cases where schools and temples have reopened. “Opposition should think over the reason behind temples being closed. BJP has started a protest, but it creates doubts if the protests are for religious purposes or political,” it said and pointed out that following footsteps of BJP, Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi leader Prakash Ambedkar and AIMIM MP Imtiyaz Jalil have started protests to reopen Vitthal Mandir at Pandharpur and masjids.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/will-bjp-accept-blame-if-covid-cases-increase-with-temples-open-sena/articleshow/77861149.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Chandigarh||In another U-turn, Punjab ends buprenorphine tablet price cap||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab government took another U-turn on controlling price of detoxification medicine buprenorphine by doing away with cap on its price, nine months after fixing the price amidst much fanfare. With aim to check undue profiteering and reduce out-of-pocket expense of patients already facing social and economic hardships, the state government in November 2019 had fixed the price of one tablet of buprenorphine at Rs 7.5. The medicine was earlier being sold for Rs 30-40 by private deaddiction centres. The Punjab government had also subsequently written to the National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority (NPPA) for regulating the price of buprenorphine-naloxone under the Essential Commodities Act. The price cap was imposed only on 2mg tablets whereas buprenorphine is available in market in different strengths such as 0.2mg and 0.4 mg. The state government’s decision in 2019 had led to criticism by the deaddiction centres, which complained of manufacturers not supplying the medicine at the fixed price. The state government struggled to effectively implement the capping as many private centres started charging consultation fees in the range of Rs 300-500 to cover their losses. Some of them even dispensed small quantities of medicine to the patients forcing them to revisit frequently. As the Punjab Substance Use Disorder Treatment and Counseling and Rehabilitation Centres Rules 2011 have been amended to allow private psychiatric clinics to dispense detoxification medicines to substance abuse patients, the state government is of the view that under the changed circumstances it is not “advisable” to control the price of the medicine and continue with the capping. About 200 private psychiatrist clinics will now be able to dispense the medicine, which was earlier allowed for private drug rehabilitation centres and government-run outpatient opioid-assisted treatment (OOAT) clinics only. The decision has been taken after consultation with the legal remembrancer (LR). “No manufacturers were ready to supply the medicine at the rate fixed by the government and the centres were facing tough times,” rued a psychiatric, who lauded the decision to do away with the price cap. Punjab health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said that the price cap has been done away with and the centres will be allowed to dispense medicines at the rate fixed on the basis of different strengths of medicine. He, however, assured that the state government will keep a close watch on the centres to ensure that patients are not fleeced. Every centre will have to ensure that the manufacturer who supplies any medicine gets its batch tested from the state food and drug testing laboratory, Kharar and is not allowed dispense any batch of medicine which has not been tested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/in-another-u-turn-punjab-ends-buprenorphine-price-cap/articleshow/77861055.cms||Vinod Kumar
September 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana high court seeks entire Osmania General Hospital site plan||HYDERABAD: Noting with a sense of amusement conflicting claims about the availability of vacant space and also about its extent within the premises of Osmania General Hospital (OGH), the Telangana high court on Monday summoned the site plan of the entire OGH premises. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy gave the state government a week’s time to furnish this. Advocate general BS Prasad assured the bench that the government would furnish a clear site plan by September 8. The bench was hearing four PILs filed seeking a direction to the government to construct a new multi-storey building to house the OGH in view of the precarious state of the existing buildings. The government, in tune with an earlier direction of the court, furnished the site plan of the OGH buildings and premises. The bench was unhappy with the quality of the map. The bench could not make out anything from the map as the map and the contents were not clear and legible. One set of petitioners said some of the the OGH buildings are heritage structures. “They should not be demolished,” senior counsel S Satyam Reddy, arguing their case, said. “We too do not want OGH to run in these old buildings. There is a 16-acre vacant area in the same premises. Let the government build a multi-storied building there to run OGH and preserve the old buildings. These two tasks are not contradictory to each other. They can be complimentary too,” he said. Another set of petitioners sought demolition of the existing buildings before they endanger the lives of patients and doctors. Prasad informed the court that there was no open space in the OGH as was contended by the petitioners. In fact, the existing buildings were in a dilapidated condition, and a new building was essential to meet the needs of patients and doctors, he said. The bench was surprised at the sharp division of opinion about a simple issue whether there was any space left in the OGH. The hospital is only a few yards away from the main high court building.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-high-court-seeks-entire-ogh-site-plan/articleshow/77860105.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
September 1, 2020||Coimbatore||Firemen conduct mock drill at Kurichi lake||Coimbatore: Personnel from three fire stations here conducted a mock exercise at Kurichi lake on Monday evening, ahead of the northeast monsoon.Thirty fire fighters from Coimbatore south, Coimbatore north, Ganapathy fire station and fire prevention wing attended the northeast monsoon trial and evacuation drill.Motorists stopped their vehicle on the lake bund to watch a six-member team on a lifeboat saving a firefighter, who was ‘drowning’. The drill was conducted twice.District fire officer R Jegadish, assistant district fire officer S Thavamani and station fire officers participated in the mock drill. “The exercise was to teach firefighters skills to rescue people during the rainy season from lakes and rivers. We used lifebuoy, life jackets and a lifeboat for the exercise. We plan to conduct a similar exercise in Bhavani river at Mettupalayam on Tuesday. Firefighters from Mettupalayam, Annur and Periyanaickenpalayam will participate in the mock exercise,” said Thavamani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/firemen-conduct-mock-drill-at-kurichi-lake/articleshow/77860120.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Delhi||AAP alleges graft in Delhi corporations, BJP hits back||NEW DELHI: Accusing the municipal corporations of poor financial management, AAP functionary Durgesh Pathak on Monday said the civic bodies had not been able to pay the salaries of sanitation staff, doctors, nurses, teachers and other employees despite having a combined budget of around Rs 18,000 crore. Asking the corporations to either pay the pending salaries in a week or resign, Pathak said the situation would have been different if the civic bodies had spent even 20% of the budget. But BJP utilises entire funds in corruption, he alleged. Referring to civic employees’ repeated protests, Pathak said, “If BJP wanted to spend this money properly, there is no reason why the salaries will not be paid.” Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said the corporations were facing financial crises because the AAP government had not released the grant of arrears of accumulated funds of the past five years as recommended by Fourth Delhi Finance Commission. Referring to the 2022 civic polls, Pathak said that if elected, AAP “will give salaries to all employees and make a cleanliness model for Delhi” in the same budget.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/aap-alleges-graft-in-corpns-bjp-hits-back/articleshow/77860190.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Parents’ nod must for schools to call students for classes||LUCKNOW: A written undertaking from parents will be must for schools to call students of class 9-12 under Unlock-4, said additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Awasthi on Monday. Separate guidelines for schools and colleges will be issued. “The guidelines for Unlock-4 were discussed during a meeting of Team-11 with the CM on Monday. The CM has directed for strict adherence to protocols,” said Awasthi. Listing out the dos and don’ts, Awasthi said: “After September 21, schools will be allowed to start classes for 9-12 students. But schools will have to ensure that students come voluntarily. Also, students must bring a written undertaking from their parents to attend classes. However, if parents do not want to send their wards to school, they may not. Meanwhile, the government is working on a separate guideline for schools which will eventually open sooner or later.” “Restrictions will remain for containment zones but outside them, life will slowly get back to normal,” he said, adding that norms laid out by the union government will be followed in UP too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/parents-nod-must-for-schools-to-call-students-for-classes/articleshow/77861052.cms||Shailvee Sharda
September 1, 2020||Chandigarh||Police remand till Sept 5 for accused held for hoisting Khalistan flag||Bathinda: A Moga court on Monday evening sent Inderjit Singh and Jaspal Singh, arrested by Delhi police in Khalistan flag hoisting case, in five-day police remand. Both were produced in the court under tight security. Earlier, a police team from Moga had got the transit remand and had brought them from Delhi, where they were arrested on Saturday evening. Police had demanded their remand for 14 days, but the court provided it for five days. Both were medically examined before being taken to court, said police. Both Inderjit Singh (32) and Jaspal Singh (27) of Rauli village in Moga are accused of hoisting a saffron flag with Khalistan written on it, at the Moga deputy commissioner (DC) office complex on August 14 and defiling the national flag. Their accomplice, Akashdeep Singh (19) of Sadhuwala village in Ferozepur, is accused of making a video clip of the duo hoisting the flag. He was arrested on August 20. The three are said to be lured by the offer of US$2,500 reward announced by Gurpatwant Singh Pannu, the legal advisor of banned organisation Sikhs for Justice. Moga senior superintendent of police (SSP) Harmanbir Singh Gill said, “Police will thoroughly investigate the arrested persons. We will investigate their past, who else were in their contact and if anyone else had any role in anti-national activity.” The national flag which they had taken along after desecrating it has also to been recovered from them, said the SSP. SFJ spoiling youth of Punjab, say families of accused Family members of both arrested persons accused SFJ legal adviser Gurpatwant Singh Pannu of spoiling youth of Punjab by prevailing them to talk about Khalistan. Arrested Jaspal Singh’s brother Sukhpal Singh said they were stunned to know about the action. “Jaspal was running a small internet café in the village and Inderjit used to visit him, but we never knew what they were doing on the internet,” he said. Inderjit’s father Jugraj Singh, a farmer, said they never could have thought that his son could be involved in such an act. “Inderjit used to sell goods on Amazon,” he said, adding that Pannu was spoiling the lives of youngsters in Punjab. “He should be arrested, so he may not spoil more youngsters by luring them by using money,” he said. The call for Punjab Bandh on August 31 given by the banned Sikhs For Justice (SFJ) legal advisor Gurpatwant Singh Pannun failed to get any response. Khalistan flags hoisted in Bathinda district Saffron flags with Khalistan written on them were put up at the market committee office at Bhucho in Bathinda district and at a flyover on the Bathinda-Chandigarh highway. The flags were removed when police noticed these on Monday morning. Some slogans in favour of Khalistan too were raised by unidentified persons. The police are looking into the matter. Bathinda SP (investigations) Gurbinder Singh Sangha said that the mischief is being played by anti national elements.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/police-remand-till-sept-5-for-accused-held-for-hoisting-khalistan-flag/articleshow/77861060.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Rajkot||Govt records destroyed in Jamnagar floods||Rajkot: Heavy rains have thrown life out of gear in Saurashtra and Kutch causing damage to both life and property.In Jamnagar, officials used boats to rescue people who were stranded in their houses due to severe waterlogging on Sunday. Dead body of a 40-year-old unidentified man who had drowned on Sunday was found on Monday.Over 30 residents were rescued from Ganpatnagar, Gurudwara and Ghanchi ni khadki areas using boats. Residents of these areas had called Jamnagar Municipal Corporation (JMC) office seeking help after rainwater gushed into their houses.Not just residential areas but flood water gushed inside even government offices near Lakhota pond, Park colony, government colony, Patrakar colony, Gurudwara society, Shanti society and Limbada line.“Several records kept at the taluka panchayat, district panchayat, PF office, court compound and JMC office sank in flood water,” sources said. “Several areas of the city had witnessed water logging on Sunday due to heavy rains but water has receded now,” said municipal commissioner Satish Patel.“We have witnessed rains since the last two weeks. Sunday too witnessed rains. Rivers and dams are full. Because of full moon and high tide in the sea, water did not go to the sea. But water has receded on Monday and there is no waterlogging now,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/govt-records-destroyed-in-jamnagar-floods/articleshow/77858853.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Task Force DCP’s term extended||Hyderabad: The state government has extended the term of Task Force Deputy Commissioner P Radhakishan Rao for three more years. Rao, who was to retire on Monday, applied for an extension of service. The orders were issued on Monday evening.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/task-force-dcps-term-extended/articleshow/77860117.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Coimbatore||Dist logs highest Covid fatality in a day||Coimbatore: On Monday, the Coimbatore district reached three milestones on Covid front – breached 15,000-mark in number of total cases, crossed 500 in single-day count and recorded highest number of deaths in single-day at 14. It took only two days to cross 15,000 cases from 14,000 in the district. With 589 cases recorded on Monday, the total number of cases increased to 15,490. It also recorded the highest number of deaths in a single day at 14, taking the toll to 308. The number of active cases further climbed to 3,713. As the number of fresh cases inched close to 600 on Monday, the health department and department of community medicine in Coimbatore Medical College Hospital admitted that they did not know when the district will hit the peak. “A peak can be detected only when the curve starts moving downwards. Only when it moves downwards consistently, will we know that we have hit and crossed the peak,” said deputy director of public health, Dr G Ramesh Kumar. “But with a target of ensuring 40% beds are always on reserve based on number of active cases, we are increasing bed strength in Covid care centres in the city to 5,000-odd from the existing 2,200 beds,” he added. “We have received 3,000 beds from Chennai which we are now moving into our recently taken over wedding halls and college halls,” he said. The department believes either a lockdown or extremely strict containment measures could be the only way to reduce cases. “If people can refrain from stepping out unnecessarily, work from home, wear masks while interacting with any non-family member, wash hands and sanitize regularly for just three weeks we can reduce cases drastically,” said the deputy director. Officials say Madurai and Chennai’s cases began reducing only after their three-week lockdown, post which they could capitalize and keep the curve downward. On Monday, a team from the health department including deputy director of public health, joint director of medical services, senior doctors from ESI Hospital and Coimbatore Medical College Hospital interacted with a team of Covid-19 treating doctors, virologists among others on how to control the increasing number of fresh cases and bring down the mortality. The doctors who were from the US, the UK, Mumbai and New Delhi shared their own case studies, experiences, protocols and suggestions on the issues in the city. The interaction was organized by collector K Rajamani. “They mainly told us to ensure that symptomatic patients or those with co-morbidities and the virus, get admitted and get medical care as soon as possible. They said we should resort to a lockdown if we start falling short of beds. However, if we have beds but cases keep increasing, we should be stricter with containment measures,” said a doctor who attended the meeting. “They also shared treatment protocols for different scenarios,” he added. Of the 586 cases, Ganapathy recorded the most number at 82 new cases, followed by Selvapuram which saw 70 new cases and Thudiyalur which had 38 new cases. Among the others, Singanallur saw 18 cases, Peelamedu saw 10 new cases and Rathinapuri saw eight new cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dist-logs-highest-covid-fatality-in-a-day/articleshow/77860113.cms||Pratiksha Ramkumar
September 1, 2020||Chennai||Food & lessons in short supply for corpn schoolkids||Chennai: Corporation school students still haven’t got eggs to eat under the noon meal scheme though the Madras high court had ordered their supply in the first week of August. Most of them can’t access online lessons either as they can’t pay for data on their phones.  Rajamma*, a resident of Thiruvotriyur, has been dependent on Amma canteens for all three meals, as she lost her job in the pandemic. Her son, a Class IX student in a corporation school, works part time as a vegetable seller during the day and delivers water cans at night to earn Rs 200-300 every day Ganesh R*, a Class XI student, said he received dry ration from the corporation school only once in March. “My father died eight years ago. My mother and sister lost their jobs. So we can hardly afford two meals,” he said.  When asked about online classes, most children including those in Class X and XII said their phones were not recharged by the civic body as promised. “I miss studying my lessons but we do not have money to recharge the phone,” said Priya*, a Class X student.  “Only if the government provides can we distribute,” said a teacher about dry rations. Asked about eggs, the teacher said supply was promised last week, “ but it hasn’t reached us yet”. The joint commissioner, education, of Greater Chennai Corporation, Shankar Lal Kumawat, was unavailable for comment. However, an education department official told TOI that they anticipated that schools would reopen in September. “So we began focusing on enrolment. Because of that online classes are getting affected. However, lessons are being uploaded on YouTube channels and through NGOs,” said the official. A corporation school headmaster told TOI that attendance was not even 15% for online classes. “Many students neither have phones nor net connectivity. In fact, students have reached out to us asking us to open schools so that they can at least eat one proper meal a day,” said one teacher. Teachers and headmasters told TOI that they were spending money from their pockets to provide rations to children. “The government has to issue an order. Only after the GO has been issued, can we distribute. Regarding dry ration, the supply came for just one month,” said R Barathidasan, in charge of the noon meal scheme for Chennai district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/food-lessons-in-short-supply-for-corpn-schoolkids/articleshow/77860116.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Car catches fire after attack on passengers||Hyderabad: A fire broke out in a car on Monday minutes after the people travelling in it were attacked by five people at Gandhi Nagar. The victim, Arun, a private employee from Warasiguda, was heading home with two friends after immersing Ganesh idols in Hussainsagar on Monday. According to Gandhi Nagar SI Ajay Kumar, the car driver honked at three people travelling on a two-wheeler, following which the accused stopped the car and picked up an argument with Arun. “The trio called two other associates. The group of five then began thrashing the victims. Meanwhile, the car’s engine caught fire,” said the officer. The car was partially damaged and the three victims sustained minor injuries due to the assault. However, the accused fled from the spot. A case was registered under Section 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 341 (wrongful restraint) of IPC. “We are checking the CCTV footages of the incident to identify the accused,” said the SI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/car-catches-fire-after-attack-on-passengers/articleshow/77860111.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Nagpur||HC’s ‘no’ to stay JEE, asks students to approach NTA with grievances||Nagpur: The Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court on Tuesday refused to stay the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE-Mains), as demanded by a student in view of heavy rains and floods affecting the Vidarbha region. While hearing a suo motu PIL in morning in view of urgency, a division bench comprising justices Ravi Deshpande and Pushpa Ganediwala granted liberty to the students to approach National Testing Agency (NTA) in case they were unable to appear due to floods. “We direct that if such representation is received, it be immediately forwarded by concerned agency/centre coordinator to the apex body for conducting exams and decision on it should be taken within 15 days,” the bench ordered NTA.Before disposing of the PIL, the judges asked students, who miss exams due to natural disasters, to make a representation through the local body to NTA, which would consider it, but after thoroughly enquiring from the exam centre coordinator and collector of respective areas.“We’re satisfied with the stand taken by respondents to take care of the situation. We appreciate cooperation extended by all lawyers as well as all collectors and municipal authorities.While taking a suo motu cognisance of a letter by a student from Bhandara, Nitesh Bawankar, who highlighted problems to be faced by students from Vidarbha’s flood-hit districts, the HC had asked respondents, including NTA, on whether JEE could be postponed for such areas. Fixing the urgent hearing at 8.30am on Tuesday, the judges had directed respondents to come up with replies.The aggrieved student claimed that parts of Nagpur, Amravati, Akola, Chandrapur, Gondia and Gadchiroli districts were severely hit by the floods due to incessant rains and marooned most of the villages.Earlier, quoting several news items about floods ravaging parts of Bhandara, Gondia, Chandrapur and Gadchiroli, the judges pointed out that “situation is grim”. “We could see that it may not be possible for students to reach centres to appear for exams, whose preparation goes on for a year. We were anxious to know the flood situation prevailing in all such districts where aspirants may lose the chance to appear in exams for no fault.”Nagpur collector earlier informed that the district has 1,284 students appearing from six centres, but there is no flood-like situation. Akola and Amravati too, didn’t witness any floods. In Chandrapur, only Bramhapuri’s 21 villages are facing floods, but all four exam centres are in the city which are safe. Some villages of Bhandara and Gondia are affected by deluge, but both didn’t have any exam centres. Gadchiroli is the worst hit district with most of its villages inundated due to release of Gosikhurd dam waters and its collector left the decision on NTA.“We appreciate the quick response by NTA, all collectors and civic authorities. In view of their stand, we don’t find any reason to proceed further in the PIL,” the judges held.What HC said:* Students missing exams due to floods should approach NTA through local authority* Apex body to consider their complaints within 15 days in consultation with collectors* As per several news item, flood situation is grim in some areas of Vidarbha districts* Satisfied with stand taken by NTA & other respondents to take care of situation* Appreciate cooperation extended by all lawyers, collectors & civic authorities* In view of their stand and quick response, don’t find any reason to proceed further||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hcs-no-to-stay-jee-asks-students-to-approach-nta-with-grievances/articleshow/77895827.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
September 1, 2020||Nagpur||Did lack of coordination between MP, Maha officers exacerbate flooding?||Nagpur: The sudden floods have raised questions over coordination between authorities in Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra. Former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis has also raised the issue. Water released from Chaurai dam in Chhindwara district in Madhya Pradesh flooded the Pench river in Maharashtra. This had a cascading effect on Wainganga river further eastwards, covering Bhandara, Chandrapur and Gadchiroli. Chaurai dam was 80% full in July itself and MP government should have begun releasing water at that time, which could have prevented the present crisis, pointed out a revenue department official here. Though the theory has also been countered by others. Nagpur district’s guardian minister Nitin Raut countered Fadnavis saying the villagers were intimated in time but the problem arose after excessive water was released from Madhya Pradesh. The district collector Ravindra Thakare said the coordination happens between two WRDs and his department did not have any intimation from MP. TOI talked to officials from water resources departments (WRD) of both states. They said even both were in constant touch over through whattsapp group having officials from both sides and also from Central Water Commission. Communication was maintained on real time basis but the massive downpour gave little reaction time. A calculated risk by the Vidarbha Irrigation Development Corporation (VIDC) helped, however. VIDC decided to hold part of the discharge from MP at Totladoh dam in Maharashtra. This helped reduce the flood intensity by almost 25%. More than 9,000 cubic metres per second (cumecs) of water being released from Chaurai dam came into Totladoh dam. An engineer in the WRD in MP said a message was put in WhatsApp group between 7 and 8 pm on Friday evening. The officer managing the disaster management cell at Nagpur’ collectorate said a message was received on Saturday morning. “It rained 414 mm over Friday and Saturday. As the catchment area of the river is scattered, it was difficult to judge the flow of water. Water reaches the dam from seven different locations. It was so fast that there was little time react,” said an MP official. On releasing the water in July itself when the dam was 80% full, sources said it depends on complex calculations. Even as there was an IMD warning about heavy rains, at times water is not released beforehand. “It may lead to a shortage if the prediction fails,” an officer in Maharashtra said. Sources in Madhya Pradesh accepted it. On Maharashtra side, VIDC took a timely decision. According to the norms the entire excess water has to be released. This means as much as 9,000 cumecs of water should have been released from Totladoh. However, this could have caused a bigger loss. VIDC officials decided to hold as much as 3,000 cumecs in Totladoh. This reduced the discharge and reduced intensity considerably, said a senior official monitoring the situation. Sources in state’s WRD said it would not be right to blame MP, as the situation was extraordinary. 414mm rain is half of the entire season’s average. Going by norms, more than 65mm downpour is seen as excessive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/did-lack-of-coordination-between-mp-maha-officers-exacerbate-flooding/articleshow/77861502.cms||Shishir Arya
September 1, 2020||Hyderabad||No prasad, welcome arches this year||Hyderabad: Major government departments likes police, GHMC, HMWS&SB, TSSPDCL and R&B have made necessary arrangements for smooth conduct of the Ganesh immersion procession. Meanwhile, the Bhagyanagar Ganesh Utsav Samithi (BGUS) is coordinating with all the pandal organisers as this year’s immersion should be a low-key affair and only five to eight people are allowed to participate in the Shobha Yatra. Utsav samithi’s secretary Bhagvantha Rao said, “This year our samithi is neither organising meetings nor inviting prominent guests from the VHP or RSS. Every year we used to set up big stages and welcome arches at popular areas like Charminar, MJ Market etc. But due to the pandemic restrictions we are not making any such arrangements.” Rao also said that half of idols have already been immersed. “On the basis of the feedback we received from different sources, around one lakh pandals are there in the city. So far around 50,000 idols have already been immersed at different locations and the remaining would be immersed on Tuesday. We have appealed to all pandals not to distribute prasadam and water packets,” Rao said. The samithi has urged the organisers to not have DJ music and concerts along the procession.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-prasad-welcome-arches-this-year/articleshow/77860134.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Coimbatore||Wild dogs thrive in Mudumalai Tiger Reserve||Udhagamandalam: The population of Indian wild dogs (Cuon alpinus), a vulnerable category, has seen a steady growth in the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR) in the Nilgiris in the last few years. Packs of wild dogs with pups are seen around the reserve including Mukurthi National Park, according to S Shenbagapriya, deputy director, Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR) in the Nilgiris.“The population of wild dogs has grown in the last 5 years. Now, MTR (Core and buffer zones together) houses at least 80-100 wild dogs”, she said.Asked if it is difficult for the wild dogs to survive in tiger land, Shenbagapriya said they keep away from tne tigers, “It is a difficult survival for them but since wild dogs are not territorial, they keep away from tiger territory when tigers are seen there and move back into the territory whenever tiger movement is absent. At times, their habitats overlap”.When it comes to conservation, there is no separate strategy for wild dog conservation as the MTR is a tiger reserve, according to the official.“The prey base is enormous and healthy in the MTR. Hence, the population of all the carnivores and wild dogs have grown”, said Shenbagapriya. The International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) has categorized wild dogs as vulnerable species. The animal is placed in the schedule 1 of Indian Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972. With an average life span of 12 years in the wild, wild dogs always travel in a pack which is a family of union of two or more, sometimes of several families. Such union increases the character of killing larger prey. They communicate by a peculiar ‘whistling’ cry, according to the official.For wild dogs, the prey species include deer, sambar, chital, barking deer, gaur and hare.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/wild-dogs-thrive-in-mudumalai-tiger-reserve/articleshow/77860132.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Allahabad||Sero survey to start in UP from September 4||LUCKNOW: The Covid-19 sero prevalence survey is set to begin in Uttar Pradesh from September 4, almost three weeks ahead of schedule. Additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad said two rounds of training on September 1 and 3 would precede actual sample collection. “KGMU will moderate the survey which will cover 11 districts including Kanpur, Varanasi, Gorakhpur, Lucknow and Agra ,” he said. Many states like Delhi, Punjab and Maharashtra have released the outcomes of their sero surveys. “Sample collection will take place between September 4 and 6. As many as 1,080 samples will be collected from each district. This means 11,080 samples will be collected and transported to KGMU for testing,” Prasad said. All CMOs concerned have been asked to form 10 teams comprising four persons, led by a medical officer, in each district. The team will look for Covid-19 clusters wherein they will look for 24 people living in six households across four localities – in urban and rural areas – who can be roped in for study. Public health specialist and epidemiologist Dr Vishwajeet Kumar said: “Knowing that the majority of cases are asymptomatic and liable to be missed in RT-PCR testing, sero-prevalence surveys can be a significant step in the ongoing battle against the pandemic.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/sero-survey-to-start-in-state-from-sept-4/articleshow/77863024.cms||Shailvee Sharda
September 1, 2020||Kanpur||Sero survey to start in UP from September 4||LUCKNOW: The Covid-19 sero prevalence survey is set to begin in Uttar Pradesh from September 4, almost three weeks ahead of schedule. Additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad said two rounds of training on September 1 and 3 would precede actual sample collection. “KGMU will moderate the survey which will cover 11 districts including Kanpur, Varanasi, Gorakhpur, Lucknow and Agra ,” he said. Many states like Delhi, Punjab and Maharashtra have released the outcomes of their sero surveys. “Sample collection will take place between September 4 and 6. As many as 1,080 samples will be collected from each district. This means 11,080 samples will be collected and transported to KGMU for testing,” Prasad said. All CMOs concerned have been asked to form 10 teams comprising four persons, led by a medical officer, in each district. The team will look for Covid-19 clusters wherein they will look for 24 people living in six households across four localities – in urban and rural areas – who can be roped in for study. Public health specialist and epidemiologist Dr Vishwajeet Kumar said: “Knowing that the majority of cases are asymptomatic and liable to be missed in RT-PCR testing, sero-prevalence surveys can be a significant step in the ongoing battle against the pandemic.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/sero-survey-to-start-in-state-from-sept-4/articleshow/77863023.cms||Shailvee Sharda
September 1, 2020||Coimbatore||Siddha care centre for Covid patients||Namakkal/Salem: Tamil Nadu electricity minister P Thangamani on Monday inaugurated a new ‘Siddha Covid-care centre’ in Namakkal district.The centre, functioning at Excel educational institutions in Pallipalayam, has 60 beds currently and is inspired by a similar facility in Salem that was inaugurated earlier.The district siddha medical officer for Salem and Namakkal, Dr K Selvamurthy, told TOI that there has been a huge response for the Siddha centre currently functioning at Uthamacholapuram area in Salem district. “At our Salem centre, we have been treating 154 Covid cases, of them, 104 have got discharged,” he said.The Namakkal district Siddha centre will treat Covid patients with siddha medicines prescribed under ‘Aarogyam’ scheme introduced by the central and state governments. “Additionally, patients will be given herbal tea, sun bath, yoga practices to help them recover,” Selvamurthy said.  Namakkal district collector K Megraj and other officials participated in the event.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/siddha-care-centre-for-covid-patients/articleshow/77860135.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Coimbatore||Tiger mauls tribal woman to death||Udhagamandalam: A tiger killed a 55-year-old tribal woman at Kalallah area in the Masinagudi block of forest in Singara range falling under the buffer zone of the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR) on Monday.The victim, Gowri, a resident of the Kurumbarpadi tribal hamlet, was herding cattle along with her husband Madhan and three others when she was attacked.The body was handed over to the family after postmortem at the Gudalur Government Hospital.The incident happened inside the reserve forest, 2km from the forest boundary, deputy director of MTR buffer zone L C S Srikanth said. “Rs 50,000 was handed over to the family of the deceased as initial compensation. A camera trap will be placed in that area to monitor the movement of the big cat. A team comprising of forest staff has been formed to monitor the area,” he said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tiger-mauls-tribal-woman-to-death/articleshow/77860130.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Varanasi||Sero survey to start in UP from September 4||LUCKNOW: The Covid-19 sero prevalence survey is set to begin in Uttar Pradesh from September 4, almost three weeks ahead of schedule. Additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad said two rounds of training on September 1 and 3 would precede actual sample collection. “KGMU will moderate the survey which will cover 11 districts including Kanpur, Varanasi, Gorakhpur, Lucknow and Agra ,” he said. Many states like Delhi, Punjab and Maharashtra have released the outcomes of their sero surveys. “Sample collection will take place between September 4 and 6. As many as 1,080 samples will be collected from each district. This means 11,080 samples will be collected and transported to KGMU for testing,” Prasad said. All CMOs concerned have been asked to form 10 teams comprising four persons, led by a medical officer, in each district. The team will look for Covid-19 clusters wherein they will look for 24 people living in six households across four localities – in urban and rural areas – who can be roped in for study. Public health specialist and epidemiologist Dr Vishwajeet Kumar said: “Knowing that the majority of cases are asymptomatic and liable to be missed in RT-PCR testing, sero-prevalence surveys can be a significant step in the ongoing battle against the pandemic.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/sero-survey-to-start-in-state-from-sept-4/articleshow/77863020.cms||Shailvee Sharda
September 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Gandhi Hospital escape: Mastermind had just 9-month jail term left||HYDERABAD: Police in pursuit of four fugitives, who sneaked out of Gandhi Hospital’s prisoners’ ward, said Narasimha, the mastermind, was awaiting release in nine months. “We are unable to understand why he broke out of the prisoners’ ward. He had served 20 years and eight months as part of life sentence awarded in dacoity and rape case,” an officer probing the case said. The four jailbirds, all Covid-19 patients, had bent iron rods of a toilet window, climbed down using a rope made of bedsheets and escaped in the early hours of August 27. In 1999, Narsaiah and five of his associates were involved in the murder-cum-rape and dacoity case at a vineyard in Somaram village near Medchal. “The gang created panic among people by looting, murdering and raping women. They killed the caretaker of a vineyard after raping his wife and escaping with valuables,” an official, who was part of the 1999 case investigation said. A few days after the incident, three gang members were killed in an encounter. Narasimha was arrested a month later. In 2003, he was convicted and sentenced to life imprisonment. After the conviction, he was transferred from a local prison to Cherlapally central prison. His earlier attempt to break out of prisoners’ ward at a mental hospital was partially successful as police caught him within a few days after the escape. Prison officials said they used to regularly send Narasimha to Government Hospital for Mental Care, Eragadda, due to his aggressive behaviour. After he tested positive for Covid-19, Narasimha was referred to Gandhi Hospital on August 16. Javeed, the other fugitive came to Gandhi Hospital from Cherlapally prison on August 14, Soma Sundar on August 18 from the mental facility and Arbaz on August 25 from Cherlapally prison. “We are trying to see if the offenders stole bikes and fled from the city as Sundar was a mechanic and Javeed a chain snatcher-cum-bike thief,” a Chilakalguda police officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/gandhi-escape-mastermind-had-just-9-mnth-jail-term-left/articleshow/77860128.cms||Mahesh Buddi
September 1, 2020||Chandigarh||PU VC to decide if 5% fee waiver is for one semester or academic year||Chandigarh: Panjab University vice-chancellor professor Raj Kumar will take a final decision on whether 5% fee waiver given to students will be restricted to only this semester or will be applicable through the academic year. The fee committee proposed a 5% fee waiver across the board. This was decided in the meeting that was called on Monday by dean university of instructions R K Singla. He said after the approval from the VC, the students will be informed. During a meeting, the members proposed that this waiver can be done with a condition that relief will be given for this semester only considering the Covid-19 impact on jobs. In the next semester, full fee can be charged by the university. Sources also said proposal is also mooted by members that for this semester, the university should give 5% scholarships to all students from economically weaker section. At present, according to the rules, only 5% EWS students in self-finance courses can avail this scholarship. For disabled students, a 100% fee waiver was unanimously approved. Sources said members believed that with this relief the university will receive fees from majority of the students. Till date, only around 25% students have deposited fees. The members also agreed that from the Rs 5 crore earmarked for various scholarships, after disbursing the amount under all categories whatever is left with the university will be released as scholarships to those affected by Covid-19. The individual cases will be dealt by the dean student welfare office. Meanwhile, members of Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad held a protest outside the residence of vice-chancellor pushing for waiver of the components of the fee that students are not utilising — like parking, building maintenance and infrastructure development.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pu-vc-to-decide-if-5-fee-waiver-is-for-one-semester-or-academic-year/articleshow/77861064.cms||Aarti Kapur
September 1, 2020||Coimbatore||Makna elephant kills construction worker||Coimbatore: A construction worker died of alleged elephant attack at Kanuvai on the outskirts of the city on Monday morning. However, the forest department said the cause of the death could be ascertained only after the postmortem.The deceased was identified as V Nagaraj, 55, from Seeranaickenpalayam. He had separated from his family and was staying outside a temple at Kanuvai. On Sunday night, frontline staff members of the forest department advised Nagaraj not to sleep in the area as there was movement of a makna (tuskless male) elephant. However, Nagaraj slept outside the temple when the elephant stamped on him and left the place. When the temple priest came to open the temple around 4.30am, Nagaraj informed him that he was attacked by a wild elephant. Meanwhile, Coimbatore forest range officer Siva visited the temple premises on early Monday morning. “There were no injuries on Nagaraj’s body,” Siva said.Nagaraj was admitted at the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) where he died without responding to treatment. The forest department said postmortem will be conducted on Tuesday. The cause of the death will be known only after the postmortem, a forest department official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/makna-elephant-kills-construction-worker/articleshow/77860124.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Lucknow||Sero survey to start in UP from September 4||LUCKNOW: The Covid-19 sero prevalence survey is set to begin in Uttar Pradesh from September 4, almost three weeks ahead of schedule. Additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad said two rounds of training on September 1 and 3 would precede actual sample collection. “KGMU will moderate the survey which will cover 11 districts including Kanpur, Varanasi, Gorakhpur, Lucknow and Agra ,” he said. Many states like Delhi, Punjab and Maharashtra have released the outcomes of their sero surveys. “Sample collection will take place between September 4 and 6. As many as 1,080 samples will be collected from each district. This means 11,080 samples will be collected and transported to KGMU for testing,” Prasad said. All CMOs concerned have been asked to form 10 teams comprising four persons, led by a medical officer, in each district. The team will look for Covid-19 clusters wherein they will look for 24 people living in six households across four localities – in urban and rural areas – who can be roped in for study. Public health specialist and epidemiologist Dr Vishwajeet Kumar said: “Knowing that the majority of cases are asymptomatic and liable to be missed in RT-PCR testing, sero-prevalence surveys can be a significant step in the ongoing battle against the pandemic.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/sero-survey-to-start-in-state-from-sept-4/articleshow/77861058.cms||Shailvee Sharda
September 1, 2020||Chandigarh||JEE (main) at four centres from today||Chandigarh: The JEE (main) will be conducted in Chandigarh and Mohali from Tuesday. The test will be computer-based and conducted at five centres in the two cities. The National Testing agency (NTA) has scheduled the JEE from September 1 to 6 and NEET on September 13. As per details shared by NTA, for JEE (main), a total of 7,263 students will be appearing in Chandigarh and Mohali-based centres. For JEE in January, 8,254 candidates had appeared at four centres in Chandigarh and Mohali. The exam will be in two shifts. This time, along with centers for JEE (main), the number of shifts has been increased from eight to 12, and candidates per shift have been reduced. The NTA has issued advisories to the students and centers. Candidates will be seated in alternate seats in case of JEE (main). For ensuring social distancing outside the examination hall, the entry and exit of candidates has been staggered. Adequate arrangements have also been made outside the examination centres to enable candidates stand with adequate social distancing while waiting. Candidates have also been issued advisory guiding them about “dos and don’ts” for proper social distancing. Candidates are also required to adhere to guidelines and new process for social distancing and hygiene to ensure safety and health of their own and fellow candidates. For safety purposes, NTA strongly advises candidates not to bring anything other than permitted items. However, in case of unavoidable situation, there will be arrangement to store the bags at centres at owners’ risk. Before and after each shift seating area will be thoroughly sanitised – monitor, keyboard. mouse. webcam, desk and chair, all handles, staircase railing and lift buttons. Students will have to bring their own masks. Hand sanitisers will be available at entry and inside the exam venue at various places for candidates and centre staff to use.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/jee-main-at-four-centres-from-today/articleshow/77861074.cms||Kamini Mehta
September 1, 2020||Chennai||Contractors move HC against high cement prices in state||Chennai: Alleging that a cartel of cement manufacturers has increased cement prices artificially, a group of civic body contractors has moved the Madras high court seeking government’s intervention in fixing cement prices. The contractors contended that the cartel of private companies pushed up cement prices more than that of last year, adversely affecting the execution of various government projects. In their petition, the contractors also pointed out that among all south Indian states, the cement prices are the highest in Tamil Nadu. A division bench of Justice M M Sundresh and Justice R Hemalatha issued notice to the authorities, returnable by four weeks. According to the petition by A Ammasaiappan, treasurer of the Coimbatore Corporation Contractors Welfare Association, the public works department issues revised standard schedule of rates for cost of construction material every year, which are basic for the preparation of the estimate for every work. The petitioner pointed out that in the beginning of 2019, a bag of cement was sold at Rs 340 a bag, which became Rs 385 in July 2019. A comparative statement on the price of cement bags in July 2019 in Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Telengana and Tamil Nadu submitted by the petitioners showed that the price is higher by Rs 65 in Tamil Nadu than the other states. “Cement manufacturers in Tamil Nadu have entered an agreement among themselves and without any reason, they have increased the cost by 13.2% and now, the cement is sold at Rs 395 per bag,” the petition stated and contended that their business is hit due to the price hike, as they had entered into contracts with the government on the basis of the cost of the cement at the time of agreement. Since the PWD and industries department are the authorities to control price of cement, the contractors have moved the court, after several representations before the authorities themselves. Based on directions by the HC on an earlier petition, the industries department had directed the petitioners to approach the Competition Commission of India, but CCI is empowered to take action and penalise only if the manufacturers had entered into an agreement or formed a syndicate or an association for the sale price. The commission was not empowered to fix the price, the petition stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/contractors-move-hc-against-high-cement-prices-in-state/articleshow/77860175.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Mumbai||Advocates oppose bail plea of Chintan Upadhyay||MUMBAI: Borivli Advocates’ Bar Association submitted an intervention plea wanting to oppose the bail plea of artist Chintan Upadhyay in the double murder case of his estranged wife Hema Upadhyay and her lawyer Haresh Bhambhani. The plea said Bhambani was killed as he represented Hema and giving Chintan bail would amount to injustice to lawyers and their families. Chintan sought bail citing Covid-19. Wrapped in boxes, bodies of Hema and Bhambhani were recovered from a nullah in Kandivli on December 12, 2015. Chintan, Pradeep Rajbhar, Shivkumar Rajbhar and Vijay Rajbhar are on trial for double murder. The December 10, 2015, murders were allegedly carried out by absconding accused Vidyadhar Rajbhar, a fabrication workshop owner, along with aides, at Chintan’s behest. Vidyadhar ran a fabrication workshop in Kandivli and had worked for Chintan and Hema.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/advocates-oppose-bail-plea-of-chintan/articleshow/77861144.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Artificial ponds cleaned up across city ahead of visarjan||Hyderabad: The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) on Monday deployed workers at artificial ponds in the city to remove the idols from the ponds, clean the ponds and sanitise the area. To fight vector-borne diseases, the GHMC released Gambusia fish into a few ponds. The ponds near Kotha Cheruvu, ILD Lake, Durgam Cheruvu and Kondapur are a few of the ponds which were cleaned on Monday. “Along with the sanitation wing, we cleaned 24 artificial ponds across the city for Ganesh immersion,” said Ram Babu, GHMC chief entomologist. For each pond, the civic body pressed into service 13 workers. “On Tuesday, three workers will be deployed at each pond to remove the puja items and decorative materials from the pond,” said a GHMC official.  The ponds were built to reduce pollution in water bodies. “Arsenic, lead and mercury levels increase in the water bodies after immersion. People should immerse idols in artificial ponds instead of in lakes,” said Prof K Purushotham Reddy, an environmentalist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/artificial-ponds-cleaned-up-across-city-ahead-of-visarjan/articleshow/77860174.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Coimbatore||Low-key Onam celebrations amid coronavirus pandemic||Coimbatore: Onam celebrations turned out to be a low-key affair in the district on Monday for many due to the the Covid-19 scare.The district administration had declared a local holiday on the occasion of Onam, but unlike previous years, most people celebrated the festival at their homes. At the Ayyappan temple in Siddapudhur, which in normal times is visited by thousands of Malayalis on Onam, a floral carpet was readied for the festival, but visitors were restricted from entering the temple. Since morning, people were seen worshipping from the entrance of the temple. “Every year on Onam, we gather together for the celebration. We start the day by making rangolis out of flowers and have the Onasadhya together, before having cultural events in a grand manner. But this year, there wasn’t much celebration at all,” said K Rajapogal, president of the Coimbatore Malayali Samajam. A resident of Ganapathy, Ananya, said that the virus scare had dampened the festive spirit. “Every year, during the festival, either we would travel to Kerala to visit our relatives or they would visit us. But this year due to travel restrictions, we were forced to celebrate it all alone,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/low-key-onam-celebrations-amid-coronavirus-pandemic/articleshow/77860149.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Vadodara||Amul Dairy’s new board: Eight old guards, two BJP MLAs taste defeat||Vadodara/ Anand: The new board of Kaira District Co-operative Milk Producers Union Limited, popularly known as Amul Dairy, is a mix of old guards and new hands.The dairy board comprises of 13 elected representatives of which 12 members represent as many blocks that fall in dairy’s milk shed area in Anand, Kheda and Mahisagar districts. There is one seat in individual category representing lifetime member. Ahead of the polls, two candidates including dairy’s sitting chairman Ramsinh Parmar representing Thasra block along with Ranjit Patel, representing lifetime member, had got elected uncontested.Elections for the remaining 11 seats had witnessed 99.71 % voting on Saturday.On Monday, as counting was carried out, out of 11 seats, six old guards and five new faces got elected. Interestingly, two sitting MLAs of BJP who were contesting to represent Anand and Matar blocks, were defeated.Ironically, however, Ramsinh Parmar, who has joined the saffron fold since quite some time, had an upper-hand as 9 out of 11 candidates who were contesting the polls with truck as symbol, backed by Ramsinh, won the polls. These include leaders from both Congress and the BJP.At the Anand block, with 41 votes, Anand’s Congress MLA Kanti Sodha Parmar defeated Umreth’s BJP MLA Govind Parmar who got 37 out of 104 votes. At the Matar block, with 26 votes BJP MLA Kesrisinh Solanki was defeated by new entrant Sanjay Patel, who bagged 47 votes. Patel had contested assembly polls against Solanki but had got defeated then.Sitting director Dhiru Chavdalost in the poll fray as he bagged just 14 out of 87 votes in this block.These apart old guards registered victory for another term in Borsad, Khambhat, Balasinore, Kapadwanj, Mehmdavad and Nadiad blocks while new faces got elected in Petlad, Kathlal and Virpur blocks.Borsad’s Congress MLA Rajendrasinh Parmar, who is dairy’s sitting vice-chairman, once again tasted a smooth victory.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/amul-dairys-new-board-eight-old-guards-two-bjp-mlas-taste-defeat/articleshow/77858888.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Kolkata||State scales up beds for corona suspects||Kolkata: The government is scaling up high dependency units (HDU) beds in its non-Covid hospitals for the treatment of corona suspects waiting for test reports. Calcutta National Medical College and Hospital (CNMCH) will have 40 HDU beds in its SARI (severe acute respiratory illness) ward that has currently 100 beds. “Many patients are visiting hospitals with severe respiratory distress. We cannot admit them in Covid hospital till their corona status is confirmed. HDUs are required to treat these patients,” said a senior health official. RG Kar Medical College will also come up with a 60-bedded SARI ward that will have 10 HDU beds. This will be in addition to the existing 40-bedded SARI ward in the hospital for Covid patients. “The ventilators and other equipment for HDU beds have already arrived. These beds should become functional in next two or three days,” said a source at the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/state-scales-up-beds-for-corona-suspects/articleshow/77860207.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
September 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Four siblings held in auto driver’s murder case||Hyderabad: Rachakonda police on Monday, arrested four brothers in connection with the murder of an auto driver in Saroornagar. The accused, who are residents of Bhagathsingh Nagar in Saroornagar, were identified as Mohammed Ahmed (32), Mohammed Rahman (24), Mohammed Osman (23) and Mohammed Dasthagiri (19). According to police, the accused and auto driver Bathula Shiva Kumar Goud (33) belong to the same locality. On August 26, Shiva and his brother Sridhar Goud entered into an altercation with Mohammed Ahmed as the latter was creating nuisance late in the night. “Ahmed warned the duo of dire consequences. On August 27, he went to meet the victim, but Shiva was not at home. A little while later, Ahmed found Shiva and attacked him along with his brothers near the Pochamma temple. Shiva sustained internal injuries and was rushed to the hospital,” Saroornagar police said. The victim died on the wee hours of August 28. On Monday, the police team nabbed the four from their house.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/four-siblings-held-in-auto-drivers-murder-case/articleshow/77860209.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Lucknow||ISI agent paid UP man for spying||LUCKNOW: Gujarat-based ISI agent Rajakabhai Khumbhar, who was arrested by the National Investigation Agency from Mundra on Monday, has revealed he sent Rs 5,000 to a contact in UP’s Chandauli for passing sensitive information. Earlier this year, Military Intelligence (MI) unit in Lucknow had detected connections of a man from Chandauli, Mohammad Rashid, with Pakistan’s intelligence agency ISI and informed UP ATS about it. On January 19 ATS arrested Rashid from Chandauli. “It was found that Rashid was in touch with ISI and had also visited Karachi twice,” said an ATS officer. It also surfaced that Rashid was trained by ISI during his stay in Karachi. Rashid had confessed that he had forwarded photographs and videos of various sensitive establishments and events, including violence on BHU campus and anti-CAA/NRC protests, to his handlers. He had also helped his handlers in procuring two Indian WhatsApp numbers. “Rashid had received a gift packet from his two handlers in Karachi. He also received a payment of Rs 5,000 on July 24, 2019 from them,” an official said. Khumbhar had also transferred Rs 5,000 through an online wallet to the account of one Rizwan, who handed it to Rashid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/isi-agent-paid-up-man-for-spying/articleshow/77861065.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Mumbai||Consider Parsis’ plea for prayers, Bombay HC tells state||MUMBAI: Observing that both sides have to be reasonable, Bombay high court on Monday directed the state government to consider a representation by Bombay Parsi Panchayat to allow community members to offer annual Farvardegan prayers for the dead at Doongerwadi, Malabar Hill, on September 3. A bench of Justices Ramesh Dhanuka and Madhav Jamdar directed principal secretary (home department) Amitabh Gupta and disaster management department secretary Kishor Nimbalkar to hear petitioner, BPP trustee Viraf Mehta, and submit their decision with reasons to the court on September 2. Mehta’s petition sought exemption for a day, stating that Jains were allowed at three temples in Mumbai for Paryushan on two special days. His advocate Prakash Shah said there will be five open pavilions on 55 acres, each around 800-1,000 sq ft, and 20 persons will be allowed at a time for a 30-minute prayer between 7am-4.30pm. “We expect 500-600... not too much people,” said Shah, adding that BPP will take utmost care, follow social distancing and there will be no crowding. To the judge’s query, Shah replied that no representation was made to the state as it had refused permission for Jains and Muharram. Advocate-general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni said the Supreme Court, while allowing three Jain temples to open, had said it would not be a precedent. If prayers are to be held at one place in Mumbai, the state can have a favourable approach. There is no question of allowing festivities,” he added. Shah iterated it was only for one place in Mumbai. “There is a well where the last ceremony of deceased persons takes place. Only prayers will be held. It is not a festivity. Everybody will come to pray for their family members,” said Shah. He also said Mehta represents Parsis in Mumbai. “If SC can allow it for three Jain temples, the same principle can apply. I’m not saying allow it in whole of Mumbai,” he added. Additional solicitor-general Anil Singh said the state must keep in mind the Centre’s standard operating procedure on opening places of worship while considering the representation. “Centre has prohibited religious functions and gatherings,” Singh added. The judges directed the state to treat the petition as a representation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/consider-parsis-plea-for-prayers-bombay-hc-tells-state/articleshow/77861141.cms||Rosy Sequeira
September 1, 2020||Delhi||‘Hate’ content: Peace panel to summon Facebook officials||NEW DELHI: The peace and harmony committee of the assembly on Monday examined three more witnesses and decided to issue summons to Facebook officials. The committee, chaired by MLA Raghav Chadha, has received complaints against some Facebook officials for their alleged “deliberate inaction in containing inflammatory and hateful contents on their platform” and has examined a couple of witnesses. The complainants have accused Facebook of “turning a blind eye to mass manufacturing and propagation of vile, hateful communal content, which were not only in bad taste but also have potential to erupt violence and riot-like situations”. According to a statement, the committee unanimously stressed on the need for an independent investigation against Facebook “to ascertain the role(s) and complicity of alleged delinquent officials along with devious elements... to impute their alleged culpability in the alleged orchestration to attribute culpability of Facebook in Delhi riots”. In the statement, the committee also said the witnesses had drawn significant correlations with the recent Black Lives Matter Movement that had erupted after the murder of African-American George Floyd in Minneapolis in the US allegedly by a white police officer, Derek Chauvin. Facebook had played a major role in containing hate speech against the African-American community and applied its community guidelines in proper consonance, but had chosen to flagrantly ignore these guidelines and sheltered the offensive and hateful content in India, it stated. The committee had earlier called upon expert witnesses for technical know-how. It plans to resolve the matter at the earliest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hate-content-peace-panel-to-summon-fb-officials/articleshow/77860215.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Ameenpur case: Forensic report crucial||HYDERABAD: Weeks after the death of a minor girl who was allegedly raped in an orphanage in Ameenpur, police are still waiting for the toxicology and forensic reports. The preliminary post-mortem report says that the girl had died of a multiple organ failure. The investigation appears to have hit a wall even as the officials are pinning their hopes on the forensic and toxicology reports, said to be crucial in solving the case. “None of the other children residing in Maruthi Home have come forward with a similar allegation against the accused, who have been arrested. We have received the post-mortem report and are awaiting the FSL report, which is getting delayed,” said S Chandrashekar Reddy, SP, Sangareddy district.  The girl told her aunt about her ordeal months after the alleged assault and the Home keeps footage data for a maximum of a month or two. D Divya, commissioner, women and child welfare department (WCWD), said the high-power committee interviewed family members of the girl and the children at the orphanage. “The committee will soon submit its report to the department,” she said. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ameenpur-case-forensic-report-crucial/articleshow/77860199.cms||Aditi Mallick
September 1, 2020||Dehradun||15% of Mussoorie, surroundings highly susceptible to landslides: Study||Dehradun: Around 15% of Mussoorie and its surrounding areas is highly susceptible to landslides and 29% is at a moderate risk, a Landslide Susceptibility Mapping (LSM) study by scientists at Dehradun-based Wadia Institute of Himalayan Geology (WIHG), an autonomous institute under the Union ministry of science & technology, has revealed. A statement issued by the ministry said that the study found “ a dominant part of the areas falling under very high and high landslide susceptible zone lie in settlements like Bhataghat, George Everest House, Kempty Fall, Khattapani, Library road, Galogidhar, and Hathipaon, and are covered by highly fractured Krol limestone exhibiting slope of more than 60 degrees.” The study, which has been published in the Journal of Earth System Science (brought out by the Indian Academy of Sciences) was done on an around 84 square kilometer area in Mussoorie and surroundings, by Pratap Ram, a Phd Student of the institute under the supervision of Vikram Gupta, senior scientist of the institute. Talking to TOI, Gupta said that “landslides are natural in hilly regions of the Himalayas, but when they are coupled with relentless development activities, they become hazardous.” “A spate of development activities has taken place of late in hilly townships in the Himalayas. This has resulted in a greater number of landslides and related mass movement activities in the region. This study can initiate a much-needed large-scale landslide hazard, risk and vulnerability assessment (HRVA) of the hilly townships,” Gupta said. According to WIHG, the study was conducted using Geographic Information Systems (GIS) and high-resolution satellite imageries and explored “various possible causative factors of landslides in the study area including lithology, land use-land cover (LULC), slope, aspect, curvature, elevation, road-cut drainage, and lineament.”. “The accuracy of maps was verified by using Success Rate Curve (SRC) and Predication Rate Curve (PRC). The data of these maps indicates that there is a good correlation between different landslide-susceptible zones and the occurrence of landslides,” Gupta added. (With inputs from PTI)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/15-of-mussoorie-surroundings-highly-susceptible-to-landslides-study/articleshow/77857824.cms||Ishita Mishra
September 1, 2020||Chennai||PIL urges govt to take over, manage finances of pvt edu institutions||Chennai: A public interest writ petition filed in the Madras High court has urged the state government’s treasury to take over the finances of private educational institutions so that salaries could be disbursed to teachers and professors, besides keeping fee reasonable for students. A division bench of Justice M M Sundresh and Justice R Hemalatha issued notice to the authorities, returnable by four weeks. In his petition, Trichy-based activist K M Karthik wanted the state government to reduce the fee structures of private schools and colleges after a detailed audit by the income tax department. “Unfortunately in some private schools, the wages of teachers are as little as Rs 5,000 a month,” the petitioner stated. Stating that there is no legislation which specifies salary structure of teaching faculty in private educational institutions, he said teachers are left to the mercy of the managements for their salary. With the labour department staying away from monitoring and controlling management of institutions citing interim orders of courts, a majority of managements of private educational institutions under-paid the teachers for a long time. Noting that the income tax department had seized more than Rs 1,000 crore from just three chains of private educational institutions in the past six months, he said it is an example of how largescale malpractices were happening in the finances of private schools and colleges. There is no proper mechanism either to verify the earnings of private educational institutions through fees or the expenditure they incurred towards salaries, the PIL said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/pil-urges-govt-to-take-over-manage-finances-of-pvt-edu-institutions/articleshow/77860231.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Periphery areas add to city’s Covid load||Bhubaneswar: The capital city on Monday went past 10,000 Covid cases, meaning that at least one per cent of the city’s 10 lakh population has been infected by the virus. It is also the city with the most cases in the state. On Monday, the city added 404 cases, a slight dip from the record 515 it registered on Sunday. The capital now has 4,039 active cases from the 10,425 cases it has registered so far. On Monday, 273 more patients were discharged from the hospital. The ward-wise figure compiled by the Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation (BMC) till August 29 reveals that ward 27 has reported the highest 633 positive cases followed by ward 23 (325 cases). Wards 65 and 46 have reported 319 and 304 cases, respectively. Significantly, the four wards reporting high number of cases come under south-west zone of the BMC, which is in the city’s periphery areas. The localities such as IRC Village, Kalinga Vihar, Kalinga Studio area, Ghatikia, AMRI Hospital, Saradhapali slum, Dumduma (phase 1 to 4), Ex-military colony, Surya Nagar, Pichu Padia and other localities form the four wards of 27, 23, 46 and 65. The south-west zone, which has altogether 21 wards, has so far reported 3,489 Covid cases, 567 more than the south-east zone, housing government offices and quarters, private residential complexes and apartment blocks. The south-east zone with localities like Sahid Nagar, Acharya Vihar, Bomikhal, Jharpada, Laxmisagar, Satyanagar, Madhusudan Nagar, Unit-IV, Unit-V, government quarters of Unit-1, Unit-II and Unit-III, Ashok Nagar, Sriya complex, Bapuji Nagar, BJB Nagar, Airfield PS area, Bhimtangi and Gouri Nagar have reported 2922 cases till August 29. “The pattern of Covid positive cases in Bhubaneswar indicate that in localities where educated people live and where the houses are located in an organized manner, the case load is less. But the localities which are closer to market areas, slums and are densely populated, have reported more cases. So, it is primarily up to the residents of the capital city, their conduct and discipline that will help check the virus,” said doctor Manoj Sahu. The north zone, which is known for several big slums and the areas like Jayadev Vihar to Patia on one side and Rasulgarh to Pahala on the other, has reported the lion’s share of positive cases. “Our focus is now the entire Bhubaneswar. Since every ward has reported positive cases, active surveillance is going on in slums as well as non-slum areas,” said a BMC officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/periphery-areas-add-to-citys-covid-load/articleshow/77858895.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Chandigarh||More time given for offline school admissions||Chandigarh: Almost through with the online admissions process, the UT education department has decided to continue with the offline admissions for pre-nursery to Class VIII for some more time. Officials said the decision has been taken keeping in mind those students’ families, who have no access to computers, and those who missed the first opportunity to apply. Also, this will help in filling the vacant seats. A total of 10,752 forms had been received against 17,000 seats that are vacant in schools under 20 clusters, with every cluster having around six government schools. District education officer (DEO) Harbir Singh Anand said, “We have asked the schools to continue accepting the forms being submitted by the parents for admission to these classes even after the admission process ends.” Admission has already been given to the students, who were selected for the pre-nursery and nursery classes. Till August 28, students of primary classes, i.e. classes I to V, were allocated seats after scrutinising the forms submitted by students and till September 5, they will be admitted to the respective schools. Till Monday, students who had applied for upper primary classes, i.e. classes VI to VIII, were allocated seats and will be admitted to schools between September 7 and 11. Parents have been directed to contact their respective school office regarding admission formalities. The schedule for admissions has also been mentioned with the list. The cluster schools have also issued guidelines for the parents. It is for the first time that online admissions for pre-nursery to Class VIII are being conducted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/more-time-given-for-offline-school-admissions/articleshow/77861078.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Chandigarh||HC to hear petition challenging quashing of law course exam||Chandigarh: The Punjab and Haryana high court would on Tuesday hear a petition challenging the quashing of the online admission scheduled for the five-year integrated law course of Panjab University (PU). The petition sought to direct the university to conduct the written examination in terms of prospectus/advertisement published at the first instance and by adopting standard operating procedure issued by the University Grants Commission (UGC). The petitioner has challenged a circular dated August 11 and online admission schedule that was uploaded on university website vide which the entrance examination for the course was scrapped. The petition argued that PU has taken away right to fair competition through entrance examination. It was argued that not holding the written entrance examination during the coronavirus pandemic is an illegal and arbitrary excuse. The petition said for the large number of professional courses, the university is holding examinations, including LLB three-year course. It was argued that schools across India are conducting national level entrance test commonly known as CLAT for admissions at 203 locations on September 7.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hc-to-hear-petition-challenging-quashing-of-law-course-exam/articleshow/77861077.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad all set to bid adieu to Ganesha||HYDERABAD: Over 15,000 police personnel will be deployed across the city in the three police commissionerates for Ganesh immersion bandobust. It is estimated that over 4,000 idols will be immersed in Hussainsagar on Tuesday. Hyderabad police commissioner Anjani Kumar on Monday held a review meeting with traffic, GHMC, HMWS&SB, revenue, medical & health, RTC, TSSPDCL, RTA, fire and EMRI officials at the commissionerate at Basheerbagh about the arrangements for Ganesh idol immersion procession on Tuesday. Municipal workers have been asked to clear the debris and also stones on the procession routes and HMWS&SB officials were directed to ensure that no water logging occurs on the main roads due to sewerage overflow at certain spots. RTC officials were given specific routes in the city to ply inter-district bus services and there would not be any special city bus services operating on the immersion day. The Hyderabad police chief spoke to media personnel at Tank Bund on Monday evening and informed that so far over 30,000 Ganesh idols of all sizes have been immersed in Hussainsagar, Saroornagar lake in Rachakonda, IDL Tank in Cyberabad and other lakes in the city. “On the last day, we expect over 4000 idols will be immersed in Hussainsagar. There are 165 idols of above five feet height and 1,213 idols between three to five feet height. There are 1,842 idols which are below three feet height. Put together, on Tuesday, we believe that about 4,000 idols will be immersed in Hussainsagar,” Anjani Kumar added. Apart from 21 mobile cranes, 17 static cranes would also be deployed at Tank Bund, NTR Marg and Children’s Park around Hussainsagar. Security has been beefed up at communally-sensitive places and places of worship. A senior police official said stringent legal action would be initiated if anyone resorts to provocative speeches or attempts to disturb communal harmony. “Over 15,000 cops from law and order, traffic, Special Branch, Telangana State Special Police, Octopus, City Security Wing and Armed Reserve will be deployed for immersion bandobust. Devotees should take all precautions, including wear masks and follow social distancing norms in view of the pandemic and contact local police if they need any help,” Anjani Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/15k-cops-for-ganesh-immersion-bandobust/articleshow/77860228.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Delhi||Can’t reduce interest rate for Amrapali: SBI Capital||NEW DELHI: With the SBI Capital insisting on 12% interest on funds to be released for stalled Amrapali projects despite the Supreme Court’s persuasion to make an exception, the court on Monday asked the Centre to intervene to reduce the interest rate. Appearing before a bench of Justices Arun Mishra and U U Lalit, SBI’s counsel Harish Salve that it was not “feasible” to reduce the rate of interest. He said 12% interest is normal as it is a case of risk investment. The bench, however, said the bank should not treat it as a venture to make profit as 12% interest is too high and the SBI Cap will get Rs 180 crore over five years as interest. But SBI Cap submitted that it was difficult to reduce the rate. The court, thereafter, asked Solicitor General Tushar Mehta to seek instructions from the finance ministry whether the rate could be reduced and brief it on Tuesday. The court said it will pass an order if the government and SBI Cap express unwillingness to reduce interest rate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cant-reduce-interest-rate-for-amrapali-sbi-capital/articleshow/77860236.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Chandigarh||Can’t accept schools’ proposal on fee collection: Chandigarh administration to high court||CHANDIGARH: The Chandigarh administration has decided to not accept the proposal of Independent School Association on collection of fees from students and stands by its order to give breather to parents, the UT told the Punjab and Haryana high court on Monday. The Chandigarh administration’s submission came during a hearing on the petition filed by the private schools seeking a ruling to quash the UT order, which directs the private schools to reschedule the last date to deposit fees and funds for session 2020-21 and also fix the last date by giving at least one month’s time to the parents after the reopening of schools. The matter would come up for hearing next on September 14. Earlier, the Punjab and Haryana high court had in an order clearly stated that no private school could charge more than the tuition fee. The HC had also directed the private schools to not pass any adverse order against the children, in case parents are not able to pay the school fees. The private schools had argued that citing the HC order, many parents have stopped paying school fees, creating financial problems for them. All parents could not be assumed to be facing financial problems, but even those who were paying school fee earlier stopped doing so after the court order, they stated. They had requested the HC to allow them to collect school fees, after which the court had directed them to discuss the matter with the UT administration. Stating that reopening of schools is uncertain while they have to disburse the salary of staff. But, due to non-payment of fees they are running out of funds. They also submitted that the schools have made huge investment in technological platforms, so that online classes keep on running and students do not suffer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cant-accept-schools-proposal-on-fee-collection-ut-to-hc/articleshow/77861084.cms||Neha Sharma
September 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Cops issue traffic advisory||Hyderabad: In order to ensure smooth flow of Ganesh immersion processions on September 1, the Hyderabad traffic police have imposed traffic restrictions throughout the procession route Routes of Ganesh Idols carrying vehicles: --No traffic other than the idols carrying vehicles will be allowed to move on the following routes between (September 1) Tuesday 9 am and (September 2) Wednesday 8 am. The traffic restrictions may be extended if the situation demands --The vehicles carrying Ganesh idols for immersion will start from Falaknuma Traffic Police station limits and will pass through Aliabad - Nagulchinta- Charmina-Madina-Afzalgunj-straight towards Gowliguda Chaman Road-Central Gurudwara Gowliguda-Putlibowli-Jambagh-MJ Market-Abids-Basheerbagh-Liberty-Ambedkar Statue towards upper Tank bund or NTR Marg. --The vehicle carrying idols from Secunderabad area will cross RP Road - MG Road - Karbala Maidan – Kawadiguda - Musheerabad Crossroads - RTC Crossroads - Narayanaguda Crossroads - Himayathnagar ‘Y’ Junction and at Liberty Junction. Idols coming from Chilkalguda Crossroads Joins Musheerabad crossroads via Gandhi Hospital. --The idols carrying vehicles from East Zone will move towards Uppal – Ramanthapur - Junction Amberpet – Shivam Road - NCC at OU - Durga Bai Deshmukh Hospital – Hindi Mahavidyalaya Crossroads – Fever Hospital – Barkathpura Crossroads – Narayanaguda Crossroads and joins the vehicles carrying idols at RTC Crossroads. --Idols from Dilsukhnagar and idols coming from IS Sadan will take the route from Saidabad – Chanchalguda to join at Nalgonda Crossroads and some Big Idols proceeds towards Amberpet via Moosarambagh. --Idols coming from Tarnaka side proceed through Osmania University Distance Education Road, Adikmet join at Fever Hospital via Vidyanagar. --Traffic going towards Lalapet from Tarnaka will not be allowed on Flyover and they may take alternative routes. --The vehicles carrying idols movement from Tolichowki, Rethibowli and Mehdipatnam side will pass through Masab Tank, Ayodhya Junction – Nirankari Bhavan – Old PS Saifabad – Iqbal Minar to NTR Marg. --The idols coming from Erragadda passes through SR Nagar – Ameerpet – Panjagutta – VV Statue will join the idols at Nirankari Bhavan and will proceed towards NTR Marg. --Idols coming from Tappachabutra and Asifnagar will move towards Sitarambagh – Boiguda Kaman – Goshamahal Baradari - Alaska - MJ Market and proceeds towards Abids – Basheerbagh – Liberty – Ambedkar Statue - Upper Tank bund or NTR Marg. -General Traffic will not be allowed towards Safilguda Tank from Vinayak Nagar crossroad, Anandbagh crossroad and Safilguda Railway station. -Main Traffic diversion points : • HYDERABAD SOUTH: Keshavagiri, Mahaboobnagar Crossroads, Engine Bowli, Nagul Chintha, Himmathpura, Hari Bowli, Asra Hospital, Mogulpura, Lakkad Kote, Madina Crossroads, MJ Bridge, Dar Ul Shifa Crossroads, City College. • HYDERABAD EAST: Nayapul Crossroads, SJ Rotary, Rangmahal Junction, Chaderghat Junction, Andhra Bank Junction, Crown Café Crossroads – Amberpet Green Bawarchi (Royal Juice corner) • HYDERABAD WEST: Tope Khana Mosque, Alaska Hotel Junction, Osmangunj Sanker Bagh and Seena Hotel, Ajantha Gate near Exhibition Grounds, Abkari Lane, Taj Island, Barthan Bazar, AR Petrol Pump at KLK Building. • HYDERABAD CENTRAL: Chapel Road Entry, Gadwal Centre at GPO, Shalimar Theatre, Gun foundry, Skyline road entry, Bharath Scouts & Guides Junction in Domalguda, Kalanjali at Control Room, Liberty Junction, MCH Office Y junction, BRK Bhavan junction near Telugu Thalli Junction, Iqbal Minar, Ravindra Bharathi, Dwaraka Hotel Junction, Khairatabad Junction (Visweswaraiah Statue), Children’s Park, Mariott Hotel junction, Kawadiguda Junction, Musheeerabad Crossroads, RTC Crossroads, Katta Maisamma Temple at Lower Tank Bund, Indira Park Junction. • HYDERABAD NORTH (Secunderabad ): Traffic will not be allowed to enter the Necklace Road and Upper Tank Bund from Karbala Maidan, Buddha Bhavan, Sailing Club and Nallagutta Junction. Traffic restriction and diversion: - The restriction will be implemented from September 1, 6 am to September 2 until completion of immersion at CTO, YMCA, Paradise Crossroads, Patny Crossroads, Bata Crossroads, Adavaiah Crossroads, Ghans Mandi Crossroads -Movements of vehicles other than those carrying Ganesh Idols will be restricted and diverted at many points along the route and at other points adjoining the routes of other roads. -The vehicles pass from West to East or vice versa, only from Basheerbagh Junction. -Commuters are advised to use the Ring Road and Begumpet area to avoid diversions. All the side roads leading to the main road will be barricaded. - All people coming from RGI Airport or going towards the RGI Airport should avoid using Necklace Road, NTR Marg, Tank Bund Road and the immersion procession routes. Similarly, people going or coming from Railway station, Bus stand should also avoid the routes. - Citizens are requested to contact Helplines numbers for guidance in connection with the restrictions---040-27852482, 9490 598 985, 9010203626 LORRIES MOVEMENT: Exit route for empty trucks after the immersion: -After immersion on the NTR Marg, the empty vehicles should proceed to their destination via Necklace Rotary - Khairtabad flyover - V.V.Statue - KCP and onwards. They will not be allowed to return towards Telugu Talli statue or Mint Compound road. -After immersion on the Upper Tank Bund, the empty vehicles should proceed towards Children’s Park – DBR Mills - Kawadiguda – Musheerabad or towards Indira Park – Ashok Nagar – Vidya Nagar. No vehicle shall go towards the Bible House Rail over Bridge. -After immersion of Ganesh idols, exit all empty vehicles should proceed towards Karmanghat Side or Saroornagar Post office side only. Restriction on inter-state/district lorries -Lorries are not allowed to enter the Hyderabad City on the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday. Their movement will be terminated on the outskirts of the city during the final day of the Ganesh Immersion process. - No vehicles will be allowed to Saroornagar Tank via Saroornagar Post office side and Karmanghat Side and the both routes will be kept one way from 6 am on September 1 to 8 am on September 2. RTC BUSES MOVEMENT: Inter State/District Buses to reach the MGBS -buses coming from Rajeev Rahadari and NH-7 will move via JBS –YMCA -Sangeet crossroads- Tarnaka - Jamia Osmania flyover - Nimboliadda – Chaderghat. -Buses coming from Bangalore will move via Aramgarh crossroads - Chandrayangutta Crossroads - I.S.Sadan - Nalgonda Crossroads – Chaderghat. -Buses coming from Mumbai/NH 9 will go via Godrej ‘Y’ Junction - Narsapur Crossroads – Bowenpally – JBS – YMCA – Sangeeth - Tarnaka, Jamia Osmania fly over – Adikmet – Nimboliadda. -The movements of the above Inter State/District buses will not be permitted from 6am on September 1 to 10 am on September 2. -The TSRTC authorities will provide alternative routes as per convenience as per the traffic restriction imposed. PRIVATE BUSES: -Private Buses should operate from their locations outside the City and will not be allowed to enter the city from 8am on September 1 to 10 am on September 2.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cops-issue-traffic-advisory/articleshow/77860233.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Thane||Kalyan RPF man saves woman on railway tracks||KALYAN: Railway Protection Force (RPF) personnel saved a 54-year-old woman who jumped onto the tracks when an Express train was approaching at 9.30am on Sunday. Jitendra Yadav (32), a constable with Kalyan RPF who was on patrol duty, noticed the woman as Pushpak Express was approaching. Yadav told her to move away and signalled to the motorman of the train, which was slow as it had just left Kalyan station. Yadav told TOI he had to forcefully take her away. Yadav said other staff to came to the spot and arranged for a stretcher and admitted her to a hospital as she suffered minor injuries. The woman told RPF she had family problems. GRP personnel alerted her family and warned them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/kalyan-rpf-man-saves-woman-on-rly-tracks/articleshow/77861140.cms||Pradeep Gupta
September 1, 2020||Mangaluru||MHA directive nixes plans of varsities to hold offline revision classes||Mangaluru: Following a fresh guideline from the ministry of home affairs (MHA), the univesrities in the state have dropped plans to conduct offline revision classes for the final semester under-graduate/post-graduate students starting September 1. The return to teaching in brick and mortar format prior to the examination, validity of which the Supreme Court upheld following the UGC directive, was seen as a means to reassure students at a crucial juncture in their careers. Clarifying on implications of MHA directive, PL Dharma, registrar (evaluation), Mangalore University, told TOI that the initial plan as approved by the Karnataka State Higher Education Council was to hold revision classes from September 1 to 12 for the examinations scheduled from September 16. “MHA directive has said strict no to offline classes in the current pandemic scenario and directed universities, institutions to go ahead with online classes,” he said. However, students may come to their respective campuses with prior permission from their principals and meet lecturers for guidance and clarity on topics in syllabus, he said. In doing so, students compulsorily have to adhere to Covid-19 guidelines including wearing a mask and observing social distancing. Dharma said Mangalore University has clearly intimated to students that if they are not able to perform well in the examination amidst the prevalent circumstances, they are at liberty to reject the results and appear afresh when re-examinations are held. Candidates availing this option need not pay examination fees again and it will be treated as a fresh attempt and the same will be reflected in their marks card. To complaints in certain quarters about colleges not having been able to complete teaching of the syllabus, Dharma, while acknowledging receipt of the same said the university has taken the word of principals on this issue. “We have not changed the exam pattern on this singular belief that colleges have finished up to 90% of their syllabus,” he said, adding the university is fully geared to conduct the examinations that will end sometime mid-October.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/mha-directive-nixes-plans-of-varsities-to-hold-offline-revision-classes/articleshow/77858491.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
September 1, 2020||Goa||IIT: Melauli locals threaten to lock panchayat office||Valpoi: Melauli residents of took out a morcha to the Guleli panchayat office on Monday demanding that the civic body support them in their protest against the proposed IIT project in the village. The villagers submitted a memorandum to the panchayat asking for their demands to be forwarded to the government. The villagers want to stop infringement on the land belonging to the indigenous communities of Melauli. Co-convener of Melauli Panchkroshi Gram Bachav Andolan, Shubham Shivolkar said, “The villagers have elected the panchayat members and as such they are duty bound to support us. We have demanded that the panchayat hold a gram sabha at the earliest and get the government officials concerned to attend it.” The panchayat secretary assured villagers of discussing the issue with officials concerned and reverting to them with a reply by Thursday. “If the panchayat fails to give a positive reply on September 3, the villagers will lock the panchayat office. We will not allow any of the panchayat members and officials to step inside the office,” convener of Melauli Panchkroshi Gram Bachav Andolan, Shashikant Savordekar said. He said that the panchayat will be solely responsible in case of any untoward incident on Thursday. Guleli sarpanch Apurva Chari said the panchayat does not have any control over the project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/iit-melauli-locals-threaten-to-lock-panchayat-office/articleshow/77860239.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Bengaluru||BBMP claims only 459 potholes dot 1,320km roads; citizens perplexed||BENGALURU: Only 459 potholes can be seen on Bengaluru’s arterial and sub-arterial roads spanning 1,320km, according to the BBMP data accessed by TOI. Citizens, however, are baffled by the Palike’s claim. The city has a 14,000km road network, which includes arterial, major and ward roads. As per the data, east zone fares the worst with 167 potholes, followed by west with 97. Mahadevapura, where the dismal state of streets has been the talk of the town for a couple of years now, has only 78 potholes. When there are hardly any roads, the question of potholes does not arise, quipped Vishnu Prasad, member of Save Bellandur, a citizen welfare group. “Bellandur has more than 200km of roads which have been dug up for various developmental purposes and have not been fixed for nearly a year now. The pandemic is another excuse for the delay,” he said. Many parts of Kasavanahalli and Junnasandra have roads which cave in at the slightest hint of rain, Prasad added. The 78 potholes are on 68 arterial and sub-arterial roads spanning 240km in Mahadevapura, show the data. “There are more potholes than roads. Engineers don’t pay heed to our demands. They take pride in filling up potholes, while there are hardly any roads in the locality. It’s shocking that the statistics mention 68 roads,” said a resident of Mahadevapura, on condition of anonymity. Abdul Aleem, co-founder of Changemakers of Kanakapura Road, said, “BBMP spends a huge amount in the name of fixing potholes but it only create patches, which cause bumpy rides.” He added: “The agency should work towards fixing an entire road and also preventing waterlogging. The 80ft road near Uttarahalli and Kanakapura needs immediate attention.” Roads in Horamavu have been in a pathetic condition for the past few years, and residents seem to have resigned to their fate. “The underground pipe-laying work seems to be a never-ending process,” said Ghanshyam AP, a resident of Horamavu. Senior BBMP officials blamed BWSSB for the sorry state of roads.“We would have laid new roads, but BWSSB is yet to finish work. Once it’s over, we will get started,” said a senior BBMP official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bbmp-claims-only-459-potholes-dot-1320km-roads-citizens-perplexed/articleshow/77859445.cms||Nithya Mandyam
September 1, 2020||Delhi||Jawaharlal Nehru University campus shut till September 30, students protest||NEW DELHI: While Jawaharlal Nehru University Students’ Union (JNUSU) has been demanding for a phased return of students, the JNU administration on Monday announced that the university would remain shut till September 30. “In continuation of our first order of March 19 and the subsequent notifications in the months of April, May, June and July, the university shall remain shut till the end of September. Students are required to stay back where they are and should not return to the campus until further notice. During this intervening period, the university and administration work will continue as per the guidelines issued on August 24,” stated the notification. JNUSU has, however, opposed this notification. JNUSU president Aishe Ghosh told TOI that “the JNU administration cannot stop students from coming back when the ministry of home affairs has already said that PhD students can return for their research work. It is also unethical.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/jnu-campus-shut-till-sept-30-students-protest/articleshow/77860242.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Bengaluru||RGUHS pharma exams in September; students unhappy||BENGALURU: Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences has decided to go ahead with pharma exams as per schedule even as many of its students are protesting and launched a campaign on Twitter. Most pharma students said it is unfair that they are being forced to appear for the exams even as those for their peers in medical and dental streams have been postponed till November. The final-year Pharm-D exams will start on September 8, while those for dental and medical students will begin on November 19. “Are we not humans like they are? Why have we been given so little time to prepare amid the mental stress of the pandemic while others can wait till November? Why are we forced to write the exams during the peak of Covid-19,” a student asked. The student, who is in final-year Pharm-D, claimed the university has asked them to submit a ‘parent’s permission letter’, which says his/her parent has no objection and will take full responsibility to send their son/daughter to attend the exams in September. “It is ridiculous that they (university) are not even taking responsibility. What if we are infected? Who will bear the treatment expenses?” she asked, adding that online exams should have been conducted. The students have started a Twitter hashtag, #StudentsLivesMatter, opposing the early examinations. A foreign student claimed their principal even asked them to sign the ‘permission letter’ themselves. “The rule is applicable to foreign as well as students from other states. They have asked us to sign it ourselves. It shows there is no seriousness on their part,” she said, adding that as medical students they know the risks involved and have written several letters to their principals, VC and teachers. “I live so far away from my country. Who will take care of me if I am infected while writing the examination?” the student said, adding that her college is asking students to get rapid antigen tests done for Covid-19 and get a doctor’s certificate before writing the exams. RGUHS vice-chancellor Dr S Sacchidanand said the exams are being conducted for the well-being and future of students. “It is also a message to students to start facing Covid and live with it. We know how to keep ourselves safe now; we know the precautions that should be taken. Before pharma, we also conducted exams for other streams like physiotherapy,” the VC said. He, however, denied the university has asked students to submit ‘permission letters’, saying, “If anyone is doing it, that is wrong”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/rguhs-pharma-exams-in-sept-students-unhappy/articleshow/77859577.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Plasma therapy has its limitations too||Visakhapatnam: The growing demand for plasma notwithstanding, both the World Health Organisation (WHO) as well as the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) have raised doubts over effectiveness of using plasma of a recovered patient in Covid-19 treatment. As per medical experts, it is not a fool-proof therapy and may work in only about 10 to 15 % of the cases. Not all plasma can be utilised nor is every recovered patient eligible to donate plasma. However, there are no negative or side-effects of plasma donation on the recipient. Explaining the challenges in plasma therapy, Dr Malladi Sarma, professor of pathology at NRI Medical College, said while there is no harm in donating plasma and it may cause a positive response in the recipient, the success rate is still low because of two main reasons. “Firstly, it is due to the insufficient quantity of antibodies transfused in the recipient. Enough antibodies may not be generated in a mild or moderately symptomatic patient who has recovered. So plasma pool from at least 10-15 recovered and suitable patients (each donating a unit/350 ml) will be required for just one critical Covid-19 patient’s therapy,” Sarma said. “Secondly, many patients develop respiratory complications despite low viral load due to hypersensitive allergic response of the patient towards the virus. In such patients, even though antibodies of a plasma donor may kill the virus, it cannot bring down the hypersensitivity and the plasma therapy will not be a success due to the patient’s own response to the virus,” the doctor added. — Sulogna Mehta||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/plasma-therapy-has-its-limitations-too/articleshow/77878513.cms||Sulogna Mehta
September 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Illegal sale of plasma on the rise across state||Visakhapatnam: The growing demand for plasma from recovered Covid-19 patients seems to be leading to illegal sale of plasma in many parts of the state, including in Visakhapatnam. In many cases, some ‘plasma coordinators’ whose contacts are widely shared on social media, are asking for as much as Rs 50,000 for two units of plasma by promising families that they will bring in donors from Hyderabad and other cities. One Vijay Anand Satpathy was searching for plasma donors in the city for an ICU patient with B+ blood type when he came across some numbers on the social media. “I got a phone call from a number whom I assumed to be a donor or coordinator. The man, who did not pronounce his name clearly, demanded Rs 50,000 to procure two units of plasma. He said others were charging even more and that there is scarcity of plasma. I know it’s illegal to procure plasma, so I blocked the number as he kept called back,” he said. TOI, too, contacted one such number on the pretext of purchasing O+ plasma for a patient. The call was answered by a person claiming to be a resident of Peda Waltair who said that it was a paid service and that each unit will costs Rs 25,000. “As many of us have lost jobs or have faced salary cuts, we have taken up a side business of supplying plasma and arranging donors. We have to fly in donors from Hyderabad and other cities, arrange for their food, accommodation and local transport for which we need the money,” said the supplier, who goes by the name ‘King of the Smart’ on social media. “The donor will be taken to a private lab for extraction of the plasma. You can pay after the plasma is procured. Recovered Covid-19 patients do not easily come out to donate due to which there is a scarcity,” the plasma ‘supplier’ added. As per Indian Penal Code (IPC), illegal procurement of plasma is a punishable offence under section 19 of Transplantation of Human Organs and Tissues Act, 1994, and can incur both imprisonment and fine. “Purchase and sale of human organs, including blood and components like plasma, is illegal and can incur imprisonment between two to seven years and fines ranging from Rs 10,000 to Rs 20,000. Whoever offers to supply or makes payments can also be punished,” senior advocate Kuppili Muralidhar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/illegal-sale-of-plasma-on-the-rise-across-state/articleshow/77878492.cms||Sulogna Mehta
September 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Govt to hire 1.3k ambulances to handle rising cases||Vijayawada: The government has decided to hire 1,350 private ambulances to handle the increasing number of Covid-19 cases in the state. The health department has been directed to initiate the process of hiring the ambulances and place them at the disposal of district collectors. Most of these ambulances would be positioned at the mandal headquarters as a growing number of cases are being reported from the rural parts of the state. This is in addition to the 1,108 ambulances which were acquired by the government last month. They have been categorised as 108 emergency vehicles and 104 mobile clinic vehicles, and are functioning in the mandal headquarters and villages. The 1,350 private ambulances would mostly be engaged in transporting patients to Covid-19 care centres and back home after treatment. At least two ambulances per mandal would be placed at the disposal of the district collectors. Some bigger mandals may be given five to six ambulances depending on the requirement. The collectors have been authorised to decide on the number of ambulances to be hired for their respective districts. The government has already directed health workers, village volunteers and village secretariat staff to keep a strict vigil on Covid-19 cases in their respective areas. Doctors at the primary health centres in the mandals too have been asked to interact with health workers in the villages for tests and new cases. “We already have 1,108 ambulances. However, due to the increased workload and to decentralize things further, the districts have been instructed to hire at least two additional ambulances per mandal exclusively for transportation of non-critical Covid-19 patients to the nearest treatment centres. While the minimum requirement is two ambulances per mandal, there is no upper limit. District collectors have been authorised to hire more vehicles as per requirement,” said Katamaneni Bhaskar, commissioner, health and family welfare.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/govt-to-hire-1-3k-ambulances-to-handle-rising-cases/articleshow/77878285.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Mangaluru||Spurt in impersonation on social media||Mangaluru: Recently, a well-known retired English professor’s fake Instagram profile was created by conmen, who after adding people, started demanding financial assistance from them. The cases of hacking into social media accounts or creating fake accounts to impersonate someone, have witnessed a spurt in recent times. Well-known people, civil servants and businessmen are the targets of these conmen. The retired professor, after learning about the the same, posted on Facebook about a fake profile being created in his name. “Dear friends… In case you receive any message asking for financial assistance, please report the number,” he said in a post. An expatriate said that conmen created a fake Facebook profile of him, and after adding contacts, they started asking for money. “The person who created my fake profile, after adding people known to me, told them that I am having financial issues and required help. Some did send money to the scamsters, without crosschecking and one person, who grew suspicious, reported it to me. I was able to stop it,” he said. A cyber police personnel said that the same scam is also taking place through WhatsApp. The scamsters obtain the target’s entire contact list and also some of his photos. Later, they create a WhatsApp account and send messages to the contact, stating that the individual is in trouble and needs financial assistance. Some people without realising it is a scam, send money, thinking that it is a real account. Ananth Prabhu G, a cyber law and security expert, posted on Facebook that accounts of many government officials are getting hacked, especially on Facebook and Facebook messenger. After hacking their accounts, the hackers message the contacts, asking them for Rs 1,000 to Rs 5,000. Many have sent money, believing that the government official is in trouble.” How to stop it? # Enable two factor authentication by going to settings. Hacking such accounts is hard. # Change password to minimum 10 characters with upper case, lower case, number and symbols. # If you receive any messages requesting for money, call the concerned to cross verify. # Put a status on your Facebook wall about hacking of profiles, so that hackers cannot con the innocent. # In case an account is hacked, try to recover password immediately. If it doesn’t work, inform the service provider and ask minimum 100 friends to report the profile.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/spurt-in-impersonation-on-social-media/articleshow/77857892.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Vadodara||Head constable dies of Covid in Vadodara||Vadodara: A head constable lost battle with Covid-19 on Monday in Vadodara city. He was the first corona warrior to succumb to the deadly virus.Govind Ishawar Rana head constable with motor transport (MT) division of city police was admitted to the Jupiter Hospital in the Atladara area where he breathed his last on Monday afternoon. Rana was involved in duties at the police headquarters and even driving vehicles during the pandemic.He had started feeling unwell on August 24 and got himself tested at a health centre. “While his test turned out to be negative, his condition was deteriorating and oxygen saturation level was going down,” said his nephew Kamlesh Rana.On August 26, he was rushed to a private hospital in the Atladara. He was tested for Covid-19 again at the hospital and the reports turned out to be positive. Kamlesh said that the late policeman was also suffering from diabetes and hypertension. The city police gave Rana a guard of honour at the hospital itself. He was cremated as per Covid-19 protocols with only a limited number of relatives joining his last journey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/head-constable-dies-of-covid-in-vadodara/articleshow/77858941.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Classes on TV to begin today||The education department of Monday released online schedule of digital classes, which are scheduled to begin from Tuesday. On September 1, students from class 6 to class 8 will be taught two subjects each through TSAT channel between 10 am and 4:30 pm. Schedule for digital classes through TSAT Time Class Subject 10.00 am X Telugu 10.30 am X Physical Science 12.00 pm VII Telugu 12.30 pm VII Maths 2.00 pm VI Telugu 2.30 pm VI Maths 3.00 pm VIII Telugu 3.30 pm VIII Maths 4.00 pm IX Telugu 4.30 pm IX Physical Science Schedule for digital classes through TSAT Time Class Subject 10.30 am III Telugu 11.00 am IV Maths 11:30 am X Maths 12:01 pm IX Maths 12:26 pm VIII Physical science||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/classes-on-tv-to-begin-today/articleshow/77860240.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Nagpur||Chandrapur MLA, Nagpur MLC among many VIPs Covid positive||Nagpur: Chandrapur MLA Kishor Jorgewar, Nagpur’s MLC Jogendra Kawade and many VIPs from different fields tested positive in Vidarbha on Monday taking the total number of Covid-19 cases to 58913. The Covid-19 death toll of Vidarbha reached 1589 with 47 deaths reported on Monday. These include Nagpur (34), Amravati and Chandrapur (3 each), Wardha and Yavatmal (2 each), Bhandara, Gondia and Akola (1 each). Independent MLA from Chandrpaur Kishor Jorgewar tested positive in Chandrapur. His test result came late on Sunday night. Sources close to Jorgewar claimed that the MLA used to routinely go for Covid-19 tests every week in light of his frequent visits to Mumbai for official work. One such test carried out on Sunday turned out to be positive. After primary examination at GMCH on Monday, he was shifted to the Covid Care Center at the Forest Academy here. Jorgewar in his message to the people on social media announced his positive status and claimed that his condition is stable. He has also urged the people in his contact to take due care of themselves. In Nagpur, People’s Republican Party (PRP) national president and MLC Prof Jogendra Kawade (77) and his son Jaideep tested positive. According to the social media announcement made by Jaideep Kawade, both returned from Mumbai on Saturday and were tested for Covid-19. They tested positive on Monday and were shifted to GMCH. Both are doing well and their condition is said to be stable. Meanwhile, Vidarbha region reported 2335 new Covid-19 cases on August 31. These include Nagpur (1426), Chandrapur (203), Amravati (158), Yavatmal (113), Gondia (93), Akola (82), Buldhana (63), Gadchiroli (62), Wardha (59), Bhandara (45), Washim(31). Recoveries are also coming in good numbers in the region now. On Monday, total 1680 patients recovered in a day in Vidarbha. These include Nagpur (1223), Amravati (137), Akola (61), Bhandara (60), Washim (58), Buldhana (47), Wardha (38), Chandrapur (25), Gondia (24), and Gadchiroli (7). Now, total 37218 out of 58913 patients have recovered. The recovery rate has increased up to 63%. AMRAVATI: Posting the ninth consecutive single-day 100-plus spike. the district took its count to 5750 with 158 new cases on Monday. With three Covid deaths, the toll reached 131. The civil surgeon’s office informed that an 80-year-old female from Kandali area in Paratwada and two males aged 78 and 49 from Nandgaon Peth and Gadgenagar breathed their last during treatment. With 137 getting discharge, the number of recovered patients reached 4288. This left 1331 active cases, including 17 taking treatment in Nagpur and 305 in home isolation, the CS office report said. The rural belt reported 55 cases that took its count to 1690. Dhamangaon Railway, Warud and Achalpur accounted for 16, 12 and ten cases respectively while Nandgaon Peth, Anjangaon Surji, Chandur Bazar and Daryapur contributed three each. Seven cases were from other districts and the rest from different parts of the city. YAVATMAL: The district once again reported 2 deaths of Covid-19 patients on August 31. Both are from semi-urban parts of Yavatmal district. A 65-year-old woman is from Arni city while an 85-year-old man hails from Pandharkawada town. This took Yavatmal’s Covid-19 death toll to 86. Out of these, 55 have been reported in August alone. In all, 113 new patients were reported in a day. This took the total number cases in Yavatmal to 3401. After discharging record 239 patients on August 30, not a single patient recovered from Yavatmal on August 31. The number of recovered patients remained unchanged at 2462. BHANDARA: The district continued to report Covid-19 death for the 10th day in a row taking the total Covid-19 death toll of Bhandara to 23. However, the number of patients recovered was higher than the number of patients detected in Bhandara on Monday. Total 45 patients were found infected with Covid-19 against which 60 patients recovered and were discharged. Now, out of 1286 total cases, Bhandara has 786 patients recovered and 23 dead. Total 477 patients are under treatment. AKOLA: District reported 82 new patients in day on August 31 which suggests no respite from Covid-19 spike. Cases reached 4024. Total 61 patients recovered and went home on Monday taking their number to 3230. A 57-year-old man from Sasti in Patur tehsil died during treatment on Monday. He was under treatment from August 19. Now, with 152 deaths, Akola has 642 patients under treatment. In August, Akola has seen 1401 cases, 1134 recoveries and 35 deaths. GADCHIROLI: With 62 new Covid-19 cases detected in a day, Gadchiroli’s case count surged to 1161 on August 31. The district registered 584 Covid-19 cases in August. Seven patients recovered and were discharged on Monday taking the total number of recovered patients to 873. This means, 449 patients recovered in August. Now, Gadchiroli has 287 patients under treatment. GONDIA: Breaking all the previous records of highest single-day cases, as many 93 fresh cases of Covid-19 emerged in Gondia district on August 31 while a 62-year-old patient died of infection during treatment at GMC. This took the total death toll of Gondia to 20. Besides, 24 patients recovered and were discharged. Now, Gondia has 1486 total cases, 944 recoveries and 20 deaths due to Covid-19. Total 522 patients are under treatment. WASHIM: Record 58 patients got discharge from Washim district on August 31 while new 31 patients were detected. Now, Washim has 1753 cases of Covid-19 with 1313 of them recovered and 31 deaths, including 1 suicide. Out of these, 14 deaths and a suicide have happened in August only. Total 409 patients are under treatment in Washim. August has seen 1159 cases and 927 recoveries in Washim. BULDHANA: The district reported 63 new cases while 48 patients recovered and were discharged. This took Buldhana’s total cases of Covid-19 to 3134 out of which 1803 cases have been reported in August alone. Total 2171 patients have recovered from Buldhana. The district reported 48 deaths of which 18 were reported in August alone. At present, Buldhana 915 total patients under treatment. CHANDRAPUR: A total of 203 new patients were detected during last 24 hours taking the Covid-19 total to 2547. Three new deaths during the day took the toll to 29 in the district. The day also saw the discharge of 25 patients. This has taken the total of cured patients to 1249. There are now 1269 active patients under treatment. New deceased include a 55-year-old man from Babupeth locality in Chandrpaur, a 45-year-old man from Urjanagar near the city and a 65-year-old man from Gandhi ward in Ballarpur. All of them died at Chandrapur GMCH while undergoing treatment on Monday. Newfound positive patients include 122 patients from Chandrapur and suburbs. Apart from 23 were found in Gondpipri tehsil, Rajura had 13, Warora 9, Ballapur 9, Bhadrawati 3, Korpana 5, Saoli 2, Mul 12 and Nabhid 4. WARDHA: With two deaths and 59 new cases of Covid-19 in a day, Wardha district crossed the 1000 mark of cases on Monday. A 35-year-old man of Arvi and a 62-year-old resident of Hingani village of Selu tehsil died due to coronavirus on Monday. Total 38 patients were discharged from hospital after recovering from coronavirus. The total count of Covid cases reached 1006 and active positive are 325. Total 658 persons have defeated the virus and they were discharged. The toll reached 23 after two deaths were registered due to Covid on Monday. On Monday, cases were registered from Wardha (34), Ashti and Deoli (7 each) Karanja (4), Hinganghat (3) while 2 each from Arvi and Selu tehsil. 39 men and 20 women are among the positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/chandrapur-mla-nagpur-mlc-among-many-vips-covid-positive/articleshow/77861062.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
September 1, 2020||Nagpur||3,100 trees to be cut on Achalpur Road, greens want ADB to withdraw funds||Nagpur: Greens have questioned the move of the public works department (PWD) to expand the 50km Amravati-Achalpur-Paratwada (MSH-6) road, which will come at the cost of huge ecological damage by felling over 3,100 huge shadowy trees. They also want the Asian Development Bank (ADB) to withdraw funds for the project. This may be one of the unique road stretches in Vidarbha having such tall trees making a welcome arch of a green canopy on both sides. The PWD will destroy all these trees to widen the road to 14 metres from the existing 5 to 7.5 metres. The Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court has already admitted an application by honorary wildlife warden Jaydeep Das as a PIL. Senior counsel Sudhir Puranik has been asked to draft a petition. The road in question has historical importance as the twin cities of Paratwada and Achalpur find itself in history dating back to the 13th century from when it served as military (retreat) camps of various kingdoms and lastly for the British. The British would retreat to Paratwada from various fronts of war and recuperate in the scenic forests of Central India and hill station of Chikhaldara surrounding the town. This road is particularly straight in long stretches to most probably facilitate easy manoeuvring of armoured vehicles of the past during their travel to Paratwada. PWD executive engineer Chandrakant Mehetre confirmed over 2,500 trees will be cut for road widening. “The road being constructed will be four-laned with aid from the Asian Development Bank (ADB). The ADB has envisaged 40-45 roads totalling 3,000km in Maharashtra for which it is providing a Rs5,000 crore loan. Amravati-Achalpur is a Rs500 crore project,” said Mehetre. However, earlier, when the same road was proposed to be handed over to the NHAI, a survey claimed that 3,184 trees would be felled for widening. The Amravati-Achalpur road will connect Betul from Paratwada and to Akot-Akola via Anjangaon Surji. However, the road will not be built through the Melghat Tiger Reserve owing to vast tracks of forests involved. Even as the fate of over 3,000 trees hangs in the balance, greens have slammed the road authority for destroying precious tree cover. “PWD has already felled thousands of trees on roads between Walgaon-Daryapur-Akot, Anjangaon Surji-Akot and Morshi-Warud roads. They are widening all roads without any traffic analysis. Nowhere have I seen compensatory tree plantation,” says Jaisingh Deshmukh of Amravati. Citing the rule book, Deshmukh said, “The ADB guidelines don’t allow such a huge damage to the environment. It is surprising how ADB has agreed to fund the road project which involves huge ecological damage. It should withdraw.” However, Mehetre, while defending the project, said, “For one tree felled, we will plant three trees. Overall 7,500 trees will be planted and there’s a clause to maintain these saplings for 5 years.” Opposing the move, Gaurav Kadu of Wildlife Adventure, said, “There is no need for expanding this road. When you know that beyond Paratwada there is the Melghat reserve and getting permissions would be difficult, then why is the 50km road being four-laned by spending Rs500 crore?. Traffic can still be maintained by removing roadside encroachments and tarring the existing road.” Neem, tamarind, pipal, banyan and other indigenous species were planted during the Raj era and this lineage of huge trees provide shade to many during the harsh summers. “The trees are homes of many birds. Many trees are being clandestinely felled, either by burning or chemical poisoning,” alleged the activist. Paratwada is considered the gateway to Chikhaldara, the only hill station of Vidarbha and Melghat, one of the biggest and oldest tiger reserves in the country. This road on both sides encompasses vast agriculture fields which are a good habitat for black bucks. These herbivores cross the road and the expanded road will sound the death knell for the schedule-I animals. The Supreme Court recently observed that the value of a tree has to be calculated by the volume of oxygen it gives while measuring the cost of any project. “The mass murder of trees should be stopped and if at all the PWD wants to construct the road, an alternative alignment by acquiring the adjoining land should be explored,” said Kadu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/3100-trees-to-be-cut-on-achalpur-road-greens-want-adb-to-withdraw-funds/articleshow/77861080.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
September 1, 2020||Goa||Goa CM to ‘virtually’ interact with teachers on September 5||PANAJI: After interacting online with students who have recently cleared their state board exams, chief minister Pramod Sawant is set to interact online with teachers from secondary and higher secondary schools this week. The interaction is expected to take place on September 5 to mark the occasion of National Teachers’ Day, observed on the birth anniversary of Bharat Ratna Dr Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan. Goa Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education has asked schools and higher secondary schools to submit details of one teacher from the institute for the interaction. Teachers can also submit their question for the CM in advance, if any. The official teachers’ day event is organised by the directorate of eduation annually at the Kala Academy premises and is attended by a large number of school teachers and students each year. The CM addresses this gathering annually. But this year, due to the pandemic such events cannot be held. The state awards for teachers are also conferred annually at this event.  Sawant, who is also the education minister, will instead be addressing teachers online to mark teachers’ day. Those who won’t be participating in the interaction will be able to view CM’s address through Facebook and other social media platforms live. Schools have been told to send details of the teachers interacting with the CM through the Goa Board website.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cm-to-virtually-interact-with-teachers-on-sept-5/articleshow/77860244.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Nagpur||Can JEE be deferred for students from flood-hit areas, asks HC||Nagpur: Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court on Monday directed respondents, including the central government, to consider whether Joint Entrance Examination (JEE-Mains) could be postponed for students residing in flood-hit areas who are unable to reach exam centres. While issuing notices to National Testing Agency (NTA) that conducts the JEE and others, a division bench of Justices Ravi Deshpande and Pushpa Ganediwala fixed the hearing on Tuesday morning at 8.30am since the exam would commence from 9am. “The examination is to commence from September 1 at 9am and hence matter is urgent. We, therefore, passed an order on submission made by the registry (judicial), to take up the issue in public interest litigation with intimation to government pleader and assistant solicitor general of India (ASGI),” the judges noted. HC took suo motu cognizance of a letter by a student from Bhandara Nitesh Bawankar, who highlighted problems being faced by students from Nagpur, Amravati, Akola, Bhandara, Chandrapur, Gondia and Gadchiroli districts that are severely hit by incessant rains and floods since last few days. Many urban and rural areas in these districts were inundated due to release of waters from dams, including Gosikhurd in the last couple of days, while rescue and relief operations continued by the government. HC also added collectors of all five districts as respondents along with Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) commissioner and asked them to file replies by Tuesday. “It is informed to us that under the Disaster Management Act, the collector in an area, which is not a municipal corporation, can take a decision for holding or postponing of examination at a particular centre. If the area is covered by municipal corporation, then authority under the Act is civic chief,” the bench noted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/can-jee-be-deferred-for-students-from-flood-hit-areas-asks-hc/articleshow/77861076.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
September 1, 2020||Mumbai||Issue 2 notices a month to shaky buildings: Mumbai mayor||MUMBAI: Mayor Kishori Pednekar directed ward officials to issue notices twice a month to buildings identified as old and dilapidated by BMC. Pednekar on Monday held a review meeting following recent house collapses, including Mishra building in Nagpada. Pednekar told officials to cut off electricity and water supply to buildings where lives of residents are at risk. This, she said was necessary, so BMC has records of having warned residents about the precarious condition of the building and danger to their lives. BMC has repeatedly faced flak for not doing enough to warn residents to vacate such buildings. She urged civic officials to consider proposals of redevelopment where landlords and tenants have come together. If hurdles are being created by the landlord or developer, Pednekar said officials must book them under the stringent Maharashtra Regional Town Planning Act. There are 432 old and dilapidated buildings (c-1) across the city. Surprisingly most are in H(W ) ward, which is Bandra (West) and in T ward (Mulund). In both wards, around 50 buildings are on the list on BMC’s portal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/issue-2-notices-a-month-to-shaky-bldgs-mumbai-mayor/articleshow/77861139.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Parking set to go smart on 10 CBD roads in a month||BENGALURU: Motorists’ wait for smart parking is set to end in a month. BBMP has decided to implement the system on 85 roads with a special focus on Central Business District (CBD). To begin with, 10 roads are being equipped with the facility. The project is being taken up under the Public-Private Partnership (PPP) model and involves deployment of Internet of Things (IOT) technology. By September-end, the smart-parking facility will be available on 10 roads across CBD: MG Road, Church Street, Museum Cross Road, St Marks Road, Vittal Mallya Road, Residency Road, Mallya Hospital Road, Kasturba Road, Bruton Road and Main Guard Crossroad. “We have almost finished the work and will launch the system in a month,” said BBMP commissioner N Manjunatha Prasad. The pilot implemented on Kasturba Road last year couldn’t sustain due to incomplete work. N Sathyanarayanan, managing director, Central Parking System, which is implementing the project, said this is a first-of-a-kind initiative in the country. “Each location will have 15-20 parking spaces, which will be sensor-based,” he said. “Display boards installed along the roadside will provide information about available slots on the particular street. This will prevent people from searching for parking spots and waiting for long hours,” he explained. A mobile app — Namma Bengaluru Parking Application — has been developed to help IOS and Android users find a vacant spot and book it. “The application allows you to pay through online banking. Those who aren’t tech-savvy can always go to the spot and collect a receipt, which will allow them to pay in cash or through card/UPI ID,” Sathyanarayanan told TOI. Parking fees will range from Rs 15 to Rs 30 for a car and Rs 5 to Rs 15 for a bike per hour. The amount will vary between the three zones into which the city has been categorised for the purpose. According to a senior BBMP official, the system allows a person to choose his/her parking hours. “In case a motorist wants to extend the parking time, s/he can do so through the app. But if the person fails to remove his/her car in time, a team of volunteers will immediately arrive at the spot and clamp the car. A heavy penalty will be levied against the motorist,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/parking-set-to-go-smart-on-10-cbd-roads-in-a-month/articleshow/77859453.cms||Nithya Mandyam
September 1, 2020||Dehradun||Cycling gains popularity but supply of new geared cycles goes off track due to India-China standoff||DEHRADUN: In wake of the Covid pandemic, cycling has found favour with many as a good way to remain fit. However, the irony is that even as the demand for high-end geared bicycles has grown exponentially, the supply has dipped. This is because bicycle components, supplied mainly by China, remain unavailable due to the ongoing India-China standoff. “Nearly 150 customers call us every day to enquire about geared cycles and we have to regretfully tell them to wait at least 40 days or more due to low stocks,” said Gaurav Taneja, a cycle store owner in Doon. “We have the stock of non-geared cycles but customers are increasingly asking for mountain bikes that can traverse long distances. With the supply from China becoming uncertain, supplies have taken a serious hit,” he added. In a similar vein, Sameer Narula, another cycle store owner in Doon, said, “We have exhausted the stock of geared cycles and now have to turn down at least 30 customers a day. The sale of these cycles, which was negligible till lockdown restrictions were in place, has gone up significantly now. We tried reaching Chinese suppliers but have not got a definite answer on when parts of these cycles will be available.” Those who have managed to buy geared cycles say they prefer cycling to gyms, where there is a chance of contracting infections. Vikrant Diwan, a Doon-based businessman, said, “I’ve been going to the gym for 20 years now but the pandemic has made all us gym-goers wary of using shared spaces. Instead of working out, I purchased an e-bike for around Rs 60,000 and have been cycling for long distances to keep fit.” Dinesh Khandelwal, a cycling enthusiast, added, “It’s time Indian manufacturers start making high-quality components to stop the dependence on China.” Interestingly, those who haven’t been able to buy geared cycles are turning to rental services. A cycle rental service provider in Dehradun, dehardunbikerents.in, has in fact reported “a 100% increase in the number of customers”. Vanshanu Raj, who runs the service, said, “Business has been booming. Before the lockdown, we hardly got any customers. Only tourists wanted geared bikes, but now more and more local residents are turning to this option. Many of those who avail our service keep the cycle for a period of 15 days to a month.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cycling-gains-popularity-but-supply-of-new-geared-cycles-goes-off-track-due-to-india-china-standoff/articleshow/77857862.cms||Abhijeet Singh
September 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Kanaka Durga flyover opening may be delayed||Vijayawada: The much-awaited inauguration ceremony of Kanaka Durga flyover is likely to be postponed till September 6, in view of former president Pranab Mukherjee’s demise. The flyover was scheduled to have a grand launch on September 4, however, with the Centre declaring 7-day mourning over Pranab Mukherjee’s demise, the government officials are looking to reschedule it. Official sources said that they would reschedule the ceremony mostly on September 7 or 8 and would soon come up with that announcement as well. The works for the flyover began in 2015 and was supposed to be completed in 12 to 15 months. However, the project saw multiple lapse in multiple deadline for the subsequent five years. The 2.3 km-long flyover is built with an estimated cost of Rs 447 crore along National Highway 65, which connects Hyderabad and Vijayawada.  The flyover had been a major demand from locals for the past couple of decades due to heavy traffic issues. Residents believe the flyover would solve half the traffic issues across Kanaka Durga temple area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kanaka-durga-flyover-opening-may-be-delayed/articleshow/77878379.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Hyderabad||No reinfection cases in AP, says Jawahar Reddy||Visakhapatnam: Andhra Pradesh has not reported any cases of Covid-19 reinfection, said special chief secretary, medical and health department, Dr KS Jawahar Reddy. Speaking to media on Tuesday, Dr Reddy said that the state has been successful in keeping the mortality rate under 1% through a series of measures. “I appeal to the public to seek immediate medical attention if they develop Covid-like symptoms or breathlessness without waiting for test results,” said Dr Reddy. Analysing cases reported over two periods in August — August 3 to 16 and August 17 to 30— the special chief secretary said districts like Anantapur, Guntur and Krishna witnessed a considerable drop in new cases reported every day in the second fortnight compared to the first, while districts like Nellore, Prakasam and West Godavari recorded higher numbers. “The comparison of the number of deaths during the same two fortnights revealed a significant decline in casualty numbers in Guntur, Vizianagaram and Srikakulam districts,” he said. The special chief secretary said that the results of the first sero survey in four districts were in tandem with the districts entering or reaching their peaks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-reinfection-cases-in-ap-says-jawahar-reddy/articleshow/77878310.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Chandigarh||Class XI first round over, online classes likely to start in 1st week of Sept||Chandigarh: The first round of counselling for admission to Class XI ends with depositing of fees by selected candidates. The department is, however, yet to release the date on which the classes for the admitted students will begin. Though the director of school education Rubinderjit Singh Brar said the online classes for Class XI students might begin from first week of September. From Tuesday, a list of seats lying vacant after first round will be prepared and the second round would be initiated to fill the vacant seats. The dates for the second round of counselling will also be released at a later date, the officials confirmed. This year the entire admission process was done online including the depositing of fees. The first round of counselling had begun from July 21 with registration process beginning. A total of 14,726 students had made it to the common merit list, out of which, 3,675 students have made it to science stream merit list against 3,080 seats. In commerce stream, 2,251 students are in the merit list against 1,560 seats. In humanities stream, 7,547 students are in the merit list against 6,420 seats. In vocation stream, 1,247 students have been listed in the merit list against 1,755 seats in 18 different skills. In the bracket of 96% to 100%, only 79 students are in the merit list, maximum students are falling in the bracket 46% to 50.99% (1,545), 41% to 45.99% (1,489), 51 to 55.99% (1,454).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/class-xi-first-round-over-online-classes-likely-to-start-in-1st-week-of-sept/articleshow/77861110.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Goa||Goa University’s ex-VC Dubhashi dies||Panaji: Padma Bhushan awardee and former vice-chancellor of Goa University Padmakar Ramchandra Dubhashi passed away on Monday at the age of 90. The Karwar-born Dubhashi was a civil servant and a social scientist. He is credited with pioneering the cooperative movement in India and with shifting the Goa University to its permanent premises on the Taleigao plateau during his tenure as the varsity’s vice-chancellor. After obtaining a postgraduate and doctorate degree in arts from the Pune University, Dubhashi obtained D.Litt from Bombay University. He joined the Indian Administrative Services in 1953. Dubashi was appointed vice-chancellor of Goa University in 1990.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-universitys-ex-vc-dubhashi-dies/articleshow/77860285.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Lucknow||Infrastructure boost for UP’s Covid testing with 13 new labs||LUCKNOW: In yet another boost to coronavirus testing, the state got 13 new BSL-2 standard labs which started functioning in various districts on Monday. With this, the state’s capacity of undertaking RT-PCR tests will go up by 3,000 per day. The state is already conducting an average of 1.5 lakh Covid-19 tests per day of which about 50% are RT-PCR. The new labs include 10 in the public sector and the remaining three at private medical colleges. Government labs have come up in Basti, Ayodhya, Azamgarh, Banda, Saharanpur, Ambedkarnagar, Badaun, Bahraich, Jalaun and Firozabad while private labs have been set up at Teerthankar Mahaveer Medical College (Moradabad), GS Medical College (Hapur) and Mayo Institute of Medical Sciences (Barabanki). Congratulating the staff engaged in Covid testing, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said: “Testing has been the mainstay of the fight against coronavirus pandemic. Every person engaged in testing is a true corona warrior. It is because of testing that we have been able to keep Covid-19 positivity and death rates under control.” “A virus has challenged the might of humanity which is looking for life on Mars. The way lives have been lost due to pandemic is unbelievable. In UP, we initiated right steps on time. Our strategy was to undertake aggressive testing which led to lower mortality rate in UP.” Additional chief secretary, medical education, Dr Rajneesh Dube said: “The labs are ICMR-approved and of BSL-2 standards. Ten labs have come up in the public sector while the remaining three have been started by private medical colleges. Five labs are in divisional headquarters which will cut the time that goes in transporting samples and reduce testing time lag by 2-3 days.” UP is now home to 211 labs of which 63, including 34 in the government sector, are undertaking RT-PCR tests. The remaining 148 (including 105 in the public sector) are conducting Trunat tests. Minister for medical education Suresh Khanna said, “UP has made remarkable progress in terms of testing. It has created a benchmark from conducting a few hundred tests a day to undertaking maximum tests in the country. The credit goes to all doctors and support staff who have tirelessly carried out the fight against Covid.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/infrastructure-boost-for-ups-covid-testing-with-13-new-labs/articleshow/77861082.cms||Shailvee Sharda
September 1, 2020||Nagpur||Flood water recedes, Gosikhurd canal breached: Minister||Nagpur: The discharge from Pench river on Monday reduced to less than a 1,000 cubic meters per second (cumecs), from 6,600 cumecs on Saturday. The flow at Wainganga river also eased relatively but continued to be at a higher level. From 28,000 cumecs, it has come down to around 23,000 cumecs on Monday. This still is nearly four times the entire capacity of Gosikhurd dam which is located on the river. State disaster relief minister Vijay Wadettiwar, who toured Bramhapuri taluka of Chandrapur district, said the main canal of the Gosikhurd dam had breached at three places worsening the situation. In a statement issued after his visit to Bramhapuri, which is also his election constituency, the minister claimed that the canal has breached at Kinhi, Ranmochan and Kharkala villages. “This had damaged thousands of hectares of crops and many houses, and washed away several cattle,” he said. The district’s disaster management officer (DMO) Jitesh Surwade maintained that the outflow had receded and situation was under control in the 21 affected villages. “Around 3,500 persons were rescued,” he said. Officials monitoring the situation at the division level said that barring Bramhapuri taluka, the situation was under control in rest of the affected areas of Vidarbha. Around 1,300 persons remained stranded in Ladaj village of the taluka where rescue operations continued till the evening. As per the officials, there is no need to evacuate the entire population at Ladaj. “Only those in low lying areas of the village need to be rescued, food packets can be airdropped for the rest,” they said. In Nagpur district, the rescue operations were completed by Monday afternoon. “Teams of state disaster relief force (SDRF), national disaster relief force (NDRF) and army were withdrawn and sent to Bramhapuri. The situation is well under control,” said Ankush Gawande, the district disaster management officer (DMO). On the third day of floods, 28,000 person from 61 villages have been termed flood-hit by the Nagpur district administration. After the last leg of rescue operations, 6,100 persons were sent to shelter homes with the rest taken to safer locations close by. A press note from the defence said two columns drawn from the guards regimental centre (GRC) at Kamptee were deployed in Kuhi. They evacuated 90 stranded persons before moving to Bramhapuri. Divers have been engaged to repair the damaged jack wells of the water treatment plant in Kanhan river, which may help in normalizing the water supply in affected parts of the city. The DMO at Bhandara said that rescue operations ended by Monday afternoon. The water had receded in the city and normalcy was regained. In the last operation 40 persons were rescued. The situation is completely normal in Gondia and no rescue operations were taken up on Monday, said a senior official in the district administration here. A note issued by the DIO in Gadchiroli said Desaiganj and Armori talukas have been affected the floods. Twenty-three workers stranded at a barrage construction site near Gadchiroli were rescued to a safe location.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/flood-water-recedes-gosikhurd-canal-breached-minister/articleshow/77861152.cms||Shishir Arya
September 1, 2020||Chandigarh||Former Panchkula collector booked for fraud||CHANDIGARH: Seven years after the release of double compensation, the Haryana state vigilance bureau has booked the then land acquisition collector and revenue officials and four outstees for fraudulent withdrawal of Rs 95.49 lakh as compensation of the land. The accused are identified as Mahinder Singh Sangwan, the then LAC Panchkula of 2013, patwari (revenue clerk) Sammat Singh, Brahmpal Kanungo and four sons of deceased oustees identified as Gurdharshan Singh, Gurbachan Singh Nirmal Singh and Paramjeet Singh, sons of Hakam Singh, the landowner. A case under sections 406,408 and 420 and 120B of IPC and various sections of Prevention of Corruption Act has been registered at vigilance bureau’s police station at Panchkula. Case has been registered on the complaint of deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Suresh Kumar, who had completed the probe on the directions of the state government. According to information, LAC had acquired land for carving out Sector 10 in urban estate of Ambala city. Hakim Singh was among the outstees whose land was acquired by the government. In the due course of time, Hakam Singh had died and his widow Mukund Kaur had been challenging the compensation. Acting on the directions of Punjab and Haryana high court, the district and sessions judge of Ambala had released an amount of Rs 72.61 lakh to her in two instalments.. All this happened in 2006. Meanwhile, it is alleged that acting on the misleading interpretation by the revenue officials on the judgement of Punjab and Haryana high court, the revenue officials had released Rs 95.49 lakh in favour of sons of Mukund Kaur. Bureau officials alleged that the revenue officials have done this by misusing their powers and for the consideration. Sources said investigations are in progress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/former-pkl-collector-booked-for-fraud/articleshow/77861137.cms||Manvir Saini
September 1, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Man stabbed for trying to get his laptop back||NEW DELHI: A 25-year-old man was attacked with a knife and fired at after he asked his friend to return a laptop the latter had borrowed during the lockdown. The incident took place around 100 metres from the Timarpur police station. Hearing the commotion, police officers rushed out and took the victim to the hospital, where he is recuperating. According to police, the victim, Naresh, a resident of Sanjay Basti, was attacked by four men in the early hours of Friday. The victim’s cousin, Jaswant, informed the cops that Naresh had an argument with his friend Shiva about returning the laptop. Naresh was walking in the locality when he saw Shiva and started talking to him. Shiva does not live in the area but had come to meet his sister. During their interaction, the two had an argument, after which they both went home. “After half an hour, Shiva, along with three of of his friends, Bharat, Annu and Surjit, came back and asked Naresh to step out. Bharat assured him that he will get the laptop matter resolved. When they reached near Bharat’s house, they all got out of the car and Shiva, along with his friends, fired at Naresh. The bullet missed him and he was later stabbed at least four times by the accused. Surjit has been arrested by the cops while a hunt is on to nab the remaining accused,” said Anto Alphonse, DCP (north).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/man-stabbed-for-trying-to-get-his-laptop-back/articleshow/77860315.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Vadodara||Head constable dies of Covid in Vadodara||Vadodara: A head constable lost battle with Covid-19 on Monday in Vadodara city. He was the first corona warrior to succumb to the deadly virus.Govind Ishawar Rana head constable with motor transport (MT) division of city police was admitted to the Jupiter Hospital in the Atladara area where he breathed his last on Monday afternoon. Rana was involved in duties at the police headquarters and even driving vehicles during the pandemic.He had started feeling unwell on August 24 and got himself tested at a health centre. “While his test turned out to be negative, his condition was deteriorating and oxygen saturation level was going down,” said his nephew Kamlesh Rana.On August 26, he was rushed to a private hospital in the Atladara. He was tested for Covid-19 again at the hospital and the reports turned out to be positive. Kamlesh said that the late policeman was also suffering from diabetes and hypertension. The city police gave Rana a guard of honour at the hospital itself. He was cremated as per Covid-19 protocols with only a limited number of relatives joining his last journey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/head-constable-dies-of-covid-in-vadodara/articleshow/77859178.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandimandir toll plaza increases rates for monthly, unlimited journeys in a day||Panchkula: Starting from September 1, be prepared to shell out more money here at the Chandimandir toll plaza situated on the Himalayan Expressway. In a recent public notice issued by the authorities concerned, it has been mentioned that starting from September 1 to August 31, 2021, for a period of one year, the user fee rate has been revised. Navdeep Thakur, manager at the Chandimandir toll plaza, said, “The rates are revised every year. Before September 1, all the hoardings and boards with new prices will be set up at the toll plaza.” The officials said at present there are around 30,000 vehicles crossing the toll plaza on a daily basis as compared with the 40,000 during the pre-Covid times. “Still, the black-listed vehicles are giving us a tough time,” Navdeep adds. If one goes by the notice, which was issued, no change in prices have been witnessed if anyone plans a single journey. Whereas, for any number of journeys within a day or even for a monthly pass that allows the traveller to avail any number of journeys in a month, the prices have been increased, ranging from Rs 5 to Rs 85, depending on the vehicle. At present, there are a total of 14 lanes, seven on each side at the toll plaza, out of which one is for the cash transactions on each side.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/chandimandir-toll-plaza-increases-rates-for-monthly-unlimited-journeys-in-a-day/articleshow/77861153.cms||---
September 1, 2020||India||Can’t be guided by opinions of ex-judges or media: Supreme Court||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Monday strongly disapproved of the media and retired judges freely expressing their opinion on what should be the course adopted by the court in the contempt of court proceedings against activist-advocate Prashant Bhushan. “The court cannot abdicate its duty and has to be uninfluenced by statements published in the media and opinions expressed therein. It has to decide the case uninfluenced by such opinions,” a bench of Justices Arun Mishra, B R Gavai and Krishna Murari said in its 82-page judgment punishing Bhushan for contempt. Bhushan’s counsel Rajeev Dhavan had argued that the SC should consider various statements made by some retired judges, journalists and others and not punish his client for contempt and that it would give rise to another controversy, with a section criticising the SC and another justifying the punishment. The bench said: “There is a substantial risk of serious prejudice through an effect upon the mind of an appellate judge by such publication. It was also emphasised that an act of making comments which are intended or even likely to influence a judge necessarily amounts to contempt.” However, the SC refused to be drawn into “which retired judge said what” during pendency of the contempt proceedings. It said Dhavan’s arguments were “founded on the fact that the court should be influenced by the opinion expressed in newspapers and other media” when the court is hearing a matter. “There are two facets of the argument. Firstly, whether the court should be moved by the statement published in the newspaper and secondly, whether, in sub judice matters, such statements are permissible to be made. We put a question to ourselves, as to whether the court can be guided by such opinions expressed on the public platform and as to whether the court, while exercising its judicial duties, render its decision on the basis of the trial made by the media and public opinion. Answers to both the questions are found firmly in the negative,” it said. On the risk of getting criticised in the event of it punishing Bhushan, the bench said: “While exercising our judicial functions, we cannot take into consideration whether we will be praised or criticised for the judgment which we render. We are required to decide cases on the basis of the law as it correctly stands, in our perception and understanding. We are not expected to decide the matter on the basis as to whether there will be criticism of the judgment or not. We have to be always ready for its fair criticism.” The SC quoted Dharmkosh-43 (Narad 36-4-5) in Sanskrit, and translated it: “Judges have to be impartial towards the crime of voice. Judges have to be well versed in the laws and impartial towards friends and foes. It emphasises that judges should be impartial towards friends and foes. In our opinion, the judicial decision cannot be influenced by the opinions expressed in the media.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cant-be-guided-by-opinions-of-ex-judges-or-media-supreme-court/articleshow/77862165.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
September 1, 2020||Kolkata||Cops to decide on bicycle policy today||Kolkata: The kolkata traffic police — that has adopted a relaxed bicycle policy so far — decide on extending the same for a third time on Monday.Also on the cards will be a critical question — just how long will the extension, if decided, be allowed this time? “The state government itself had earlier extended the lockdown only till September 20 (after which there will be a review) even before the centre allowed further concessions from September under Unlock 4.0 measures. This will mean that in any case, more vehicles will be on the road than in the past five months,” said an officer.Accidents, too, will be a concern. The city has already witnessed eight cycle accidents in the past three months. The majority of the senior officers, though, want extension of the relaxation for some more time as public transport is yet to normalize. “There are fewer buses on the roads and cycle remains the best transport option to enforce social distancing,” an officer said. The present policy, which expires on Monday, is somewhat ambiguous. “ ... bicycles will be allowed in the lanes and bylanes within Kolkata Police jurisdiction. Restrictions will continue on the main arterial roads, flyovers and any other area as notified from time to time ...”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cops-to-decide-on-bicycle-policy-today/articleshow/77853301.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
September 1, 2020||Ghaziabad||126 test +ve in Noida, 143 in Ghaziabad||As many as 126 people tested positive for Covid-19 in Gautam Budh Nagar on Monday. The number of cases in the district now stands at 7,960 and 1,055 is the number of active cases. With 45 deaths taking place due to the virus, the case fatality rate is close to 0.6% at present. Also, officials said that 86% patients have been discharged while only 13% remain active. Meanwhile, Ghaziabad reported 143 fresh cases on Sunday. The district’s Covid tally now stands at 8,353. Besides, 76 patients were discharged after recovery. As many as 6,832 people have been discharged so far and 68 have died. Currently, 1,453 patients are undergoing treatment at various hospitals in the district or are in home isolation. The recovery rate of Ghaziabad stands at 81.7% while the case fatality rate is 0.81%. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/126-test-ve-in-noida-143-in-gzb/articleshow/77865296.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Udaipur||Met predicts heavy rainfall in Udaipur, Jaipur||JAIPUR: Heavy to very heavy rainfall continued at many places in eastern and some parts of western Rajasthan for the second day in a row on Monday. Shergarh (Jodhpur) received 227mm, the highest in the state. Attributing the revival of monsoon to active northerly winds and upper air cyclonic circulation, the Jaipur Met office said heavy rainfall was likely at many places in Udaipur division on Tuesday and Jaipur on Wednesday. People in Jaipur woke up to drizzle which continued throughout the day. The city clocked a maximum temperature of 29.2°C and recorded 11.6mm rain. As Rajasthan has witnessed good fourth and fifth spells of monsoon, the rainfall deficit in the state is now merely 6%. Except Churu, Sriganganagar and Hanumangarh, majority of the districts have witnessed heavy to very heavy rainfall in this season so far. On Monday places in Udaipur and Jodhpur division witnessed moderate to heavy showers. Dungarpur, Banswara, Udaipur, Sirohi, Barmer, Jaisalmer and Chittorgarh received heavy rainfall. On the other hand, Ajmer, Bikaner and Nagaur got mild showers. Meanwhile, good rainfall has elevated the water level of various dams and reservoirs in the state. Many dams in Kota and Udaipur are almost filled to capacity. However, Bisalpur Dam in Tonk that caters to the drinking water needs of Jaipur, Kota and Ajmer is yet to reach its full capacity level. Jaisalmer and Barmer have been getting heavy rainfall in this season. “Both these districts are getting rainfall close to what they had received in the year 2006,” said a senior officer of Jaipur Met office. On the further progress of south west monsoon, a senior officer from the Jaipur Met office, said, “This is south west monsoon is a bit extended. Usually it gets over by the first week of September. However, the pattern this year shows that many places would continue to witness mild to heavy showers till September 17,” said a senior officer. In its forecast Jaipur Met office said that mild to moderate showers will continue in some parts of southern Rajasthan while heavy rainfall is expected in western Rajasthan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/met-predicts-heavy-rainfall-in-udaipur-jaipur/articleshow/77869832.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Jaipur||Met predicts heavy rainfall in Udaipur, Jaipur||JAIPUR: Heavy to very heavy rainfall continued at many places in eastern and some parts of western Rajasthan for the second day in a row on Monday. Shergarh (Jodhpur) received 227mm, the highest in the state. Attributing the revival of monsoon to active northerly winds and upper air cyclonic circulation, the Jaipur Met office said heavy rainfall was likely at many places in Udaipur division on Tuesday and Jaipur on Wednesday. People in Jaipur woke up to drizzle which continued throughout the day. The city clocked a maximum temperature of 29.2°C and recorded 11.6mm rain. As Rajasthan has witnessed good fourth and fifth spells of monsoon, the rainfall deficit in the state is now merely 6%. Except Churu, Sriganganagar and Hanumangarh, majority of the districts have witnessed heavy to very heavy rainfall in this season so far. On Monday places in Udaipur and Jodhpur division witnessed moderate to heavy showers. Dungarpur, Banswara, Udaipur, Sirohi, Barmer, Jaisalmer and Chittorgarh received heavy rainfall. On the other hand, Ajmer, Bikaner and Nagaur got mild showers. Meanwhile, good rainfall has elevated the water level of various dams and reservoirs in the state. Many dams in Kota and Udaipur are almost filled to capacity. However, Bisalpur Dam in Tonk that caters to the drinking water needs of Jaipur, Kota and Ajmer is yet to reach its full capacity level. Jaisalmer and Barmer have been getting heavy rainfall in this season. “Both these districts are getting rainfall close to what they had received in the year 2006,” said a senior officer of Jaipur Met office. On the further progress of south west monsoon, a senior officer from the Jaipur Met office, said, “This is south west monsoon is a bit extended. Usually it gets over by the first week of September. However, the pattern this year shows that many places would continue to witness mild to heavy showers till September 17,” said a senior officer. In its forecast Jaipur Met office said that mild to moderate showers will continue in some parts of southern Rajasthan while heavy rainfall is expected in western Rajasthan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/met-predicts-heavy-rainfall-in-udaipur-jaipur/articleshow/77860322.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Chandigarh||Malayalees of the city celebrated Onam with feast & flowers at home||Chandigarh: Onam was celebrated by city-based Malayalee families on Monday. They wished each on the telephone and an elaborate scrumptious meal Onam sadhya was savoured by all at their respective homes. More than 11 items were prepared by every family for the feast. The gatherings were, however, missed by all, especially children, for whom it used to be an occasion to meet others from the community and also to show talent in various cultural activities. “The Malayalee community, wherever they be, celebrate the Onam in a grand manner and the one thing that cannot be avoided is the Onam Sadhya. It is believed that Mahabali visits each and every household and we want to show him that we all are well and prosperous like when he ruled. So, we prepare a sumptuous lunch consisting occasion-specific delicacies,” said Rajeev Kumar, a city-based Malayalee. Although this time the celebration was a homely affair, Malayalees did prepare the feast synonymous with Onam. “We visited the temple in the morning and then prepared the elaborate meal. The items are pachadi, kichadi, avial, thoran, koottukari, olan, mezhukkuouratti, stew, pickles, pappads, adapradhaman, palada, banana, banana chips, sarkaravaratti, parippu, sambar, morukari and rasam,” shared Anita, a city-based Malayalee resident. Another resident Ruth Thomas shared, “We prepared traditional food items at home this time as due to the pandemic community lunch was not possible. We enjoyed quality time with the family.” Another main ritual of the day was pookalam, the decorative flower arrangement. This is as important a part of Onam as lighting lamps on Diwali, said Malayalees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/malayalees-of-the-city-celebrated-onam-with-feast-flowers-at-home/articleshow/77861157.cms||Kamini Mehta
September 1, 2020||Bhubaneswar||BMC to provide 8k masks, sanitisers to JEE examinees||Bhubaneswar: The Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation (BMC) will provide 8,000 masks and sanitisers to JEE examinees in the city to check spread of the virus as students will come to the capital city to appear in the entrance examination. The sub-collector (Bhubaneswar) has written to the deputy commissioner, BMC, to provide mask and sanitisers at eight places where free accommodations have been made available for the entrants. The BMC has created accommodation at the Gandhi Institute of Technological Advancement, Silicon Institute of Technology, College of Engineering and Technology, Rajdhani Engineering College, Gandhi Institute for Technology (GIFT), C V Raman Global University, Gandhi Institute of Excellent Technocrats (GIET), Gandhi Institute of Education and Technology (GIET). The accommodation will be available for IIT JEE (Mains) from August 1 to August 6. Besides, the BMC has tied up with 20 budget hotels for the entrants to pay and stay. The maximum tariff for a room is Rs 900 a day. The BMC has put out the details of the hotels in its official twitter handle. In a Covid-related development, Prafulla Kumar Behera, an enforcement inspector of BMC working under south-east zone died of Covid on Monday. While working in the enforcement squad, he contracted the virus and was treated as a Covid warrior. He was cremated at Satya Nagar crematorium here with guard of honour. Behera after serving 28 years in the Indian Army, had joined Bhubaneswar Development Authority enforcement squad in March 2015. That year in August, he was transferred to BMC. Since then, he had been working as a member of the enforcement squad. BMC commissioner Prem Chandra Chaudhury and other officers paid floral tributes to the Covid warrior.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/bmc-to-provide-8k-masks-sanitisers-to-jee-examinees/articleshow/77858984.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Noida||126 test +ve in Noida, 143 in Ghaziabad||As many as 126 people tested positive for Covid-19 in Gautam Budh Nagar on Monday. The number of cases in the district now stands at 7,960 and 1,055 is the number of active cases. With 45 deaths taking place due to the virus, the case fatality rate is close to 0.6% at present. Also, officials said that 86% patients have been discharged while only 13% remain active. Meanwhile, Ghaziabad reported 143 fresh cases on Sunday. The district’s Covid tally now stands at 8,353. Besides, 76 patients were discharged after recovery. As many as 6,832 people have been discharged so far and 68 have died. Currently, 1,453 patients are undergoing treatment at various hospitals in the district or are in home isolation. The recovery rate of Ghaziabad stands at 81.7% while the case fatality rate is 0.81%. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/126-test-ve-in-noida-143-in-gzb/articleshow/77861158.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Goa||Goa: No insistence on college attendance||PANAJI: As the new academic year 2020-21 begins for general stream colleges from Tuesday in the online mode, there will be no insistence on attendance during the pandemic period. The focus of colleges will be reaching out to students to keep the learning process going. As per provisions of a special ordinance of the Goa University pertaining to the pandemic, minimum attendance requirement will not be insisted upon. Recently, a meeting was held by Goa University officials with college heads to discuss how to go about the new academic year, following which a new calendar was issued wherein the first semester will be from September to December. “We have prepared e-resources like recorded lectures, notes, which will be sent to students. The students will go through these and then there will be one online session a week per subject to discuss and answer students’ query on the subject. Three sessions per subject per week will be held offline,” said principal of D M’s College Assagao, D B Arolkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/no-insistence-on-college-attendance/articleshow/77860317.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Ghaziabad||Few staff at Ghaziabad hospital’s testing lab||GHAZIABAD: The RT-PCR laboratory at MMG district hospital is unable to run at full-capacity in the absence of staffers, officials said on Monday. While two microbiologists were appointed for the laboratory, only one has joined the duty so far. The officials added that only 90 samples are being processed on daily basis, while the lab’s maximum capacity is around 700. “We are in talk with the state government and hope that the microbiologist will join soon,” said DM Ajay Shankar Pandey. Moreover, there is a need for an RNA extraction machine for the lab. Anurag Bhargav, chief medical superintendent of the hospital, said: “This machine, which costs around Rs 30 lakh, will be provided to all seven newly-built RT-PCR labs in the state.” Bhargav added that nearly 1,600 samples have been tested at the lab since August 14, when it became functional.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/few-staff-at-ghaziabad-hosps-testing-lab/articleshow/77861161.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana against Centre’s proposal of borrowing for GST deficit||HYDERABAD: State finance minister T Harish Rao on Friday said that if ordinary citizens cannot opt out of paying tax on the pretext of Covid-19, the Union government should also pay full compensation to the states instead of denying it, calling the situation an ‘act of god’. Addressing a press conference after a virtual meet with finance minister of six other non-BJP ruled states, Rao said: “Centre has no option but to pay the full GST compensation to states as there is no clause mentioning act of god or any other division in the GST Act. What if common tax payers also start saying that to not pay tax.” Rao said that the Telangana government is opposing the options given by the Centre to states, to either borrow from a special window facilitated by the Reserve Bank of India or from the market. “Centre estimated that Rs 3 lakh crore GST compensation needs to be paid to states but it is ready to pay only Rs 1.65. We will certainly oppose this in the parliament. If needed, we will also challenge this legally,” said the finance minister. He said that the state lost Rs 25,000 crore by agreeing to be a part of the GST regime. Telangana paid Rs 18,032 crore to the Centre in three years but only got Rs 3,200 crore in return, he pointed out. He said that the state’s lost 34% of income, which amounts to Rs 8,000 crore, in the last four months to the Covid-19 induced lockdown. “If Centre takes a loan to pay GST compensation, the interest rate will be lesser than if the states were to pay cess and surplus is added into their account. When there is a revenue loss, the states are being asked to bear it. Telangana will not accept it,” Rao said. According to Rao, the Centre, instead of being supportive during the pandemic, is drying up the states’ resources. He said that chief minister KCR has written to Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-against-centres-proposal-of-borrowing-for-gst-deficit/articleshow/77860330.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
September 1, 2020||Jaipur||Torrential showers throw life out of gear in Jaisalmer||JAISALMER: Water from Gadisar Lake, which is overflowing due to excessive rain, has now spilled on to the roads. Not only this, normal life too has come to a standstill due to torrential showers in the district that started at 8pm on Sunday and continued till Monday clocking 128.1mm. More than 19 hours of rainfall has flooded low-lying areas and damaged kharif crops too. The last time it had rained so much was in 2006. Traffic on many routes has been affected and the roof of a house in Sonar Fort collapsed. Jaisalmer district collector Ashish Modi is keeping a watch on the situation and there is no information of any casualties yet. Water has entered houses in city’s Gafoor Bhatta, Kachi Basti, Police Line and few areas in Gandhi Colony. Municipal council commissioner Fateh Singh Meena visited the low-lying areas with his team and started the work of flushing out water. Rainfall was also recorded in Ramgarh, Mohangarh, Ramdeora, Lathi, Nachna, Fatehgarh, Devikot, Mokla, Kanoi, Damodara and other areas of the district. Few people were stuck around Gogadi River near Bhairwa in Chandhan area and were rescued by the civil defence team. The district collector said that there has been no information of any untoward incident and situation is under control. The control rooms in the district are on high alert. People have been told to inform the local administration in case of any emergency and stay away from water flowing areas. The met department has warned of heavy rains in next 24 hours in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/torrential-showers-throw-life-out-of-gear-in-jaisalmer/articleshow/77860327.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Will be remembered for his ability to forge consensus on national issues: Naveen||Bhubaneswar: Leaders from across party lines and people from various walks of life in the state mourned the death of former President Pranab Mukherjee. Describing him as an illustrious son of India, chief minister Naveen Patnaik said, “Mukherjee had vast knowledge of almost all the issues and was insightful, prudent and balanced in his approach to life. He had a distinguished political career and was respected and loved by all sections of society for his judicious decisions and unparalleled experience in governance.” Conveying his deepest sympathies to the bereaved family, Naveen said, “He will always be remembered for his exceptional ability to forge consensus on national issues. His demise brings an end to a glorious life.” Petroleum and steel minister Dharmendra Pradhan described Pranab as a man of immense knowledge and wisdom. “I was often a recipient of Pranab da’s wisdom during my interactions with him. 1 especially cherish the memories of our visit to Jangipur in 2017, his former LS constituency, where he handed over the 2.5 crore LPG connections under #PMUY. It was an emotional moment for him,” Dharmendra tweeted. Niranjan Patnaik, the president of the state unit of Congress, said, “In Pranab’s death, India has lost a loving son. His extraordinary life and his selfless contribution to the cause of India’s progress will be remembered with tears by the nation.” BJP national vice-president Baijayant Panda, former Congress MP Ramachandra Khuntia, leader of opposition Pradipta Naik, Congress MLA Narasingha Mishra, among several others, expressed their grief at the passing away of Pranab, as did the villagers of Kendrapada, who recalled the help he offered them after the 1999 Super Cyclone. A pall of gloom descended in many coastal pockets under Mahakalapada block as news of Pranab’s death unfolded on Monday evening. “The news that the veteran leader had died was shocking. He visited our village a few days after the Super Cyclone and provided us relief,” said Bijay Shukla, former sarpanch of Ramnagar gram panchayat. Tarunakanti Kanjilal of Ramnagar said, “I have fond memories of the time when Pranab Mukherjee visited many gale-hit villages over three days. He sat on my bike and ate lunch in my house. My wife cooked fish curry and rice for Pranab Babu.” During his visit to Odisha in 2013, Pranab had invited Tarunakanti to meet him in the Raj Bhawan in Bhubaneswar. (With inputs from Ashis Senapati in Kendrapada)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/will-be-remembered-for-his-ability-to-forge-consensus-on-national-issues-naveen/articleshow/77858999.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Bhubaneswar||More than 38,000 aspirants to appear for JEE Main from today||Bhubaneswar: A total of 38,236 students from the state will appear for the JEE Main exam in seven cities between Tuesday and September 6. The seven exam cities are Bhubaneswar, Cuttack, Balasore, Berhampur, Rourkela, Dhenkanal and Sambalpur. The National Testing Agency (NTA) will conduct the exam in 26 centres, including six in Bhubaneswar, across the state. The first sitting of the exam will be held between 9 am and noon, while the second sitting will start from 3 pm and continue till 6 pm. Students have been advised to reach their exam centres by 7 am. The state government has made arrangements for free transport and accommodation of students in the seven cities. Around 30 buses and 40 small vehicles have been deployed to ferry the aspirants to the exam centres. Across the seven cities, 20 institutes have been earmarked for accommodation of examinees. Bhubaneswar and nearby areas are expected to see inflow of 16,000 students. The government has arranged six institutes to accommodate needy students. The Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation (BMC) has also reserved hotels for students who can pay for their stay here. Aspirants whose body temperature is above 100°F will be made to take the exam in a separate room. Khurda collector Sanat Kumar Mohanty said each student would be subjected to thermal scanning at the exam centres. “One doctor will be deployed at each centre. Ambulance facility will be available as well,” official sources said. Sanjay Kumar Singh, secretary of skill development and technical education department, said aspirants who needed government transport and accommodation had already been ferried to the exam cities and put up in accommodation meant for them. “All safety measures have been taken during this process. They will appear the examination and return home safely,” he added. Some parents are planning to take their children in their own or hired vehicles to examination centres to reduce physical contact with others during travel in public transport. They will also take homemade food with them for their wards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/more-than-38000-aspirants-to-appear-for-jee-main-from-today/articleshow/77858991.cms||Hemanta Pradhan
September 1, 2020||Nagpur||HC restrains cops from coercive action against man for tweets against CM, son||Nagpur: The Nagpur bench of Bombay high court restrained the police from taking any coercive action against petitioner Sameet Thakkar for his alleged defamatory tweets against chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and his son Aaditya over the death of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput. “No coercive steps shall be taken against the petitioner though investigations may proceed and if completed, chargesheet will not be filed,” a division bench comprising justices Sunil Shukre and Avinash Gharote said. While adjourning the hearing for two weeks, the bench issued notices to the respondents, including the state home department principal secretary, for final disposal of the petition. Commissioner of police, Sitabuldi police station officer and Shiv Sena activist Nitin Tiwari are the other respondents in the case. The petitioner had moved the judiciary through counsel Raspal Singh Renu for quashing of the FIR lodged against him at the Sitabuldi station under section 500, 504 and 50592 of the IPC and section 67 of the Information Technology Act, 2000. According to the petitioner, the FIR was in response to his speaking the truth about the alleged inaction by the Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government in Maharashtra over the death of the Bollywood actor. He prayed for quashing the FIR against him and also demanded security in the wake of alleged threats from Shiv Sena activists.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hc-restrains-cops-from-coercive-action-against-man-for-tweets-against-cm-son/articleshow/77861156.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
September 1, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Stretched beyond capacity, coronavirus fears lurk in Andhra Pradesh’s central prisons||VISAKHAPATNAM: The four central prisons in Andhra Pradesh have over 112% occupancy, according to the latest data from National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB). Even though the rate of occupancy is lower than the national average of 123.87%, the figure does point to a need to decongest the prisons, especially amid a pandemic. The four central prisons in Andhra Pradesh are located in Visakhapatnam, Rajahmundry, Nellore and Kadapa. All these prisons combined have a total capacity of 3,764 (3,634 male prisoners and 130 female prisoners). However, the total number of prisoners institutionalised currently is 4,232 (4,138 male and 94 female). So far, 1,375 prisoners in various jails in the state have contracted Covid-19 and one prisoner (also on dialysis) succumbed to the virus. Officials say inmates who tested Covid-19 positive are being treated in the prisons where they are lodged and a majority of cases are asymptomatic. The prisons department has released over 430 prisoners on interim bail since the outbreak. Among the prison inmates in the central jails, 2,272 have been convicted of their crimes and 1,938 are under trial. There are eight detainees and 14 in jail for various reasons. The overall occupancy rate in all jails combined (that is, taking together central jails, sub jails, district jails, women jails and open jails) is 86.2%. There are 7,579 prisoners including 466 female inmates against the total capacity of 8,789 inmates. Director-general of prisons and correctional services department, Md Ahsan Reza said, at present, there are between 7,900 to 8,000 inmates at prisons in Andhra Pradesh and the state has adequate space in its jails to prevent the spread of virus. Data further show that 1,858 prison inmates in Andhra Pradesh are serving life sentences, which indicates that 66.6% prisoners are serving life sentences against the national average of 53.5%. Senior advocate K Muralidhar said that there is a need to increase the capacity at the central prisons in Andhra Pradesh as overcrowding of jails is a violation of human rights and it is necessary to provide adequate space in jails.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/stretched-beyond-capacity-virus-fears-lurk-in-aps-central-prisons/articleshow/77859025.cms||Nalla.Babu
September 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Six held for bizman’s abduction||Hyderabad: Six persons were arrested on Monday for allegedly abducting a businessman for ransom at Kompally recently. Cyberabad police arrested the six kidnappers— D Hariprasad from Boduppal, A Mohan, G Rama Shiva, both from Ghatkesar, A Shyam, P Sanjeev and E Rajashekhar, from Pedapalli. The offenders, who were friends, had hatched a plan to abduct S Ramakrishna Raju, owner of a chemical company in Nacharam. According to police, two days before abducting Raju, the gang tailed him to observe his route. On August 27, when the victim reached Kompally underpass, they blocked his path with their vehicle. Using a fake pistol to scare Raju, they dragged him to the rear seat of his car and abducted him. They then took him to a room in Medchal and demanded a ransom of Rs 4 crore. “The gang gave a vitamin injection to Raju’s hand and claimed, they had administered poison and demanded ransom for the anti-dote. Scared, the victim said he did not have such a huge sum and pleaded to let him go,” Cyberabad police said. They confined the victim for six hours before letting him go at Ghatkeswar. After that, the victim approached the Pet Basheerabad police. A police team traced the accused and nabbed them on Monday from Medchal area and recovered a Swift Tour car and two toy pistols from their possession.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/six-held-for-bizmans-abduction/articleshow/77860371.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Bhubaneswar||CM undertakes aerial survey of flood-hit areas, announces relief||Bhubaneswar: People in the flood-hit districts of the state continued to suffer for the fifth day on Monday as the Mahanadi river system and its tributaries and distributaries remained swollen. Although the flow of water from the Hirakud dam reservoir has reduced, the Mahanadi river system will need another four days to stabilise, provided there is no further rainfall. Chief minister Naveen Patnaik, who undertook an aerial survey of the flood-affected areas on Monday, announced relief measures, including cooked and dry food for all the people who have been evacuated and housed in shelters. Fifty kg of rice and Rs 500 each will be provided to all families in the villages that have been severely affected in the floods. Besides, one polythene sheet will be provided to each household whose house has been damaged. The CM also announced house damage assistance as per the State Disaster Relief Fund norms. Collectors will take steps to assess house damage within 15 days and disburse the assistance in the next 7 days. The floods have affected over 14.5 lakh people and damaged over 10,000 houses in Puri, Cuttack, Kendrapada and Jagatsinghpur districts. Distributaries of the Mahanadi like Devi, Daya, Bhargavi, Kusabhadra, Luna and Khirosrota continue to flow in spate. In several areas, road communication has been cut off and people left marooned. Vast stretches of agriculture fields have been submerged and crops in over 1.68 lakh hectare have got affected by the floodwaters. At present, 5.98 lakh cusec of water is being released from the Hirakud reservoir per second through 36 sluice gates, against an inflow of 5.16 lakh cusec per second. The release of water from the Hirakud decreased sharply from nine to seven lakh cusec per second earlier on Monday. Thankfully, there has been no major rainfall in the upstream areas of the dam in the past 24 hours. “Thus, the release of water from the Munduli barrage to the downstream areas will also decrease,” said Jyotirmaya Rath, engineer-in-chief of water resources department. Different rivers caused 36 embankment breaches so far, including five in the Mahanadi river system. Several villages in Banki in Cuttack, Bari in Jajpur and Kanasa block in Puri still have waist-deep water. The India Meteorology Department (IMD) has forecast more rain for the state. Director of the regional IMD centre H R Biswas said rainfall activity in the state might increase for three days from Tuesday due to a trough line. He said there was a chance of heavy rainfall in isolated places during this period. “There is chance of heavy to very heavy rainfall in isolated places in 11 districts on Wednesday and yellow warning of heavy rain has been issued for eight districts on Tuesday,” the IMD bulletin said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/cm-undertakes-aerial-survey-of-flood-hit-areas-announces-relief/articleshow/77859032.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Hyderabad||MLA seeks info about threat||Hyderabad: BJP MLA Raja Singh on Monday wrote a letter to state home minister Mahmood Ali seeking information about the threat to his life. Singh said that in the past, some terror outfits did recce of his house. He also requested the home minister to look into the matter of his gun licence that is pending for the last two years. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mla-seeks-info-about-threat/articleshow/77860402.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur received 50% more than normal rains this August||NAGPUR: This August, the city received one-and-a-half times more rainfall than the monthly normal for the district. As per the data provided by the Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC), Nagpur, the city recorded a total rainfall of around 437 millimeters this month. The monthly normal for Nagpur district for the month of August is 280.6mm. On August 28, the city witnessed heavy rains that continued intermittently day and night. On that day itself, 60mm rains were recorded. Officials further informed it rained for 20 days in the city in August. As per the met department’s forecast, light to moderate rains are expected at some places in Vidarbha in the coming few days. In some good news, Nagpur has received 14% excess rains this season. Bhandara and Gondia have received 10 to 2% excess rain while Buldhana and Washim have received 5 and 11% surplus rains respectively. Unlike last year, most parts of the region have received good rains. Akola and Amravati have been the driest in the region, both being 26% rain deficit. In the first week of September, the maximum temperatures in the city are expected to sway between 32-34 degree Celsius. The minimum mercury levels will be around 25-27 degree Celsius.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/city-received-50-more-than-normal-rains-this-august/articleshow/77861160.cms||Manka Behl
September 1, 2020||Goa||SC stay sought against DHS work order for dialysis centre||Margao: The feud between the directorate of health services (DHS) and Dr Venkatesh Reddy, who has been running the dialysis unit at the Hospicio, has now reached the apex court with the latter applying for a stay order against the former’s work order to a private agency for setting up dialysis units at the new South Goa district hospital and at Canacona primary health centre. Reddy told reporters that his case has been listed to be taken up before a Supreme Court bench on October 8. Reddy’s contention is that with the DHS engaging another private agency to set up dialysis unit at the South Goa district hospital amounted to injustice on him as his contract with the DHS for running the dialysis unit at the Hospicio was not yet been terminated. He said he was willing to shift his dialysis unit to the new hospital if asked to, within 24 hours. The government has granted approval to a private firm to set up dialysis centres at government health centres at Bicholim, Dharbandora, Canacona and the new district hospital in Margao. Two years ago, Reddy had dragged the DHS to the high court over the issue of continuing with the dialysis centre at the annexe building of the Hospicio after the PWD declared the structure to be unsafe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sc-stay-sought-against-dhs-work-order-for-dialysis-centre/articleshow/77860491.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara Covid-19 tally cross 8k-mark||Vadodara: The number of Covid-19 cases in the city and district crossed 8,000-mark on Monday with 124 persons testing positive in the 24 hours since Sunday evening. The number of new cases is also the highest in a day till date.As many as 2,391 tests were conducted since Sunday evening out of which the positive cases were detected. The number of tests is also the highest in a day since the pandemic. The total number of cases reported so far stands at 8,064.The new cases were spread across the city almost evenly. The south zone of Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) reported 25 cases followed by 23 cases from the north zone. The west zone saw 21 persons testing positive even as 20 new cases were reported in the east zone.The areas of the district outside VMC limits reported 35 new cases. These included cases in Karjan, Padra, Waghodiya, Kherwadi, Desar, Dabhoi, Undera, Bhayli, Bil and Sevasi. The VMC also confirmed two more deaths due to Covid-19 being the primary cause. With these, it has confirmed 142 such deaths even as many more Covid-19 positive patients have died due to comorbidities.As many as 107 persons suffering from Covid-19 were discharged from various hospitals or home quarantine in the city. With these the total number of persons discharged so far reached 6,311.There are as many as 1,611 persons under treatment in various hospitals or home quarantine presently. These include 59 patients who are breathing with the help of BIPAP machines or ventilators and 156 others on oxygen support.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/vadodara-covid-19-tally-cross-8k-mark/articleshow/77859060.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Noida||Two try to break into house in Badalpur, damage car, booked||GREATER NOIDA: Two persons have been booked after they allegedly tried to break into the house of a local BJP functionary in Badalpur on Monday. The complainant, Mahendra Singh Nagar, is a district-level representative of the party. He said the incident occurred around 4am on Monday when he was not present at home. The accused men allegedly scaled the boundary wall around his house, tried to break in and knocked on the door. They also smashed the windowpanes of Nagar’s Maruti Esteem car with bricks before fleeing. “They didn’t appear to be thieves. It seems that some people are trying to hurt me and my family members, who are terrified due to the incident. I have also received death threats,” he added. An FIR has been filed against the two unidentified persons under Section 427 (mischief causing damage) of the IPC at Badalpur police station. “Prima facie, it seems to be an attempt to scare the victim’s family. Arrests will be made soon,” a police officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/2-try-to-break-into-house-damage-car-booked/articleshow/77861183.cms||Abhishek Awasthi
September 1, 2020||Bhubaneswar||State added more than 69% positive cases in August||Bhubaneswar: The month of August saw the state registering 71,659 positive cases, more than 69% of the total infections, which rose to 1,03,536 with another 2,602 people testing positive on Monday. The month also witnessed the most number of deaths – 315 out of the total 492 – as 10 more succumbed to the virus on the day. The government feels new cases may continue to rise till mid-September before it starts falling. Agriculture and farmers’ empowerment minister Arun Sahoo is among those who tested positive for the virus, the second minister in Naveen Patnaik’s cabinet after rural development minister Susanta Singh. A central team is likely visit the state soon to assist the government “in strengthening containment, surveillance, testing and efficient clinical management,” a central government statement said. Similar teams by the Union health and family welfare ministry would also visit the states of Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh. “These states are seeing a sudden surge in the number of Covid cases and some of them are also reporting high mortality. The teams will support the state efforts. They shall also guide the states in effectively managing the challenges related to timely diagnosis and follow up,” the central government statement said. Each of the multi-sectoral teams will comprise of an epidemiologist and a public health expert. Among the four states, Uttar Pradesh has the maximum active cases at 54,666, followed by Odisha, Chhattisgarh (13,520) and Jharkhand (11,577). Khurda continues to be the headache for Odisha, reporting the highest number of positive cases for more than a week. It added 616 new cases in the last 24 hours, out of which 404 are from Bhubaneswar alone. Cuttack district also reported 236 new positive cases. Khurda and Cuttack now account for 9,901 active positive cases, one-third of the total 29,758 active cases in the state. Ganjam (190), Kendrapada (128), Koraput (127), Balasore and Jajpur (103 each) reported more than 100 positive cases each. Among the deceased include three men aged 42, 43 and 58 years from Kandhamal. Two women, both aged 60 years, died in Khurda. Besides one man each died in Bhubaneswar (56 years), Ganjam (48), Nayagarh (73), Rayagada (54) and Sundargarh (71). EoM||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/state-added-more-than-69-positive-cases-in-august/articleshow/77859041.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Goa||Goa: More centres added, close frisking unlikely||PANAJI: For the NEET to be held across the country on September 13, around 3,000 students are set to appear through 15 centres in Goa. Unlike the JEE, which is a computer-based test, the NEET is a pen and paper exam and its conduct in the states is directly coordinated by the National Testing Agency (NTA). As per officials, same measures as used during the state board exams and the Goa Common Entrance Test held during the pandemic, will be implemented during conduct of the NEET as well. This will mean that students per exam centre are restricted to 12 and thermal screening of students will be carried out before they enter the exam hall. If students are found with unusually high temperatures, they will be made to answer the exam from a separate exam hall, as was done during the state board exams and GCET. From the early days of conduct of NEET in Goa, different CBSE schools in the state serve as exam centres for the test. But as against five exam centres last year, students this year will be answering the exam through 15 centres. This has been done to be able to maintain social distancing of one metre between two students as they enter and exit the exam hall. To meet the requirement of increased exam halls, some college premises have also been roped in for conduct the NEET exam. Normally, NTA is known to stress on thorough frisking of students before they enter exam halls to ensure there are absolutely no malpractices during the exam. This year, due to the pandemic, frisking is expected to be carried out differently. “As per the centrally implemented norms, students are only going to be scanned for gadgets and there is unlikely to be touching at the time of frisking, which is reassuring during the pandemic,” said a student. Same measures as used during the state board exams and Goa Common Entrance Test held during the pandemic, will be implemented for conducting the NEET as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/more-centres-added-close-frisking-unlikely/articleshow/77860404.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Goa||Goa: Life jail term for murder accused||PANAJI: The sessions court has sentenced Osban Lucas Fernandes from Merces and Sawantwadi resident Ramesh Bhagve to life imprisonment, and fined them Rs 1.5 lakh each for murder and destruction of evidence of a labourer who was employed by Fernandes. The fine amount will be paid to the deceased’s children, the court held. The court held that the direct evidence of the minor girl who was around 7 years old at the time and the various circumstances formed a chain and proved the guilt of the accused beyond reasonable doubt. “Prosecution has succeeded in proving that accused assaulted the labourer with intention to kill him, and after his death tried to destroy the evidence by burying the body of the deceased, killing his wife and attempting to kill the two minor children,” Justice Irshad Agha stated. Public prosecutor Poonam Bharne submitted that both the accused committed a brutal act of murder. Both accused are convicted by the Children’s Court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/life-jail-term-for-murder-accused/articleshow/77860432.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Pune||In August, 90% of new patients in Pune went on to recover||PUNE: The gap between the number of Covid-19 positive cases and the number of patients being discharged closed fast in August within the Pune Metropolitan Region, data has revealed. There were 79,000 new cases in August across the PMR, which includes the Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal corporations, three cantonment limits and certain areas in Pune rural. Data shows 72,000 of these patients went on to make successful recoveries. The number of active patients in the region has remained mostly the same. There were some 30,000 active cases (patients undergoing treatment) in the PMR by the first week of August. By the end of the month, that number stood at around 33,000. August also saw 2,026 deaths due to Covid-19 in the PMR. Within a month, the toll went up to 4,061 from 2,035. Officials said the high number of recoveries was the result of early detection and improved availability of hospital beds for people with serious Covid-19. They added that the jumbo facilities that have come up will further reduce the burden on hospitals in the region. The recovery rate in PMR currently stands at nearly 77% — 1,29,629 patients out of 1,68,381, have recovered. In the PMC, the recovery rate is 81%; PCMC is at 74%. The policy of home isolation has also allowed doctors to focus on the seriously ill. The policy allows those with mild to no symptoms to recover at home. A PMC official said, “The policy has, importantly, eased the burden on hospital infrastructure. Also, measures such as door-to-door surveys and increased contact tracing have allowed early detection. People are now being isolated and treated faster.” Divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao said, “The recovery rate of Covid-19 patients has improved in the region. The administration is now focused on reducing the mortality rate,” said divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao. Santosh Patil, the additional commissioner of the PCMC, said the mortality rate among those over 60 remains a concern. “But I don’t think critical patients will have any issues regarding bed availability. We have jumbo and other facilities ready,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/in-august-pmr-registered-90-covid-recovery-rate/articleshow/77861176.cms||Piyush Bhusari
September 1, 2020||Noida||Greater Noida starts pothole repair helpline, promises work in a month||GREATER NOIDA: The Greater Noida Industrial Development Authority (GNIDA) has set up a helpline dedicated to repairing work of potholes in the city. Officials have also assured that the potholes here will be filled and repaired within a month. Officer-in-charge of work circle V has been appointed as the nodal officer for the initiative. CEO of GNIDA Narendra Bhooshan explained that until now, work on pothole repair used to be taken up only when tenders for the repair of entire stretches were awarded. “As a result, locals and commuters had to negotiate the potholes in their locality for several months. We have hired the services of a private agency for three years. It will attend to complaints in a particular locality on three days per month,” said Bhooshan. Residents can log on to the portal set up by the authority or report potholes over 0120-2336046 as well as over WhatsApp at 8800203912.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/gr-noida-starts-pothole-repair-helpline-promises-work-in-a-mth/articleshow/77861186.cms||Shalabh
September 1, 2020||Goa||Safety first: 2,000 students to answer JEE in two shifts||Panaji: At least 2,000 candidates from Goa seeking to bag a seat in Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) have been called to take the Joint Entrance Exam (JEE) in two shifts from Tuesday — from 9am to 12noon and from 2pm to 6pm. The exam will end on September 6. The JEE has been conducted by the National Testing Agency (NTA) since last year and is a computer-based test. While it was held at a single centre in Panaji last year, the Covid-19 pandemic and consequent need for social distancing among students this year prompted the setting up of an additional centre at Shree Rayeshwar Institute of Engineering and Information Technology in Shiroda. In Panaji, the test will be conducted at a centre at Patto. On Day 1, at least 150 students are expected to take the test in the morning shift at the two exam centres and a similar number will answer it in the evening session. Measures implemented during the Goa Common Entrance Test and the state board exams, all of which were held during the pandemic, will be used during the JEE as well. This means that not more than 12 students will be seated in each exam hall. Parents, too, are expected to be kept at a distance from the exam halls to ensure there is no crowding. The NTA is directly overseeing conduct of the exams in the states. As per the norms set for the exams, students will be allowed to carry a small bottle of sanitiser into the exam hall. It is mandatory for students to wear masks, carry see-through pens and their own drinking water. Thermal screening will be carried out to check the temperature of students before they enter the exam centres. “My friends and I have been provided different timings to enter the exam hall for the same session, so that all students do not enter at a time and cause crowding. We are preparing for the exam for the last two years and are happy that it is finally being held,” a student said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/safety-first-2000-students-to-answer-jee-in-two-shifts/articleshow/77860423.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Amaravati||Andhra Pradesh: 54% of convicts have education below Class 10||VIJAYAWADA: Around 54% of the convicted prisoners’ education profile in Andhra Pradesh is below Class 10, according to the latest Prison Statistics India report released by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) on Sunday. Illiterates constitute 21% of total convicted prisoners in the state. Compared to 2018, the number of convicted prisoners with education below Class 10 has increased by 63%. The total number of illiterate prisoners has reduced by 44%. In the least order, postgraduates constitute the smallest slice in the pie chart with 2%, followed by diploma holders and then graduates. In terms of education profile of undertrial prisoners in the state, 36% are illiterate, with ones who studied up to or less than Class 10 at 35%. Around 95.8% of the prisoners hail from Andhra Pradesh while the rest are from other states and countries. In terms of religious background of the convicts, the statistics show that 82% are Hindus, 11% Muslims, 4% Christians and 1% other religions. Caste-wise breakup of the data shows that 46% are OBCs, 23% SCs, 11% STs and 18% other caste. Fifty-four per cent of the convicted prisoners in the state are between the age group of 30 to 50 years. After that, 35% are between 18 to 30 years. Only 11.5% are above 50 years of age. In terms of undertrials, 41.4% of them are between 18 to 30 years while 49% are 30 to 50 years. The state has 167 women convicts and 466 women undertrials. Out of these, nine convicted women prisoners have 11 children living with them. Overall, there are 43 women prisoners with 49 children residing with them. The state is fifth-lowest in terms of foreign inmates in its prisons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/54-of-convicts-have-education-below-class-10/articleshow/77862826.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
September 1, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: 54% of convicts have education below Class 10||VIJAYAWADA: Around 54% of the convicted prisoners’ education profile in Andhra Pradesh is below Class 10, according to the latest Prison Statistics India report released by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) on Sunday. Illiterates constitute 21% of total convicted prisoners in the state. Compared to 2018, the number of convicted prisoners with education below Class 10 has increased by 63%. The total number of illiterate prisoners has reduced by 44%. In the least order, postgraduates constitute the smallest slice in the pie chart with 2%, followed by diploma holders and then graduates. In terms of education profile of undertrial prisoners in the state, 36% are illiterate, with ones who studied up to or less than Class 10 at 35%. Around 95.8% of the prisoners hail from Andhra Pradesh while the rest are from other states and countries. In terms of religious background of the convicts, the statistics show that 82% are Hindus, 11% Muslims, 4% Christians and 1% other religions. Caste-wise breakup of the data shows that 46% are OBCs, 23% SCs, 11% STs and 18% other caste. Fifty-four per cent of the convicted prisoners in the state are between the age group of 30 to 50 years. After that, 35% are between 18 to 30 years. Only 11.5% are above 50 years of age. In terms of undertrials, 41.4% of them are between 18 to 30 years while 49% are 30 to 50 years. The state has 167 women convicts and 466 women undertrials. Out of these, nine convicted women prisoners have 11 children living with them. Overall, there are 43 women prisoners with 49 children residing with them. The state is fifth-lowest in terms of foreign inmates in its prisons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/54-of-convicts-have-education-below-class-10/articleshow/77859042.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
September 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Peers, teachers reach out to poor students||HYDERABAD: Students who do not have access to either television or the internet will not miss out on online classes from September 1 in Yadadri Bhuvanagiri district. The administration has made arrangemnts for alternative teaching with the help of peers or teachers themselves reaching out to the disadvantaged pupils. Yadadri Bhuvanagiri collector Anitha Ramachandran told TOI that there were 38,000 students in the district. Of them, 1,527 had no access to either television or a mobile phone with internet connectivity. “We have done a survey and found it was a small number. Since these students have been identified, we have made special arrangements to see they will be on the same page in so far as lessons that have been taught online are concerned,” she said. In other parts of the state, authorities have asked gram panchayats to arrange a television set so that students could attend classes if they have no TV or internet. No such instructions were issued in Yadadri Bhuvanagiri. “We want to avoid gathering of students in the current Covid situation. It is for this reason that we have online classes,” the collector said. Hajipur village in Bommalaramaram, for instance, has a few students who have no access to television or internet. The gram panchayat authorities told TOI that they had got no instructions to arrange a TV for the students. “But we have been asked to tell parents to see that the children attend the classes online and we will be doing that,” a village functionary said. Finance minister T Harish Rao, who held a tele-conference with Medak district officials, advised government schools to have a teacher take responsibility for every 10 children so that they do not miss out on the classes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/peers-teachers-reach-out-to-poor-students/articleshow/77860427.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
September 1, 2020||Goa||‘Will ensure smooth conduct of exams’||Panaji: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Monday said the government would ensure smooth conduct of the medical and engineering entrance exams, NEET and JEE, and would assist in enforcing all safety measures. Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal had urged Sawant to make elaborate arrangements. As many as 5,412 students are expected to take the exams that will be held in 17 centres across Goa. While JEE will be held from September 1-6, NEET will begin from September 13, Sawant said. At a meeting with the education secretary and officials of the directorates of higher education and technical education, Sawant directed that classrooms be sanitised before the exams are held. He also said the departments concerned should ensure that social distancing among candidates is maintained and that all candidates wear masks and sanitise their hands. Reacting to the opposition’s protests over conducting the exams, Sawant said students’ futures are dependent on such tests. “Nobody should politicise the issue. The government has already conducted the Goa Common Entrance Test, SSCE and HSSCE,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/will-ensure-smooth-conduct-of-exams/articleshow/77860438.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Hyderabad||10 dists see surge in Covid-19 cases||Hyderabad: The Covid-19 map of Telangana is fast changing with surge in numbers in districts far away from Hyderabad — especially towards the eastern side. While every district recorded new cases for an entire month now, the top five that have seen cases double in the last couple of weeks are: Yadadri, Kothagudem, Khammam, Mahabubabad and Nalgonda. One of the probable reasons: unrestricted activity along the border. The first case of Covid-19 was found in the state in Secunderabad on March1.  “While there could be multiple reasons for this trend, inter-state travel especially between Telangana and AP (which is more severely affected), could be one of them. It could even be a purely epidemiological factor or community transmission,” said Subodh Kandamuthan, director, Centre for Healthcare Management, Administrative Staff College of India. At the beginning of the pandemic, Hyderabad, Karimnagar and Nalgonda emerged as three major clusters.  “This was primarily due to Markaz returnees. But while the situation in Karimnagar and Nalgonda was contained after one to two months, Hyderabad continued to see a surge. By April, 90% of Telangana’s positive cases were being reported from GHMC limits,” said a senior official from state health department. This continued through beginning of May with cases in other parts of the state dropping to bare minimum. In fact, on May 1, new cases were recorded only in GHMC limits and Ranga Reddy. As per official data, till then Warangal Rural, Yadadri and Wanaparthy were completely untouched by the virus while five districts Karimnagar, Kamareddy, Mahabubanagar, Medak and Bhupalpally — had not recorded new cases for a fortnight. There were 10 other districts Siddipet, Mahabubabad, Mancheriyal, Narayanpet, Peddapally, Bhadadri, Nagarkurnool, Mulugu, Sanga Reddy and Jagtial — with zero active cases. Every district in the state is recording new cases, with 10 registering large numbers. “What needs to be done is to prepare for a further surge in districts and ensure that the required manpower is trained and kept available. Also, since majority of the testing facilities are concentrated in and around Hyderabad, allowing testing in private facilities in districts and training and shifting manpower to handle a surge has to be planned,” added Subodh Kandamuthan, director, Centre for Healthcare Management, Administrative Staff College of India .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/10-dists-see-surge-in-covid-19-cases/articleshow/77860441.cms||Amrita Didyala
September 1, 2020||Pune||50+ age patients account for 80% of deaths in PMR||Pune: Latest data from the district health office has shown that 80% of the total deaths in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) occurred in the age group of 51 and above. Of the 4,010 deaths until August 29, 3,257 were from this group, the data showed. The highest number of deaths were among those between 60 and 70 years of age — a total of 1,205 patients in this group succumbed to Covid. This portion of the population was followed by the 50-60 age group, which registered 917 dead. There are also 840 fatalities in the 70 to 80 age group. Experts said the fatality rate among these patients rose sharply in July and August, mostly due to shortage of critical care beds, late detection and importantly, presence of underlying conditions. Abhijit More, a health activist, said the administration needs to do more to cut the mortality rate among senior citizens. “I think we should provide senior citizens pulse-oximeters so that we can keep monitoring their health. We can start treatment immediately if blood oxygen levels dip below 90%,” More said.S Chockalingam, the administrative controller of Sassoon, said many patients were brought to the hospital at a critical stage. The hospital has had a high number of deaths - over 600. Chockalingam said the hospital's high death rate is because it has the highest number of ICU beds catering to seriously ill patients. “We have 120 ICU beds. Patients are coming to us at critical stages. We're also getting seriously ill patients who have been denied admission by a private hospital. There is very little we can do in such cases," he said. He added that all citizens should ensure elderly relatives are safe. “If they have symptoms, get a Covid test done as soon as you can. Do not self-medicate,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/50-age-patients-account-for-80-of-deaths-in-pmr/articleshow/77861180.cms||Piyush Bhusari
September 1, 2020||Noida||Man found dead near Greater Noida's Surajpur sanctuary||GREATER NOIDA: The body of a 34-year-old man from Kulesra was found near Surajpur Bird Sanctuary on Monday morning. The deceased has been identified as Saroj Kumar. He used to work at a private company in Noida’s Phase II area. Police said he might have drowned in the knee-deep water of Surajpur wetlands area. Pradeep Tripathi, station house officer, Surajpur, said they got information about the body around 8 am on Monday. The man was lying face down in a waterlogged area next to the boundary wall of Surajpur sanctuary. “We found his mobile and wallet which we used to identify him and called his family,” he said. Tripathi added that prima facie, the man had no external injuries and since his documents, phone and money were intact, the angle of robbery has been ruled out. Saroj used to stay in a rented flat at Kulesra with his younger brother. According to Tripathi, Saroj’s brother has said that the 34-year-old had recently lost his job. “He was a habitual drinker. We think he fell in the water at night. It is being investigated how he reached Surajpur-Devla road, which is quite a distance from his house,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/man-found-dead-near-surajpur-sanctuary/articleshow/77861191.cms||Abhishek Awasthi
September 1, 2020||Hyderabad||NGT panel to probe mangrove damage||HYDERABAD: National Green Tribunal on Monday issued orders forming a joint committee of experts and officials to probe into the allegations of damage to the mangrove mudflat in Kakinada by GMR Holdings Private Limited and East Coast Concessions Private Limited. On August 27, NGT admitted the petition filed by former IAS officer EAS Sarma and directed the committee to inspect Coringa Wildlife Sanctuary and submit a factual report by October 13. The committee was asked to look into the assessment of environmental compensation and remedial measures to be taken to restore the damage caused to the environment and coastal regulation zone. “Environmental clearance was given to GMR initially for constructing an LNG plant and barge mounted power plant. Later, the EC was transferred to East Coast Concessions. Dredging work and dumping of waste material has damaged mangroves near Kakinada Coast Guard office,” the petitioner said. He added that there were specific conditions in the Environmental Clearance that dredged materials should not be dumped near mangroves and mudflats. It is also alleged that the respondents are constructing a bund which may prevent the inflow of sea water towards the mangroves and affect the existence of the mangrove forests. The mudflat, measuring nearly 2 sq m, is located around Kumbhabhishekam Temple.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ngt-panel-to-probe-mangrove-damage/articleshow/77860443.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
September 1, 2020||Pune||At Poona Guest House, creative crowd always found room for shelter and inspiration||PUNE: This is the place veteran actress Sulochana calls her home, away from home. The walls here still reverberate with the magical notes from the concerts of maestros like Bhimsen Joshi, Vasantrao Deshpande and Kumar Gandharva. Poona Guest House (PGH) on Laxmi Road, which completes 85 years on Tuesday, is much more than a place to stay and have wholesome Maharastrian fare. This is where many a lonely artist spent his or her last years under the care of the Sarpotdars. Even Yogacharya BKS Iyengar found shelter here about 80 years ago when he arrived in Pune to teach yoga on the invitation of senior editor Nanasaheb Parulekar. Iyengar used to teach at PYC Gymkhana, but found it tough to convince the members about its utility. It was PGH founder Nanasaheb Sarpotdar who offered him a room to stay till he found his feet in a new city. PGH was established in 1935 on a quiet Laxmi Road by Narahar Damodar Sarpotdar aka Nanasaheb as a sustainable source of income to supplement his career in films. Nanasaheb produced, directed and acted in many Hindi and Marathi films (notable being ‘Maharacha Por). He set up his own film company called the Aryan Film Studio in Pune and made silent movies. He gave stalwarts like Lalita Pawar and Durga Khote their big breaks. “The connection with theatre and films was cemented further when Nanasaheb’s son and my father Charudatta Sarpotdar took charge in 1952. PGH was the home for actors like Sulochana, Chandrakant, Suryakant, Jayashree Gadkar, Asha Kale and later Satish Dubhashi, Shahsikant Nikate and others,” Kishor Sarpotdar, grandson of Nanasaheb, who now is in charge, said. Money was the last priority for Charudatta aka Charukaka. “Rooms were offered for free to many an actors and film personalities. Senior actor Madhu Apte spent the last four and half years of his life in one of our rooms and Baba did not take a single paisa from him. Lokmanya Tilak’s grandnephew G V Ketkar and vocalist Shripad Joshi who taught music to melody queen Lata Mangeshkar, found a home at PGH when they fell on bad days. Even Kashinath Ghanekar, a superstar of Marathi theatre, spent the last four years of his life here,” Sarpotdar recalled. The food at PGH was a favourite of many a stars. “My grandmother knew what they liked. Veteran actor Prabhakar Panshikar always got his glass of cold milk at 1am after his night show. She would prepare curd rice at 2am because Ghanekar liked it after his night shows. My grandmother would send a tiffin to the Mangeshkar family every day when they were in Pune,” Sarpotdar added. The Maharashtrian fare here was also sampled by former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi during his visit to Pune in 1988. Rehearsals of plays like ‘Ashrunchi Zali Phule’ and ‘Katyar Kaljat Ghusli’ would happen in the rooms at PGH. Actor-director Bal Kolhatkar wrote his hit play ‘Vahato Hee Durvanchi Judi’ while living here and noted poet G D Madgulkar’s Geet Ramayan was also written here. Popular actor director Dada Kondke and his entire unit stayed on the third floor of PGH during the making of the hit film ‘Songadya’. “Dada was relatively unknown then and he was not able to get a theatre to release his film. My father put in a word with the owner of ‘Bhanuvilas’ theatre off Laxmi Road and convinced him to release it. The rest as they say is history,” Sarpotdar recalled. Sarpotdar is now planning a 90th birthday celebration for veteran actor Sulochana, once the Covid-19 pandemic eases. “She was like a sister to my father and he celebrated her every landmark birthday in Pune. I want to keep that tradition,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/at-poona-guest-house-creative-crowd-always-found-room-for-shelter-inspiration/articleshow/77861190.cms||Manjiri Damle
September 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Pipeline work shelved, water supply as usual on September 2||HYDERABAD: The Krishna water supply in Old City and other parts of Greater Hyderabad will not be snapped on September 2, as was earlier scheduled by the Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (HMWS&SB). The water board was supposed to shut the water for 24 hours starting 6 am of September to 6 am of September 3 due to proposed junction works on Krishna drinking water supply phase-II pipeline at PVNR expressway, as part of down ramp construction. “Water supply will be continued in all the areas as usual. The revised date of junction repair work will be intimated soon,” a water department notification said. Areas including Mehdipatnam, Karwan, Langar House, Kakatiya Nagar, Humayan Nagar, Talagadda, Asifnagar, MES, Shaikpet, OU Colony, Tolichowki, Mallepally, Vijay Nagar Colony, Bhojagutta, Ziaguda, Red Hills, Secretariat, Old MLA Quarters, Allabanda under O&M Div-IV, Gagan Mahal, Himayath Nagar, Budvel, Hyderguda, Rajendranagar, Upperpally, Suleman Nagar, M M Pahadi, Attapur, Chintalmet, Kishanbagh, Manikonda, Gandhamguda, Narsing and Kismathpur will get potable water supply as usual.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pipeline-work-shelved-water-supply-as-usual-on-sept-2/articleshow/77860499.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Pune||100 Yerawada jail inmates test +ve in August||PUNE: Fifty inmates of the Yerawada central jail have tested Covid-19 positive in August despite the facility being under a strict lockdown from April 9 to July15. Another 50 positive inmates from the temporary jail located outside the main prison complex are under treatment, taking the jail’s overall active caseload among the inmates to 100. Besides, 11jail staffers, including a senior prison officer, are under treatment. Two prison inmates have so far succumbed to Covid-19. Additional director-general of prisons Sunil Ramanand said, “Most of the inmates testing positive are asymptomatic and the recovery rate is quite high. Most of the inmates lodged at the temporary jail have come from other places. We are subjecting new inmates to rapid antigen tests.” Sonali Metkari, the tehsildar-cum-superintendent of Indapur sub-jail, said, “Eighteen inmates had tested positive for Covid-19 virus at the sub-jail in August. We have shifted them to a Covid care centre in Indapur.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/100-inmates-of-yerawada-jail-test-ve-in-aug/articleshow/77861184.cms||Asseem Shaikh
September 1, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Hospital waste left unattended for hours||Visakhapatnam: Several bags of biomedical waste were found dumped outside a corporate hospital at KGH Road, Maharanipeta on Monday morning. Disposed PPE kits, masks, gloves and other biomedical waste could be discerned through the translucent bags. The hospital in question is a Covid care institution and KGH Road is home to several hospitals, clinics and pharmacies. Naresh Agarwal, a patient’s acquaintance, who had come to the corporate hospital said, “From 9 am to 11 am, I was in the hospital premises. It was unpleasant and worrisome to see such a huge amount of garbage including biomedical waste in a high-risk area. There is every chance of stray dogs and cattle tearing the polythene bags and littering the waste on the road, enhancing the risk of the disease spreading. Rains can also worsen the situation. Around 10.45 am, a GVMC vehicle cleared the black bags while other yellow bags were lying there till the time I was at the hospital. The garbage should have been left covered inside the hospital till the garbage-collecting vehicles arrive.” When contacted, a spokesperson from the hospital said, “The garbage is cleared every morning by GVMC (general waste) and Maridi Industries (biomedical waste) at a particular time. So the housekeeping staff keeps it ready for the collection vehicles. On Monday, there was a delay in the arrival of vehicles but it was cleared around 11.30 am.” It is not just KGH Road, but three government hospitals near Pedda Waltair—Government Hospital for Chest and Infectious Diseases, (GHCCD), Government Hospital for Mental Care (GHMC) and Government ENT Hospital—that are surrounded by debris and garbage, including discarded masks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/hospital-waste-left-unattended-for-hours/articleshow/77859113.cms||Sulogna Mehta
September 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana govt mulls Covid test for legislators ahead of session||HYDERABAD: With nearly half a dozen MLAs, including two ministers, testing positive for Covid-19 in the last couple of months, the state government is mulling conducting Covid-19 tests for all the legislators ahead of the monsoon session, which is beginning on September 7. Officials said the government wants to take utmost precaution as apart from ministers — Mohammed Mahmood Ali and Ch Malla Reddy, MLAs — Gongidi Sunitha, M Yadagiri Reddy, Bajireddy Govardhan Reddy and Ganesh Gupta — and several police officials have already been infected with the virus. Sources said the MLAs and MLCs would be asked to get the tests done at their home villages or on the assembly premises. “Both council chairman and assembly speaker are planning to hold a meet on Wednesday and take a decision on adherence to Covid guidelines and tests,” a top government official said. “We have written to health department to depute doctors and other personnel with equipment at the assembly and council for thermal screening and other required equipments. All measures will be taken to ensure safety of members,” council chairman Gutha Sukhender Reddy said. He said the plan is to hold sessions from 10 am to till late afternoon. “We thought of holding the session for 20 days. A final decision will be taken during the business advisory committee meet,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/govt-mulls-covid-test-for-legislators-ahead-of-session/articleshow/77860463.cms||Koride Mahesh
September 1, 2020||Lucknow||UP: 5 labourers killed as jeep rams into truck||LUCKNOW: Five labourers were killed while 11 others were injured after a jeep carrying them rammed into a stationary truck on Gonda-Bahraich highway on Monday morning. Police said the jeep coming from Bihar had 16 labourers and was headed to Ambala in Punjab. The injured have been admitted to the district hospital in Bahraich. ASP, Bahraich, KG Singh said the accident occurred around 5am when the jeep driver fell asleep and the vehicle hit a stationary truck in Payagpur police station area of Bahraich. “Three persons died on the spot while two were declared brought dead at the local community health centre,” said Singh. Eyewitnesses said that it took at least 30 minutes to pull out the bodies from the mangled remains of the jeep. The bodies were crushed beyond recognition. An FIR has been registered against the truck driver for parking his vehicle on the wrong side of the highway. Police have seized the truck.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/5-labourers-killed-as-jeep-rams-into-truck/articleshow/77861185.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Muharram procession organisers booked for violating Covid norms||Hyderabad: Six cases have been booked against several members of the Shia community for violation of lockdown norms during the 10th Muharram procession held in the Old City on Sunday. The suo moto cases have been registered in the Mir Chowk, Chaderghat, Rein Bazaar, Dabeerpura and Charminar police stations following complaints made by police officers, who were deputed for bandobast duty. On Sunday, Bibi-Ka-Alam was taken out on a DCM van after hundreds of members belonging to the Shia community gathered for the annual tradition. The Alam procession started at 11.30 am in the morning from Dabeerpura and passed through various places such as Charminar, Gulzar Houz, Purani Havel, Aza Khane Zehra Darulshifa and concluded at Masjid-E-Ilahi at Chaderghat at 3 pm.  The devotees were informed not to gather for the procession since its hazardous to public health in the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. Cases have been booked against Parvez, Qamaruddin Alam Bardar of Bibi Ka Alam and Bade Nal Sab Pathergatti, Hassanuddin Aijan Alam Bardar of Bibi Ka Alam, Syed Muqtar Ali, president of Anjuman E Masoomeen, Najaf Ali Shoukath, president of Matami Gurohan, Ishtiyaq Ali, member of Malangi Shia sect, and other members of Shia community. They have been booked under IPC section 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 341 (wrongful restraint), 269 (Negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignantly does any act likely to spread the infection of any disease dangerous to life). Cops invoked Disaster Management Act 1950, Epidemic Diseases Act 1897 and government orders issued for pandemic control against violators. Despite lockdown rules in force, members of Shia community had taken out a procession and also indulged in self-flagellation flouting the MHA guidelines, said cops||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/muharram-procession-organisers-booked-for-violating-covid-norms/articleshow/77860476.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Farmers’ body sends legal notice to Gujarat government||AHMEDABAD: A farmers’ body on Monday dashed off a legal notice to the state government urging it to revise jantri rates, and complaining that the government sells its lands at much higher rates, but when it has to pay farmers for land acquisition, it pays them meagre amounts according to the 2011 jantri rates. Gujarat Khedut Samaj stated that the last jantri revision had taken place in 2011 and there is vast difference between market rates of land and jantri rates. This results in low revenue collection towards stamp duty in land transactions. The Comptroller and Accountant General (CAT) report in 2017 had said that the state had caused loss of nearly Rs 20,000 crore to its exchequer by not revising the jantri rates. Citing details, the farmer’s body has complained that when the state government or Centre sell their lands, they re-evaluate the land parcels through district evaluation committees. The prices fixed by these committees are many times higher than the prices at which the governments purchase lands from farmers under the land acquisition laws. The government pays less money to farmers because it pays on basis of jantri rates, which are meagre and have not been revised for one decade. It states that non-revision of jantri has resulted in exploitation of farmers in land acquisition process. The notice, sent by advocate Anand Yagnik, also quoted an amendment brought in Gujarat Stamps Act in 2004 by the state government that the jantri should stand revised, if the government body pays higher than the prevailing jantri rates for a property. The notice cited difference between jantri rates and land prices fixed by the committee in nine villages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/farmers-body-sends-legal-notice-to-govt/articleshow/77860501.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Pune||Doctors say Tocilizumab, despite failed trial, remains vital drug||PUNE: The continued use of the drug Tocilizumab against severe Covid-19 pneumonia, despite it being written off by its makers, has sparked concern over its effectiveness among patients and kin. Its manufacturer, Roche, had stated in July that during trials, Tocilizumab had failed to improve the condition of patients hospitalised with Covid-19 pneumonia. But doctors said the drug is effective. “It works when used in the right subset of patients, and before there has been irreversible damage,” said senior physician Atul Joshi. He added that unchecked use of the expensive drug — often to boost treatment bills — is condemnable, but said a potentially useful line of treatment should not be blacklisted or banned. Experts said Tocilizumab yields good outcomes in patients with early-stage hypoxia (absence of enough oxygen). Infectious diseases expert Parikshit Prayag, said, “Tocilizumab needs to be used early during hypoxia, not when lung damage has become irreversible. When patients have advanced respiratory failure and are on mechanical ventilation, it means lung damage is substantial. At that point Tocilizumab is unlikely to make a huge difference.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/docs-stand-by-tocilizumab-despite-its-negative-trial-results/articleshow/77861194.cms||Umesh Isalkar
September 1, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Spirits run high as pubs, bars prepare for business as usual||BENGALURU: With the government finally allowing F&B establishments to serve liquor, the sector, one of the worst hit by the pandemic, let out a collective sigh of relief “Ever since news of the relaxation, we’ve had customers call, asking if we will serve beer from Tuesday,” said Dinesh Arora, co-founder and director, Aurum Brew Works in Sarjapur. Although the order allows only 50% occupancy, establishments are prepared to serve customers their favourite spirits right away. Most restaurateurs are optimistic and this, they say, will reflect in their food and bar menus and services offered. “It is a welcome move. Everyone in the F&B industry deserves a chance to pursue any revenue generation option available,” said Geetanjali Chitnis, head of Brand and Communications at Geist beer brewing company. The decision to allow restaurants to serve liquor is a step that is expected to buoy footfalls. “It is a relief that it [liquor] is off the negative list. But it will take about two months for consumer confidence to return,” said Anurag Katriar, president of the National Restaurants Association of India (NRAI). Executive say that if footfalls and consumption reach about 75% by December, then things will turn for the better. Pub and bar owners say they are ready with their seating arrangements and are waiting for further directives from the government. “The only concern going ahead will be overcrowding considering limited seats,” said Sibi Venkataraju, owner of brewpub Toit, which has about 450 seats but will be reduced to half to maintain social distancing. However, Anil Nagarajan, CEO, Total Environment Hospitality that owns brands like Oota Bangalore and Windmills Craftworks, said “We have three floors and over 300 seats with 120 seats outdoors so distancing is not a problem for us. Also, to kickstart our operations we are offering all our beers and select cocktails at a discount till September 13.” Though most establishments had already begun dine-in services in June, the latest directive gives them much-needed thrust. This in turn means they will have to hire more staff to help run daily operations. “There is a need to scale up manpower,” says Ajay Gowda, director of Byg Brewski Brewing Company and Bob’s Bar. “This will be a long-drawn process because a huge majority of our staff had returned to their hometowns during the lockdown.” While all establishments have strict safety norms in place, they hope customers will be mindful too. “We will push pushing the message of following safety norms on our social media,” says Sumit Gulati, co-founder of Aurum. However, some executives caution that there is still discrepancy between the government and states when it comes to implementing orders. While Haryana just did away with lockdowns during weekdays, West Bengal still has plans to impose those next month. “When Bengaluru imposed the second lockdown in July, business was bouncing back to normal, but it crippled sentiments and it is yet to reach those levels,” said Arvind Mediratta, CEO of Metro Cash and Carry India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/spirits-run-high-as-pubs-bars-prepare-for-business-as-usual/articleshow/77859160.cms||Mahalakshmi P
September 1, 2020||Bareilly||Cops rescue child, 7, from abductors in Sambhal||Bareilly: To bring home his wife, who had “dumped him for someone else” over 20 days ago, a man allegedly kidnapped the seven-year-old child of a man whose sister he suspected helped his wife flee in UP’s Sambhal district. Through the kidnapping, he wanted to force the woman to reunite him with his estranged wife, police clamied. But the accused, Ramkhiladi, instead landed in jail. Superintendent of police (SP) of Sambhal, Yamuna Prasad told TOI, “After the case was reported, special teams were formed and combing operations were being carried out in the district. On Sunday, a police team intercepted an SUV on suspicion near Maidholi trisection, with one child on board. And the main accused and his aide were identified.” Avdesh’s minor son was rescued from them, SP said. “An FIR has been registered under IPC section 364 (kidnapping or abduction in order to murder) and 3/25 of Arms Act. Weapons and a four wheeler have been recovered from the possession of accused persons,” a police officer said. Three other accused are on the run.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/cops-rescue-child-7-from-abductors-in-sambhal/articleshow/77858026.cms||Maria Khan
September 1, 2020||Hyderabad||TITA to teach coding to a lakh people||Hyderabad: Given the growing requirement of coding in the software sector, Telangana Information Technology Association (TITA) ‘Digithon’ has announced that it would impart coding skills to one lakh people in the next two years. For this, TITA has inked a pact with the University of Texas at Dallas (UTD). Speaking about the need for honing coding skills, TITA global president Sundeep Kumar Makthala cited a World Economic Forum (WEF) report that says Artificial Intelligence (AI) will create 133 million new jobs and will displace 70 million existing ones in next two years. He said that in this scenario, learning coding is crucial. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tita-to-teach-coding-to-a-lakh-people/articleshow/77860534.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Six months on, corona queries still stump doctors||HYDERABAD: Though it is nearly six months since the first Covid-19 case surfaced in the state, myths and misconceptions still dog people over coronavirus. The first Covid-19 case in the state was reported from Secunderabad in March first week. “I eat four eggs every day, I cannot get Covid-19,” a virus-afflicted patient told a doctor in Nizamabad after he tested positive. Such weird claims and misconceptions are commonly posed to doctors across the state. Doctors lament that people were still getting influenced with unverified information freely floating on the social media and the internet. “A female patient tested positive, but she strongly rejected the report and even argued that she ate eggs so no chance of turning out positive. Also, some people still fear stigma attached to Covid,” Government General Hospital, Nizamabad , associate professor of gynecology Dr A Saroja told TOI. While this is one end of the spectrum, some people are overcautious and believe simple remedies would prevent the infection Cardiologist Dr Virinchi Virivinti said: “A few people came to me complaining loss of smell and suspected it could be Covid- 19. They insisted on getting tested. As anticipated, their reports were negative. They had been overusing a local nasal drops. The loss of smell was due to that,” he pointed out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/six-months-on-corona-queries-still-stump-docs/articleshow/77860533.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
September 1, 2020||Bareilly||96 fresh Covid +ve cases in Bareilly, 64 more in Agra||BAREILLY/AGRA: At least 96 fresh Covid-19 positive cases were reported from Bareilly district in the past 24 hours. There were also two more Covid-19 deaths in the district. In Shahjahanpur district, 71 more people were tested positive of Covid-19 while three persons succumbed to the virus, according to a medical bulletin on Monday. Moreover, at least 64 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra district till Monday evening, taking the district tally to 2,837. The patients included five suffering from acute respiratory distress syndrome, six of influenza-like illness, four of severe acute respiratory infection, three of coronary artery infection and two kidney patients. Also, 29 Covid-19 patients were discharged on Monday. Of the 2,901 cases, 81.6% have been declared "cured and discharged". There are now 426 active Covid cases in the district. Chief medical officer RC Pandey said, “So far, 2,368 people have recovered. Besides, people who have come in contact with Covid-19 patients are being screened.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/96-fresh-covid-ve-cases-in-bareilly-64-more-in-agra/articleshow/77858043.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Agra||96 fresh Covid +ve cases in Bareilly, 64 more in Agra||BAREILLY/AGRA: At least 96 fresh Covid-19 positive cases were reported from Bareilly district in the past 24 hours. There were also two more Covid-19 deaths in the district. In Shahjahanpur district, 71 more people were tested positive of Covid-19 while three persons succumbed to the virus, according to a medical bulletin on Monday. Moreover, at least 64 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra district till Monday evening, taking the district tally to 2,837. The patients included five suffering from acute respiratory distress syndrome, six of influenza-like illness, four of severe acute respiratory infection, three of coronary artery infection and two kidney patients. Also, 29 Covid-19 patients were discharged on Monday. Of the 2,901 cases, 81.6% have been declared "cured and discharged". There are now 426 active Covid cases in the district. Chief medical officer RC Pandey said, “So far, 2,368 people have recovered. Besides, people who have come in contact with Covid-19 patients are being screened.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/96-fresh-covid-ve-cases-in-bareilly-64-more-in-agra/articleshow/77869367.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Pune||‘Without lockdown, our worst-case model showed toll at 13,500 by May’||PUNE: Lt Gen Nardeep Naithani, director and commandant of the Pune-based Armed Forces Medical College — the country’s apex training body for paramedical, specialist and super-specialist staff — explains how the facility has responded to a global pandemic. Excerpts: Q. What can you us about the virus’ trajectory?As time progresses, cities with infection will reach a peak, which will be followed by a decline. There may be geographical spread across the country; we must be on guard. But the lockdowns significantly slowed Covid-19. Without a lockdown, our worstcase model, predicted 13,500 deaths by May 25. But India, on that date, had 4,000 dead. Q. Can AFMC boost the city’s medical response?The AFMC’s microbiology lab is assisting state health authorities with testing. The AFMC’s mandate includes creation of material and protocols for disinfection and treatment. It has been supplementing Covid-19 care at Army Institute of Cardio Thoracic Science (Pune); the Command Hospital and if need arises, will assist Military Hospital, Kirkee. We are prepared for surge capacity. Q. Has the AFMC trained for a pandemic-like crisis?Training against epidemic and pandemic events is part of the syllabus at AFMC. The College has an epidemic control unit called the Armed Forces Central Epidemiological Surveillance Centre, which keeps an eye out for outbreaks within India’s military stations, along with the office of the Director General Armed Forces Medical Services. For Covid-19, AFMC training started in February when a team visited a quarantine facility at Manesar for Indian evacuees from Wuhan. Q. What is the worst-case scenario the AFMC is preparing for in this region?The worst-case scenario is when local hospitals fall severely short of beds and expert staff. If directions are received, the AFMC will share its manpower and resources. The College’s lab is testing samples from several state districts. It is also helping set up testing labs at hospitals across the region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/without-lockdown-our-worst-case-model-had-predicted-13500-deaths-in-india-by-may/articleshow/77861217.cms||Sandip Dighe
September 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Despite Covid scare, 90% of candidates appear for ECET||HYDERABAD: The ongoing Covid-19 pandemic failed to deter students from appearing for the Telangana State Engineering Common Entrance Test (ECET) as 90.83% of the total registered candidates appeared for the exam, which was conducted on Monday. While 13,141 candidates appeared for the test in the morning session, 1,274 remained absent. More than 95% of attendance is observed at 20 centers and 100 percent attendance in one center. When it comes to the afternoon session, 12,307 candidates attended the exam, and 1,294 skipped the test.  More than 90% of attendance is recorded in 21 centers in this session. Even as officials said that they made elaborate arrangements for conducting the ECET 2020 with separate Covid-19 team at each center to ensure that candidates fully follow guidelines, students who appeared for the test said that implementation of rules or standard operating procedure could have been better. “While entering the exam hall, I did not face much trouble. They allowed mask, sanitizer, and water bottle into the hall. However, after the exam, all students were allowed to go out at the same time. There was a huge rush at the main entrance, parking, among other places,” said U Ganesh, who appeared for the test at ION digital, Mallapur. The convener of ECET, M Manzoor Hussain said that they submitted a letter requesting TSRTC to provide transportation, but they did not react||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/despite-covid-scare-90-of-candidates-appear-for-ecet/articleshow/77860514.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
September 1, 2020||Jaipur||District administration helps 4 cross flooded river for teaching exam||KOTA: Four aspirants of pre-diploma in elementary education exam, including two women, who were trapped in their village due to overflowing river, were helped by the district administration in reaching their examination centres in time, in Baran on Monday. The information about the four aspirants — Priyanka, Jyoti, Rohit and Ravikant — all residents of Hanotiya village under Baran Sadar police station, being trapped was received around 9am on Monday following which an SDRF squad and a police team led by sub inspector Sitaram Meena was rushed to the spot, tehsildar, Baran, Abdul Hafiz said. Hanotiya village was surrounded by overflowing Parvati river from both sides. The SDRF team rescued the four in a boat in around two hours to a safe place from where the two women aspirants rushed to the examination centres by government vehicles around 60km away in Chipabarode and Kawai while the two youths took the motorbikes of their friends to reach their examination centres around 40km away in Anta and Baran city, he added. The aspirants reached their examination centres in time and have taken the exams, sub inspector at Baran Sadar police station Sitaram Meena said. Government vehicles were provided to the four aspirants to return to their respective homes in Hanotiya village in the evening after the exam was over, he added. According to Baran police, at least five routes — between Sarthal and Eklera, Chabda and Faithagarh, Harnawda and Kamkheda and Chabda and Guna in MP were blocked due to overflowing water from the swelling rivers and rivulets in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/district-admn-helps-4-cross-flooded-river-for-teaching-exam/articleshow/77860528.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Pune||PMR’s 24-hour tally at two-week low, 73 dead||PUNE: The Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) added 1,933 Covid-19 cases on Monday, its least 24-hour tally since August 17 when 1,829 people had tested positive for the contagion. With this, the caseload in the region has increased to more than 1.70 lakh. Besides, a total of 2,972 patients were discharged in the last 24 hours, including 1,384 from the PMC limits and 1,031 from the PCMC areas. The region reported 73 fatalities on Monday, which took the death toll in PMR to 4,134. Most of the deceased were aged above 50 and suffered from co-morbidities, health officials said. A report released by the district health office said the count of active patients reached 33,694 on Monday, of which over 18,000 were in the various hospitals, while over 15,000 patients were in home isolation. As many as 11,281 tests were conducted in the region on Monday. PMC officials said they had ramped up testing in the hotspots and containment zones. As many as 884 patients in the PMC limits were at critical stage on Monday night, of whom 527 were on ventilator support, while 3,106 on oxygen support.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmrs-24-hour-tally-at-2-week-low-73-dead/articleshow/77861205.cms||Sarang Dastane
September 1, 2020||Rajkot||Onion hub cries for biz as nCov drags down exports||Rajkot: Bite into any delicacy having onions in the restaurants of Europe or the US, chances are high that the powder, flakes or granules used were sent from Mahuva, the coastal town near Bhavnagar famed for production and dehydration of the white bulb.In fact, Mahuva alone accounts of 90% of India’s exports of dehydrated onion products. But the Covid-induced lockdown and sluggish opening of restaurants and hotels across the world, has left exporters moist-eyed.According to estimates shared by the dehydration units, the export from January to August this year has plummetted to around 23,000 tonnes compared to an average of 60,000 tonnes annually.Flakes, powder and granules are also used in making spices in the developed countries including Russia, but due to the pandemic, the demand of spices has also shrunk. According to the Agriculture & Food Products Export Development Authority (APEDA), India’s export of dehydrated onion products was 59,571 metric tonnes as nearly the same in 2019. This translates roughly into 26% share in the global market. Vitthal Koradia, an exporter from Mahuva said, “We are not too optimistic of exporting 40,000 tonnes too by December. Onion flakes are a luxurious item in some countries. As the hotels remained closed for nearly half of the year, there is a drastic fall in demand.”Bhavnagar and Amreli are the major producers of white onion in the country and there are 120 dehydration plants in Mahuva which process 95% of white onions for export.At the same time, prices of the dehydrated products this year have been high compared to the closest competitors from Egypt and China. The main reason being high procurement cost from farmers.The yield of white onion has also reduced by nearly 40% because of the changing rain pattern over the last two years. Though the cultivation acreage remained the same at 42,000 ha in Gujarat, the yield reduced to 250 kg per bigha from 350 kg. “Last year, the rains continued till November end due to which the first cultivation done in October failed. The second cultivation was done in January and the temperature increased before the time of harvesting which also affected the yield badly.” Ram added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/onion-hub-cries-for-biz-as-ncov-drags-down-exports/articleshow/77859212.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
September 1, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: In a first, Srikakulam crosses 1,000 new Covid-19 cases||VISAKHAPATNAM: Srikakulam district has crossed the 1,000-mark in the number of new Covid-19 positive cases. District collector J Nivas on Monday said Section 144 will be imposed in Srikakulam for a month from Septemder 1, in view of the surge in cases. The district registered 1,119 and 1,023 fresh cases on Sunday and Monday, respectively, close to double the daily average of between 500 to 600 cases that it was recording per day till Saturday. The sudden spike is being attributed to more gatherings, especially during Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations. “There was no change in the collection of samples, but the number of positive cases suddenly crossed 1,000 from Sunday, triggering panic among the people and the district administration as well. We need to take some urgent measures and people’s cooperation is also needed to check it,” said a senior health official at government Covid-19 hospital RIMS in Srikakulam town. The collector said a higher number of cases is being reported from Rajam, Palasa, Tekkali and Meliaputti. “We are now concentrating on home isolation of every person if he or she suffers from mild symptoms like fever and cough. If fever is not controlled within three days and oxygen levels fell below 94%, then those people would be given special attention and referred to hospitals for immediate care,” Nivas said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/in-a-first-srikakulam-crosses-1k-new-cases/articleshow/77859159.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
September 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Cyber crooks trap Ahmedabad trader with cancer medicine offer||AHMEDABAD: Cyber crooks faked a preservation certificate of the World Health Organization (WHO) to cheat a dry food trader Manu Patel of Avadh Bungalows in Sola of Rs 20.12 lakh. The crooks identified themselves as Dr Meghan Anderson and Michael Steven, CEO of a US-based pharma company and lured Patel into supplying chemical used for preparing cancer medicine to their company at triple the price. Patel got into their trap and bought one litre of the chemical at Rs 5.50 lakh from a fake company, which was suggested by the accused. Then, he paid another Rs 14.62 lakh to the fake company to buy five litres of the chemical. A cyber cell official said that Patel had submitted an application in September 2019. “As we have got a solid lead in the case which could lead to the arrest of the accused, we have registered an FIR on Sunday based on the application,” the official added. According to the FIR, in September 2019, Patel got a message on his mobile phone from a man who identified himself as Dr Meghan for a business deal. “Patel got interested and mailed him his details. The accused told him that earlier they used to buy chemical for making cancer medicine from Dubai, but as it is not available there, they would like him to supply the chemical to their company. He offered triple the price for the chemical. The accused told the complainant that they would be 50-50 partners in the profit,” the official added. The duo asked Patel that the chemical will be available in Himachal Pradesh and also gave a phone number of the company. “As told by the accused, Patel bought one litre of chemical at Rs 5.50 lakh and transferred the money to a bank account at Kalyan in Mumbai. The Himachal Pradesh-based accomplice of the accused also mailed a fake preservation certificate of the WHO,” said a source from cyber cell. According to the complaint, the cheats told him to buy another five litres of the chemical from the same person, so that their company would approve it and then pay him in advance for a bulk purchase of 300 litres of the chemical from him. Patel contacted the Himachal Pradesh company for five litres of the chemical, and as the fake company demanded money in advance, he transferred Rs 14.62 lakh to the same bank account in Kalyan. At this juncture, Patel got a bit suspicious and searched internet about the chemical and found that one person was defrauded by the same modus operandi. He then submitted an application with the cyber cell.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cyber-crooks-trap-trader-with-cancer-medicine-offer/articleshow/77860547.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Jaipur||Rivers in Hadoti region flowing in full spate||KOTA: Rivers in Hadoti region are flowing in full spate following heavy rainfall in adjoining Madhya Pradesh. Most of the rivers in Kota, Baran, Jhalawar and Bundi are overflowing as water is being released from Gandhi Sagar dam, Kota Barrage, Kalisindh and Rajgarh dams in Jhalawar. Meanwhile, the Kota district administration on Sunday night sounded alert in downstream areas of Chambal in Kota. In view of inflow of around one lakh cusecs of water in Gandhi Sagar dam and to maintain the 1,306-foot level in the dam, around the same amount of water was bring released from Gandhi Sagar, superintendent engineer at Kota Barrage A D Ansari said. With the opening of 40 gates, at least 28,000 cusecs, is being released from Kota Barrage, he said, adding that there is no sign of alarm around the downstream areas of the Chambal River. The release of water from Rana Pratap Dam was stopped on Monday and the gates of Kota Barrage are likely to be closed by Monday night, he further said. Amid the possibility of rise in water level in Chambal River, public announcement was carried out in at least 12 colonies in the downstream area of Chambal, assistant fire officer at Kota Municipal Corporation (KMC), Devender Gautam said. People in low lying areas of Nayapura, Patanpole, Gujarati Basti, Harijan Basti, Khandgawdi and Nanda Ki Bawdi were asked to move to safer places, he said, adding that people, however, did not leave their places. The Jhalawar, Kalisindh, Rajgarh Dam and Chapi dams also witnessed constant rise in water levels in the last two days due to heavy rain in adjoining MP, however, Jhalawar district has so far recorded 729mm cumulative rainfall. At least 22,055 cusecs of inflow was recorded in Kalisindh dam on Monday and 2,547 cusecs of water was released, junior engineer Prateek Baswal said. In Rajgarh dam, 2,525.86 cusecs was being released through one of its gates against the inflow of 3,601.96 cusecs, while 574.57 cusecs of water was being released from Chapi dam, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rivers-in-hadoti-region-flowing-in-full-spate/articleshow/77860563.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Hyderabad||DCP office staffer dies of Covid-19||Hyderabad: The office superintendent of DCP centre zone succumbed to Covid-19 while undergoing treatment at a private hospital. The deceased, 36-year-old officer allegedly had pre-existing medical conditions like obesity, diabetes and kidney problem. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dcp-office-staffer-dies-of-covid-19/articleshow/77860552.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana records 1,873 new Covid-19 cases||HYDERABAD: Telangana recorded 1,873 new cases and nine deaths, as testing saw a decline in the state, going down to 37,791 cases from 61,148 a day earlier.  With the latest count, the coronavirus caseload in the state stands at 1,24,963, while the total number of Covid-19 deaths stand at 827.  A total of 92,836 patients have so far recovered from the coronavirus infection to date. Despite clear instructions being given across districts to ensure testing should not decrease on the weekend by making alternate arrangements and persuade people to come and give their samples, testing saw a slight slump. Continuing an upward climb, the number of active cases in the state now stands at 31,299, increasing from nearly 15,000 at the beginning of the month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/state-records-1800-new-cases/articleshow/77860542.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Ludhiana||Health dept conducts random sampling of vendors at veg market||Ludhiana: Taking preventive measures against the rising Covid-19 cases, the district marketing committee members started random testing of all small vendors and arhtiyas with the help of health department on Monday. The district health department team visited the main sabzi mandi of the district on Jalandhar bypass in morning hours and took about 50 samples of arhtiyas and small vendors. Members of the marketing committee have given strict directions to them against selling their vegetables and fruits to visitors who don’t follow safety norms like wearing masks and maintaining social distance. Moreover, all food stall owners are requested to not open their stall adjoining to each other and maintain proper gap between every single food stall in the main vegetable market. Bablu, a small vendor, said, “We are supporting the district marketing committee move to conduct random sampling of working community at the mandi but despite local vendors’ demand to appoint a health department team to conduct the screening of visitors at the main vegetable market, no such move has been initiated.” Vinod Sharma, general secretary, district market committee, said, “We have begun the process of conducting random sampling of all working community from Monday. Besides, we have installed public redress system across the market to create awareness among the visitors about following precautionary norms against Covid-19. Marketing committee members are not allowing unauthorised vendors from the entry point as we have again tighten security cover around the main sabzi mandi of the city.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/health-dept-conducts-random-sampling-of-vendors-at-veg-market/articleshow/77859214.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Vijayawada||Integrated land survey from Jan 1||Vijayawada: The Andhra Pradesh government has decided to initiate an integrated land survey across the state from January 1, 2021. The survey, which will cover both rural and urban areas, is aimed at clearing disputes and other litigations over boundaries and ownership. This would be the second integrated survey in the country after 1930 and the first since independence. Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy, after a review meeting with revenue department officials at his Tadepalli camp office on Monday, directed them to start preparatory work for the survey. The CM was also briefed about a pilot project initiated at Thakkellapadu village in Jaggaiahpet mandal of Krishna district as part of the survey. Drones and other technology were used to complete the project at the village. Revenue staff held several meetings with villagers and mobile tribunals were opened to hear all litigations during the integrated survey. The CM was informed that 4,500 teams have been formed to conduct the survey, who asked them to increase the team strength by roping in and training village secretariat staff. Officials said 52,866 disputes are pending in revenue courts, while 79,405 discrepancies were noticed during the web land programme. The chief minister asked officials to integrate land registration work with village secretariats. He also wanted sub-registrars to sit in village secretariats as that would help in preventing false registrations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/integrated-land-survey-from-jan-1/articleshow/77860556.cms||Gopi Dara
September 1, 2020||Pune||Only 15,000 seats for open quota students in FYJC first round||PUNE: Only 37 % of the total allotted seats in the first merit list of the first year junior college (FYJC, std XI) was allotted to the open category students. With nearly 10 categories reserved for FYJC including caste, economic, physically challenged, women’s, sports quota taking up most of the available seats in colleges very few seats remained for general category. Some institutions have reported only about eight to nine seats available in open category after distribution of the reserved category seats. The competition in top colleges was cut throat and a number of institutions ended up with over 90% cut-off at the end of the first round on Sunday. As many as 40,013 seats were allotted in the first merit list announced on Sunday and of these, 14,943 (37 %) were allotted to the general category. Principal of Symbiosis College of Arts, Science and Commerce, Hrishikesh Soman, said a serious thought needs to be given on the reservation policy as hardly any seats are left for the meritorious open category students. “Despite scoring a good 92-93%, students are not getting a college of their choice. The competition is growing tremendously at the top level for admissions,” he added. Director of education, Dinkar Patil said that, “We have to follow the government guidelines that have been laid for admissions. Percentage of reservations are predicted and if there are applications under those categories, then those admissions will take place on merit within the category.” Sarvesh Jain, a student who scored 93.5 % in SSC, was disappointed as his name did not appear in the list of colleges of his choice. Jain said, “I was hoping to get an allotment in the first merit list itself. But, it was shocking when I checked my login to know that I have no allotment, and now I have to wait for another round. The college of my choice for arts has such a high cut-off that my chances in the second merit list also look bleak.” Revva Bhosale, who secured 89% in SSC exam also failed to get an allotment for science in the college of her choice. “I have now pinned my hopes on the second merit list which will be out soon. However, the situation looks very dicey and I may have to compromise my preferences,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/only-15k-seats-allotted-to-open-category-in-fyjc-first-round/articleshow/77861230.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
September 1, 2020||Amaravati||Pranab Mukherjee was a go-to-man for both Telangana and Andhra Pradesh leaders||AMARAVATI: Pranab Mukherjee may have given the assent to the AP State Reorganization Bill as the President, but he is believed to have batted against the state bifurcation as long as he was a Union minister. However, Pranab had endeared himself to leaders from both Telangana and Andhra regions as he kept his views on the division of AP close to his chest. Leaders from both regions had reposed faith in him when he headed a Congress panel to decide on the division of Andhra Pradesh. Pranab was the main contact for leaders from both regions as long as he was the Cabinet minister. Congress leaders from AP region pinned high hopes on Pranab as they considered him as a strong backer of their argument. Although, Pranab, used to be non-committal whenever they met him to put before their arguments opposing the bifurcation of the state, he believed to have played a big role in stalling the split in haste to the extent possible. As the Pranab committee report on the state bifurcation was not made public, leaders from Telangana believe he had played a major role in the state’s formation. His constant silence on the crucial issue had won him accolades from both regions. Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar always held Mukherjee in high esteem and used to be in constant touch with the former President during the statehood movement. Pranab in his memoirs — The Coalition Years — also made a mention of the Telangana statehood movement. Known as a troubleshooter in the Congress, Pranab was a one-point contact for the leaders from both AP and Telangana regions for decades to pour out their grievances. Since getting an appointment with party supremo Sonia Gandhi was tough, many party leaders used to meet him as they believe that Pranab was the only leader who could convince Sonia. Interestingly, Pranab had deep association with AP right from heading the UPA committee on the issue of bifurcation of the state to finally clearing the Bill as the President. Pranab was rushed to AP by Sonia Gandhi following the sudden death of then chief minister YS Rajasekhara Reddy to elect his successor. Amid heated tempers about making YS Jagan as CM within the Congress Legislature Party (CLP), Pranab completed the task without a murmur when he declared then interim chief minister K Rosaiah as party’s choice to continue as the CM. Even a year later, when Rosaiah wanted to quit his post, AICC chief deputed Pranab to conduct the CLP and declare N Kiran Kumar Reddy as successor. “Pranab is a dedicated soldier of the party and he simply implemented the party high command’s decision irrespective of his personal choices,” said former MP and close associate of YSR, KVR Ramachandra Rao. “Pranab used to encourage the hardworking party leaders,” said former PCC president Raghuveera Reddy. As chief of the UPA-sub-committee and then defence minister Pranab had categorically stated that Congress stand on the issue is very clear and they would go by the UPA government’s common minimum programme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/pranab-was-a-go-to-man-for-both-t-ap-leaders/articleshow/77860567.cms||Samdani MN
September 1, 2020||Jaipur||Couple held for kidnapping shopkeeper from Haryana||ALWAR: The Alwar police nabbed abductors who had honey trapped a shop owner hailing from Haryana and demanded a ransom of Rs 3 lakh from his family. The victim had been called on the pretext of meeting a woman. Cops arrested the mastermind accused Surinder Kaur (40) and her husband Gurmeet Singh (43) from Alwar within an hour after the family reported the matter. According to officials, Kaur befriended Talim Khan who is a trader from Jhirka in Haryana and called him to meet her on August 29. “The next day after the meeting, Kaur along with her husband called the victim’s family and demanded a ransom of Rs 3 lakh claiming that Khan was held captive. They said that he would be set free only if the family met their demand by 8pm the same day”, said an official of NEB police station. When the victim’s family reached the pre-decided spot and called the given number, the couple kept asking them to go to different locations following which the family finally went to the cops. Elaborating further, the official said, “Haryana police got in touch with us as soon as they received the report and within an hour, we had the couple in custody as they were already under the radar. We had received multiple complaints about them in similar crimes over last few months.” The police officials investigating the case said that Kaur would befriend shop owners and in the next few days would start talking to them over text messages and calls. As soon as she would gain their trust, she would ask the victims to meet her and in turn kidnap them after which the couple would call the family asking for ransom. A case of kidnapping amongst other relevant IPC sections was registered against the couple.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/couple-held-for-kidnapping-shopkeeper-from-haryana/articleshow/77860572.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra lifts travel curbs, hikes occupancy in hotels to 100%||MUMBAI: Announcing the MVA’s Unlock 4.0 plan on Monday, CM Uddhav Thackeray scrapped the e-pass system for inter-district and inter-state travel, hiked occupancy limit for hotels from 33% to 100%, and attendance for senior government officials from 30% to 100% from September 2. Private offices have been allowed to operate with 30% staff strength (from the earlier 10%), though in both private and government offices vigilance officers will oversee implementation of social distancing and other safety norms. TOI had reported on the measures on Monday. Frequency of local trains in Mumbai will be increased in tune with larger numbers in consultation with the railways, officials said. However, Metro rail is still prohibited despite the Centre stating Metro services could restart from September 7. Demands to lift curbs on inter-district travel had grown after the Centre made it clear e-passes should go. The state’s fresh guidelines stated that lockdown would be extended up to September 30 but were silent on reopening of gyms and places of worship. “So far, no decision has been taken on gyms and places of worship, it will be taken at a later state,” a senior bureaucrat told TOI. The 10-page order promulgated by chief secretary Sanjay Kumar stated that a separate SOP will be issued for precautions to be taken by hotels and lodges while operating their establishments which can now have full capacity. The attendance requirement for IAS officers and officers of the rank of deputy secretary and above in the state government (Group A and B category officers) will be 100%, while for subordinate staff it will be 30% in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, including BMC, the Pune Municipal Corporation and Pimpri-Chinchwad; for the rest of Maharashtra, it will be 50%. A vigilance officer will be appointed in every office for ensuing safety norms to avoid spread of Covid-19. No separate permission/approval/e-permit will be required for inter-district travel. Passenger movement by private buses, mini-bus and operators of other vehicles too would be allowed, with an SOP for it issued by the transport commissioner. Schools, colleges, educational and coaching institutions will remain closed till September 30, while online/distance learning shall continue to be permitted and encouraged. Cinema halls, swimming pools, entertainment parks, bars, theatres, assembly halls and other similar places will also remain closed, as will social, sports, political, entertainment, academic, cultural and religious functions and large congregations. Every person will have to follow orders on face coverings, social distancing, gatherings, and spitting in public places will be punishable with fine, the order has stated. Containment zones in the state will remain in force till further orders, and considering local conditions, the district collector and municipal commissioners may enforce certain measures and necessary restrictions in specified local areas on the essential activities permitted, the order has stated. Liquor shops will continue to operate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/state-lifts-travel-curbs-hikes-occupancy-in-hotels-to-100/articleshow/77862758.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Pranab Mukherjee never missed southern sojourn, enjoyed his stay at Rashtrapati Nilayam||SECUNDERABAD: Former President Pranab Mukherjee was one of the few heads of the state who never missed his southern sojourn. Pranabda, as he was affectionately called, used to enjoy his stay at the Rashtrapati Nilayam, the official retreat home of the Indian President at Bollarum. The staff at Rashtrapati Nilayam, officials of the protocol department, postal and sanitation staff have fond memories of the 13th President of India. The Nakshatra Vatika, developed on the similar lines of Rashtrapati Bhavan in Delhi, was inaugurated by Mukherjee in 2015. “Pranabji’s regular morning walk was around the Nakshatra Vatika garden. He also used to water the plants and spend at least 10 minutes at this spot every day,” said a caretaker of the garden. Minutes before his arrival in 2015, a cobra was caught at the RP Nilayam. Snakes are not new to this place, but the fact that such a huge one was slithering towards the building made the officials nervous. Even resident welfare associations recollect the manner he responded to their postcard campaign. “We posted 2,000 cards to Pranab at the Bollarum post office. He sought a report on this issue from the then defence minister Manohar Parrikar,” said United Federation of RWA’s general secretary BT Srinivas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/he-never-missed-southern-sojourn-enjoyed-his-stay-at-rp-nilayam/articleshow/77860571.cms||Sunil Mungara
September 1, 2020||Visakhapatnam||10,000 new cases in AP, toll nears 4k||Visakhapatnam: Andhra Pradesh reported 10,004 Covid-19 cases on Monday, taking the cumulative caseload to 4,34,771. As many as 85 more patients died from the disease, as the toll jumped to 3,969. The spread of the virus continued to spiral as the state has reported 10,000 or more daily cases in the last six days. With 8,772 recoveries, the active cases in the state now stand at 1,00,276. Of the total 4.34 lakh cases detected as of Monday, the state recorded more than 2.93 lakh cases in August alone, reflecting a near 300% increase in cases from July. However, the numbers are better when compared to that of July, when there was a near 1,000% surge in infections. Of the total 37 lakh tests conducted thus far, 17.71 lakh samples were tested during August alone, with a case positivity rate of 16.5 %. The situation continued to be alarming in districts like East Godavari, which occupied the top place in the country in terms of increase in cases in July. East Godavari currently has the highest caseload of 59,403. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/10000-new-cases-in-ap-toll-nears-4k/articleshow/77860574.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra lifts travel curbs, hikes occupancy in hotels to 100%||MUMBAI: Announcing the MVA’s Unlock 4.0 plan on Monday, CM Uddhav Thackeray scrapped the e-pass system for inter-district and inter-state travel, hiked occupancy limit for hotels from 33% to 100%, and attendance for senior government officials from 30% to 100% from September 2. Private offices have been allowed to operate with 30% staff strength (from the earlier 10%), though in both private and government offices vigilance officers will oversee implementation of social distancing and other safety norms. TOI had reported on the measures on Monday. Frequency of local trains in Mumbai will be increased in tune with larger numbers in consultation with the railways, officials said. However, Metro rail is still prohibited despite the Centre stating Metro services could restart from September 7. Demands to lift curbs on inter-district travel had grown after the Centre made it clear e-passes should go. The state’s fresh guidelines stated that lockdown would be extended up to September 30 but were silent on reopening of gyms and places of worship. “So far, no decision has been taken on gyms and places of worship, it will be taken at a later state,” a senior bureaucrat told TOI. The 10-page order promulgated by chief secretary Sanjay Kumar stated that a separate SOP will be issued for precautions to be taken by hotels and lodges while operating their establishments which can now have full capacity. The attendance requirement for IAS officers and officers of the rank of deputy secretary and above in the state government (Group A and B category officers) will be 100%, while for subordinate staff it will be 30% in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, including BMC, the Pune Municipal Corporation and Pimpri-Chinchwad; for the rest of Maharashtra, it will be 50%. A vigilance officer will be appointed in every office for ensuing safety norms to avoid spread of Covid-19. No separate permission/approval/e-permit will be required for inter-district travel. Passenger movement by private buses, mini-bus and operators of other vehicles too would be allowed, with an SOP for it issued by the transport commissioner. Schools, colleges, educational and coaching institutions will remain closed till September 30, while online/distance learning shall continue to be permitted and encouraged. Cinema halls, swimming pools, entertainment parks, bars, theatres, assembly halls and other similar places will also remain closed, as will social, sports, political, entertainment, academic, cultural and religious functions and large congregations. Every person will have to follow orders on face coverings, social distancing, gatherings, and spitting in public places will be punishable with fine, the order has stated. Containment zones in the state will remain in force till further orders, and considering local conditions, the district collector and municipal commissioners may enforce certain measures and necessary restrictions in specified local areas on the essential activities permitted, the order has stated. Liquor shops will continue to operate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/state-lifts-travel-curbs-hikes-occupancy-in-hotels-to-100/articleshow/77861647.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Pranab Mukherjee was a go-to-man for both Telangana and Andhra Pradesh leaders||AMARAVATI: Pranab Mukherjee may have given the assent to the AP State Reorganization Bill as the President, but he is believed to have batted against the state bifurcation as long as he was a Union minister. However, Pranab had endeared himself to leaders from both Telangana and Andhra regions as he kept his views on the division of AP close to his chest. Leaders from both regions had reposed faith in him when he headed a Congress panel to decide on the division of Andhra Pradesh. Pranab was the main contact for leaders from both regions as long as he was the Cabinet minister. Congress leaders from AP region pinned high hopes on Pranab as they considered him as a strong backer of their argument. Although, Pranab, used to be non-committal whenever they met him to put before their arguments opposing the bifurcation of the state, he believed to have played a big role in stalling the split in haste to the extent possible. As the Pranab committee report on the state bifurcation was not made public, leaders from Telangana believe he had played a major role in the state’s formation. His constant silence on the crucial issue had won him accolades from both regions. Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar always held Mukherjee in high esteem and used to be in constant touch with the former President during the statehood movement. Pranab in his memoirs — The Coalition Years — also made a mention of the Telangana statehood movement. Known as a troubleshooter in the Congress, Pranab was a one-point contact for the leaders from both AP and Telangana regions for decades to pour out their grievances. Since getting an appointment with party supremo Sonia Gandhi was tough, many party leaders used to meet him as they believe that Pranab was the only leader who could convince Sonia. Interestingly, Pranab had deep association with AP right from heading the UPA committee on the issue of bifurcation of the state to finally clearing the Bill as the President. Pranab was rushed to AP by Sonia Gandhi following the sudden death of then chief minister YS Rajasekhara Reddy to elect his successor. Amid heated tempers about making YS Jagan as CM within the Congress Legislature Party (CLP), Pranab completed the task without a murmur when he declared then interim chief minister K Rosaiah as party’s choice to continue as the CM. Even a year later, when Rosaiah wanted to quit his post, AICC chief deputed Pranab to conduct the CLP and declare N Kiran Kumar Reddy as successor. “Pranab is a dedicated soldier of the party and he simply implemented the party high command’s decision irrespective of his personal choices,” said former MP and close associate of YSR, KVR Ramachandra Rao. “Pranab used to encourage the hardworking party leaders,” said former PCC president Raghuveera Reddy. As chief of the UPA-sub-committee and then defence minister Pranab had categorically stated that Congress stand on the issue is very clear and they would go by the UPA government’s common minimum programme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pranab-was-a-go-to-man-for-both-t-ap-leaders/articleshow/77863520.cms||Samdani MN
September 1, 2020||Ludhiana||‘Dist admn feels Covid peak will arrive in mid-September’||Being an organisation that highlights the issues related to doctors and paramedical staff who are at the forefront in the war against Covid, the Indian Medical Association(IMA) does have a take on the war against the pandemic and how it can be checked. Ludhiana chapter of the IMA has been very vocal on the issues related to Covid. It’s president Dr Sunil Katyal talks to TOI’s Shariq Majeed on the current Covid situation in the district and ways to check it 1. How do you see the current Covid scenario in Ludhiana district? Covid-19 cases are rising at a rapid pace in Ludhiana and the situation is alarming. It tops the state tally of cases as well as deaths. Ludhiana being the industrial town of the state is most densely populated and inter-state movement of people related to business is also more as compared to other cities. These factors attribute to an increase in the number of cases in the city. 2. Do you think that there is adequate infrastructure to meet the worst scenario. Has the peak arrived in the district? District administrators, IMA and other NGOs are trying their best to fulfil all requirements in the treatment of Covid patients. As of now, many patients, especially sick patients, have to wait for a few hours to get a bed in a hospital. To cope up with the situation, the IMA has created 25-bedded facility for Covid patients. It is functioning as per government protocols. If the situation continues like this or worsens in the coming days, we may need to convert one or two major hospitals into complete Covid units. The Covid situation in Ludhiana is worsening with each passing day. I don’t think the peak has arrived. The district administration feels that the peak will arrive in mid-September, but nobody can be sure about it. 3. Do you think that the strategy adopted by the district administration is working? In the recent past, the state government has framed new rules like imposition of night curfew, weekened lockdown, use of online services, ban on gatherings except weddings and funerals and working of offices with 50% staff only. Ludhiana IMA has also started telemedicine services. All these efforts have been done to minimise movement of people so that spread of Covid is checked. We need to implement these restrictions more strictly and one who doesn’t follow the rules should be punished. In addition, people should be educated regarding general precautions and severity of the disease as well. 4. What should be done to check the rising cases? You are safe if your surroundings are safe. So in addition to public awareness regarding preventive measures and implementation of government norms more strictly, testing should be increased further so that more cases are diagnosed and isolated. Proper contact tracing also helps in minimising the spread, which cannot be checked without the coperation of public. I use this platform to request everybody to keep your mouth and nose covered with mask, maintain physical distance, wash your hands frequently and in case somebody falls sick, immediately consult a doctor. How to reach a doctor if someone develops symptoms should be planned beforehand. 5. What should the government do to ensure that fatalities due to disease are checked? The number of Covid cases and deaths are maximum in Ludhiana, rather it has become the Covid capital of the state. We need to create more ICU beds so that all patients get treatment in time. We need to have dedicated Covid centres in the city. 6. Do you think Ludhiana district has entered community spread and what makes you believe that? India is the third worst-hit country by the Covid-19 pandemic in the world after the United States and Brazil. The situation in Ludhiana is like community spread only as people are getting infected without knowing the source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/dist-admn-feels-covid-peak-will-arrive-in-mid-september/articleshow/77859241.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Six Vadodara cops surrender in custodial death case||Ahmedabad: Six personnel of Vadodara police, including an inspector, surrendered on Monday before CID (Crime) for allegedly torturing and killing a 62-year-old theft case suspect from Telangana at Fatehgunj police station, and then destroying evidence.Investigating officer CID (Crime) SP Girish Pandya said the accused police personnel identified as police inspector D B Gohil, sub-inspector D M Rabari and Lok Rakshak Dal jawans Pankaj Mavjibhai, Yogendra Jilansinh, Rajiv Savjibhai and Hitesh Shambubhai had surrendered and had been sent for Covid-19 test. The alleged incident of custodial torture had taken place on December 10, 2019 at Fatehgunj police station in Vadodara. An FIR against the policemen was lodged on July 6 night following a probe by assistant commissioner of police, S G Patil.The accused police personnel had picked up the victim Babu Shaikh, a native of Telangana, on suspicion that he was involved in a theft case and tortured him inside the computer room of the police station, leading to his death. Later, the accused disposed of the body of the suspect at an undisclosed location, the FIR stated. The accused made an entry into the police station diary stating that Shaikh had been released after preliminary questioning, and he walked out by himself.According to the FIR, a missing person’s complaint was registered with Sayajigunj police station on January 1 by Shaikh’s relatives after he went missing on December 10. He was picked up after a resident of Chhani area approached police regarding a theft attempt at his house, it stated. The accused policemen had made a false entry that Shaikh was allowed to go on the same day, states the FIR.. They also deleted the soft copy of that complaint regarding a theft attempt, it stated. The case came to light when a police constable of the same police station named Rakesh Rathwa came forward and told other superiors that the six police personnel had badly beaten Shaikh, which led to his death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/six-vadodara-cops-surrender-in-custodial-death-case/articleshow/77860569.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Goa||21-year-old dies in drunken brawl||Margao: A drunken brawl between three persons, all natives of Jharkhand, at Damon, Raia, on Sunday night led to the death of one among them, Eddison Sorang, 21, succumbed to his injuries at Goa Medical College and Hospital (GMC) on Monday. Maina Curtorim police arrested Pradeep Dungdung, 26, while the hunt was on for the second accused until late Monday. Police sources said the two accused assaulted Sarang with wooden sticks thereby seriously injuring him. He was later shifted to GMC where he died while undergoing treatment. South Goa SP Pankaj Kumar Singh said that the scuffle between the three persons broke out purely under the influence of alcohol. “There was no motive behind the murder. It was a drunken brawl,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/21-year-old-dies-in-drunken-brawl/articleshow/77860582.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Hubballi||Development projects to honour Rayanna’s legacy hanging fire||Belagavi: The raging row over the installation of a statue of 19th century freedom fighter Sangolli Rayanna in Belagavi, has thrown into stark relief the apathetic attitude of political parties and the authorities towards the completion of development projects that were proposed nearly three years ago to honour the legacy of Rayanna. In 2017-18, the then chief minister Siddaramaiah earmarked Rs 267.7 crore to build a Sainik School and develop infrastructure to promote Sangolli, Rayanna’s birthplace, as a tourist destination. However, all projects, the execution of which was vested with the Sangolli Rayanna Development Authority, have been hanging fire owing to delay in disbursal of funds. A Sainik School, on a 70-acre plot, a garden depicting the life and times of Rani Channamma and Rayanna, indoor and outdoor stadia, a museum and development of a lake at Nandgad, where Rayanna was hanged from the gallows by the British, are among the projects, work on which has been halted for six months. Residents of Sangolli attribute the delay in the completion of these initiatives to the BS Yediyurappa-led government’s indifference to Rayanna’s legacy. Sangolli resident Basavaraj Kamata told TOI that the Siddaramaiah government had sanctioned Rs 110 crore towards the various initiatives utilising which a considerable portion of the work had been completed. But the contractors have been awaiting the next instalment of funds – Rs 65 crore – to continue work, he said. “The payment of the next round of funds has been delayed by six months. Pace of work on these projects slackened after the JD(S)-Congress government came to power, and it ground to a halt after the BJP government took charge,” Kamata said. Malleshappa Horapeta, commissioner of Sangolli Rayanna Development Authority, said that the agency had sought funds for the completion of pending projects from the state government. “Rural development and panchayat raj minister KS Eshwarappa assured us of disbursing funds at the earliest, and he asked the contractors to expedite work on all the projects. The Covid-19 crisis has also resulted in delaying work on some of the projects,” Horapeta said. Activist Ashok Chandaragi called on people to take on a more proactive role in ensuring the completion of these projects than get swayed by emotional issues such as the installation of the statue. In the same vein, he asked the government to release the required funds to ensure the completion of all the projects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/development-projects-to-honour-rayannas-legacy-hanging-fire/articleshow/77858103.cms||Shreyas HS
September 1, 2020||Mysuru||Will provide water to every Mandya household, says Narayanagowda||Mandya: District in-charge minister KC Narayanagowda said that around Rs 666 crore will be spent to provide potable water to every household in the district and another medical college will be set up in his home constituency KR Pete. Speaking at ‘government at doorstep’ programme, his pet project being implemented in KR Pete taluk, Narayanagowda said chief minister BS Yediyurappa has sanctioned 264 crore for the overall development of the taluk. “I have launched this programme to help common citizens solve their problems by bringing the governance at their doorstep. CM Yediyurappa has committed to sanction more money to Mandya district for its overall developments. A medical college will be established at a cost of Rs 200 crore in KR Pete taluk,” he said. The minister said all governance related problems of people of all walks of life would be solved in ‘Government at Doorstep’ programme as officials of all departments concerned would visit villages and towns to listen and solve their problems. “We have decided to solve the problems of farmers at their doorstep and measures are being taken to hold kandaya adalats to address problems of land records,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/will-provide-water-to-every-mandya-household-says-narayanagowda/articleshow/77857710.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Ludhiana||Six-year-old skater eyes another world record||Ludhiana: After securing two records in an International Book of Records at the age of six years, the star skater from the city, Pranav Chauhan (6), is all set to achieve another milestone in the world of skating arena by making a bid to make a new record in the 16km skating event blindfolded in the rink soon. Pranav, a resident of Abdulpur Basti, will be covering 80 rounds (200m each) of skating rink in just one hour and ten minutes to cover a long distance of almost 16km blindfolded under the observation of officials from the local administration as well as the International Book of Records. He is the only one from the state, who will achieve this remarkable feat in skating and become the first one in the nation to secure three world records at just six years of age. The skating star from the region hogged limelight for the first time in February when he completed a marathon of 30km after skating for more than two hours under the observation of the district administration. Moreover, he had already entered his name in the International Book of Records under the category of doing limbo skating maximum number of times between two 10 cones (each side) placed with a gap of 23cm. He had completed 61 rounds in just 29 minutes and 42 seconds to grab the record in limbo skating at just five years of age. Speaking to TOI, Pranav said, “This has been possible only after the hard work of my coach and father who always encourages me to do some extraordinary things in life to make the country feel proud. During the initial stage, I suffered several injuries because it was difficult for me to maintain balance on skating wheels but later I managed to do and started doing professional or limbo skating.” Pranav added, “I did not sit idle at home for a single day even in lockdown period when the government had imposed restrictions as my coach and father began my online training sessions for several hours every day as it is crucial time for me to achieve something different in the skating world.” “After attempting this, I will make myself ready for the 400m race event comprising blindfolded players to get my name entered in the Guinness Book of World Records in next two months which is not far from my grasp as I am already working in this direction as well. I have been skating since the age of four years because I love to skate and my father wanted me to become an international skater by winning several medals in international tournaments. I have done all my preparations for my attempt to do blindfolded skating and I waiting for the official date to do this act and register my name for the first time in international book of records,” Pranav added. His coach and father Manish Pathak said, “After undergoing continuous hard training for the past five months, Pranav is all set to grab another record in the skating arena which is considered to be the toughest one — of doing skating blindfolded for a distance of 16km. We have submitted all crucial documents to the official team of International Book of Records to get an official date to register this record under his name.” Surinder Kumar, father of Pranav, said, “This is for the first time in the history of the skating world that my son will register his name under the toughest skating event, which is not easy for a six-year-old player.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/six-year-old-skater-eyes-another-world-record/articleshow/77859254.cms||RAHUL TAWAR
September 1, 2020||Chennai||44% of Tamil Nadu’s soft skills text book plagiarised: Profs||CHENNAI: The recently introduced textbook on training Tamil Nadu students in soft skills has again come under scrutiny. Professors allege that at least 44% of the text is plagiarized, copied from 150 journals, student papers and publications of the British Council and other foreign universities. Earlier this month, when the Tamil Nadu State Council for Higher Education (TANSCHE) introduced the 223-page ‘Communicative English’ for students in arts and science colleges, educators found it was riddled with several grammatical errors. Now, they have found more. “Most of the text is copied,” said a senior professor, requesting anonymity. “Every department has facilities to find out if a work is plagiarised. All it took was around an hour and this is what we found.” One portion says “When giving directions to someone it is best to use short basic English sentences” followed by a conversation between Ms Beena and Ms Smitha, “They have copied the entire page from easypacelearning.com, and the people mentioned in the original text are Mr. Bean and Mrs Smith, they have made it Beena and Smitha, and some of it still has Bean,” he said. Professors similarly found out parts copied from 165 sites and publications, after running the book through the anti-plagiarism Turnitin Software. “It is all there on the network, you just need to google,” he said. Another wondered if plagiarised texts were going to be taught to students. “This clearly shows it was all done in a hurry and there was no check. It’s very sad and shows us all in a poor light.” Others said there was no mention of any sources or who was involved in the preparation. Educators had earlier cautioned vice-chancellors against prescribing the book, saying almost all colleges already had soft skills courses and that it was interfering with their autonomy as every university had an academic council and board of studies that had the final word on syllabus and related issues. The TANSCHE, they said, was only a monitoring agency of the University Grants Commission in Tamil Nadu and did not have the right to prescribe textbooks. “Also we are finding it difficult to include this in our timetable because everything is fixed and we are now reducing hours in other periods to accommodate this programme,” he said. Anita Natrajan, coordinator of TANSCHE’s academic programme, didn’t respond to repeated calls and text messages seeking clarification on these allegations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/44-of-tns-soft-skills-text-book-plagiarised-profs/articleshow/77860543.cms||Aditi R
September 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Parakamani on cards at Tirumala||Tirupati: TTD executive officer Anil Kumar Singhal, who reviewed the progress of the newly proposed Parakamani complex works during a review held at the administrative building in Tirupati on Monday, said the Parakamani complex will help speed up hundi counting. Chief engineer M Ramesh Reddy presented the layout design of the new Parakamani complex to the TTD top brass. The new Hundi counting complex will come up in front of Matrusri Tarigonda Vengamamba Annaprasadam complex at Tirumala. The entire cost to be spent for constructing the building is estimated to be around Rs 9 crore, which will be met through donations from devotees. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/parakamani-on-cards-at-tirumala/articleshow/77860601.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
September 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Pranabda had special affinity for T: KCR||Hyderabad: Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, while expressing grief over the death of former president Pranab Mukherjee, recalled the leader had a special affinity for Telangana. KCR said Mukherjee, who headed the panel on separate Telangana issue, had the distinction of signing the formation of Telangana state bill. “He used to say that there was justice in demand for a separate Telangana state and offer useful suggestions to me. Pranab Mukherjee bestowed special praise on me saying that very few leaders have the rare opportunity of seeing the movement launched by them reaching its goal. He said I was privileged to have that rare opportunity and greatness,” the CM said. Governor Tamilisai Soundarajan said Mukherjee was, “A great visionary, a statesman par excellence, a great orator, a shrewd parliamentarian and above all a great human being – all in one.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pranabda-had-special-affinity-for-t-kcr/articleshow/77860580.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad woman calls husband to celebrate her birthday, beaten||AHMEDABAD: A woman from Vejalpur made repeated calls to her husband as she wanted to celebrate her birthday with him on Sunday. But this did not go well with the man who took the invitation as interruption and thrashed her badly. The woman Rinku Vanja, 21, had her birthday on Sunday, so she wanted her husband, Saurabh Suthar, to celebrate her birthday with her at her mother’s place in Vejalpur. According to an FIR filed with Vejalpur police, Vanja made repeated calls to Suthar, who is into furniture business. He came to Vanja’s house on Sunday evening and began asking her on why she irritated him by making constant calls. He also alleged that he suffered loss in his business as he could not focus on his work. She tried to pacify him but he began abusing her and thrashing her in front of her family members. When other family members tried to rescue Vanja, he beat them also with a wooden stick. He also threatened them with dire consequences, stated the FIR.  Later, police booked the accused under the charges of causing hurt, uttering of abusive words and criminal intimidation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/woman-calls-husband-to-celebrate-her-birthday-beaten/articleshow/77860583.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Hubballi||JEE & NEET: Most students want the show to go on as per schedule||Hubballi/Mysuru: Amid growing uncertainty over the timetable for the key National Eligibility Entrance Test (NEET) examination, which is the gateway for students aspiring to careers in the medical profession, a vast majority of students and parents in the state are vehemently opposing the prospect of postponing the test. Shreya Ingale, a student of Mahesh PU College in Hubballi, pointed out that she had been preparing for NEET and the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) for the past six months, and the prospect of doing so for an indefinite period was not something she looked forward to. Acknowledging the threat posed by Covid-19, she said, “Postponing NEET is not a solution. We will have to take all the necessary precautions and write the exams, and it is better to hold them according to the schedule.” However, Ankit Raichur, begged to differ with Shreya. Ankit felt that JEE examination ought to be postponed by a few months in the larger interest of students’ safety. “Life is more important. I have been preparing for the exam too, but I still feel it is safer to defer it. The authorities must wait till the Covid-19 curve flattens,” Ankit added. Adhere to schedule, say students in Old Mysore In the Old Mysore region, most students are on the same page as far as their views on holding the NEET and JEE tests are concerned: They believe that indefinite deferral of the examinations will serve little purpose. However, various experts are reluctant to countenance this view, pointing to the closure of libraries and other avenues, which they say was likely to affect the preparations of underprivileged students. Adithi A Rao, a science student who scored 592 out of 600 in the II PU exam, took a very pragmatic view of the whole affair. “The JEE examination starts on Tuesday and nothing can be done about that. It is better to hold the examination according to the timetable,” she said. Sanjay Kumar is Mayur S Chittaragi’s – Mayur of Hassan district is one of the toppers in CET – father found no worthy rationale for postponement of the exam. “The students have lost almost an entire semester owing to the delay and we must not add to that,” he said. Ashwini Ranjan, trustee of Prataham Mysore, however called for a more comprehensive perspective on the issue. “Libraries were closed owing to the Covid-19 crisis, derailing preparation plans for a section of students. There was also a lot of confusion and uncertainty. So, it would not be fair to hold the exams now,” Ashwini said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/jee-neet-most-students-want-the-show-to-go-on-as-per-schedule/articleshow/77858187.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Ludhiana||Water-logging in wards, councillors seek solution||Ludhiana: With no end in sight for the problem of water-logging on Rahon road, the councillors of ward numbers 7, 9, 10 and 12 on Monday gathered in the area and called up the officials at the spot and sought a permanent solution. Councillors Harjinder Lali and Dr Naresh Uppal claimed that sewerage treatment plant at Jamalpur was not fully functional and some of the motors had developed technical snag due to which water from residential areas was not being drained out. Though the motors were repaired on Sunday, the dyeing units were throwing water into the domestic sewer line due to which in Bhagwan Nagar and Shakti Nagar disposal pumps were now unable to work properly. The councillors rued the fact that around three months back sewer connections of these dyeing units were connected with the MC sewerage. They told everything to the executive engineer, Ranbir Singh, after calling him to the spot. Meanwhile, the sewer line near Shakti Nagar on the national highway too collapsed on Monday. A small part of the sewer line near Shakti Nagar on national highway 44 got damaged on Monday after which the officials barricaded the area for avoiding any incident. The XEN said that under the weight of the heavy vehicles the internal wall of the manhole had got damaged and the sewer line had collapsed. He said during day time domestic discharge comes in large quantity so they would repair it during the night. As far as the problem of sewer overflow in ward numbers 7, 9, 10 and 12 is concerned, they are trying to fix the problem permanently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/water-logging-in-wards-councillors-seek-solution/articleshow/77859248.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Hyderabad||54% convicts have education below Class 10 in AP, 21% prisoners illiterates||Vijayawada: Around 54% of the convicted prisoners’ education profile in Andhra Pradesh is below Class 10, according to the latest Prison Statistics India report released by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) on Sunday. Illiterates constitute 21% of total convicted prisoners in the state. Compared to 2018, the number of convicted prisoners with education below Class 10 has increased by 63%. The total number of illiterate prisoners has reduced by 44%. In the least order, postgraduates constitute the smallest slice in the pie chart with 2%, followed by diploma holders and then graduates. In terms of education profile of undertrial prisoners in the state, 36% are illiterate, with ones who studied up to or less than Class 10 at 35%. Around 95.8% of the prisoners hail from Andhra Pradesh while the rest are from other states and countries. In terms of religious background of the convicts, the statistics show that 82% are Hindus, 11% Muslims, 4% Christians and 1% other religions. Caste-wise breakup of the data shows that 46% are OBCs, 23% SCs, 11% STs and 18% other caste. Fifty-four per cent of the convicted prisoners in the state are between the age group of 30 to 50 years. After that, 35% are between 18 to 30 years. Only 11.5% are above 50 years of age. In terms of undertrials, 41.4% of them are between 18 to 30 years while 49% are 30 to 50 years. The state has 167 women convicts and 466 women undertrials. Out of these, nine convicted women prisoners have 11 children living with them. Overall, there are 43 women prisoners with 49 children residing with them. The state is fifth-lowest in terms of foreign inmates in its prisons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/54-convicts-have-education-below-class-10-in-ap-21-prisoners-illiterates/articleshow/77860631.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
September 1, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Riders thrilled as Metro set to roll but health experts urge caution||BENGALURU: The plan to resume Namma Metro services from September 7 has evoked mixed reactions with commuters welcoming the move and health experts insisting precautions must be taken. While the overall underlying concern is that it could result in an increase in Covid-19 cases, experts say it would not if commuters behaved responsibly. Dr CN Manjunath, chairman of the expert committee set up by the government, called the reopening a “double-edged sword” and that people must follow safety measures. “No one who has symptoms like fever, cold, cough, fatigue or diarrhea should travel,” he said. “These people must isolate themselves and get tested. We have lived with the virus for the past six months and have learnt many lessons. Now, we have to continue living with the virus, while taking all precautions.” Dr Giridhara R Babu, epidemiologist and member of the state’s technical advisory committee on, said: “In close-settings of compact Metro coaches, wearing a mask is the only way to prevent spread of the virus. Physical distancing is a must in stations and while boarding and alighting. An increase in frequency of trains will help reduce over-crowding.” Many regular commuters and transport experts say resumption of services will ease transport woes and help revive the economy. Amit Bhatt, director of transport at WRI India, an NGO which works on transport issues, said: “It’s time for us to move from lockdown to unlock and also open up mass transport services without jeopardising the health and safety of people.” Bhatt said public transport in cities like London and Hong Kong were running smoothly. “In fact, there is no evidence that public transport leads to an increase in cases. The important part is personal hygiene including wearing face masks, hand wash and social distancing.” Dr Babu agreed. Vivek K, a regular on the Metro, said it is convenient for him to travel from his home in Kengeri to his office in Indiranagar. “It’s not feasible to work from home every day and it is difficult to reach CBD areas without Metro, he said. “If flights and AC trains are operating, Metro should also run.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/metro-passengers-excited-trains-set-to-roll-but-experts-urge-caution/articleshow/77859242.cms||Sunitha Rao R
September 1, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Four dead as car ploughs into crowd near Crawford Market||MUMBAI: A speeding car climbed onto a footpath and rammed into around a dozen people outside Cafe Janata at the busy Colombo junction near Crawford Market around 9.10pm on Monday, killing four and injuring four others. Four of them were thrown into the air —one died after falling on top of the car and another after being thrown into the restaurant. JJ doctors said three women above 60 and an unidentified male were brought dead. The driver, Sameer Ibrahim Sayyed, was also injured. Rajiv Jain, zonal DCP, said, “There was only one person in the car.” It is not clear whether Sayyed was drunk, police said. Police said Sayyed, a Dongri resident, was earlier booked for allegedly ramming a car into a 12-year-old girl at Bhendi Bazaar in June. Police are checking if he has a criminal past. Waiter, roadside purse seller among 4 injured in Crawford Mkt accidentPolicemen were deployed near Crawford Market on Monday night as a huge crowd gathered after a speeding car climbed onto the footpath outside Cafe Janata Restaurant and killed four and injured four others. One of the victims was yet to be identified. The three deceased women were identified as Zubeda Khan (60), Saroja Naidu (65), and Saira Banu (60). JJ Hospital doctors said that the four were brought dead to the hospital. Another four came in with multiple injuries. Hospital authorities said that the unidentified deceased male had a femur disfigurement. At least one of the women had a forehead trauma. All four bodies were sent for post-mortem examination, hospital sources said. Dr Sanjay Surase, medical superintendent of JJ Hospital, said that all four injured patients had polytrauma. While Mohammed Juhi (32) had a disfigurement of the left forearm as well as injuries on the right arm, Nadeem Ansari (40) had a puncture wound in the right arm with heavy bleeding and forehead abrasion. Kamlesh (20) and Mohammed Haneef (41), a waiter at Cafe Janata Restaurant, had tibia injuries and swelling of the cheek and eye, respectively. Dr Surase said that their condition was being evaluated and their treatment has already begun. Witnesses said that Naidu was sitting with two other women on the footpath and Haneef standing outside the restaurant when the car rammed into them. A father of three, Ansari, who supplies hair clips at different shops, had gone to the restaurant to buy food when he was hit by the car. “Ansari lives in a rented room in Bengalipura along with his family,” said Mubeen Ansari, a relative who rushed to J J Hospital on hearing the news. Juhi, who sells purses on the footpath outside the restaurant, had resumed business a few days ago. At the time of going to press, Pydhonie police were in the process of registering a first information report in the accident and collecting information about the accused car driver, Sameer Ibrahim Sayyed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/4-dead-as-car-ploughs-into-crowd-near-crawford-mkt/articleshow/77861658.cms||Mateen Hafeez
September 1, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Farmer alleges threat to life by land grabbers||Visakhapatnam: A farmer owning land in Duppaturu and Bhogapuram villages under Atchutapuram mandal in Visakhapatnam district on Monday alleged that one P Venkata Swamy and his family have been threatening to grab his land. The farmer, PRS Naidu, has appealed to the police, seeking protection from land grabbers. Speaking to reporters, Naidu said he owned 32 acres of land that he, with five of his family, had purchased from one Kundrapu Kondadu. On October 31, 2002, revenue officials, with the help of armed police personnel cleared encroachments on the land and handed its ownership over to him. On December 4, 2003, more than 70 persons claiming ownership over the land descended on the property and destroyed it using an earthmover, and attacked and left injured the watchman. Based on a complaint, police arrested the attackers. Since then, the land grabbers have approached the court several times, “but the court gave orders in our favour. After losing the case, they have begun threatening to kiss us to grab the land,”Naidu added. Naidu said he lodged a complaint with the superintendent of police last week seeking protection. “We are hoping that the police will initiate action against them,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/farmer-alleges-threat-to-life-by-land-grabbers/articleshow/77859251.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Chennai||Demand for personalised home care for elderly doubles||CHENNAI: Demand for personalised home care services for senior citizens has doubled since the lockdown was imposed in March as service providers introduced exclusive Covid-care packages, in-patient rehab sessions for those who underwent surgeries, besides grocery shopping and virtual doctor consultations. In some cases, with the immediate family members stuck overseas due to travel restriction and fear of contracting the virus continues, people are keen to avail an extension of services for a longer period. A few service providers have even removed monthly subscription to services and offer only annual subscription. Prashanth Reddy, founder and director, Anvayaa, said, “We have seen about 50%-60% increase in new customer additions, compared to our monthly average of 20 new customers. Our exclusive Covid-care package for senior citizens, launched on July 20, has seen about 150 individuals assisted in just one month of its launch. This is three times more than our monthly average.” This home quarantine care plan offers remote monitoring of vitals, admission-based risk assessment process, customized diet, home sample collection of blood and Covid tests, 24*7 ambulance and nursing service. Among various services offered, virtual doctors’ appointment and after-life services like conducting last rites have doubled since lockdown. Anvayaa has suspended monthly and provides only annual subscriptions. City-based startup Alserv, which was founded in January, 2020, has witnessed a three-fold increase in new membership between March and August, 2020. Its co-founder Jagadish Ramamoorthi said, “In the initial phase and peak Covid times, significant demand was seen for grocery shopping and delivery, virtual doctor consultation and medicine delivery. We see focus shifted towards demand for nursing and caretaker services, ancillary equipment like oxygen cylinder, scans, ECG, etc. Such tests are 10%-15% cheaper than hospital visits since room charges are not levied.” Alserv provides both monthly and annual subscriptions and refunds if one decides to cancel midway. Athulya Assisted Living & Home Care, which provides a live in rental model for elderly citizens, has introduced in-patient rehab facilitation like post-surgery physiotherapy which earlier was available only in hospitals. “With this rehab care, people need not worry about staying inside the hospitals with fear of contracting coronavirus. It is cost effective, since the treatment would cost Rs 7,000-Rs 10,000 a day in private hospitals, compared to our price at Rs 3,000-Rs 4,000. This includes expenses like doctor visit, nursing, staffing and food,” said Atulya’s managing director Karthik Narayan R. It has recorded a conversion rate double from five customers per month to ten for assisted living service, since the lockdown announcement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/demand-for-personalised-home-care-for-elderly-doubles/articleshow/77860564.cms||Mamtha Asokan
September 1, 2020||Surat||Daman government doctor’s mother smothered to death in Valsad||SURAT: Sixty-year-old mother of a doctor working in Daman government hospital was smothered to death by robbers in Bhutsar village of Valsad district on Sunday night. At around 10:30pm, the robbers entered the house of Ramila Solanki and woke up her husband Deepsinh. When they asked him to hand over all the valuables, Deepsinh shouted and woke up Ramila. When she started screaming seeing the robbers, one of them smothered the her and flashed a knife at Deepsinh. A terrified Deepsinh handed over the cupboard’s keys to them and took away Rs 85,000 cash and around 130 gram of gold jewellery, total worth Rs 3.45 lakh, according to the complaint lodged with Valsad rural police by the victim. After checking few other places in the house, the robbers left, locking the bedroom from outside. They also deflated the car tyres and removed the plug of his two wheeler. Later when Deepsinh checked on Ramila, she was already dead. He noticed froth coming out from her mouth and shouted for help. After a while, a neighbour came and opened the door’s latch from outside. Deepsinh’s mobile phone was found broken outside the house while the robbers looted Ramila’s phone. Deepsinh retired as a teacher from Faldhara High School in Valsad in 2014 and was engaged in farming his land. The elderly couple lived alone while their son Virendra is a doctor in the government hospital at the adjoining union territory of Daman. He lives in Silvassa with his family. “There are no signs of forced entry and it is possible that the robbers entered from the door which remained open by mistake. Police are making all efforts to nab the robbers,” said Rajdeepsinh Zala, superintendent of police, Valsad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/daman-govt-docs-mother-smothered-to-death-in-valsad/articleshow/77859289.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Jaipur||BJP stages protests against power hike and fuel surcharge||Jaipur: The state BJP on Monday staged protests at grid stations across the state demanding waiver in power bills as part of the ‘Halla Bol’ campaign. In Jaipur, state party president Satish Poonia and former health minister Kalicharan Saraf held a protest at the grid station in Amber and Jaipur, respectively.“The ruling party has lost its senses to see how people are suffering due to the pandemic. Instead of providing relief, they have added to their miseries by their mis-governance such as hiking power bills and fuel surcharge. People are demanding relief in power bills which is also ignored by the government,” said Poonia. “The party is overwhelmed to have received support from the general public,” Poonia said. Saraf reminded Gehlot government that they had promised during polls they would not increase power tariff for the next five years. “You made the promise for five years and breaking it in less than 18 months. It’s a betrayal of promise and any hike is unjust at a time when people are suffering due to the pandemic,” said Saraf. Meanwhile, in a late night development BJP appointed Raghav Sharma as the president of BJP Jaipur district after its president Sunil Kothari resigned from the post due to some personal reason on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bjp-stages-protests-against-power-hike-and-fuel-surcharge/articleshow/77860632.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Chennai||SPB fully awake, responsive, says hospital bulletin||Chennai: Playback singer S P Balasubrahmanyam who is undergoing treatment for Covid-19 at MGM Healthcare in Chennai is fully awake and responsive, said a medical bulletin issued by the hospital on Monday evening. He participates in active physiotherapy, which is a step up from passive methods which he was undergoing. (Active physiotherapy involves the patient stretching muscles and moving joints, with or without the aid of a physiotherapist.) The singer is still on ventilator and ECMO support in the intensive care unit of the hospital. “He continues to be closely monitored by our multidisciplinary clinical team,” said the bulletin issued by hospital assistant director (medical services) Dr Anuradha Baskaran. A video message from his son and producer S P Charan, who had visited the hospital on Sunday and Monday, said there was a pleasant improvement in his father’s health condition. “Doctors are giving me a brief every day. They showed me X-rays of dad’s lungs. There is good improvement. Dad is doing some physiotherapy. He is doing a lot of exercises to strengthen his muscles because he has been in bed for so long. His breathing is looking good,” he said. He said he was confident that his father will come out of this soon. “We can’t wait to have him back as soon as possible,” he said, thanking his supporters. He also urged people to be safe to wear masks and maintain social distancing as the state is planning several unlock measures. “I have seen what happened with Covid-19 and we don’t want that for anyone,” he said. He said his mother’s health condition has also improved.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/spb-fully-awake-responsive-says-hospital-bulletin/articleshow/77860579.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Congress demands CBI probe into power purchase agreements||HYDERABAD: Congress has demanded an inquiry into alleged corruption in power purchase agreements (PPAs) inked by the energy department, power utilities and private power producers. Telangana Congress working president and Malkajgiri MP A Revanth Reddy has written a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi urging him to order an inquiry by Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and Central Electricity Authority (CEA) into the Srisailam power plant fire accident that claimed nine lives on August 20, to find both the criminal conspiracy and technical failures that led to the tragic incident. In the letter, Revanth said for the past several years, multiple red flags were raised about the poor maintenance of the plant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-demands-cbi-probe-into-power-purchase-agreements/articleshow/77860639.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Jaipur||Dausa murder suspects still at large, cops detain two persons||JAIPUR: Dausa police have detained two suspects in the murder of a youth in Abhaneri police station area on Saturday late night though no one has been formally arrested as yet. According to sources cops are interrogating the suspects to find the motive behind the attack in which the deceased’s mother was also injured. The victim along with his mother had been asleep in the room when the accused axed him to death. “We are questioning two members of the victim’s family though obviously both of them are denying any involvement in the murder. Till the time we do not get concrete evidence against both or one of them, it is difficult to confirm the reason behind the attack”, said an official of Dausa police. The woman was identified as 55-year-old Raju Devi who registered the case of murder at Abhaneri police station while her deceased son Mangilal was aged 23 years .The mother-son duo were attacked by an unidentified person in the middle of the night while they were asleep in a room. Her younger son was sleeping outside. According to her statement, the family went to sleep after dinner around 9pm and the attack occurred few hours later. Raju Devi alleged that while the family was asleep, a person dressed in a white shirt and dark trousers entered her room. The accused first killed Mangilal and then attacked Raju Devi who sustained injuries on her shoulder. Before anyone could react, the accused fled the scene. The cops are probing various angles into the matter including the fact that Mangilal might have perhaps been involved in a relationship due to which the accused might have killed the youth. Another reason that police are deliberating over is dispute over property as the victim’s father was estranged from the family and resided with his first wife after Raju Devi separated from him nearly three years back. “The investigation is proving to be tricky, as the eye witness, Raju Devi is also unable to identify the accused”, said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/dausa-murder-suspects-still-at-large-cops-detain-two-persons/articleshow/77860635.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||4,000 students register for diploma courses||AHMEDABAD: After the Admission Committee for Professional Courses (ACPC) extended the deadline till August 31 for registration to diploma engineering courses, the committee has received 4,350 fresh applications. So, far 40,145 students have registered for the course. The provisional merit list will be announced by admission committee on September 9. ACPC has started the admission process for a total of 55,950 diploma engineering seats. Some, 8,000 seats are to be filled under the management quota. The committee had earlier set August 8 as the deadline for registration. However only 35,795 got registered during this duration. So the committee decided to extend the deadline to August 31. Sources in the admission committee say that 4,350 students had registered in the last few days. “A total of 40,145 students have been registered. However, by 7 pm on Monday, 39,880 students have paid the tuition fees after registering,” according to sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/4000-students-register-for-diploma-courses/articleshow/77860641.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Few takers for Hindi, Gujarati, Sanskrit courses at IITE||AHMEDABAD: With the admission process underway for 2,950 seats and 39 colleges at Indian Institute of Teacher Education (IITE), the admission committee is struggling to find takers for BEd and MEd courses in Gujarati, Hindi and Sanskrit languages. “The admission process is on till September 12. So it will be premature to give the number of vacant or seats filled at this point. We have seen that there is a low demand for languages like Hindi, Gujarati and Sanskrit,” said Harshad Patel, vice-chancellor of the varsity. For BEd Hindi, more than 70 seats are vacant out of total 310 seats. In the case of Sanskrit, more than 160 seats out of 308 seats are vacant. In the case of BSc+BEd dual programme, 80 seats remain vacant out of 220. Only a handful of students have enrolled in the MEd course at the university while 10 masters’ degree seats are vacant in a college in Porbandar, said sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/few-takers-for-hindi-gujarati-sanskrit-courses-at-iite/articleshow/77860636.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Churu teacher detained for terror hoax||JAIPUR: State’s Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) detained a school teacher in Churu after he wrote to NIA alleging large quantity of explosives in the district which were apparently brought from Pakistan. The teacher had also claimed that the lives of national political leaders were at risk due to unconfirmed terrorist threat. Cops detained the accused, but he was released after questioning when officials did not find anything substantial in the allegations. An email was received at NIA headquarters email id on August 26 regarding the alleged terror attack by Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM). In the email, the sender had identified himself as a ‘government teacher’. He had further mentioned JeM planning some sensational activity for which one ton of RDX had apparently reached Rajasthan. The teacher was identified Rakesh Sarawag. Ashok Rathore, ADG, SOG and ATS told TOI, “We are initiating legal action against the person who has been instrumental in making malicious complaint. Secondly, we are also probing into all such complaints received so far and ending up as made by persons with unsound minds in most cases. As such complaints lead to commotion and sense of insecurity among the people at large. Education department will also be notified about Sarwag’s misconduct.” According to the email, some VVIPs might also be targeted and NIA had written to ATS to take necessary measures, though the former had not done any enquiry or verification in the matter. The email had alleged that the persons involved in the Pulwama attack were also responsible for the transport of the explosives and claimed that the Pulwama attack could have been prevented if necessary action had been taken in time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/action-to-be-taken-against-schoolteacher-for-terror-hoax/articleshow/77860643.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Jaipur||Bharatiya Tribal Party upset over unfulfilled promises||JAIPUR: Bharatiya Tribal Party (BTP) is running short of patience with its ruling ally Congress in the state over delay in fulfilling promises made for tribal areas. The party with 2 MLAs, which was considered a natural ally of the Congress and had supported them in the Rajya Sabha polls and stood with the Gehlot cam during the political crisis, has decided to protest the visit of Congress leaders in Dungarpur, Pratapgarh and Banswara. The party has accused the ruling party of ignoring the 17-point charter of promises made while seeking their support during the RS polls. They were again assured time-bound compliance of their promises for supporting the government in case of a floor test. “The party has again betrayed us. They had assured us of fulfilling all our promises soon after the expected floor test in the assembly but nothing happened. They have not even blinked on our demands which shows how honest they are in keeping their word,” said Vela Ram Ghogra, state president of BTP. Ghogra accused that the Congress, which was after them during the crisis, of showing arrogance after the crisis was over. “From RS polls till the assembly session, we have written several letters addressing to different ministers urging them to initiate work on our demands, but not a single response has been received. It is embarrassing and insulting for the party. They only give us verbal assurances,” said Ghogra. They have been demanding tribal area development programme on the lines of Maharashtra, notifying more areas for ST, priority of STs in local economic activities, check on migration of non-tribals in notified areas, safety from cultural intrusion by various religious groups, among others. Earlier talking to TOI, Rajkumar Roat, BTP MLA from Chorasi, said after the RS polls, the party realised that the Congress was not working on their demands.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/btp-upset-over-unfulfilled-promises/articleshow/77860637.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Nashik||NMC set to add 200 cots at Bytco hosp for critical cases||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) is in the process of adding 200 beds for critical patients at its new Bytco hospital building as the number of critical cases has seen a spike over the past week. While on August 23, there were 823 critical patients in the city, currently, there are 970.An NMC official told TOI that their set-up of 200 beds for critical patients — including 175 beds with oxygen and 25 ventilators — is ready. All the beds have been connected with the centralised oxygen lines.“We are waiting for the 6,000-litre oxygen tank, which is in transit and is expected to arrive by Tuesday. It will take only a day to install this large oxygen tank,” the official said.The facility should be functional within two days. In addition, another large oxygen tank and centralized oxygen system are to be set up at a medical college hospital in the city.Officials said they had increased the survey and antigen tests for early detection of patients. Moreover, the health teams are tracing people with co-morbid conditions. “This is the reason the number of the critical patients has increased,” said NMC officials.Officials said that the lack of storage facility for oxygen was a major issue. “We have oxygen cylinders, but they are small and it is difficult to refill them frequently. We have made an arrangement for the supply of 20,000 litres of oxygen on alternate days. This will be done once we get large oxygen tanks,” said an official.The city has 102 ventilators, including all public and private hospitals. Of them, 101 beds are occupied. Overall, the NMC has 1,210 beds for critical patients reserved in municipal and private hospitals, including 784 with oxygen, 324 in ICU and 102 with ventilators. Of them, 970 beds are occupied, including 607 beds oxygen, 262 in ICU and 101 with ventilators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-set-to-add-200-cots-at-bytco-hosp-for-critical-cases/articleshow/77858124.cms||Tushar Pawar
September 1, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Sellers, customers embrace ‘shop from home’ as festive season nears||Bhubaneswar: The ongoing pandemic and the increasing transmission of Covid through local contacts have prompted people to stay indoors. With not many people visiting shops, online stores of retail brands and individual sellers are reaching out to their clientèle with new products, smart designs, convenient returns, prompt refunds or exchanges and different payment options. A well-known multi-brand store selling ethnic and western-wear and accessories for men, women and children is taking orders over WhatsApp and delivering goods at home without taking a delivery fee. It is giving customers cash on delivery option and a 30-day exchange window. It is also offering payment options like UPI, eGV and cards, while maintaining all Covid protocol. “The footfall in our store was very low when it reopened. We delved into our database and reached out to customers by showcasing products over WhatsApp,” said a salesman of the store. Another company selling ethnic-wear for women and children has also started home delivery within the city for the past four to five days. “The customer can look up our website, send us a picture of the design along with the style code and we will deliver the item to their home,” said Swagatika Nayak, a saleswoman. The company also offers both cash and card payments, besides an exchange policy. Ashoka Manjari Nayak, a homemaker from Bargarh, who sells everything from clothing to furnishings to kitchen utility items, is also providing customised services to her clients over WhatsApp. ”Sales were good during Raja and Ganesh Puja. I send the catalogue to my clients as per their requirement and they order accordingly,” said Ashoka. Sucharita Bhuyan, a homemaker from Bengaluru, buys items of her choice and stacks them up for occasions. “My friends also order online through me,” said Bhuyan, who said good quality products, cash on delivery services and no delay in refund were the biggest draws of online shopping. Akanksha Behera, an engineer and a self-proclaimed shopaholic, has always been a fan of online shopping. “I get customised services like stitch on order and quality fabrics, designs of my choice and good deals from online sites and individual sellers,” she said. Inquiries for festive clothes have also increased. Amruta Gandhi, a homemaker living in Bhubaneswar, sells handloom sarees and dress materials on social media. “My regular customers bought clothes from me for festivals even during the lockdown. Many are also asking about the famed Sonepuri Odissi handloom sarees,” said Amruta. Online shopping is the only option for those who have to work from home and are living in remote areas of the state. Shobhana Mahato, an engineer with a top IT firm, has been shopping for daily essentials online after she returned to her home in Barbil, Keonjhar. “I order online as it is difficult to get things of my choice in my town. It is also safer,” she said. Sellers are hopeful that sales will boom by mid-September. The trends during previous festivals and the inquiries indicate that people will start buying more soon, said Rashmi Garnaik, an online seller from Angul.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/sellers-customers-embrace-shop-from-home-as-festive-season-nears/articleshow/77858128.cms||Arunika Mohapatra
September 1, 2020||India||BJP, Congress face-off over Facebook||NEW DELHI: Ahead of the meeting of the parliamentary panel on IT, Facebook was once again caught in the political crossfire on Monday with BJP and Congress exchanging allegations about “biases” reflected by employees of the social media giant in the wake of a fresh report in the Wall Street Journal. ‘How come the mandarins at WSJ keep missing Ankhi Das’s posts sympathetic to the Aam Aadmi Party or Trinamool Congress? And keep harping on her perceived bias for BJP? Is it because they want people who are uncompromisingly Left?” BJP’s IT cell chief Amit Malviya tweeted, recalling “biases” of the FB staff against the saffron party. On its part, Congress sharpened its attack on Facebook and alleged its global leadership team was not only “well aware” of the biases and partisanship of its India operations but also “willing participants” to the decisions. Citing fresh media reports on how Facebook and WhatsApp colluded with BJP to “tarnish India’s democracy and tear India’s social harmony”, Congress leader in LS Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said India is experiencing digital imperialism and demanded approvals and licences of Facebook and Whatsapp be suspended pending an investigation. The panel on information technology, headed by Congress MP Shashi Tharoor, has summoned Facebook on September 2 seeking its explanation about the Wall Street Journal report that Facebook was supportive of BJP. However, BJP MPs, who are members of the panel, have plans to question the FB managers with similar charges that they had colluded with Congress. Malviya shared screen shots of Das’s tweets about West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee walking to the Writers’ Building in Kolkata and her Delhi counterpart Arvind Kejriwal taking a metro ride saying how the two leaders are trying to be “Aam Aadmi”. In another tweet, Malviya says, “Meet Vijaya Moorthy. Supposedly heads government outreach at Facebook. Worked with Rahul Gandhi’s team for nearly a decade (love for his former boss still going strong)…”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bjp-congress-face-off-over-facebook/articleshow/77862187.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Rs 5,000 trail from Pakistani spy in Uttar Pradesh leads to agent in Gujarat||LUCKNOW/AHMEDABAD: Suspected ISI agent, Rajaka Khumbhar, who was arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) from Mundra in Gujarat’s Kutch district on Sunday, has revealed that he sent Rs 5,000 to a contact in UP’s Chandauli district for passing sensitive information. Earlier this year, the Military Intelligence (MI) unit in Lucknow had detected connections of a man from Chandauli, Mohammad Rashid, with Pakistan’s intelligence agency ISI and informed Uttar Pradesh Anti-Terrorist Squad (UP ATS) about it. On January 19 this year, ATS arrested Rashid. The case was transferred to NIA in April. “During investigation, it was found that Rashid was in touch with ISI handlers and had also visited Karachi twice,” said an ATS officer. It also surfaced that Rashid was trained by ISI agents during his stay in Karachi. During interrogation, Rashid had confessed that he had forwarded photographs and videos of several sensitive establishments and events, including violence on BHU campus and anti-CAA/NRC protests, to his handlers. He had also helped his handlers in procuring two Indian WhatsApp numbers, an officer privy to the investigation said. “Rashid had received a gift packet containing a Tshirt and facial cream from his two handlers in Karachi. He also received a payment of Rs 5,000 on July 24, 2019 from them,” an official said. NIA said Khumbhar had also transferred Rs 5,000 through an online wallet to the account of one Rizwan, who handed over the money to Rashid. Sources said NIA will bring Khumbhar to Lucknow for questioning by MI and UP ATS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/alleged-isi-agent-arrested-by-nia-from-mundra-in-kutch/articleshow/77860647.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
September 1, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Congress delivered 60-70% poll promises, says Ajay Maken||JAIPUR: Congress general secretary in-charge of the state Ajay Maken said the Congress government, showing its commitment to the people, has fulfilled about 60-70% of its poll promises. He said on October 2, on Gandhi Jayanti, the government will present its report card in comparison to its manifesto and the major decisions of the state government. He was speaking to the media after meeting with former PCC president and ministers at the party office on Monday. He said as per the feedback from the ministers, the government is on the right course and is delivering on poll promises. A major part of the poll promises has already been fulfilled, he claimed. He said except Dr Girija Vyas and Narayan Singh, who could not make it to the meeting due to health reasons, all other former PCC presidents attended the meeting. He also met with former opposition leaders, former Union ministers and AICC office bearers. He said the leaders gave constructive suggestions to strengthen the party organisation. Maken said the district in-charge ministers will tour their respective districts every month and establish dialogue at district and block level to address the grievances of the people. Meeting will also be held at organizational level to get feedback from the party organization. PCC president Govind Singh Dotasra said party leaders were asked to strengthen the party at the assembly level so that new voters could be added in the voters’ list while weeding out bogus names. Maken will meet with the leaders from the six districts under Jaipur division on Tuesday, while on Wednesday he will meet leaders from Ajmer division there. He said the endeavour is to establish a proper coordination between the government and the party organization. Maken had replaced Avinash Pande following revolt by former PCC president Sachin Pilot who alleged neglect of him and his supporters by the chief minister. Maken’s challenge is to ensure adequate representation to the Sachin Pilot faction in the party and government, who were removed from the posts after the face-off.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cong-delivered-60-70-poll-promises-maken/articleshow/77860645.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Bengaluru||Better-than-current scenario: 90 lakh cases in India by January 1||BENGALURU: India will have 90 lakh Covid-19 cases and 1.4 lakh deaths by January 1, 2021, according to a better-than-current-trend scenario projected by an Indian Institute of Science (IISc) team. The same team had projected a worse-case scenario of at least 35 lakh cases by September 1, a forecast that has proven to be bang on. Under a better-than-current projection, cases would increase only marginally to 90.1 lakh and deaths to 1.43 lakh by March 24, 2021 – if people behaved responsibly and followed all precautionary measures. The projections by Prof Sashikumar G, Prof Deepak S and their team give estimations for two more scenarios — the current trend, and a worse-than-current case scenario. "Our projections are based on national data, from which we also make state-wise estimations," said Sashikumar. "State projections are being refined as different states have behaved differently." The scientist went on to say, "The different scenarios are modeled based on anticipated individual behaviour — social distancing, hygiene practice, compliance to government rules etc — plus government policies etc. Current trend follows business as usual assuming further relaxation to lockdown rules, while ‘better and worse’ scenarios assume better and worse compliance." Going by the current trend, India could have 1.3 crore cases by January, while the worse-case scenario puts the caseload at 3.2 crore (see graphic).  As per the current trend, a peak of 17.2 lakh active cases is expected in mid-October, but it would taper down dasrtcially to 46,000 by the end of March 2021. ''After our prediction in July, we were hoping the ‘better than current scenario’ comes true, but unfortunately, the worse-case prediction was accurate, which indicates that the virus was one step ahead of the mammoth human efforts to contain it," Sashikumar said. In a scenario better than the current trend, active cases will see a peak of 13.1 lakh by the last week of September and it will drop drastically to around 5,000 active cases by the end of March 2021. In the worse-case scenario, projections show a peak of 46.5 lakh active cases in the last week of December, while there would be 20.4 lakh active cases by the end of March.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/iiscs-better-than-current-scenario-90l-cases-in-india-by-january-1/articleshow/77859265.cms||Chethan Kumar
September 1, 2020||Nashik||Game is new divisional revenue chief||Nashik: Radhakrishna Game — who was replaced by Kailas Jadhav as the Nashik municipal commissioner on August 26 — has been promoted to the post of the divisional revenue commissioner of Nashik division. Over the past 20 months, Game had done commendable work as the commissioner of Nashik Municipal Commissioner (NMC). In recent times, he had focussed on increasing tracing of suspected Covid-19 cases and rapid antigen tests for early detection of patients. On several occasions, Game met the Covid-19 patients to listen to their problems and to assess the facilities and treatment provided to them. Moreover, the Nashik city improved its Swachh Survekshan ranking from 68th last year to 11th in 2020. The revenue of the NMC, through various taxes of town planning department, had also increased three times from Rs 100 crore in 2018-19 to Rs 350 crore in 2020-21. The NMC had also recorded the highest property tax collection of Rs 150 crore in the last financial year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/game-is-new-divisional-revenue-chief/articleshow/77858162.cms||Tushar Pawar
September 1, 2020||Hyderabad||T Cong leaders lash out at Azad||Hyderabad: Senior Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad came under sharp attack from Telangana Congress leaders for writing to Sonia Gandhi seeking reforms within the party. AICC secretary V Hanumanth Rao and former vice-chairman of National Disaster Management Authority Marri Shashidhar Reddy lambasted Azad. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-cong-leaders-lash-out-at-azad/articleshow/77860646.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Lucknow||Rs 5,000 trail from Pakistani spy in Uttar Pradesh leads to agent in Gujarat||LUCKNOW/AHMEDABAD: Suspected ISI agent, Rajaka Khumbhar, who was arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) from Mundra in Gujarat’s Kutch district on Sunday, has revealed that he sent Rs 5,000 to a contact in UP’s Chandauli district for passing sensitive information. Earlier this year, the Military Intelligence (MI) unit in Lucknow had detected connections of a man from Chandauli, Mohammad Rashid, with Pakistan’s intelligence agency ISI and informed Uttar Pradesh Anti-Terrorist Squad (UP ATS) about it. On January 19 this year, ATS arrested Rashid. The case was transferred to NIA in April. “During investigation, it was found that Rashid was in touch with ISI handlers and had also visited Karachi twice,” said an ATS officer. It also surfaced that Rashid was trained by ISI agents during his stay in Karachi. During interrogation, Rashid had confessed that he had forwarded photographs and videos of several sensitive establishments and events, including violence on BHU campus and anti-CAA/NRC protests, to his handlers. He had also helped his handlers in procuring two Indian WhatsApp numbers, an officer privy to the investigation said. “Rashid had received a gift packet containing a Tshirt and facial cream from his two handlers in Karachi. He also received a payment of Rs 5,000 on July 24, 2019 from them,” an official said. NIA said Khumbhar had also transferred Rs 5,000 through an online wallet to the account of one Rizwan, who handed over the money to Rashid. Sources said NIA will bring Khumbhar to Lucknow for questioning by MI and UP ATS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/alleged-isi-agent-arrested-by-nia-from-mundra-in-kutch/articleshow/77864668.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
September 1, 2020||Chennai||JEE aspirants can reach out to IIT alumni for a ride to exam centres||CHENNAI: IIT Delhi Alumni Association with the help of alumni and students from IIT Bombay and IIT Madras has launched EduRide, an initiative to help poor students to reach the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) (main) exam centres. So far, around 2,000 students from across the country have registered at the http://www.eduride.in/ requesting a ride to the exam centre. JEE (main) exam is to be conducted from September 1 to 6 and more than 8.6 lakh candidates have registered for the exam. The computer-based test will be held at 605 centres across the country. With public transport yet to fully resume across the country, still many parents rely on private vehicles to travel and many students may not afford the travel. From Tamil Nadu, around 40 candidates sought the help of IIT alumni. The IIT Madras Alumni Association is also involved in raising funds for the initiative to support the poor children. The IIT Delhi Alumni Association has partnered with Ola cabs and AHA taxi companies to take the students from their native places to exam centres. "Students from poor families appearing for JEE and NEET exam can register with us. We will help them to reach the exam centres. Wherever volunteers are willing, the students would be connected to the volunteers and alumni for making travel arrangements," said Ravindra Kumar, president, IIT Delhi Alumni Association. The maximum number of requests have come from Bihar and Maharashtra where 293 and 282 students sought support as on Monday evening. Alumni associations are planning to raise Rs 50 lakh towards the travel expenses for poor students through crowd funding. “We wanted to help the students who are appearing for JEE (Main), JEE(Advanced) and NEET exam,” Ravindra Kumar added. "In Tamil Nadu, not many students are aware of the initiative. Our alumni association is supporting the move and helping them to raise funds, connect and reach out," said Latha Venkatachalam, executive director of IIT Madras Alumni Association. This year IIT Delhi is organising the JEE (advanced) on September 27 and V Ramgopal Rao, director of the institute mooted the idea to help the students to alumni association. So, IIT Delhi Alumni Association is taking the lead in the initiative. In all, 53,765 candidates from TN will write JEE (Main) this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/jee-aspirants-can-reach-out-to-iit-alumni-for-a-ride-to-exam-centres/articleshow/77860630.cms||A Ragu Raman
September 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Outstanding Prez: Uttam||Hyderabad: Telangana Congress president N Uttam Kumar Reddy said Pranab Mukherjee was one of the outstanding presidents. “I have had the good fortune to have met him many times over the last few decades. I remember the many hours of briefing and discussion with Pranab,” Uttam said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/outstanding-prez-uttam/articleshow/77860655.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Goa||Under travel bubble, international flights to Goa to pick up||Panaji: With India formalising travel bubble arrangements with various countries, Goa International Airport may soon see international flights arriving on a daily basis from the UK and Gulf region. The resumption of air connectivity between these regions is expected to offer solace to several Goans and Indians who remain stranded and could also increase air traffic. Goa airport director Gagan Malik said that the Union ministry of civil aviation and Airports Authority of India (AAI) have received proposals from several airlines to operate flights to Goa as part of the air bubble created. “AAI has got a lot of requests for flights to operate from Sharjah, Doha and Kuwait through the air bubble. They will get the slots and these flights will commence from September 6,” said Malik. ‘Transport bubbles’ or ‘air travel arrangements’ are temporary arrangements between two countries aimed at restarting commercial passenger services when regular international flights are suspended because of the pandemic. Reciprocal in nature, the arrangements allow airlines from both countries to enjoy similar benefits. India has created these transport bubbles with the USA, Canada, Germany, France, UK, Maldives, UAE and Qatar. Air India has also planned to operate four additional flights from the UK to Goa via Delhi. A relief flight operated by Air India arrived on Monday morning with 63 stranded Indians. “The flight left a little later for London via Delhi with 33 passengers on board under air bubble arrangements,” said Malik. While the flight brought in stranded Goans and Indians, it departed with a lot of British nationals. Aside from international passengers, Goa Airport handled 950 domestic arrival passengers and 900 more who flew out on domestic flights.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/under-travel-bubble-international-flights-to-goa-to-pick-up/articleshow/77860673.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Nashik||With 1k cases, Nashik Rd divn emerges as major hotspot||Nashik: The Nashik Road division is emerging as a major hotspot among the six divisions in the city as 1,001 Covid-19 patients have been reported between August 21 and 29, followed by Cidco division with 985 cases. Although Nashik Road division has recorded maximum cases in the last nine days, it still occupies the third rank in terms of the total number of Covid-19 cases reported so far. The division has registered 4,369 cases so far. Panchavati and Cidco divisions are at the top of the chart with 6,357 and 4,970 cases respectively. Officials in Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) said that most parts of Nashik Road division were densely populated and that residents were not observing safety protocol nor maintaning social distancing. The Currency Note Press (CNP) and the India Security Press (ISP), which print currency notes and security documents, are located in the Nashik Road division. Both the facilities have shut operations for four days from Monday as 40 workers have contracted Covid-19 in the past two weeks. The number of Covid-19 cases has increased in the city in the past few days due to the rise in the number of antigen tests being conducted for early detection of patients and providng them immediate treatment. “We have increased tracing and testing in all the 1,100 active containment zones in the city, especially in those areas from where maximum Covid-19 cases have been reported,” said a civic official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/with-1k-cases-nashik-rd-divn-emerges-as-major-hotspot/articleshow/77858170.cms||Tushar Pawar
September 1, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Worker steals Rs 20 lakh from sealed house||HASSAN: A daily wage labourer Venkatesh, who burgled his employer’s house at Konanur in Arkalgud taluk after it was sealed following his death, was arrested on Sunday evening. He had stolen Rs 20 lakh worth gold ornaments and silver-based items with Rs 20,000. HR Venkatesh, 39, is from Hangal village, Doddamagge Hobli, Arkalgud taluk. According to taluk health department sources, Lavakumar, 68, a priest in the same village, had been bedridden for two years as he was a heart patient and suffering with comorbidities. He was staying with his wife. While his younger brother, Kushakumar stayed next to them, his three daughters were married and staying elsewhere. On August 10, the priest died at home after a bout of fever. As per Covid protocol, the swab samples were collected the same day. The test report indicated he was positive. He had contracted the virus from a relative who had visited him. Lavakumar’s family members didn't participate in his funeral which was carried out by the health department. All his primary contacts tested negative. Their house was sealed for two weeks and his wife and Kushakumar's family moved to their cousin's house in the same village. Kushakumar would check the house every two days. On August 24, he was shocked to find the almirah opened by miscreants who had entered by the back door. The police suspected Venkatesh had pulled off the theft and nabbed him near Basvapatna bus stand. They recovered 410gms of gold ornaments, 3kg of silver material and Rs 20,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/worker-steals-rs-20-lakh-worth-gold-silver-from-sealed-house/articleshow/77859292.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Jaipur||Water conservation efforts by Jhalawar village a role model||JAIPUR: Joomki gram panchayat in Jhalawar has set an example in water conservation by mobilising the community, local topography-based infrastructure approach and utilising bare minimum means. The panchayat has not only attained self-sufficiency in water consumption, but has been growing multiple crops and veggies out of conserved water to attain financial stability. The village case study has been highlighted by the state water resource department on their web portal to motivate other villages. Located 25km from the district headquarters, the village comes under the black soil surrounded by hilly tracts. Until a decade ago, the village had dried up all its underground water table and the only source was a couple of wells. The area receives good rainfall but the water recedes due to overgrazing on public land in the last few decades, deforestation and absence of any collective effort to conserve water. The project of conserving water started in 2010 under an experiment to conserve water by an NGO in collaboration with the local administration based on local topography (land shape, size, location, soil, etc) to make it deliverable for the years to come. “The first and foremost thing came up was eight ponds on the grazing land on hilly tracks to tap the rainwater. Followed by anicuts at places which see a high rush of water but the water does not percolate. The two measures did work,” said Sajjan Bai, sarpanch of the village. The approach used here is kept in harmony with nature. Now the farmers can switch over to cash crops and started growing two crops a year along with 4-5 cycles of veggies in a year. “Our baseline survey says that in 2010 the one hectare of land would give 5-6 tonnes of produce but now it has jumped to 18-20 tonnes. Farmers grow onion, garlic, mustard, coriander and corn and their income has increased by five times,” said Kuldeep Nagar, project officer of the NGO. Thus the village is not dependent upon the groundwater table for their needs, they can now run the year-long activities by surface water entirely collected from rainwater. The funds have been provided through different government schemes, MGNREGA also played an important role in infrastructure development along with the assistance from the NGO. The assessment report validated by the department of water resource says the accumulated water in all source can run up to three years, presuming not a single drop of water is added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/water-conservation-efforts-by-jhalawar-village-a-role-model/articleshow/77860666.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Chennai||A club for queens||CHENNAI: Through the course of the lockdown, Adam Pasha, one of Bengaluru's earliest drag queens, and an artist who has been at the forefront of the growing drag culture in the country, has been working hard to nurture the art form and create a talent pool, through Instagram lives and interviews conducted as his drag avatar ‘Empress Xara’. But his latest brainchild, Studio 69, will perhaps be the most significant, towards building a network, resources, opportunities and monetary scope for up-and-coming drag artists, and educating the country about the vibrant history, craft and diversity of the performance art. A virtual space for drag under the roof of Royal Campus 1927 — an LGBTQIA+ safe space created by the country’s openly gay Prince of Rajpipla, Manvendra Singh Gohil — Studio 69 will launch on September 2 with performances by Adam, and artists Abhishek Singhania and Patruni Chidananda Sastry, who also constitute the core team. According to the Prince and his partner Duke Hanumanteshwar, Studio 69 will be a "platform that gives visibility to drag artists, creates awareness and removes misconceptions about the art form and its practitioners." “Drag artists will showcase their work twice a month, nationally and internationally on this space. We also plan to start an open mic featuring the queer community and hosted by our drag queens, and later, a school where we will rope in international faculty and conduct masterclasses for established queens,” says Adam, who is also the ambassador of Prince Manvendra’s Lakshya Trust that works with sexual minorities. Abhishek, a member of the Haus of LaBeija fraternity - one of the oldest and most celebrated houses of drag in New York - will bring in his knowledge of the ballroom drag (an underground western LGBTQIA+ subculture wherein African-American and Latin American artists face off against rival houses). And classical dancer Patruni, who runs DragVanti, a blog and directory of Indian drag queens, will bring lesser-known artists including those from smaller towns into the database and give them a platform to showcase. “There’s a whole lot of Indian drag that I want to bring to the fore, including folk forms such as Launda Naach from Bihar, Lavani from Maharashtra, and Pothuraju from Telangana,” says Patruni. The project is also supported by Hyderabad-based queer rights group Mobbera Foundation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/a-club-for-queens/articleshow/77860633.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Mangaluru||NEP reposes faith in ability of teachers in nation building: Tribal varsity VC||Mangaluru: The National Education Policy that considers teaching faculty as the cornerstone is striving to ensure they engage in academic work alone. Providing them better salary and job security after putting them through a performance based probation period will ensure they are up to the task of shaping the demographic dividend that India has in abundance, noted TV Kattimani, vice-chancellor, Central Tribal University, Andhra Pradesh. Delivering the key-note address on ‘NEP 2020: Pragmatic education policy for aspirational India,’ organised by the Mangalore University with Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) and the Centre for Education and Social Studies, Bengaluru, on Monday, Kattimani said that with accent on research, career progression of teachers depends on their research and not seniority alone. “Only those engaged in academic activities can flourish,” Kattimani said. Admitting there is debate in academic circles on the duration of probation period for teachers, he said it is imperative for teachers to prove their academic worth during this time before they are assured of their jobs. This thrust is essential in that teachers need to be multi-dimensional and discharge their role in shaping the future generation, he said. PS Yadapadithaya, vice-chancellor, Mangalore University, who inaugurated the seminar, said NEP 2020 that aims at ensuring continuity in academics with the ‘5+3+3+4’model will add value in that the nation has a new vision after 34 years since the last NEP was formulated. It focusses on competency based higher education while aiming to strengthen the grass roots education with a mix of online, conventional and experiential learning paradigm. NEP also mandates higher education institutions to play their role in strengthening primary education by adopting government and aided schools in their vicinity, he said, adding the 40-year-old university will adopt 10 such institutions in a 5-km radius. Efforts will also be made to expeditiously fill up vacant teaching posts, he said. A task force will be set up at the university to implement the various salient features of NEP, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/nep-reposes-faith-in-ability-of-teachers-in-nation-building-tribal-varsity-vc/articleshow/77858609.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Mangaluru||NSUI upset with ABVP’s involvement in Mangalore University event||Mangaluru: Peeved at the perceived importance given to the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) in various events that Mangalore University conducts, students affiliated to National Students’ Union of India (NSUI) staged a protest against the university on Monday. Their ire was apparently stoked by a move by the university to host a seminar on ‘NEP 2020: Pragmatic Education Policy for aspirational India,’ jointly with ABVP and CESC, Bengaluru. NSUI activists led by Farooq Bayabe, state secretary of the Congress’ student wing attempted to storm the University College which was the seminar venue. With Mangaluru city police personnel keeping the protesters at bay at the gate, the activists raised slogans against PS Yadapadithaya, the vice-chancellor. Subsequently, under strict vigil, they were allowed up to the seminar venue where they raised slogans against this perceived bias. Farooq later told TOI: “Aim of the protest was to oppose unbridled access that ABVP has to the university, which is the custodian of students from all sections of society and not meant to pander to a particular organisation,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/nsui-upset-with-abvps-involvement-in-mangalore-university-event/articleshow/77858253.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Chandigarh||Safety is top priority in today’s JEE examination||Ludhiana: National Testing Agency (NTA) is all set to begin the JEE Main (April) 2020 examination for admission to engineering courses in NITs, IITs and CFTs from Tuesday. Over 6,000 students are scheduled to appear for the exam, which will be conducted from September 1 to September 6 at ION digital Zone, Sherpur Chowk, Ludhiana. The medical entrance test - National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) for medical and dental admissions is scheduled for September 13, 2020. The NTA has released an advisory and set of instructions for students taking the JEE main examination scheduled to begin from Tuesday. The NTA has assured that the number of centres has been increased to maintain physical distancing. Alternate seating arrangements have been made and staggered entry and exit will be followed. DC Varinder Sharma said, “A team from Commissioner of Police has been deputed to check that all the norms are followed. Though a general guideline to follow the norms was issued.” Police commissioner Rakesh Aggarwal said, “ We will deploy police officials and have asked organisers to make sure norms including social distancing and wearing masks are fulfilled.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/safety-is-top-priority-in-todays-jee-examination/articleshow/77858179.cms||Mehak Jain
September 1, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal’s man in Central politics||KOLKATA: The four-storey house in Dhakuria, near the Buddha Mandir, fell silent. Even the few cars on the road slowed down a little to take a better look at the two second-floor flats of Pranab Mukherjee. For over two decades, the house has been much more than a mere address in south Kolkata. It was witness to the changes in Bengal politics as Trinamool—as a breakaway from the Congress and along with the Congress—emerged as the first serious challenge to the Left. The house watched on as the Left Front’s three-decade-old government began to crumble in 2009 and finally fell in 2011. Political journalists, photographers and Congress and Trinamool supporters, who would gather outside the house, still recall the long wait even as editors and senior leaders kept calling up for updates. “The telebhaja shop next to the house was our recourse. We learnt from our experience a big political announcement was about to be made when a stool would be placed near the main door,” said a journalist. Many felt the political roadmap for Bengal would be laid at the late-night meetings between Mukherjee and Mamata Banerjee. “Whether it was the 2001 assembly ‘mahajot’ or the 2009 and 2011 poll tie-ups between Congress and Trinamool —some in Congress were unhappy with seat distribution —it was Pranab babu’s astute statesmanship that helped soothe nerves and steer the coalition to wins. Almost all the meetings were held at this house. It’s no surprise Banerjee, as the chief minister, met Pranab babu there to discuss the state’s financial challenges,” said a political commentator. Even as the President, Pranab babu, as he was fondly called in his para, never missed a chance to visit his home. “Whenever the road near the Buddha Mandir was abound with cops, we knew he would come. He had a standing instruction: not to stop Lake visitors from walking by even if it was time for him to step out. I had bumped into Pranab babu twice in the past few years. I raised my hand for a namaskar and he always returned the gesture,” recalled Piyush Roy (80), a retired professor. Mukherjee spent most of his time in Delhi but people here considered him the local guardian. He ostensibly knew the pulse of the neighbourhood, a mix of one-room dwellings and multi-storied buildings and a hospital. “Mukherjee was the absent guardian. He put up at this flat during his Kolkata visits for three decades. He forged his bond in different ways—by sponsoring Shani puja at a local club to ensuring proper walkways for walkers,” said another local, Asish Jana. “The day he arrived here after assuming the President’s office will always be a special one,” said Aparna Guin, a neighbour. Mukherjee’s humility made the neighbours feel he was one of them. He spent some of the Puja days there and his love for mochar chop did not go unnoticed. The house was close to his heart, said an aide. “Every time he visited, he met his relatives despite his busy schedule. It was here he loved receiving new books from acquaintances,” said a retired police officer who served in his security team.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/dhakuria-recalls-pranab-babu-the-neighbour/articleshow/77860670.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
September 1, 2020||Aurangabad||Suspect nabbed from Delhi||Aurangabad: The city police on Monday nabbed a suspect from Delhi, who was booked on the charges of duping a trader of Rs 50 lakh on the pretext of getting him a liquor license. The accused identified as Dayanand Vananje (48) hails from Akluj in Biloli of Nanded. Inspector Ashok Giri said after being booked, the suspect was hiding in Delhi, where he started his jewellery shop ‘Saudia Jewelers Pvt Ltd’. On receiving credible information, a team rushed to Delhi and laid a trap to catch him. The suspect was produced before the Delhi based court, which remanded him to four days transit remand .tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/suspect-nabbed-from-delhi/articleshow/77858159.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Nashik||Antigen tests for traders, vendors in Nashik||NASHIK: The civic administration has decided to conduct antigen tests for traders and vegetable vendors in the city to curb the spread of Covid-19. The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has also decided to conduct antigen tests in the areas from where maximum cases have been reported. “There has been a spike in the number of Covid-19 cases in the city. The city has recorded 15,3674 cases since August 1. Instructions have been given to all the six divisional offices to conduct antigen tests for traders and vegetable vendors,” said a civic official. The NMC has procured 80,000 antigen kits in three phases so far. Around 60,000 antigen tests have been conducted and the positivity rate is around 13.5%. The NMC still has a stock of 20,000 antigen kits. It has decided to conduct total 1 lakh antigen tests in the next few days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/antigen-tests-for-traders-vendors/articleshow/77858193.cms||Tushar Pawar
September 1, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad GMCH toll rises to 526||Aurangabad: A total of six deaths due to Covid-19 were reported at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) on Monday, taking the total number of such cases reported at the hospital to 526. “Currently, the hospital has 316 positive patients out of which condition of 168 is critical,” a health official said. Those who succumbed to the contagion at the GMCH on Monday included a 23-year-old man from Itwara in Jalna district, 75-year-old man from Pethenagar, 70-year-old man from SB Colony, 42-year-old man from Kailasnagar, 79-year-old man from Tukobanagar N-2, Cidco and a 60-year-old woman from Palasgaon in Kannad taluka. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-gmch-toll-rises-to-526/articleshow/77858207.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Nashik||Malegaon civic body warns of dropping home isolation option||Nashik: The Malegaon Municipal Corporation has warned citizens that it would withdraw the home isolation option if Covid-19 cases continue to rise.According to the civic authorities, a survey among the infected people and those in the high-risk group was carried out recently. It revealed that there had been violations by asymptomatic patients who had been advised home isolation. This led to a rise in the number of cases in the high-risk category.“People are allowed to opt for home isolation if they have adequate space in their homes to isolate themselves. It was, however, observed that such people often stepped out of the house. Even those who were advised home quarantine after recovery failed to adhere to the norms,” deputy commissioner of Malegaon Nitin Kapadnis said.It may be noted that Malegaon West is now seeing a rise in a number of cases. Malegaon East, which once was a hotspot, now is reporting very low numbers, the Malegaon civic officials said.“We want to warn people who violate the home isolation norms that they will be forced into institutionalized quarantine or isolation centres. Moreover, new patients will also not be allowed the option,” the officer said.The corporation is currently testing about 200 swabs every day and most of them are from the high-risk contacts of patients. The number of antigen testing is limited to 30 per day.On Monday, the corporation reported 52 fresh Covid-19 cases, even as 54 patients were discharged after being cured. One person succumbed to the infection, the sources said. Malegaon has 640 active cases right now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/malegaon-civic-body-warns-of-dropping-home-isolation-option/articleshow/77858213.cms||Abhilash Botekar
September 1, 2020||Chandigarh||18 city teachers nominated for Young Teacher Award||Ludhiana: In a first, the education department has come up with the “Young teacher awards,” under which 10 young teachers of the state will be honoured and recognised by the department. A total of 50 online nominations have been received for the purpose from all over Punjab. There are 18 applicants from Ludhiana, including those of teachers, lecturers and four principals. Online nominations were filed through the ePunjab portal for state teacher awards; 10 young teacher awards and 10 administrative awards. All candidates were nominated by a teacher of the education department through ePunjab portal. There is a set procedure for all these nominations. Under the process, in which Covid-19 precautions had been taken care of, senior officers and DEOs nominated teachers. No teacher could apply for his or her award directly. Nomination is based on their academic achievements, learning enhancement programmes, innovative works, works for National integration, exceptional contributions, results and publications, research-based initiatives and more. The person nominating a teacher for any of these awards was asked to write 250 words in his or her handwriting for the nominee for consideration of the award. Every nominee was asked to give five to seven minute presentations. In the administrative sections, district education officers, deputy district education officers and DIET principals will be considered for nominations. The final selection and evaluation will be done by head office sooner. Selected candidates will be honoured at the state-level function on Teachers’ Day on September 5.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/18-city-teachers-nominated-for-young-teacher-award/articleshow/77858215.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Rajkot||Collegians threaten women with obscenity, blackmail them||Rajkot: Two college students were arrested for allegedly blackmailing women by creating their fake Instagram accounts and threatening to upload their morphed obscene photographs and comments. Police said the accused, Yash Bambhania (20), a native of Chotila, would create fake accounts of the women after befriending them. Bambhania had blackmailed two young women earlier by threatening defaming them and got money transferred his account online. His latest victim was a 17-year-old girl from Rajkot, whose father lodged a complaint with the cyber cell. “We asked the victim to call up the accused and tell him to meet her. Bambhania had sent Mihir Kasundra (19) to 150-feet Ring Road near Indira Circle. We caught Kasundra and on the basis of his statement, we also arrested Bambhania,” said N N Chudasama, inspector with Rajkot cyber cell. During his interrogation, Bambhania said he would make friends with girls on-line, create their fake Instagram accounts and then blackmail them for deleting their obscene photographs which he would morph. Preliminary investigation revealed that they used to ask for around Rs 15,000-Rs 20,000 from the women in lieu of not uploading their pictures. “We have sent Bambhania’s cellphone to forensic science laboratory. We are also probing the details of his bank account into which he would ask his victims to deposit money,” said Chudasama. Police said that more people may be involved with Bambhania in this racket.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/collegians-threaten-women-with-obscenity-blackmail-them/articleshow/77859421.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Kolkata||Birbhum home, where life was ‘in camera’||MIRATI (BIRBHUM): Pranab Mukherjee negotiated the thin line between family tradition and his responsibility as the constitutional head of the country as effortlessly as he navigated his way through Indian politics for over five decades. Soon after becoming the President in 2012, he imposed restrictions on himself of not getting photographed in the attire of a purohit at the 118-year-old Durga Puja in his ancestral village of Mirati in Birbhum. But this did not mean that he drifted away from the people of his village who attended the Durga Puja every year. In fact, they were surprised to find him amidst them, urging everybody to have the prasad before leaving. Like previous years, the villagers did not need any security clearance even if it meant that Mukherjee was now the President of India. Mukherjee was a student at Kirnahar Shibchandra High School and Suri Vidyasagar College. After becoming the President, he visited both the institutes. At his college, he had touched the feet of his former teacher on the dais. Nilkamal Banerjee, the headmaster of his school, said: “There is an old block of rooms named after his father for which he contributed before becoming the President.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/birbhum-home-where-life-was-in-camera/articleshow/77860678.cms||Someswar Boral
September 1, 2020||Aurangabad||Make MJPJAY data public: People’s representatives||Aurangabad: The people’s representatives, citing that the private hospitals are making the most of the Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana (MJPJAY) and the benefits are not reaching the poor and needy, on Monday asked the district administration to make public the list of the hospitals and beneficiaries of the scheme. The demand was unanimously made by MP Imtiaz Jaleel, Rajya Sabha MP Bhagwat Karad, MLC Ambadas Danve, among others during the weekly meeting of the people’s representatives with the administration and health department officials. Paying heed to the demand, Aurangabad district collector Sunil Chavan has ordered additional collector Anant Gavhane to carry out a detailed probe in the billing of the private hospitals. “Considering the complaints of the people’s representatives, we too are keen on knowing if the billing was in accordance to the state’s laid down guidelines,” Chavan said. After the meeting, Jaleel said, “We have demanded that all the possible details including name, address and contact number of the beneficiaries along with the amount sanctioned for each patient under this scheme should be made public.” Health officials have contended that as per law of the land, details of the patients cannot be disclosed. To which the people’s representatives said that they are not interested in knowing the details of the disease. “It’s high time transparency is introduced in the overall billing process by the private hospitals,” Karad said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/make-mjpjay-data-public-peoples-representatives/articleshow/77858176.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Kolkata||After 5-month wait, Kolkata looks at Metro start from September 8||KOLKATA: Around 90 trains will ply a day from September 8, when Metro will resume services after a gap of more than five months. The state government’s announcement came after the ministry of home affairs on Saturday sought graded resumption of Metro services from September 7. “Metro will start operations with regulated entry of commuters and we will need enormous support from the state government for that,” Metro Railway general manager Manoj Joshi said on Monday. A meeting with the state government officials will be convened later this week to work out the modalities, he added. Joshi said resumption of services will depend on crucial issues, which must be first resolved with the state government. “We have been finalizing the number of trains we can run because time will be limited and there will be many other issues. So maybe we can run one-third (of the total fleet of 288 trains) of the services for the time being. So that comes to around 90 trains,” he said. The Metro general manager then went on to elaborate on the most crucial issue: crowd management. “Before we start, there are two most important issues that must be resolved. The Metro sector is so crowded… If social distancing has to be implemented, the number of passengers per service has to be brought down by a large extent. We need to arrive at this number and find out how to control the crowd in a station.” According to Joshi, Metro would request the state government to find a way to control the crowd. “It has to be a regulated affair. We cannot do this on our own. Otherwise, it will be very difficult with people trooping in,” he said. The GM talked about regulating the passenger flow right at the station’s entry point. “First, passengers already standing on the platform will have to be cleared. Then, those waiting at the queue will have to enter the platform. Inside the station, we can deploy our people to maintain distancing, but how will we control those who are arriving at the station for the Metro journey? There, we will require state help,” he said. As per MHA guidelines, the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs — the nodal authority of Metro corporations in India — is due to come out with a set of guidelines for running trains. “We are waiting for the SOP and we are working on our SOP as well. After the SOP is ready, we will request the state government for a meeting. Our team will discuss with them and if some workable solution can be arrived at during the meeting , we will decide when to start,” Joshi said. Metro’s SOP, he said, should be ready in a day or two and the meeting with the state government would take place later this week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/after-5-month-wait-kol-looks-at-metro-start-from-sept-8/articleshow/77859376.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
September 1, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Malls bet on tech to win back customers||CHENNAI: You may have to download a mobile app and check-in for an easy entry to your favourite mall, but once there, things will be different. As malls reopen after nearly six months, owners are going all out to give shoppers a safe albeit new tech-aided experience as they transition to the new-normal post-Covid. From foot sanitising mats, UV-based baggage scanners, app-based entry, parking and dining, purchasing through video calls to sensors that will keep a head count, there will be a paradigm shift. Apart from implementing government-mandated SOPs, each of these giant air-conditioned haunts have added features of their own. At Express Avenue in Royapettah, visitors can place an order at the food court as they enter and collect it once it’s ready. Those scared of stepping into retail stores or food outlets can buy through video calls or through mall website. “Every store will have a home delivery option. They can also order from our food court online. All omnichannels will be activated so people can do both online and offline shopping,” said Munish Khanna, CRO, Express Avenue. At Phoenix Marketcity and Palladium, customers may have to download Nhance by Phoenix smartphone app to plan trips as limited visitors are allowed. The app will also assist in pre-booking parking slots, pre-ordering food, contactless payments and dining. Pooja Patti, centre director, Phoenix MarketCity and Palladium, said, “At the entrance, visitors will have to step on a foot sanitising mat and get their bags sanitised while they are screened through the scanner.” AI-based technology will keep a headcount and keep updating it. Visitors will be expected to wear masks and maintain hand hygiene and social distancing, while markers in lifts elevators and escalators and frequent disinfecting will among the measures followed. However, V Muhammad Ali, COO, Retail, Prestige Group (Forum Malls) said, customers can still try out clothes in trial rooms or try out watches wearing gloves. “But clothes left by customers will return to shelves only after 48 hours after they are sanitized. Same goes for products returned for exchange,” he said. Shopping hubs like T Nagar and Purasaiwalkam have adopted an ‘only view before purchase’ method. After losing business for half of 2020, shopkeepers have now pinned hopes on Diwali. “Much of the festival and shopping season is over. We barely see 50% of the pre-covid crowd now. Diwali is our only hope this year,” said Mohammad Yusuf Khan, who owns two imitation jewellery stores in Purasaiwalkam. Health experts said despite exhaustive SOPs to protect people there will still be a rise in cases as more relaxations are made. “With everything being started, contact tracing will become difficult. So, we should now be looking at mitigation like improving SOP for treatment and early identification,” said Dr Subramanian Swaminathan, infectious diseases expert.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/malls-bet-on-tech-to-win-back-customers/articleshow/77860675.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Two killed as cars hit tree in Jaisalmer||JAISALMER: Two youths were killed and one injured after two cars veered off the road hit a tree and overturned due to heavy rain on Jaisalmer-Pokhran road, on Monday. Both the deceased were from the same village. On getting information, Sadar police station SHO Bhawani Singh reached the spot and sent the injured to hospital and the bodies to mortuary. Police said Raimal Khan, 31, and Ahmad Khan, 30, residents of Basanpeer were going to their village from Jaisalmer. As their car was speeding, the driver lost control over the wheel due to water on the road surface. The vehicle veered off the road and hit a tree. Both the passengers of the car died on the spot. In the meantime, another car coming from behind saw the car skidding and applied brakes, that car too lost control and overturned, but the driver Sabir Khan, 30, escaped with minor injuries. He was admitted to Jawahar hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/two-killed-as-cars-hit-tree-in-jaisalmer/articleshow/77860674.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal bars get excise nod to operate from today||KOLKATA: Finally, there is good news for tipplers and bars as the state excise department on Monday allowed restaurants and clubs to serve liquor in designated areas from Tuesday after almost five months. The circular issued by the department read that liquor may be served within the service area attached to bars approved by the competent authority. Operating hours for serving liquor will be according to the permitted hours of restaurants as specified by appropriate authorities in view of the pandemic situation. “The management of licensed premises shall make adequate arrangements to ensure strict adherence to social distancing norms, hygiene, frequent sanitization, wearing of masks and sensitizing the staff as well as consumers regarding safety protocols,” it stated. The department also advised that restaurants with liquor service areas shall operate with 50% occupancy and shall not allow any guest to use the dance floors in strict compliance of Covid-19 orders/ guidelines issued by the government. However, the order did not make it mandatory for restaurants and clubs with bar licence to serve liquor. Restaurants with liquor licence welcomed the move. “Alcoholic beverages account for 60% of the sales of the food and beverage industry. The service also helps boost food sales. This is a very positive announcement and it will be a breather for an industry crippled by the pandemic,” said Sudesh Poddar, secretary of Hotel and Restaurants Association of Eastern India. Former national president of Federation of Hotels and Restaurants Association of India T S Walia said that the move will help regain footfall and revive many jobs. HRAEI president Parnav Singh also hailed the move. Leading clubs, like Tolly Club and RCGC, are likely to start operating their bars soon. “We shall apply for permission at the earliest. The club would operate bars in an open area,” said Tolly CEO Anil Mukherjee. Incidentally, some state governments, like those in Assam and Rajasthan, have already allowed restaurants and clubs to serve liquor. There are around 400 bars in the city while the number in the state would be 800-850. Liquor sales account for more than 50% of the revenue of most of the restaurants with bar licence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bars-get-excise-nod-to-operate-from-today/articleshow/77859375.cms||Udit Mukherjee
September 1, 2020||India||Wettest August in 32 years, 27% surplus rainfall across country||NEW DELHI: India experienced its wettest month of August in 32 years, with 27% higher than normal rainfall across the country as a whole, and as much as 61% above normal rains in central India. The month ended with 327mm of average rainfall in the country, 26.7% above the normal for the month (258mm), driving the overall monsoon rainfall in the season so far to close to the “excess” category at 9.8% above the long period average (LPA). The monsoon is said to be excess if the June to September rainfall is more than 10% higher than the LPA. The month had the highest rainfall surplus (percentage higher than normal) for August in 44 years and the fourth highest in India Meteorological Department records going back to 1901. A higher monsoon surplus in August was last recorded in 1976, at 28.4%. In IMD records going back 120 years, only only five previous years has August rainfall exceeded this year’s record — 1988, 1963, 1958, 1933 and 1926. What led to the exceptionally high rainfall, particularly in central India, were a series of low-pressure systems coming inland from the Bay of Bengal. As many as five low-pressure circulations were formed during the month, as opposed to a normal of three to four.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/wettest-august-in-32-years-27-surplus-rainfall-across-country/articleshow/77862193.cms||Amit Bhattacharya
September 1, 2020||Goa||Goa govt allows bars to open shutters from Tuesday||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Monday said that the state government will allow bar and restaurants to reopen from Tuesday. While opening the bars the use of masks, social distancing and hand sanitisers continues to be mandatory, he told reporters. “They have to take precautions,” Sawant said. Earlier, the All Goa Bars and Restaurant Owners’ Association (AGBROA) had approached the government with a request to reopen bars. Since the Covid pandemic began, over 1,100 bars and restaurants serving alcohol are closed in the state, while retail and whole excise licence operators were allowed to reopen in May. He also said that temples, churches and other religious places should follow the norms. “We have not taken any decision to restart schools in the state,” the chief minister said. Reacting to opposition criticism on his statement about the rise in Covid cases due to Ganesh Chaturthi, Sawant said that he does not blame god for spread of Covid cases, but people have not maintained social distancing and that has resulted in spike in Covid cases. “I have not said that cases increased due to Ganesh Chaturthi.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-allows-bars-to-open-shutters-from-today/articleshow/77860681.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal universities to conduct terminal semester exams by October 18, publish results by October 31||KOLKATA: State-run universities will conduct terminal semester examinations between October 1 and October 18 and publish the results by October 31, it was decided in a meeting, which was attended by 19 vice-chancellors and chaired by education minister Partha Chatterjee, on Monday. It has also been decided in the meeting that higher education secretary Manish Jain will write to the University Grants Commission (UGC), seeking permission to extend the September 30 deadline to conduct exams. However, the higher education department has expressed its reluctance to issue any further directive. “When some of the VCs inquired if, like the last time, when 80-20 formula was suggested and now stands scrapped, another advisory will be issued, Chatterjee refused,” said an attendee of the virtual meeting. Going by the apex court’s verdict, both Vidyasagar University and Raiganj University are now going to withdraw their already published terminal semester results that were conducted on the earlier formula. Even a few departments of Jadavpur University — both in humanities and science — will also have to withdraw the results and conduct exams again. About 2,500 UG and PG candidates of Raiganj University have already received their results for the final examination. But following the Supreme Court order, the results would be revoked. “It was decided in Monday’s meeting that online examination would be held between October 1 and October 18 and the result would be published by October-end. We will sit with our staff on Tuesday to finalize the details. In no way shall we conduct the examination offline,” VC Anil Bhuimali told TOI. “Maulana Abul Kalam Azad University of Technology and Presidency University, along with the engineering faculty of Jadavpur University, who have published their results, have stuck to the apex court verdict and hence will not require to take the exams,” said a source. When pointed out if the 17,000 common service centres that have been set up by the state to hold the West Bengal Joint Entrance Exams can be utilized to conduct online exams for those students who do not have access to internet at home, higher education officials did not give a go-ahead yet. “It is a possibility that can be explored, particularly for those varsities who have decide to hold online exams and where many students may not have internet access. In the case of online exams, mostly it will be an ‘open-book’ assessment,” pointed out a VC. The government has formed a five-member committee to look after the procedure of conducting exams. It will be chaired by JU VC Suranjan Das. “Each university will now place their respective proposal with the highest administrative decision-making body to take a call and accordingly, inform the test takers about the exam mode and schedule,” said a source in the higher education department. Partha Pratim Ray, general secretary of Jadavpur University Teachers’ Association, pointed out that the faculty members are being inundated with calls from students who want to study in the IITs. “Those who will be taking admissions in IITs will have a setback because if the exam is to be conducted in October, publication of results will be delayed and IIT classes will begin by then. This may force them to take a break for a year. (With inputs from Subhro Maitra)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/varsities-to-conduct-terminal-semester-exams-by-oct-18-publish-results-by-oct-31/articleshow/77859404.cms||Somdatta Basu
September 1, 2020||Kolkata||Rush for flights to and from 6 ‘hotspot’ cities||KOLKATA: A day before direct air connectivity gets restored between Kolkata and other metros after a gap of nearly two months, airlines said 80% seats on flights scheduled on Tuesday from Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai and Ahmedabad had already been booked by Monday evening. Operators said the high load was reflective of the pent-up demand as students and senior citizens who had been unable to take the ‘via’ flights now scrambled to board the flights that will operate thrice a week. On Wednesday, a Vande Bharat flight will take off from Kolkata, again after more than two months. The flight to Shanghai from Delhi will stop at Kolkata. Eight days later, on September 10, another China-bound flight will halt at Kolkata. However, the flights will not stop at Kolkata on the return journey. The resumption of direct domestic flights from six cities — Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Ahmedabad, Pune and Nagpur — since their suspension from July 6, will see 30 more touchdowns in Kolkata on Tuesday. The daily flight count for the past couple of months have been hovering around 60. The largest number of connections will be 13 with Delhi, followed by eight with Mumbai, five with Chennai, four with Pune and one each with Ahmedabad and Nagpur. The flights will operate on Tuesday, Thursday and Sunday in the first two weeks of September and Monday, Wednesday and Friday in the remaining two. “Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai and Ahmedabad flights are nearly full while those from Pune and Nagpur are filling up fast. Almost 95% seats on flights departing Kolkata are full,” an IndiGo official said. Airport director Kaushik Bhattacharjee held a special meeting with representatives of airlines and CISF officers, asking them to be prepared for the spike in passenger load and ensure social distancing is maintained within the terminal at all times. “We shall deploy floor walkers to ensure there is no crowding and social distancing protocols are strictly adhered to,” said Bhattacharjee. Though Air India will operate the two Vande Bharat flights to China from the city, the state is yet to lift the embargo on repatriation flights that were suspended from July 1. Though there is no embargo on flight departures, including those to international airports, airlines have opted not to operate one-way flights unless chartered by foreign missions to repatriate their nationals stranded here. The taxi strike that operators had threatened on Tuesday and Wednesday has been withdrawn after senior officers of Bidhannagar Police intervened on Monday. The metered taxi operators had planned the stir to protest against the rampant tout-raj eating away into their business.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/rush-for-flights-to-and-from-6-hotspot-cities/articleshow/77859413.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
September 1, 2020||Aurangabad||Many Sena, BJP workers joined us: MNS||Aurangabad: MNS district unit president Suhash Dashrathe on Monday informed that a number of BJP and Shiv Sena workers have joined the MNS in presence of party chief Raj Thackeray. “The entry of prominent activists will help strengthen the party base in the district,” said Dashrathe, who was earlier a senior Sena leader.  Dashrathe said that those who joined the MNS included Raju Khare, a prominent activist, who was considered to be a close confidante of the former Sena MP Chandrakant Khaire. Former BJP corporator Namdeo Bondre, Patit Pawan Sanghatana president Pravin Kadpe have also joined the MNS. “The entry of many BJP and Sena workers along with activists would help the party gain further strength in view of the municipal corporation elections that were supposed to be held in April 2020,” he said. “Many other leaders from different political outfits are also waiting in the wings to join the MNS as the other parties have lost their sheen as they have failed to address people’s issues,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/many-sena-bjp-workers-joined-us-mns/articleshow/77858228.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Nashik||Cut-offs up as edu dept declares first merit list||Nashik: A total of 12,131 students have made it to the first merit list of admissions in the first year junior college (FYJC) in Nashik city under the centralized admission process (CAP). The list was declared on Sunday evening by the Nashik education department. The cut-off for admissions in top junior colleges in the city was stiffer this time as compared to last year following increased pass percentage in the class X exams. The pass percentage of Nashik students this year is around 95%, while last year it was around 78%. The cut-off for arts stream in the top four colleges hovered between 89.4% and 79.4%. The average cut off in the top 3 arts colleges last year was around 64%. For commerce stream, the cut off in top 4 junior colleges was between 93.8% and 90.8%. Last year, the average cut off marks in 3 top colleges was around 89%. For science, the cut-off has increased from 88% in the last year to around 94% this year. According to a professor of city-based junior college, the increase in cut-off in all the three streams was expected. In the first merit list declared by the education department, over 5,400 are from the science stream, followed by over 4,200 from commerce, over 2,100 from arts and 177 in HSVC. The admission process has also started following the declaration of the first merit list.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/cut-offs-up-as-edu-dept-declares-first-merit-list/articleshow/77858222.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Rajkot||Rape survivor gives birth to a boy||Rajkot: A 12-year-old girl gave birth to a boy in Dhrol town of Jamnagar district and revealed that she was sexually assaulted last year.Following the revelation, the police booked a 19-year-old man, who had allegedly raped the girl twice on the outskirts of Haripur village of Dhrol taluka, nine months ago. “The man had threatened to kill the girl if she complained about the crime to anyone. However, she revealed his name to her mother after giving birth to the baby boy,” said an official from Dhrol police station. Police said that the accused had targeted the girl when she went out to graze cattle. The girl’s family is a native of Madhya Pradesh and work as farm labourers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rape-survivor-gives-birth-to-a-boy/articleshow/77859451.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Chennai||TN beedi industry leaves women gasping for breath||Chennai: For the past 30 years, T Saraswathi, has been rolling beedis. Working almost eight hours a day has taken a toll on her health — weakness, lower back pain and respiratory issues are but some of the complaints that she suffers from."For rolling 1,000 beedis, I am paid Rs170," says the 50-year-old, who lives with her husband, a daily wager, and two sons in Vagaikulam, Tirunelveli district, making between Rs1,500 and Rs2,000 a month.Saraswathi is one of the numerous women beedi rollers in Tamil Nadu whose work has left them with debilitating health issues. And now, for probably the first time, a study, ‘Knowledge gap in existing research on India’s women beedi rollers and alternative livelihood options’ shows that at least 92.5% women workers reported suffering from bronchitis, 90.5% from body ache, 80% had lower back pain, 75% felt weak, and 77% had breathing difficulty.Conducted by Delhi-based AF Development Care (AFDC), the study exposes the poor working conditions and several health issues that workers in the industry largely women, face. "The health problems are caused due to two reasons – inhalation of a huge amount of tobacco dust during beedi rolling and sitting in the same position for eight to 10 hours a day," says Sachi Satapathy, principal investigator and director, AFDC, who conducted the study along with Gagan Bihari Sahu, associate professor of economics, Centre for Social Studies, Surat, and others.According to Satapathy, the health problems are worsened by the fact that the women beedi rollers work in small, ill-ventilated rooms. "They often end up suffering from lung conditions similar to that of active smokers and fall sick. Inhalation of tobacco dust also impacted their reproductive health adversely," he says.In TN, the study, conducted in June-July this year analysed data collected from 200 beedi workers in Tirunelveli (the biggest centre of beedi industry in the state) and Tenkasi districts. "Due to the lockdown, we hired local village investigators who spoke to the women," says Satapathy.The medical bills are an added burden for the poorly paid workers. On an average, the women spend about Rs7,248 per annum, which constitutes about 29.2% of their income, on healthcare. "At least 2.5% workers had more health expenditure than what they had earned from beedi rolling work," says Satapathy, adding that they undertook the study as there is practically no research about beedi rollers in the country.The Indian beedi industry employs more than 7 million workers in a predominantly unorganised sector comprising mostly home-based women from poor households. Five million women continue working involuntarily in this hazardous occupation despite earning wages, as low as Rs50 a day, mainly due to the unavailability of suitable alternative occupations.A previous study by AFDC showed there has been an overall increase of 2.1 million beedi workers in India between 1993 and 2018, but there has also been a significant reduction — close to one million — in the number of beedi workers, mostly women, in Tamil Nadu (5,41,000) and Karnataka (1,16,500). "This trend warrants explanations for the decline of beedi workers in the past 25 years, which may have policy implications for the welfare of millions of women beedi rollers across the country. Both Tamil Nadu and Karnataka are progressive states in terms of women empowerment, so we took these states as our research area to understand the pattern of employment, and health trends among women beedi rollers and understand the overall dynamics at the national level," says Satapathy.The study also revealed that 67% of beedi workers in TN work under contractors/middlemen and only 33% work in registered companies. While 27% of them intend to continue beedi rolling, 62.5% want to shift to another occupation."There is a strong need for the government to declare home-based beedi rolling as hazardous, and come up with clear guidelines to bring wage parity, and protective mechanisms for workers as well as educate the women on the impact of home-based beedi rolling has on her and her family," says Satapathy.Derek Yach, former executive director of World Health organization (WHO) and present president of Smoke Free World says the report shines a light on an industry that has operated in the shadows for far too long. "It highlights the hand-cramping, arthritis-inducing, poorly-paid labour that disproportionately falls on women, many of whom would change occupations if only they had the opportunity," he says. "The negative health effects of beedis on the millions who smoke them daily have yet to receive the attention they demand by health authorities."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-beedi-industry-leaves-women-gasping-for-breath/articleshow/77859443.cms||Priya Menon
September 1, 2020||Nashik||Another Nashik cop succumbs to Covid||Nashik: A 51-year-old constable posted at the Ambad Police station succumbed to Covid-19 on Monday, making him the third victim from the city police to die due to the contagion. Sources from the office of commissioner of police said Hawaldar Vijay Shimpi (51), a resident of Chetna Nagar, had tested positive for the infection on August 26. He was feeling uneasy on August 24 and went to a local hospital, where he was treated and sent home Shimpi’s swab samples were taken on August 25 and the results showing him positive for the viurs arrived on August 26, following which he was admitted to a private hospital in Panchavati.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/another-nashik-cop-succumbs-to-covid/articleshow/77858234.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Chennai||For short-staffed corpn, enforcing SOPs a big task||CHENNAI: Greater Chennai Corporation will continue to focus on increased testing, early detection and enforce standard operating procedures as Unlock 4.0 comes into effect. However, corporation officials said lack of manpower will be a major issue when implementing the new measures. “We do not have that much manpower to enforce SOPs everywhere. NGOs and residential welfare associations will have to pitch in. We will provide the infrastructure, but the public should ensure they wear masks and maintain social distancing. We will continue testing people and tracing contacts,” said an official. Fever clinics, door-to-door surveillance and home quarantine will continue, but with some changes. “The focus will now be more on work places, commercial establishments, markets as they could be the source of new clusters. The commissioner will chair a meeting with all department heads to discuss ideas on how to adapt to the city opening up,” said an official. Zonal officials have been asked to look for home contacts from now on as tracing extended contacts won’t be possible with buses running and commercial establishments open. “A second peak can be expected in Chennai very soon. As cases will continue to rise with more infections now. Our focus will be to reduce mortality and ensure high-risk contacts are under surveillance,” said an official. J Radhakrishnan, state health secretary said, “We have upgraded our testing in the state to 1.5 lakh per day, bed capacity to 1.37 lakh exclusively for Covid patients. Wearing mask, practising social distancing and washing hands could prevent infection. We will ask the workplaces to identify one person who will be tasked with daily monitoring to enforce these SOPs and be in contact with local body officials. People should not take SOPs casually. All symptomatic people should get themselves tested in fever camps.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/for-short-staffed-corpn-enforcing-sops-a-big-task/articleshow/77860694.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Kolkata||50-odd flyers camp outside Kolkata airport on lockdown day||KOLKATA: Anticipating a rush of passengers at the Kolkata airport when flights from six cities including Delhi, Mumbai and Chennai resume after a gap of two months from Tuesday, around 50-odd passengers camped outside the airport on the month’s last lockdown day on Monday — making it the most crowded day among all the previous lockdown days. Malda resident Biswajit Roy was sitting outside Gate 3C of the departure terminal with his family waiting for a flight, which was scheduled after 24 hours. “I have my flight on Tuesday morning but my agent has told me that there will be extreme rush at the airport with the addition of some flights. Plus, we did not want to take a chance. We decided to come a day in advance and spend the night at the airport,” said Roy, who is heading to Bangalore to work as a labourer. Like Roy, several other flyers like Ahmedabad and Pune, where flights will operate for the first time in seven weeks also, crowded outside the airport.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/50-odd-flyers-camp-outside-airport-on-lockdown-day/articleshow/77859431.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Goa||One more GMC ward being readied for Covid cases||PANAJI: With Covid hospitals, including beds reserved in private hospitals, getting full, patients with mild to moderate symptoms were transferred to sub-district hospital, Ponda on Monday, though the hospital is reserved for ante-natal and postnatal covid patients. Meanwhile, one more ward — 122 — in the Goa Medical College (GMC) is being readied for Covid-19 patients. “All three (Covid) wards — 145, 146, 147 — in GMC are fully occupied. The ESI hospital is also full. The mild to moderate patients were transferred to the sub-district hospital,” chief minister Pramod Sawant told reporters. Besides the three wards, which were commissioned less than ten days ago, ward 132 in GMC is reserved for post-surgical Covid-19 patients. The ward has nine patients, Sawant said. Health minister Vishwajit Rane after his visit to GMC on Monday said that ward 122 has been dedicated to management of Covid patients. “It has become difficult to find beds even in private hospitals. We are doing our best,” Rane said. Director of health services Dr Jose D’Sa, who is under treatment at a private hospital for Covid, was given plasma on Monday. Rane said the GMC provided the plasma. On Monday, Goa’s tally of active cases rose by 414. Nine – eight men and one woman — succumbed taking the toll to 192. A 65-year-old man from Pajifond, Margao, who was declared brought dead to South Goa district hospital, Margao, later tested positive. Six men died at GMC — a 69-year-old from St Inez, an 85-year-old from Ribandar, a 53-year-old from Ponda, a 71-year-old from St Inez, a 52-yearold from West Bengal and a 51-year-old from Merces. A 68-year-old woman from Savordem and an unknown person died at the ESI hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/one-more-gmc-ward-being-readied-for-covid-cases/articleshow/77860731.cms||Bindiya Chari
September 1, 2020||Chennai||No offerings, VIP darshans at temples||CHENNAI: Temples will not facilitate VIP darshan and devotees cannot offer coconut and flowers at the temples from Tuesday, according to the state government’s SOPs for places of worship. Devotees visiting mosques have to bring their own prayer mats and churches cannot have live choir performances, the government said. In big temples, devotees may have to reserve their slots through an app or SMS by furnishing Aadhaar number or an identity card. Also, annadhanam (food served to devotees at noon) will become a take-home service. Visitors cannot prostrate or perform ‘angapradhatchanam’ inside the temple and have to follow dedicated pathways with circles to worship the main deity, maintaining social distancing all the way. Idol processions with the participation of devotees are not allowed. “Thiruneer and kungumam will not be offered. Devotees will not be allowed to sit inside the temple. No VIP darshan will be entertained,” a Hindu Religious Charitable and Endowments Department (HR&CE) official said. But tickets for special entry are available. Devotees who have booked slots online or possess tokens issued by temples will be allowed to have darshan. Tokens will be capped based on the number of devotees, said an HR&CE release. Use of face covers or masks will be mandatory and those without masks will be denied entry. At darghas, devotees cannot touch the ‘chadar’. At churches, religious practices such as sprinkling of holy water may be avoided and in the absence of a live choir, recorded music can be played.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/no-offerings-vip-darshans-at-temples/articleshow/77860730.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Nashik||Extend loan moratorium or vehicleswill be surrendered: Operators to FIs||Nashik: Bus and taxi operators across Nashik district will be forced to surrender their vehicles to financial institutions (FIs) if the loan moratorium is not extended till the end of this financial year, Nashik Zilla Pravasi Vahatukdar Sanghatana vice-president Yogesh Dusane said on Monday.“Banks had announced moratorium on loans till August 31, but private buses are still off the roads and the business is unlikely to return to normal in the immediate future. This will make it difficult for the operators to pay the EMIs from the first week of September,” Dusane told reporters.“Since the lockdown has not yet been lifted completely, we will be unable to ply our inter-state buses. Moreover, not many people are ready to travel because of the Covid-19 fear or financial crunch,” said the vice-president of the Sanghatana, which is affiliated to the Bus and Car Operators’ Confederation of India.Dusane said that FIs have already started sending recovery agents to the offices and homes of the private vehicle operators and alleged that these agents literally issue threats to the debtors. “We have decided to agitate in front of financial institutions on September 2 for extension of the moratorium and restructuring of loans,” he said. On the waiver of road tax till August 31, Dusane said the state government is duty-bound to waive it for the period during which the movement of vehicles is not allowed and demanded extension of the same for more time.Bus say that when they will be allowed to ply their vehicles, they will have to shell out a lot of money towards maintenance as they were lying idle for as many as five months, following the lockdown orders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/extend-loan-moratorium-or-vehicleswill-be-surrendered-operators-to-fis/articleshow/77858280.cms||Abhilash Botekar
September 1, 2020||Chennai||When landlocked Ariyalur was a sea bed||Chennai: Who would have imagined Ariyalur which is more than 100km inlands now was once a seabed? In the Cretaceous period, the third and final period of the Mesozoic Era that lasted from about 145 to 66 million years ago, Ariyalur and the areas surrounding it were submerged. "The Indo-Pacific sea had transgressed between today’s Puducherry and Karaikal and after some 80 million years had regressed leaving millions of creatures dead in the dry sea bed," according to S M Chandrasekar, a geologist involved in fossil excavation and research in Ariyalur. At the webinar ‘Ariyalur: The Fossil Field’ organised by Heritage Inspired to create awareness among people about the importance of Ariyalur on the geographic map of the world, Chandrasekar explained how millions of years ago underwater creatures turned into fossils. Tracing the formative years of the Earth, he said the Indian mass was still a flotilla moving fast towards her big bang into the current Central Asian mass. About 70km radius around Ariyalur, which constitute present-day Ariyalur, Trichy, Perambalur and Cuddalore districts, is a region of well-preserved fossils and corals. "It must have been a shallow sea for corals to grow. The area has land formations of ravines, gullies, jagged towers of sand and rock. It is a marine graveyard with abundant fossilised sea creatures and corals," he said. The whole area has sedimentary limestone of marine origin. "That’s why the area abounds in cement plants for which lime is the main component," he said. "Though the cement factories are the best sites to chance upon fossils without extra expenditure, they end up destroying fossils along with the lime soil, a boon and bane at the same time," he said.The Mesozoic Era (also called age of reptiles) is calculated between 252 to 66 million years ago. "The era is split into Triassic, Jurassic and Cretaceous. The Carboniferous period refers to coal-bearing, suggesting many coal beds that provide for the coal we use today were created during this time," he said. A marine transgression is a geologic event when the sea level rises relative to the land and the shoreline moves toward higher ground, resulting in flooding. The Cretaceous period (146.5-65.5=81 million years) witnessed five phases of marine transgression that can be seen in villages around Ariyalur, said Chandrasekar, an expert in fossil and sedimentary petrology. There are two wood fossil parks in Tamil Nadu. While the National Fossil Wood Park in Tiruvakkarai has petrified wood fossils more than 20 million years old, the Sathanur fossil wood park possesses wood fossils belonging to 120 million years ago. "There is an 18-metre-long conifer lying guarded by railings. It is thought to be over 120 million years old with a lot of marine and land animal fossils embedded in it. The petrified dinosaur egg and an ammonite coil in the guard’s room stand testimony to the marine transgression," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/when-landlocked-ariyalur-was-a-sea-bed/articleshow/77859483.cms||M T Saju
September 1, 2020||Vijayawada||Cops’ awareness prog reaches 1mn||Vijayawada: Andhra Pradesh police concluded e-Rakshabandhan, its month-long awareness campaign on cybercrimes on Monday. Speaking at the closing ceremony, DGP Gautam Sawang said the campaign reached out to one million people across the state in sensitizing safety for women and children in cyber space. Sawang said that there is a need to bring awareness about cybercrimes that target woman and children. Showcasing the impact of the awareness programme, the Cyber Peace Foundation and AP CID released a survey showing that majority of them are using WhatsApp compared to other social media platforms. More than 50 percent are government employees and 25 percent are students participated in the survey. Four percent of said they have lost money to cyber fraudsters, 61 percent of the respondents know how and where to report cybercrimes. PV Sunil Kumar, additional director general of police, said they had conducted 19 webinars as part of e-Rakshabandan with several experts spelling out the crucial dos and don’ts in cyber space. Tollywood actress Akkineni Samantha participated in the closing ceremony and said that she has been witnessing cyberbullying on a daily basis and stressed the need for such campaigns.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/cops-awareness-prog-reaches-1mn/articleshow/77859470.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Vadodara||100-year-old toys adorning Baroda palace restored||VADODARA: Exquisitely carved and century-old wooden toys that were inspired by celebrated painter Raja Ravi Varma’s lithographs have been restored to their original form. The toys had caught the attention of Maharaja Sayajirao Gaekwad III when the visionary ruler of erstwhile Baroda state visited Sawantwadi in Maharashtra’s Sindhudurg district. Around 800 such toys made by a popular local artist VK Kapsekar were purchased by Gaekwad which are kept on display at the royal Ganesha pandal at the Laxmi Vilas Palace every year. “These colourful Indian toys are based on the characters in Mahabharata and Ramayana, including Arjun, Bhima, Krishna, Lord Ram, Ravana, Kumbhakarna and gods like Brahma and Vishnu. Some are even inspired from Panchtantra folklore. While restoring these toys, I did some research and found that they were inspired from the lithographs made by Raja Ravi Varma. The intricately carved faces and the attire match exactly to Varma’s works,” said Chandrashekhar Patil, an art conservator and sculptor, who is restoring the toys. “During his visit to Sawantwadi in the early 19thcentury, Sayajirao saw these stunning little toys and learnt that they were made by Kapsekar. He immediately met the artist and bought about 800 toys that were brought to Baroda state. These toys were kept as decorative pieces in the royal Ganesh pandal in 1922 for the first time and the tradition has continued since then,” said Patil, who regularly organizes exhibitions on the life of Maharaja Sayajirao. Patil began restoring the 48 wooden toys that are in possession of the royal family in July. “It was tough restoring these toys that are nearly 100 years old. In some of the toys, hands were missing while in others the legs were broken or the colour had worn off. I had old photographs of these toys, so I could recreate the original work on these toys using the Burma teak powder,” Patil said. He has already restored 40 of the toys that are currently on display in the royal pandal. Royal Gaekwad family member, Radhikaraje Gaekwad, too recently mentioned these toys from Sawantwadi in her post on Instagram and said that the family is proud of this prized collection. While stating that among the palace art objects that are decorated all over the hall during Ganesh festival, most precious are these toys from the Sawantwadi collection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/100-yr-old-toys-adorning-royal-palace-restored/articleshow/77858299.cms||Tushar Tere
September 1, 2020||Nashik||Low-key celebrations at home mark Onam||Nashik: With the Covid-19 threat still looming large in the city, the Malayali community in Nashik celebrated Onam at their homes. Usually cultural programmes and festivities at temples mark the festival of harvest where in people come together and exchange gifts. This year, people remained indoors and celebrated the festival online with their relatives on social media. “This year, since there was a ban on public gatherings due to the Covid-19 outbreak, we asked our members to refrain from gathering at any placeand instead celebrate the festival at their homes,” said president of Nashik Malayalee Cultural Association (NMCA) G K Pillai. The association had asked its members to perform all the rituals at their homes with a promise to celebrate the festival in a grand manner once Covid-19 was eradicated. “Generally, we decorate the temple of Lord Ayyappa and gather there for our traditional puja in the morning. This year, the puja was conducted at the homes of community members,” said Anup Pushpaganthan, another member of the Malayali community. There are about 700 Malayali families in Nashik district. The 4,200-member strong community decorated their homes and cooked traditional food to celebrate the harvest season. The women created Pookkalam (huge rangolis) outside their residences. “The afternoon meals comprised of rice, sambar, rasam, pachadi, kootu (black peas) curry and payasam, a dessert which is one of the many special components of the festival,” said Rashmi Pillai, another member.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/low-key-celebrations-at-home-mark-onam/articleshow/77858296.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Kolkata||Jangipur gave Pranab Mukherjee the popular mandate||JANGIPUR (MURSHIDABAD): A Rajya Sabha member right from the start of his political career, Pranab Mukherjee’s rise to prominence in Indian politics and his proximity to Indira Gandhi had drawn the ire of many, who would criticize him for lacking a mass base. They would say he had chosen the easy way out to get into Parliament through votes of MLAs rather than of people directly. It was Jangipur that helped him shed the tag of a “rootless wanderer” that he carried for three decades. In 2004, Mukherjee silenced his critics with his victory from Jangipur in the Lok Sabha election. And, he never forgot to thank his voters. After all, it was this new-found stand that propelled him to the pinnacle of Indian politics. He nursed his constituency extensively on the ground, ushering in a spree of development in the backward areas. Former Congress councillor and now local Trinamool leader Bikash Nanda said, “Pranabda will be remembered as the man who ushered development into a backward Jangipur and other areas of Murshidabad. “He had taken the lead in setting up an Aligarh Muslim University campus at Ahiron, an MDI campus at Talaimore, a PF office, an Army camp at Nabagram, restarted the Army Recruitment Centre at Behrampore and made banks open branches in remote villages.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/jangipur-gave-him-the-popular-mandate/articleshow/77860757.cms||Sukumar Mahato
September 1, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru district has highest Covid positivity rate in Karnataka||MYSURU: According to the state Covid-19 war room data, between August 23 and 29, the positivity rate, which is the number of positive cases per 100 tests, in the district was at 31.7%, which is the highest in the state. None of the other districts breached the 30% mark. Gadag with a positivity rate of 23.7% is at second place. According to the data, in this 7-day period, the symptomatic positivity rate is 45.3% while asymptomatic positivity rate is at 22.9% in Mysuru district. On the positive side, in this seven days period, with a positivity rate of just 6.3%, Chamarajanagar has recorded the lowest rate in the state, while Mandya with a positivity rate of 7.7%, is the second best performer. With a positivity rate of 21.7% Shivamogga is in the 4th place, followed by Chikkamagaluru, which recorded a positivity rate of 20.1% in this period. According to the war room data, since the beginning, 1,04,285 Covid-19 tests have been carried out in Mysuru. On August 29, 2,894 tests were carried out in Mysuru district. In the last 10 days 8,420 tests were carried out in the district. Munish Moudgil, who heads the Karnataka state Covid-19 war room, said, “It is good that most of the infected people are getting detected through testing. If the testing takes place at the same intensity, then the positivity rate will reduce in about ten days.” Krishnaraja MLA and former medical education minister S A Ramadas attributed the high positivity rate to the outbreak of the disease in industrial units and other places which are congested. “After home isolation was allowed for Covid-19 patients, Mysuru is witnessing a huge surge. We have allowed only those patients to live in home isolation, who have separate living rooms and other facilities. A monitoring team will be formed soon,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/mysuru-dist-has-highest-positivity-rate-in-state/articleshow/77858314.cms||Shrinivasa M
September 1, 2020||Aurangabad||23 mobile units to collect Ganesh idols||Aurangabad: The civic body has decided to deploy 23 mobile units to different parts of the city for collecting Ganpati idols on Tuesday — the last day of the Ganeshotsav. “A special arrangement has been made to this effect in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak,” an official release said. As many as 11 different wells and an artificial tank near Harsul Lake are used every year for idol immersion. Anticipating crowd at these immersion points, the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) has decided to set up the mobile collection units. “While Ganesh mandals are relatively lesser in number this year, collection and immersion of idols installed by households is a tough challenge. We have decided to put in place mobile collection units in different parts of the city, where devotees can hand over their idols by following the social distancing norm,” a senior AMC official said. The proposed locations for mobile collection units include Deolai chowk, traffic signal near Jabinda residency, Kanchanwadi bus stop, Ayodhya Nagar, overhead tank at Jyoti Nagar, Sant Eknath auditorium, Khadkeshwar temple, Padegaon, Sawarkar Chowk, Gulmandi, N-10, Yashodhara colony, Jivheshwar colony, commercial complext at TV center, open space near Harsul jail, Rajiv Gandhi stadium at N-5, Garware stadimum, Chikalthana weekly bazaar, Kamgar chowk, Mukundwadi bus stop, Connaught place, Sutgirani chowk, Gajanan Maharaj chowk and Vidya Nagar. A large section of devotees has installed Ganesh idols made up of Shadu clay this year and many of them are likely to carry out immersion at homes only. Meanwhile, Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) has been keeping an eye on different types of pollution during Ganesh festival including that on immersion day. “The process to collecting data for possible noise and air pollutions is on. The results will be made public after necessary analysis,” a regional MPCP official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/23-mobile-units-to-collect-ganesh-idols/articleshow/77858301.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Dehradun||In a first, single-day recovery cases surpass new infections in U’khand||Dehradun: For the first time since the outbreak of the novel coronavirus in Uttarakhand, the state on Monday recorded more cases of recoveries than that of new infections. On the day, 604 Covid-19 patients defeated the virus and recovered fully. With this, the tally of cured cases reached 13,608 in the state on Monday and the recovery percentage rose to 68.6%. Meanwhile, the state reported 592 fresh cases and 12 deaths of Covid-19 patients. The total cases as on Monday were 19,827 and the toll of the virus in the state had reached 269. The infection rate in Uttarakhand was recorded at 5.4%. Also, test results of 17,900 samples were pending on Monday. Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 control room, said that the maximum of 149 new cases of coronavirus were reported from Dehradun, followed by 138 cases from Haridwar, 99 from Nainital, 58 from Udham Singh Nagar, 52 from Tehri, 41 from Uttarkashi, 19 from Almora, 13 cases each from Pauri and Champawat, seven cases from Rudraprayag, and six cases each from Bageshwar and Pithoragarh districts. Among the 12 deaths recorded on the day, four were reported from All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS Rishikesh, seven from Dr Susheela Tiwari Medical College in Haldwani, and one from Government Doon Medical College and Hospital (GDMCH). On Monday, Pankaj Pandey, secretary (in-charge) health, also issued a notice to all the health department officials to ensure adequate stock of medicines and provide necessary medicines to people in home isolation, since a large number of people are now opting for home isolation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/in-a-first-single-day-recovery-cases-surpass-new-infections-in-ukhand/articleshow/77858323.cms||Ishita Mishra
September 1, 2020||Aurangabad||‘Put all CAP details online’||Aurangabad: City-based junior colleges, part of the Centralised Admission Process (CAP) for Class XI, have been asked to put in public domain maximum details related to admissions through online platforms. The office of deputy director of education for Aurangabad division has made an appeal in this regard in the wake of the ongoing Covid-19 outbreak. “Having maximum information about admissions available in public domain through website and other virtual platforms can reduce the number of visits by the students to the allotted colleges,” a senior CAP official said. For details about, students have been asked to check official website https://11thadmission.org.in. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/put-all-cap-details-online/articleshow/77858285.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Chennai||Curbs eased, Tamil Nadu Covid count may go up: Officials||CHENNAI: After crossing the 6,000 mark for two days, fresh Covid-19 cases in the state dropped to 5,956 on Monday while 91 deaths were reported. At the end of the day, there were 52,578 people still under treatment. In August, the state reported 1,82,182 cases and 3,387 deaths compared to 1,55,692 cases and 2,289 deaths in July. Officials say, cases are likely to increase as the state is opening more business and entertainment activities. "The only way to stop this is to wear masks and maintain social distancing. The state will ensure there is aggressive testing and isolation of positive cases,” said health secretary J Radhakrishnan. The state has also urged Covid-19 patients with comorbidities to report to a hospital for early treatment. "At least 32% of patients who succumbed to the infection had both diabetes and hypertension, while 24% of them had just diabetes. In most patients where these two disorders are not under control, there are severe complications," he said. While fresh cases in Chennai are plateauing, the curve in western district is now going up. On Monday, Coimbatore had 589 cases, and Salem 497. Like fresh cases, Coimbatore also had the most deaths, 14, after Chennai, 19. Chennai reported the maximum number of fresh cases, 1,150 fresh cases, and the adjoining three districts Chengalpet (347), Kancheepuram (187) and Tiruvallur (299) together added 833 cases and 16 deaths. The seven other northern districts added 985 cases – with 307 cases in Cuddalore followed by 176 in Villupuram, 140 in Thiruvannamalai, 125 in Vellore and 124 in Ranipet. Vellore reported eight deaths. The ten districts in the south reported 887 cases. While 129 were reported from Dindigul, 127 were from Madurai, 111 from Tuticorin and 98 from Kanyakumari. Among the 656 cases in the central districts, there were 125 in Thanjavur, 113 in Thiruvarur, 105 in Nagapattinam, 95 in Trichy, 86 in Pudukottai and 75 in Ariyalur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/curbs-eased-tn-covid-count-may-go-up-officials/articleshow/77860755.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Surat||‘Educate Surat airport staff on wildlife’||Surat: The Airports Authority of India (AAI) has said that authorities at Surat airport may not be aware of the intricacies of Wildlife Act and are required to be educated by the forest authorities on the dos and don’ts in handling wildlife intrusions and transgressions. This was stated in reply to a complaint filed byyes a citizen Sanjay Ezhava alleging negligence on part of the Surat airport authorities for not informing about the carcasses of two dead foxes found on the runway to the forest departmentIn his complaint to AAI, Ezhava had stated that the Surat airport authorities failed to inform the forest department about the December 19, 2019 incident. Despite the fact that the foxes fall under the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, the carcasses were disposed of without informing the forest department. Responding to the complaint, executive director of AAI’s aviation safety, J S Sandhu has stated that the Surat airport authority will be apprised to undertake joint full-fledged combing operation with the forest department to take appropriate remedial steps for plugging the source of animal intrusion into the airport premises. “We feel that may be at some point the airport authorities may not be aware of the intricacies of the Wildlife Act and it would be appreciable if you could exhort the appropriate forest authorities at Surat to educate the airport staff and the population living on the periphery of the airport on the dos and don’ts in handling wildlife intrusions and transgressions,” Sandhu said. About the incident, Sandhu stated that the pilot of Udaipur to Surat flight had reported the presence of some foreign object debris (FOD) on the runway on December 19, 2019. The team was sent to inspect the runway and it was reported to have found some remains or carcass in the smashed condition.The carcass was attracting insects and birds, which was further hazardous for the incoming aircraft. Hence, from the safety point of view a team was sent to clean the runway to enable the airport to resume operations as early as possible, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/educate-surat-airport-staff-on-wildlife/articleshow/77859531.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad city girl shines in Batu event||Aurangabad: Ankita Bhandare, a student of Little Flower High school, Aurangabad, has won the third prize in the state-level photo-essay competition organised by Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Technological University (Batu). The state university had arranged the mega event for the students from Class X to Class XII on the theme of ‘Shelters built using locally available materials’ under the self-reliant scheme announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Siddharth Veeramani from National Educational Society's Junior College of Arts, Science & Commerce, Mumbai, has won the first prize. The second prize has been shared by Piyush Nirban from Brijlal Biyani Science College, Amravati and Dhanashri Munj from Shri Vasudevanand Saraswati Vidyalaya, Mangaon, Tambalwadi in Sindhudurg. The consolation prize winners are Anand Pardeshi from M R Patel Boys and Girls Military School and Junior College of Science, Tande Shirpur from Dhule district and Mann Katad from Maratha High school, Nashik.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-city-girl-shines-in-batu-event/articleshow/77858328.cms||---
September 1, 2020||India||Pranab Mukherjee, a President who could have been PM||On a hot June day, a sense of puzzlement gripped Congress circles. Why was Pranabda visiting the RSS headquarters to address a convention? His daughter Sharmistha seemed to hit the nail on the head, saying irrespective of what he said, his presence would be enough for the Hindutva bandwagon to exploit the moment. This was in 2018, when Pranab Mukherjee, then 82, had retired to a government bungalow after touching heights few politicians reach — President, minister in charge of key portfolios, a long career going back to the days of Indira Gandhi and all worldly success. A man who did not hesitate to express his views, Mukherjee ignored the dismay in the ranks of the party he had been a part of and went right ahead and quoted Jawaharlal Nehru, often at the receiving end of the Sangh Parivar’s attacks, in his speech. But, the inherent message that he did not see RSS as “untouchable” served to underline how he had been courted by BJP and PM Narendra Modi. Read AlsoPranab Mukherjee, 'dada' of Indian politics, bids goodbye at 84Pranab Mukherjee, whose career on the national political stage began as a Rajya Sabha MP in 1969 and ended as President in 2017, passed away Monday evening at the age of 84 – 22 days after he was admitted to the Army Hospital (Research and Referral) in New Delhi following an emergency operation forFor someone who saw so much and travelled so far from the remote Mirati village in Birbhum, the end can hardly define the contradictions life in politics can be and which Mukherjee negotiated with aplomb. He was at the centre of action during UPA, heading a record number of GoMs and playing chief troubleshooter despite a trust deficit with the Gandhis that never quite went away. Live updates: Ex-President Pranab Mukherjee to be cremated todayThe roots of the latent discord went back to 1984 when Mukherjee fell out with Rajiv Gandhi in the wake of Indira Gandhi’s assassination. He denied harbouring leadership ambitions and said Rajiv was misled. Being dropped from the cabinet in 1984 was a shock, and after parting ways with Congress, he returned six years later. When the time came, he proved a dependable guide for Sonia Gandhi as she stepped into a new political role, entering Parliament in 1999. If he continued to rise, it was because Mukherjee was a manager par excellence who worked across the communal, secular, socialist, capitalist and corporate aisles and formed part of a group that did not have enemies but only rivals in politics. Today, the likes of Sharad Pawar and Mulayam Singh Yadav are fading. Mukherjee was the best of the bunch. For all his political friendships, Mukherjee was a dyed-in-the-wool Congressman, a key planner and strategist irrespective of whether the party was in office or in Opposition. His sharp mind caught Indira Gandhi’s attention and she brought him to Rajya Sabha, making him deputy and minister of state for economic portfolios before he became finance minister in 1982. He never forgot his debt to his mentor, often recalling her as India’s greatest PM and a realist who ordered Pokhran 1. Read AlsoPranab's life with 5G — the five GandhisPranab Mukherjee’s association with five Gandhis defined his political journeyMukherjee continued to hold important assignments in the Narasimha Rao government as deputy chair of Planning Commission and then as cabinet minister. He was Rao’s choice for political tasks, too. His report on the Tamil Nadu situation ahead of the 1996 polls proved prophetic. He advocated an alliance with DMK, advice that Rao ignored, leading to G K Moopanar and P Chidambaram forming Tamil Maanila Congress. TMC and DMK swept the state, making a crucial difference for Rao and Congress. Later, Mukherjee accepted Sonia’s choice of Manmohan Singh as PM, but was never shy of asserting himself. Officials waiting outside cabinet meetings would recall that his loud tones often filtered out, indicating he was doing most of the talking. In the aftermath of the 26/11 attacks, he unleashed verbal salvos against Pakistan daily, blunting more than Singh BJP’s calls for action. Mukherjee was a one-stop shop in UPA, the intersection of politics, policy, ego and turf issues. He did not back away from scraps himself, clashing with Chidambaram over several issues. Their “joint appearance” outside North Block in September 2011 where Mukherjee distanced himself from a note on 2G spectrum will remain a photo op etched in memory. A few months earlier, he had created a stir by writing to Singh saying he suspected a bugging device in his office. And yet, for all his qualities, the PM’s post remained elusive. High-profile and independent minded, his previous revolt made him unsuitable for the top job when UPA defeated BJP in 2004. Sonia picked Singh, qualified, dependable and bereft of any political and corporate baggage. Mukherjee could not be home minister either – a post that was too powerful for an intrepid politician. Too smart to get stuck on a missed bus, Mukherjee set his sights on a new goal – Rashtrapati Bhavan. He worked hard to win allies across parties. When the time came, he did not appear to be the first choice. This time Mukherjee anticipated the resistance and forced Congress’s hand as “secular” votaries like Mulayam Singh Yadav backed him. On one particular night, Ahmed Patel sat with “dada” till the wee hours, assuring him he was indeed the party’s choice. Mukherjee was not just an astute politician. He earned respect for his encyclopaedic knowledge of history and the Constitution. He was a key arbiter of the India-US nuclear deal during which he kept the Left engaged – and distracted – until it was too late for the comrades to block the pact. For a man of staunch secular beliefs, he could see religion in a cultural context. Every Durga Puja, he would be in Jangipur and don the bhadralok dhoti and kurta, flaunt his janeu and immerse himself in a 10-day prayer. He used it to good effect in Parliament as he tore into BJP’s political Hindutva by quoting scriptures to highlight the heterogeneity of thought in Hinduism. Mukherjee ascended even higher when he was bestowed the Bharat Ratna by the Modi government. While Congress leaders attended the award ceremony, the Gandhis and Manmohan Singh did not. By then, Mukherjee had risen above partisan fault lines even as he remained a Congressman by conviction. Watch When Manmohan Singh said Pranab Mukherjee was better qualified to be PM||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pranab-mukherjee-a-president-who-could-have-been-pm/articleshow/77862197.cms||Subodh Ghildiyal
September 1, 2020||Rajkot||JEE turnout in Gujarat to be around 14% lower this year||AHMEDABAD: The Joint Entrance Examination (Mains) entrance exams for admission to engineering and pharmacy courses is expected to see the participation of 38,507 students this year compared to 44,115 last year. The lower turnout is likely to be due to the Covid-19 situation, according to some experts. The National Testing Agency will conduct the test at 32 centres in 13 districts in the state between September 1 and September 6. There are three centres in Ahmedabad and one centre in Gandhinagar. Gujarat education minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama on Monday said the state administration is fully prepared to conduct JEE and National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (undergraduate) examinations next month. The minister said that all necessary precautions have been taken in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The NEET exam will be held on September 13 at 214 centres in 10 districts. About 80,290 candidates are expected to appear this year. Junior education minister Vibhavari Dave on Monday held a virtual meeting with collectors, police, revenue and education officials from various districts regarding the exams. “The state administration is ready to hold JEE and NEET in a hassle-free manner. All collectors concerned have been asked to follow the standard operating procedures (SOPs) laid down by the Centre for conducing these exams,” Dave said. District authorities have been instructed to avoid crowding at test centres and to implement social distancing measures during the test. “After one and a half years of hard work, the wait will be finally over soon. Some of us have done so much revision that we are fed up and want the exams to be completed smoothly. I have attempted more than 100 papers online in this lockdown period after classrooms were shut down due to the pandemic,” said Nikunj Patel, a Class XII student preparing for the JEE exam. Each student will be checked with a thermal scanner at the time of entry to the examination centre, the minister said, adding that each exam centre will be completely sanitised before and after the test. The lockdown gave an opportunity to many candidates to get more preparation time. Many students had also started taking online coaching classes during the lockdown period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/jee-turnout-in-gujarat-to-be-around-14-lower-this-year/articleshow/77866939.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Surat||JEE turnout in Gujarat to be around 14% lower this year||AHMEDABAD: The Joint Entrance Examination (Mains) entrance exams for admission to engineering and pharmacy courses is expected to see the participation of 38,507 students this year compared to 44,115 last year. The lower turnout is likely to be due to the Covid-19 situation, according to some experts. The National Testing Agency will conduct the test at 32 centres in 13 districts in the state between September 1 and September 6. There are three centres in Ahmedabad and one centre in Gandhinagar. Gujarat education minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama on Monday said the state administration is fully prepared to conduct JEE and National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (undergraduate) examinations next month. The minister said that all necessary precautions have been taken in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The NEET exam will be held on September 13 at 214 centres in 10 districts. About 80,290 candidates are expected to appear this year. Junior education minister Vibhavari Dave on Monday held a virtual meeting with collectors, police, revenue and education officials from various districts regarding the exams. “The state administration is ready to hold JEE and NEET in a hassle-free manner. All collectors concerned have been asked to follow the standard operating procedures (SOPs) laid down by the Centre for conducing these exams,” Dave said. District authorities have been instructed to avoid crowding at test centres and to implement social distancing measures during the test. “After one and a half years of hard work, the wait will be finally over soon. Some of us have done so much revision that we are fed up and want the exams to be completed smoothly. I have attempted more than 100 papers online in this lockdown period after classrooms were shut down due to the pandemic,” said Nikunj Patel, a Class XII student preparing for the JEE exam. Each student will be checked with a thermal scanner at the time of entry to the examination centre, the minister said, adding that each exam centre will be completely sanitised before and after the test. The lockdown gave an opportunity to many candidates to get more preparation time. Many students had also started taking online coaching classes during the lockdown period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/jee-turnout-in-gujarat-to-be-around-14-lower-this-year/articleshow/77866941.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Vadodara||JEE turnout in Gujarat to be around 14% lower this year||AHMEDABAD: The Joint Entrance Examination (Mains) entrance exams for admission to engineering and pharmacy courses is expected to see the participation of 38,507 students this year compared to 44,115 last year. The lower turnout is likely to be due to the Covid-19 situation, according to some experts. The National Testing Agency will conduct the test at 32 centres in 13 districts in the state between September 1 and September 6. There are three centres in Ahmedabad and one centre in Gandhinagar. Gujarat education minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama on Monday said the state administration is fully prepared to conduct JEE and National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (undergraduate) examinations next month. The minister said that all necessary precautions have been taken in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The NEET exam will be held on September 13 at 214 centres in 10 districts. About 80,290 candidates are expected to appear this year. Junior education minister Vibhavari Dave on Monday held a virtual meeting with collectors, police, revenue and education officials from various districts regarding the exams. “The state administration is ready to hold JEE and NEET in a hassle-free manner. All collectors concerned have been asked to follow the standard operating procedures (SOPs) laid down by the Centre for conducing these exams,” Dave said. District authorities have been instructed to avoid crowding at test centres and to implement social distancing measures during the test. “After one and a half years of hard work, the wait will be finally over soon. Some of us have done so much revision that we are fed up and want the exams to be completed smoothly. I have attempted more than 100 papers online in this lockdown period after classrooms were shut down due to the pandemic,” said Nikunj Patel, a Class XII student preparing for the JEE exam. Each student will be checked with a thermal scanner at the time of entry to the examination centre, the minister said, adding that each exam centre will be completely sanitised before and after the test. The lockdown gave an opportunity to many candidates to get more preparation time. Many students had also started taking online coaching classes during the lockdown period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/jee-turnout-in-gujarat-to-be-around-14-lower-this-year/articleshow/77866938.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh recorded 300% rise in Covid-19 cases in August||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 10,004 Covid-19 cases on Monday, taking the cumulative caseload to 4,34,771. The spread of the virus continues as the state reported 10,000 or more cases in the last six days. The toll jumped to 3,969 as 85 more Covid-19 patients died on Monday. As many as 8,772 Covid-19 patients were declared cured. There are currently 1,00,276 active cases with 3,30,526 recoveries and 3,969 deaths. Of the total 4.34 lakh cases detected as of Monday, the state recorded more than 2.93 lakh cases in August alone, reflecting a near 300% increase in cases from July. However, this is better compared to July when there was a near 1,000% surge in infections. Of the total 37.22 lakh tests conducted thus far, 17.71 lakh samples were tested in August, with a positivity rate of 16.5%. The situation continued to be alarming in districts like East Godavari, which occupied the top place in the country in terms of increase in cases in July. East Godavari currently has the highest caseload of 59,403, while Kurnool with 44,745 infections occupies second place. Krishna district with 16,284 cases is an exception, showing a clear reduction in the daily Covid-19 count, even when north-coastal AP districts like Srikakulam and Vizianagaram, which were the last to report their first infections, already crossed the 20,000 case mark.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ap-recorded-300-rise-in-covid-19-cases-in-aug/articleshow/77859534.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Kochi||Intersex baby poem gets a dance version||Thrissur: An album of the Mohiniyattam performance based on the first lullaby in Malayalam for intersex baby, authored by transgender poet Vijayaraja Mallika, was released on Sunday. The dance version has been choreographed by Sandhya Edakkuni and musical score was done by Nilambur Sunilkumar. The poem captures the bold and graceful assertion of a mother who nurtures an intersex baby with all the affection and care given by the mothers of all other baby girls or boys. The mother assures the baby that being an intersex baby is “not a curse or sin, but a lucky sign”. “Representing a reality through art forms, especially dance, will embrace human hearts. Musical score by Sunilkumar added a magical touch to the dance form. The concept was safe with Sandhya,’’ said Mallika. “It was a challenge to choreograph a dance form based on such a song, especially to make it different from the numerous lullabies we have heard, read and watched. I chose to present the theme from the derisive looks and comments of relatives and neighbours, who come to see the baby, as well as the bold response of the mother to shower unconditional love to the baby notwithstanding its intersex stature,’’ Sandhya said. “The rendering of the song was without any instrumental accompaniment, and this was another challenge. I’m not a professional dancer, but I dance out of passion,’’ she said Mallika said a Tamil version of the song would be released soon. She said the lockdown had imposed severe restrictions on the production of the song and the dance album. “All of them, including Karimbuzha Radha who gave music to the song and Shini Avanthika who gave voice to the song’s earlier version, had joined this venture out of their passion for art,’’ Mallika said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/intersex-baby-poem-gets-a-dance-version/articleshow/77847379.cms||T Ramavarman
September 1, 2020||Kolhapur||Govt sanctions jumbo hospital for Satara district||Kolhapur: The state government has sanctioned a jumbo hospital for Satara district following the increase in the number of Covid-19 patients. Minister of state for home (rural) Shambhuraje Desai had spoken to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray over the phone where the decision of jumbo hospital on the premises of Chhatrapati Shivaji Museum was taken. The hospital will have 200 oxygen beds and 50 ventilators Desai told the media that chief secretary Sanjiv Kumar has asked the district collector to start commissioning of the hospital immediately. It is expected to be operational within two weeks.  Meanwhile, Satara district recorded 489 new Covid cases and 15 deaths due to the contagion since Sunday night, taking the total number of cases to 13,397 and death toll rises to 397. As many as 7,208 patients have recovered so far and 6,392 are active cases. Of the fresh cases, Satara tehsil recorded 138 while Karad tehsil identified 78 patients. A large number of patients are being traced out in Peth areas of Karad and Satara.  Wai tehsil recorded 50 fresh cases, Koregaon tehsil reported 29 cases among others  Khatav and Patan tehsils recorded three deaths each while Karad, Maan and Saatara tehsil reported two deaths each and Koregaon, Phaltan and Khandala tehsil recorded one each death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/govt-sanctions-jumbo-hospital-for-satara-district/articleshow/77858345.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Nine staff members of Asopalav test positive||Ahmedabad: Atleast nine staff members of the Asopalav showrooms, near Nehru Bridge and Shivranjani, have been tested positive for Covid-19 during the drive conducted by the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC). AMC officials said as a part of a drive to curb the spread of the virus, they had begun checking the staff at places where large numbers of people gather. During these checks, nine workers at the two Asopalav showrooms were found to have Covid-19. The AMC said these workers were given immediate treatment and were admitted to Covid care centres and hospitals. Health officials said checking at showrooms and malls will continue to ensure that visitors are kept safe. Officials said several big showrooms have put out festive offers with large discounts and consequently are seeing a rush of people. Officials said it was possible these workers were infected by customers. Officials said this raised questions as to whether the showroom owners were screening their staff before allowing them to work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/nine-staff-members-of-asopalav-test-positive/articleshow/77859538.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||JEE turnout in Gujarat to be around 14% lower this year||AHMEDABAD: The Joint Entrance Examination (Mains) entrance exams for admission to engineering and pharmacy courses is expected to see the participation of 38,507 students this year compared to 44,115 last year. The lower turnout is likely to be due to the Covid-19 situation, according to some experts. The National Testing Agency will conduct the test at 32 centres in 13 districts in the state between September 1 and September 6. There are three centres in Ahmedabad and one centre in Gandhinagar. Gujarat education minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama on Monday said the state administration is fully prepared to conduct JEE and National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (undergraduate) examinations next month. The minister said that all necessary precautions have been taken in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The NEET exam will be held on September 13 at 214 centres in 10 districts. About 80,290 candidates are expected to appear this year. Junior education minister Vibhavari Dave on Monday held a virtual meeting with collectors, police, revenue and education officials from various districts regarding the exams. “The state administration is ready to hold JEE and NEET in a hassle-free manner. All collectors concerned have been asked to follow the standard operating procedures (SOPs) laid down by the Centre for conducing these exams,” Dave said. District authorities have been instructed to avoid crowding at test centres and to implement social distancing measures during the test. “After one and a half years of hard work, the wait will be finally over soon. Some of us have done so much revision that we are fed up and want the exams to be completed smoothly. I have attempted more than 100 papers online in this lockdown period after classrooms were shut down due to the pandemic,” said Nikunj Patel, a Class XII student preparing for the JEE exam. Each student will be checked with a thermal scanner at the time of entry to the examination centre, the minister said, adding that each exam centre will be completely sanitised before and after the test. The lockdown gave an opportunity to many candidates to get more preparation time. Many students had also started taking online coaching classes during the lockdown period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/jee-turnout-in-gujarat-to-be-around-14-lower-this-year/articleshow/77859536.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Ranchi||In this Simdega block, people still climb trees to make phone calls||Gumla: As much as 25 years have passed since the launch of cellular phones in India, but people of Bolba, a tribal-dominated block in Simdega district, still climb trees, run atop mounds or trek to neighbouring hamlets to make emergency calls. Even telecommunication officials admit that the lone BSNL tower in the block does not help solve the issue. An official of BSNL, on condition of anonymity, said, “Due to connectivity issues, the people of Bolba remain practically cut-off from the world as nobody can reach them over phone. Here people either climb trees or reach on the top of mounds to make calls to doctors, administrative authorities or relatives. A BSNL tower installed here is of little help.” Bolba has a population of 30,000 people who until 2007 remained cut-off even from the rest of Simdega district in the monsoon months as the Shankh river swells up due to rainwater. The then Kolebira MLA and rural development minister Enos Ekka had built a bridge over the river which solved the problem of transportation to some extent. Former Bolba BDO Gyanmani Ekka said, “Even I used to climb to the terrace of my official residence to speak to district authorities over phone. The condition of connectivity in this remote block is pathetic.” Gyanmani added, “Due to connectivity issues, some staff stay in the town areas of the district to finish official works.” Even the police station has to rely on wireless communication to get urgent work done. Simdega SP Sanjiv Kumar said, “Bolba has a issue of connectivity and we use wireless communication to send messages and get official work done. A private telecom company is expected to soon set up their base in the block and it may solve the problem.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/in-this-simdega-block-people-still-climb-trees-to-make-phone-calls/articleshow/77859487.cms||KA Gupta
September 1, 2020||Ranchi||22k to appear for JEE today amid heightened security||Ranchi: The Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) will be held at eight centres across five cities in the state beginning Tuesday. Around 22,000 students in Jharkhand are supposed to take part in the examination. The test will be held in eight centres — two each in Ranchi, Dhanbad and Jamshedpur and one centre each in Hazaribag and Bokaro. The examination will be held in two shifts at all the centres between September 1-6. The centre heads and coordinators for JEE were briefed about the arrangements to be made by the district officials during a meeting on August 28. Meanwhile, state president of Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM ) Kislay Tiwari said: “We have decided to provide all kinds of assistance to students appearing for the national-level competitive examination. Our party workers have set up shelters within 100 metres at all eight centres across the state and will provide sanitizers, masks, water bottles and refreshments to the students as well as their parents while maintaining social-distancing norms.” Tiwari added that BJYM has released helpline numbers for all five districts and party workers will help students who need assistance in reaching their centres. “In other parts of the country, the state governments and local authorities are doing their bit to help the candidates. But we feel that such is not the case in Jharkhand. We, therefore, decided to chip-in,” Tiwari said. Earlier in the day, Ranchi DC Chhavi Ranjan held a meeting with examination co-ordinators for the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET), which will be held on September 23. Talking to TOI, Ranjan said: “We have briefed the heads of online testing centres about the guidelines of the state government and have also asked them to make adequate arrangements as per the advisory issued by the National Testing Agency. Moreover, we have decided to depute magistrates and security personnel at the JEE centres on all six days, and the same will be done during the NEET examination on September 23.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/22k-to-appear-for-jee-today-amid-heightened-security/articleshow/77860079.cms||Gaurav Pandey
September 1, 2020||Ranchi||Lalu turns detention centre into virtual poll office||Ranchi: Kelly’s Bungalow, the new home of incarcerated RJD president Lalu Prasad, has virtually become the party’s election headquarters with prospective candidates and party leaders from across Bihar making a beeline for the Rims campus to have a glimpse of their jailed leader ahead of the Bihar assembly elections. More than a dozen leaders from Bihar along with ticket aspirants are reaching Rims on a daily basis and dropping their bio-data at the doors of the bungalow. On Monday, Ali Khan, who has acted in several Hindi and regional language movies and seeking a party ticket, voted Rims campus along with others keen to contest from Gaya, Aurangabad, Samastipur, Saharsa. Talking to media person outside Kelly’s Bungalow, Khan said, “I am here to take Laluji’s blessings and enquire about his well-being. I will contest the polls if he asks me to. I haven’t demanded a ticket from any constituency and I will do as commanded by him.” Some were seen handing over their printed bio-data to the security guards at the gates of Kelly’s Bungalow. On Sunday, Manju Singh from Lalgunj and Anita Rai from Patori constituencies had submitted their bio-data at with hopes of getting a ticket. Sources at Rims said more than 200 bio-datas from ticket aspirants have been submitted for Lalu’s perusal and a few have also met him personally with help from state RJD leaders. A general secretary of the party was also spotted on the campus. Talking to TOI, state general secretary of Bihar RJD, Bhuvaneshwar Yadav, said: “Five of us have come from Waziraganj constituency to see Laluji. We will return home by evening if the security personnel do not allow us to meet him.” When asked whether he is seeking a ticket, Yadav said: “No. The aspirant from my constituency is not here but we are here on his behalf.” Lalu was shifted to the swanky bungalow on August 6 after doctors treating him submitted a proposal to the hospital authorities to keep him at an isolated area as the paying ward, where he was earlier lodged, was being used for Covid patients. The bungalow has been empty since former Rims director Dr D K Singh vacated it in June as he shifted to AIIMS Bhatinda. When contacted, IG Prisons Virendra Bhushan said: “It has come to my notice that people are visiting the area where Lalu Prasad is lodged on Rims campus. I will write to the Ranchi SSP in this regard and get the matte investigated.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/lalu-turns-detention-centre-into-virtual-poll-office/articleshow/77859356.cms||Gaurav Pandey
September 1, 2020||Ranchi||Safety high on eateries menu||RANCHI: Eating out at your favourite restaurant, hotel or eatery is set to undergo a paradigm shift — minimum physical contact but maximum hospitality — from Tuesday onwards. At the entrance, diners will have to go through mandatory thermal scanning and sanitization. Once inside, waiters wearing gloves and face shields will greet them. Along with far fewer tables, the customers will experience a new tech-savvy order placing system, touted as the biggest change as the eateries open after nearly five months of lockdown because of the Covid pandemic. Under this concept of minimal physical contact, the majority of hotels and restaurants will provide a menu with QR codes from which the customers can place their orders. Talking to TOI, Kunwar Bhatia, owner of Kaveri Restaurant, a popular restaurant in Ranchi, said, “We have completely done away with our normal menu card. Now, there is a new menu with QR codes at every table. A customer has to scan the code with smartphones to unlock the menu, choose the food and place the order. Our waiter in full safety gear will note them down from a safe distance.” Bhatia said his restaurant located at the GEL Church complex with a seating capacity of 200 people at one go will operate with half its strength. “We have reduced the number tables and slashed the seating capacity to maintain social distancing while dining,” he said. “If anyone’s body temperature is above normal, we will politely deny him or her entry,” Bhatia said, adding that despite the dine-ins, the restaurant will continue to promote take-homes as much as possible. As there is no cross-ventilation inside, Bhatia said they have decided to keep the air conditioners between 25-30 degrees as opposed to 20 degrees before the lockdown. An executive of another prominent restaurant, The Best, located at Dangratoli said they have placed similar facilities along with extra care for their in-house staff. “Every staff will put on face shields at all times besides wearing gloves and other safety accessories. Moreover, our premises will be sanitized every hour in such a way that it will not hamper routine activities. In the kitchen, all vegetables will be compulsorily washed with chlorine water first followed by other hygiene norms,” he said. The restaurant is also doing away with cloth napkins and replacing them with disposable ones. “We will not allow anyone to unnecessarily spend extended time here,” the executive added. Hotels and lodges, too, have revamped their housekeeping protocols ahead of the reopening. Explaining the new check-in protocols, Shantanu Guha Roy, general manager of Radisson Blu, said, “Upon arrival, every guest will be sanitised and their luggage will be disinfected at the entry point. While the luggage will be put in the scanner, the guests must have Arogaya Setu app declaring them uninfected to gain entry.” Stating that check-in and check-out procedures are completely electronic, Roy said, “We will mail every guest the details required to be filled. They have to respond to our mail before check-in. During check-out, all formalities, including payments, will be online as much as possible,” he added.  Other prominent hotels — Capitol Hill and Capitol Residency — are also following government-issued advisories. Owner of both the hotels, Karanveer Bhatia, said special focus in on 24/7 sanitisation and cleaning of the premises, particularly lifts, lobby and lounges, where people touch frequently. “Providing details of travel history is a must for every guest from now on,” he said. He added that masks and sanitiser bottles will be in the list of services offered by the hotels under the new normal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/safety-high-on-eateries-menu/articleshow/77860227.cms||ASRP Mukesh
September 1, 2020||Ranchi||Teachers’ Day: Pupils asked to show appreciation via videos||RANCHI: Like every other special day this year, Teachers’ Day will also be a low-key affair across institutes here in view of the pandemic. Jharkhand Education Project Council director Sailesh Chaurasia said a virtual programme is likely to be held on September 5 to felicitate the teachers and unlike the previous years, there will be no cultural programme in the government schools this year. Dr Shyama Prasad Mukherjee University vice chancellor S N Munda said the occasion would be observed in a simple manner in the presence of only a handful of teachers. The principal of Delhi Public School, Dr Ram Singh, informed that his school is gearing up to hold an interactive session online among the teachers and a limited number of students. Similarly, Jawahar Vidya Mandir Shyamli has asked its students to share their views on importance of the day and display their creative side by sharing their paintings with the school. Principal Samarjit Jena said, “A video would be compiled and uploaded on our school website for the teachers to see on September 5.” Gurunank Public School is holding a felicitation programme in the school campus for those teachers and staff members who have completed 20 years of service. However, students will not be present on that day in view of the safety norms. “We have asked the students to send us a video on their views on Teachers’ Day which we will compile and play day during the felicitation programme.” Similarly the DAV Kapil Deo is calling some teachers to the school on the occasion but all of them have been asked to follow social distancing norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/teachers-day-pupils-asked-to-show-appreciation-via-videos/articleshow/77860156.cms||Sanjay Sahay
September 1, 2020||Jamshedpur||Steel City outfit rents out oxygen cylinders for Rs 8,500||JAMSHEDPUR: A city-based NGO’s unique initiative to help out the Covid patients in home isolation by providing oxygen cylinders to them against a security deposit of Rs 8,500 is being lapped up like anything. Ever since its launch on August 4, of the 1,000 patients undergoing treatment at home in the district, All India Marwari Yuva Manch (AIMYM) has helped out 68 patients in areas like Potka, Seraikela, Ghatshila and Chaibasa, among others. A Bistupur resident preferring anonymity said she availed the service for her father in-law, an asymptomatic patient in home isolation, to avoid admitting him to a hospital. “My father in-law is a cardiac patient who recently tested positive for Covid-19. We decided to keep an oxygen cylinder at home upon the doctor’s advice,” said the 43-yeear-old woman whose husband works at Tata Steel. Currently, the outfit is operating with 15 cylinders but in view of the spike in demand, it is planning to increase the number to 50 by mid-September. “In the wake of increasing demand for the oxygen cylinders, we have decided to increase the bank strength to 50 for the time being,” AIMYM functionary Prakash Sharma said. He added, “Some NGO members are helping us out with funds to buy the cylinders.” Usually, it costs Rs 9,250 to buy an oxygen cylinder and Rs 350 for refilling it. Another AIMYM functionary named Sandeep Agarwal said the cylinders are being rotated every two days on an average and there is no issue in refilling them. “Even though it costs Rs 350 to refill the cylinder, we are not charging the beneficiaries for refilling them,” he added. Besides catering to the Covid patients, the outfit is also helping out those suffering from asthma and cardiac complications as many have requested for their service.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/steel-city-outfit-rents-out-oxygen-cylinders-for-8-5k/articleshow/77860122.cms||B Sridhar
September 1, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand: Four MLAs among 3,000 plus new Covid cases||RANCHI: Hours after the Union health ministry said that it will rush central teams to Jharkhand and three other states to help the strengthen containment, surveillance, testing and efficient clinical management to combat coronavirus pandemic, Jharkhand reported 3,218 fresh Covid-19 cases, by far the highest single-day spike surpassing the 1,356 new infections recorded on August 27. Four MLAs were among those who tested positive. The lawmakers found infected on Monday are former cabinet minister Nilkanth Singh Munda (Khunti), Shashi Bhushan Singh Mehta (Panki). Congress MLA from Barkagaon Amba Prasad and lone CPI-ML MLA from Bagodar Vinod Singh also tested positive for the virus. Jharkhand also seven Covid casualties with East Singhbhum accounting for six and Dhanbad for one. The cumulative caseload in Jharkhand crossed the 40,000-mark and stood at 41,656, of which 27,143 have recovered and 417 have died. With just 695 recoveries on Monday, the number of active cases jumped from 11,577 to 14,096 is 24 hours and there was an acute spike in the seven-day growth rate – the figure now stands at 4.25%, twice the national average of 2.21%. The seven-days doubling rate also fell to 16 days compared to 31 days nationally. Monday accounted for more than 16% of the total number of tests (9.13 lakh) conducted in the state till date and Health department officials said the high numbers are the result of a mass rapid antigen testing (RAT) drive conducted on Monday across the state except Ranchi, which will be conducting it on Tuesday. East Singhbhum district reported an all-time high of fresh infections with 630 cases followed by Ranchi with 292 cases. A total of 10 districts reported fresh infections in three digit with Koderma (245), Hazaribag (170), Ramgarh (162), Dhanbad (153), Gumla (147), Palamu (127), Sahebganj (121) and Chatra with 103 cases. Lohardaga (98) and Latehar (96) fell short of the figure on Monday. Meanwhile, the central team will get a first-hand understanding of the challenges and issues being faced by the state in their containment strategy. "The teams will support the state efforts towards strengthening containment, surveillance, testing and efficient clinical management of the positive cases. They shall also guide the state government in effectively managing the challenges related to timely diagnosis and follow up," it said. Each of the multi-sectoral teams will comprise an epidemiologist and a public health expert.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/4-mlas-among-3k-new-covid-cases/articleshow/77860011.cms||Gaurav Pandey
September 1, 2020||Ranchi||Special Covid test drive in Ranchi today||Ranchi: The district administration will hold a special testing drive at 20 places from 10am to 6pm on Tuesday for early detection of patients, deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan said on Monday. A similar drive was held on August 18 when more than 10,000 samples were tested, of which 300 tested positive. Ranjan said, “Following the state government’s order, we are conducting more tests. We have formed separate teams for all the 20 locations and everyone has been briefed about their roles and responsibilities.” He added that the samples will be taken for both rapid antigen tests and RT-PCR. Another official said, “If the antigen test turns out to be negative, we will test the samples on RT-PCR.” Special care will be taken for symptomatic and asymptomatic patients. “If anyone exhibits symptoms of Covid-19, they will be screened separately to avoid others getting infected,” said an official. Detailing some of the locations finalised for conducting the test, he informed that the tests will be held in CMPDI, Zila school, Swagat Banquet hall, Ramlakhan Yadav college, Crown Public school, warehouse (Kanke), Ratu block office, among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/special-covid-test-drive-in-ranchi-today/articleshow/77859923.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Ranchi||RJD downplays Tej-govt face-off||Ranchi: The state unit of RJD unit is in a predicament over former Bihar minister Tej Pratap Yadav’s strong criticism of the FIR against him by the Ranchi administration. Ranchi sadar circle officer had registered an FIR against Tej Pratap for violating the state’s quarantine rules during his visit to Ranchi to meet his father, RJD president Lalu Prasad on Friday. He was also accused of entering and leaving Jharkhand without permission and staying at a hotel when all lodges were closed to contain the spread of the virus After returning to Bihar, Tej Pratap said the FIR should have been registered against the Jharkhand government as he had applied for waiver of the quarantine rules. He claimed that he was not provided any accommodation and had no option but to stay in a hotel. He also asked the state government to withdraw the FIR. A senior RJD leader said the party is a partner in the mahagathbandhan government and cannot question the action even though it cannot oppose the stand taken by Tej Pratap. “We have to back both the government and Tej Pratap in the episode,” he said. RJD state pice-president Rajesh Yadav said, “There should be no debate on a decision taken by the government. However, we cannot criticize or go against Tej Pratap’s stand either.” RJD’s Jharkhand president Abhay Singh and Congress spokesperson Alok Dubey refused to respond to Tej Pratap’s statement. JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya, however, stated, “Law took its course and No one is above law.” Sources said that withdrawing a case where the government is complainant is a long process involving multiple stakeholders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/rjd-downplays-tej-govt-face-off/articleshow/77859286.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Ranchi||Headless body found in Giridih, probe on||Bokaro: The headless body of a man in his forties was found at a place under Dhanwar police station of Giridih district on Monday. Police pressed a dog squad into service soon after they were informed by the locals to identify the body and find the culprits. However, till the time of filing this report, neither the head is found nor the identity of the deceased is established. SDPO Navin Kumar Singh, who visited the spot, said, “It was a brutal murder. The body was spotted around 11am by passers-by and since then we are trying to identify the deceased. Efforts are on to find his head. We searched his clothes but found no identity card or any other evidence.” He added, “The deceased seems to be in his 40s and we found empty packets of chips, cigarettes and a matchbox near the body. We have checked the missing persons' list of local and neighbouring police stations but didn’t get any clue.” A Dhanwar police station official said, “The identity of the deceased will help us proceed further to solve the case. Judging by his clothes, the deceased seems to be from a well-to-do family. We will be able to find out the time of crime only after the post mortem report.” He suspected that the killer may have taken the head to dispose it of somewhere else to evade arrest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/headless-body-found-in-giridih-probe-on/articleshow/77859439.cms||---
September 1, 2020||India||No ‘ekla cholo’ for Pranab Mukherjee, he believed in ‘sabka saath’||NEW DELHI: Pranab Mukherjee was never a mascot for delivery of goods in Bengal, a reason why he made his first entry in Lok Sabha as late as in 2004. For most of his journey, he worked from the Upper House, giving politicians lessons on the art of the possible. Mukherjee will be remembered for the emotional connect he gave to the Bengali psyche. He scripted a narrative of pluralism that went beyond the usual give-and-take in hurly-burly politics. Live updates: Ex-President to be cremated todayMukherjee’s contemporary ABA Ghani Khan Chowdhury brought the Metro railway to Kolkata, but the dhoti-clad Brahmin rode into Bengali hearts when he assumed the highest office at Raisina Hills. He put West Bengal back in the national discourse at a time when Bengalis had started feeling left out of the Centre’s plans. Read AlsoPranab's life with 5G — the five GandhisPranab Mukherjee’s association with five Gandhis defined his political journeyThere was also a political aspect to the making of Rashtrapati in 2012. Mukherjee could do what was unthinkable in Bengal; he took archrivals CPM and Trinamool Congress on board in his presidential race, making a rare political statement. Mukherjee kept on making friends in the enemy camp, always trying to build a consensus across the spectrum. Read AlsoPranab Mukherjee, 'dada' of Indian politics, bids goodbye at 84Pranab Mukherjee, whose career on the national political stage began as a Rajya Sabha MP in 1969 and ended as President in 2017, passed away Monday evening at the age of 84 – 22 days after he was admitted to the Army Hospital (Research and Referral) in New Delhi following an emergency operation forUnlike Manmohan Singh, Mukherjee didn’t have a foreign degree to flaunt. Neither was he a glib talker like P Chidambaram. He was not a mass leader like Mamata Banerjee. But experience helped him grow as the troubleshooter in Congress, without the pedigree of Lutyens’ Delhi. Mukherjee entered politics in the heyday of Naxalbari in the ’60s, when educated Bengali youth rebelled against parliamentary democracy. He joined Bangla Congress, a breakaway faction led by Ajoy Mukherjee, and became a Rajya Sabha MP in 1969. He stood solidly by former PM Indira Gandhi and her son Sanjay during the Emergency from 1975 to 1977. Congress made a comeback in 1980, but Mukherjee lost his Lok Sabha poll from Bolpur. Indira, realising his worth as a strategist, got him elected to Rajya Sabha from Gujarat. It was also during this time the Left, under Jyoti Basu, kept complaining of Bengal’s deprivation by the Centre while Mukherjee served as Union minister or on the Planning Commission. Pranab Mukherjee: From Mirati To Rashtrapati BhavanThis was also true during his stint as Pradesh Congress president from August 2001 to 2010. Mukherjee backed Somen Mitra for the PCC president elections in 1992 while former chief minister Siddhartha Shankar Ray and Congress leader Priya Ranjan Das Munshi threw their weight behind Mamata. Mamata’s defeat in the PCC polls prompted a split in Bengal Congress, leading to its steady decline in electoral politics. Mukherjee had to bear it. The same person put the seal on an electoral understanding with Trinamool against the Left in the 2001 assembly polls. But that didn’t deter Mukherjee from cultivating a working relationship with the Left after it won the 2001 polls and emerged as a key player for the first UPA government. But when the Left pulled the plug on the government over the Indo-US nuclear deal, Mukherjee ensured Congress won a confidence vote. He was indispensable during UPA II when he took Trinamool ministers into confidence. Few will remember Mukherjee for the Gadgil-Mukherjee formula — a revenue sharing model between the Centre and states. For most, Mukherjee will be a byword for survival in India;s fast-changing socio-political matrix. Watch India grieves passing away of Bharat Ratna Shri Pranab Mukherjee||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/no-ekla-cholo-for-him-he-believed-in-sabka-saath/articleshow/77862203.cms||Saugata Roy
September 1, 2020||Visakhapatnam||IIM-Visakhapatnam permanent campus to be future-ready with digital infra||VISAKHAPATNAM: Indian Institute of Management, Visakhapatnam, has got an approval under the ‘’smart classroom’’ initiative of the Union education ministry to develop digital education infrastructure with about Rs 70 crore at its permanent campus. The component was earlier not a part of the permanent campus plan. But anticipating a demand for online education and having plans to offer online MBA programmes in the future, IIM-V sent a proposal to the education ministry to take up the project in the first phase construction itself. An expert committee worked out the optimum configuration of the Operation Digital Board (ODB)-compliant digital classrooms to offer near physical learning experience to the students by leveraging emerging technologies. Director, IIM-V, Prof Chandrasekhar, said that the ministry of education (MoE), in a recent communication, emphasised on all classrooms being ‘smart’ classrooms, as per the specification of the ODB Expert Committee constituted by the MoE. “The major objective of the ODB is to make the learning as well as the teaching process interactive, and popularise blended-learning as a pedagogical approach. Arising from the felt-need for high-degree of digital-transformation, IIM-V is gearing up to deepen its investment in IT infrastructure by not only digitalising and converting all classrooms as ‘smart’, but also additionally building related learning-facilities, such as a full-fledged audio-visual studio for lecture-delivery and recording,” said Prof Chandrasekhar. Prof Chandrasekhar said that the education minister, in a recent interview, highlighted the need to promote and implement online education. “The minister expressed confidence that with determination and dedication, the present crisis can be turned into an opportunity. IIM-V proposes to leverage these valuable learning-assets gainfully, for additional internal resource generation, as is being mandated by MoE-GOI,” said Prof Chandrasekhar. IIM-V got a robust building committee, comprising of Satish Reddy (Chairman, Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories) as the chairman, Sushant Baliga (former director general of CPWD) as the advisor, Sayikrishna Raju R (Head-Projects, IIM-V) as the member-convenor and Rajiv Mishra (Principal - Sir JJ college of Architecture and Member of Council of Architecture), Prof Ligy Philip (Dean (Planning) - IIT-Madras), Prof M Chandrasekhar (IIM-V Director), VMRDA metropolitan commissioner P Koteswara Rao, Amit B Chakrabarti (faculty, IIM-V), Vishnuprasad Nagadevara (former professor and dean, IIM-B) as the members. Prof Chandrasekhar said that the strong building committee helped the IIM-V in seamless and thorough planning and designing of permanent campus. “Before embarking on the designing process, a team of officials from IIM-V, including me, visited IIM-Raipur, IIM-Kozhikode and IIM-Udaipur to get a peek into the best construction practices in these campuses and incorporate those in IIM-V campus planning. The reason behind visiting the campuses is the IIM-Raipur was designed by the same architect (New Delhi-based ARCOP Associates Private Limited) roped in by IIM-V, while IIM-Kozhikode has a hilly terrain and located somewhat close to the sea as in the case of IIM-V campus. On the other hand, IIM-Udaipur is the latest IIM to complete its construction,” said Prof Chandrasekhar. IIM-V has got cabinet approvals for construction of the permanent campus on 60,384 square metres area and for spending Rs 445 crore for phase-A construction. Now the construction area will be increased by about 2,000 square metres to accommodate the ICT infra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/iim-v-permanent-campus-to-be-future-ready-with-digital-infra/articleshow/77858605.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
September 1, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: Fishermen leaving without ‘official’ permission||VISAKHAPATNAM: Though the government has made it mandatory for migrant fishermen to seek permission from collectors of their respective districts before leaving the state, many of them have reportedly left AP without seeking any permission. Fishermen association leaders said on Monday that it will become difficult for them to restrict other fishermen from leaving for employment outside the state if the trend continues. “Recently, two groups of around 24 fishermen from Srikakulam flew down to Gujarat from Visakhapatnam airport. They have not taken the mandatory official permission from the district collector’s office. We are receiving such information from other districts as well,” Arijili Dasu, state leader of fishermen’s associations, said. Following the nationwide Covid-19 lockdown in March, the AP government helped rescue over 10,000 migrant fishermen, who were stranded in Gujarat, Tamil Nadu and other states. The government also collected details of migrant fishermen and made it mandatory for them to seek permission from district collectors before leaving the state to seek employment outside. Officials at the district collectorate office refused to comment on the issue stating that they are not aware of any such developments. “We are not sure whether any fishermen have left the state. We have to find out,” said a senior official. Some fishermen, however, admitted that some of them have left for Gujarat and other states, and that they too want to join them soon. They said they have been jobless since the last four-five months and their families are surviving on government schemes, rations and loans. “Our sethjis (boat owners) in Gujarat want us to join work. They are also arranging flight tickets for us,” said Cheekari China Danayya, a local fisherman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/fishermen-leaving-without-official-permission/articleshow/77858621.cms||Arpit Basu
September 1, 2020||India||How Dada climbed Raisina Hill when Race Course Road closed||The presidency was the capstone on Pranab Mukherjee’s long political career, but it nearly eluded him for the same reason that he couldn’t become Prime Minister. His widely reported ambition to be PM at Rajiv Gandhi’s expense, after Indira Gandhi’s assassination, had earned him the lifelong distrust of the Gandhi family and its loyalists. Even when he returned to the fold and ably played troubleshooter for the UPA, doubts about his ‘loyalty’ persisted and he was overlooked for the post of home minister in 2004. The same distrust stood in Mukherjee’s way in May 2012, when 10 Janpath — shorthand for the Congress high command — rejected CPM leader Prakash Karat’s pitch to elect him President. Sonia Gandhi chose Vice President Hamid Ansari instead with an eye on Muslim votes. Mukherjee’s rejection was couched in the claim of his “indispensability” to the government. But he wasn’t taken in by it, nor was he consoled by the offer of the vice presidency, knowing that he could be a consensus candidate drawing support from non-UPA quarters. Live updates: Ex-President to be cremated todayFaced with a firm high command, he stuck to the “loyal soldier of the party” playbook, but never discouraged those, including non-Congress politicians, who felt he would make a better President. Pranab Mukherjee: From Mirati To Rashtrapati BhavanHe was back in the reckoning when Samajwadi Party, a big factor in the electoral college because of its emphatic win in the UP assembly polls, decided to frustrate Congress’ plan to dent its support among Muslims by sending Ansari to Rashtrapati Bhavan. Mamata Banerjee, who also had significant heft in the electoral college, was not quite enamoured of Mukherjee but she didn’t want to help Congress with Muslim votes either. Since opposing Ansari would have cost them Muslim votes, Mulayam and Mamata proposed the candidature of another Muslim, former President APJ Abdul Kalam. The choice was anathema to Congress and Sonia because Kalam owed little to Congress for his first ter m and had remained war m towards BJP. Read AlsoPranab's life with 5G — the five GandhisPranab Mukherjee’s association with five Gandhis defined his political journeyCongress was forced to take a fresh look at Mukherjee’s claim, which became stronger when the Left and DMK refused to support Mulayam and Mamata. Kalam’s refusal to take the field unless he had the numbers also helped Dada. Mulayam dumped Kalam, triggering speculation about the invisible hand of the “friends of Pranab” club. Mamata also wisely chose not to become an obstacle in the way of a ‘bhadralok’ taking over as First Citizen. As for the ‘high command’, it was left with the feeling of being outmanoeuvred by someone whose wiles had helped it get the better of opponents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/how-dada-climbed-raisina-hill-when-race-course-road-closed/articleshow/77862212.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Vijayawada||AP CM YS Jaganmohan Reddy to launch nutrition schemes for poor on September 7||VIJAYAWADA: Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy will launch YSR Sampoorna Poshana and YSR Sampoorna Poshana Plus— the government’s new nutrition schemes— on September 7. The two schemes are aimed at providing nutritious food to pregnant and lactating mothers as well as their children. The YSR Sampoorna Poshana Plus scheme is meant exclusively for the 77 tribal areas covering 8 ITDAs, 52 ICDS projects and 8,320 Anganwadi centres. Remaining urban and rural areas will be covered under YSR Sampoorna Poshana. The two schemes are intended to address malnutrition and anaemia among pregnant and lactating mothers and children aged between 6-72 months. As many as 30 lakh women from BPL families are slated to benefit from this scheme. The state government will spend Rs 1,900 crore every year on these schemes. Under YSR Sampoorna Poshana, the state government will spend Rs 850 every month on each pregnant and lactating woman, Rs 412 per month on each child aged between 6-36 months and Rs 350 on each child aged between 36-72 months. The scheme will Rs 1,555.56 crore per annum and will reach over 26 lakh beneficiaries. The YSR Sampoorna Poshana Plus scheme intends to spend Rs 1,100 per month on each pregnant and lactating woman, Rs 620 per month on each child aged between 6-36 months and Rs 553 on each child aged between 36-72 months. The scheme will cost Rs 307.55 crore per annum and will reach 3,80,000 beneficiaries. In order to monitor the effective implementation of these schemes, the department of women development and child welfare has developed a comprehensive mobile application to assess service delivery and satisfaction levels.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/cm-jagan-to-launch-nutrition-schemes-for-poor-on-sept-7/articleshow/77858653.cms||Gopi Dara
September 1, 2020||Vijayawada||Study taxation of other states: CM tells officials||Vijayawada: Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy asked officials to study the taxation policies of various state governments and the methodology the other states are using to levy taxes and provide a detailed report on property tax levied in municipalities and municipal corporations during a review meeting on Monday. Officials informed the chief minister that states such as Karnataka and Maharashtra levy property tax on property value and not rental value as is followed in AP. These states take the total value of the property and collect tax accordingly, while in AP the rental value of property is taken into consideration while levying taxes, explained officials. Meanwhile, the CM will be on a two-day tour of Kadapa from Tuesday. On Wednesday, he will participate in the death anniversary observance of his father and former chief minister YS Rajasekhara Reddy. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/study-taxation-of-other-states-cm-tells-officials/articleshow/77858664.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Amaravati||Unlock 4.0: APSRTC hopes to resume 50% of its services||AMARAVATI: With additional relaxation of lockdown restrictions, the Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) has decided to gradually increase services across the state. Over the next two weeks, the corporation plans to resume 50% of its services. In many districts, the corporation is currently operating only 20 to 25% of what it handled before the Covid-19 outbreak. While senior officials have insisted that regional managers and field officers take safety measures in order to play as many services as possible in their respective zones, restrictions by district collectors so far have hampered resumption of services across several depots. The continuous rise in caseload in most districts has been a prohibitive factor. Even within districts, collectors have withheld permission to requests raised by RTC regional officers to operate buses. With many urban areas, particularly municipal towns, reporting a high number of Covid-19 cases, collectors fear that intra-district movement of people may result in a further spike in numbers. For instance, ASPRTC is operating just around 200 services in Guntur district against its original capacity of 1,100 per day. The situation in other districts is no different. Sources, however, said senior APSRTC officials are confident of more relaxations from September 1 as the country readies for Unlock 4.0. “We got permission to increase services by 5 to 10% from Tuesday itself and will go for gradual increase in the next few days,” said a senior official. The APSRTC, it was learnt, is also mulling resuming services to Hyderabad to generate more revenue. Though APSRTC and Telangana State Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC) had discussions on restarting operations, TSRTC objected to the high-volume trips proposed by APSRTC and wanted it to cut down trips by at least 1,000 km. “We have suggested TSRTC to operate their services in keeping with an equal quantum of kilometres that APSRTC wants to operate in Telangana, ” said the senior official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/unlock-4-0-rtc-hopes-to-resume-50-of-its-services/articleshow/77858682.cms||Samdani MN
September 1, 2020||India||Admitted for brain clot, Pranab Mukherjee never came out of coma||NEW DELHI: Pranab Mukherjee breathed his last at the Army hospital (Research and Referral) on Monday, 22 days after he was admitted to remove a large clot in his brain. His condition had deteriorated on Sunday, the hospital said in a bulletin on Monday morning. “He is in septic shock due to his lung infection and is being managed by a team of specialists. He continues to be in a deep coma and on ventilator support.” Septic shock is a potentially fatal medical condition that occurs when sepsis — organ injury or damage in response to infection — leads to dangerously low blood pressure and abnormalities in cellular metabolism. Read AlsoPranab Mukherjee, 'dada' of Indian politics, bids goodbye at 84Pranab Mukherjee, whose career on the national political stage began as a Rajya Sabha MP in 1969 and ended as President in 2017, passed away Monday evening at the age of 84 – 22 days after he was admitted to the Army Hospital (Research and Referral) in New Delhi following an emergency operation forMukherjee breathed his last in the evening. At 5.46 pm, his son Abhijit Mukherjee tweeted: “this is to inform you that my father Shri #PranabMukherjee has just passed away.” Live updates: Ex-President to be cremated todayMukherjee was found Covid-positive in tests done before his August 10 surgery and was on ventilator support since then due to complications caused by bleeding in the brain. “The complications were not caused by Covid-19,” a source said. “There was bleeding in the brain, perhaps because of the blood thinners that he had been taking for long.” On August 19, he developed features of lung infection, which led to the septic shock. He slipped into a deep coma, from which he never recovered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/admitted-for-brain-clot-pranab-mukherjee-never-came-out-of-coma/articleshow/77862216.cms||---
September 1, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Focus on parcels, cargoin bid to boost revenue||Visakhapatnam: The Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) has now focussed its attention on parcel, courier and cargo services to better its revenue as bus services remain sparse amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The services that are running at the moment are not enough for APSRTC. “We make nearly Rs 50,000 to Rs 1 lakh per day from one major RTC depot against Rs 10 lakh before the lockdown. This is a very difficult time for the corporation in terms of revenue. With parcel services, we are managing to make Rs 2-3 lakh,” said a senior RTC official. The transport corporation has refurbished nearly 100 buses for parcel and cargo services. “We have even launched an exclusive depot for cargo and parcel services at certain locations such as Anakapalli, Simhachalam and Maddilapalem ,” the RTC official said. — Kamalakara Rao||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/focus-on-parcels-cargoin-bid-to-boost-revenue/articleshow/77858694.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
